 

__—Aa

[$5.1936
What Do Dogs Think About

ROY TEMPLE HOUSE

EMBERS of the human family who
Mso calmly declare that animals are
made of a different and inferior substance
from ours and do not think, plan, rejoice
and suffer as we do, are making dogmatic
statements about a matter that is entirely
beyond their ken. Our lack of a speech
medium for reaching them makes animals
an eternal mystery to us. But We have
frequent indications that temperamentally,
as one might phrase it, they are very much
like us.

The writer has recently come to know two
dogs whose thought-processes have inter—
ested him extremely. One of them is a
great joker, and the other suffered a be-
reavement with a tenderness and at the
same time a stout-heartedness that was in-
finitely touching.

The humorous animal, so to speak the
canine Will Rogers, is a big, exuberant col-
lie who lives on a farm in northern Iowa.
The cotton—tails are thick about his place,
and it is his chief delight to torment them.
It strikes him as a delicious witticism to
catch a rabbit and bury him. Long ago the
rabbits have learned that it is impossible
to escape from him and a risky business to
cross him. So when he darts up and seizes
one, the canny little animal sits perfectly
still and allows him to pull the dirt and de-
bris over it to his entire satisfaction, and
remains motionless in its play-grave till he

has grown tired of the joke and bounds off

to some other occupation. Then it crawls
cautiously out and proceeds to get out of
harm’s way as fast as possible. In this
amusing game it does not seem that the dog
ever injures the rabbit in the slightest.
The pathetic incident of mother and dead
child occurred in the outskirts of an Okla-
homa Village. A gentle, unprepossessing
old mongrel belonging to a family in the
edge of town, gave birth last summer to
two plump pups. One of them is now a
boisterous, heavy-set fellow who has never
known an hour of discomfort in his life.
But the other, when it was only a few
weeks old, fell ill of some mysterious malady
and pined away. One afternoon the small
son of the family, a boy of nine or ten, was
digging in the garden lot back of the house.
The mother-dog came back to him from
the yard, carrying the pup in her mouth.
She laid it down at his feet, and waited.
The boy examined the little dog and found
it cold in death. The mother stood and
whined a little, looking first into the boy’s
face, then at her dead child. The little
fellow thought he understood what the mo-
ther-dog was trying to say to him. He dug
a big hole in the soft earth with his hoe,
laid the pathetic little wasted body in the
hole, and covered it with earth. The moth-
er waited till the grave was completely
filled and the soil stamped down hard over
it, then she turned and went back to what
remained of her family.
She no doubt took comfort in the thought
that the little soul had gone to what our
‘.parents used to call “Dog Heaven.”

Please remember the Massachusetts 5.
P. C. A. in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 93

 

“ANIMALS * * AN ETERNAL MYSTERY TO US”

 

The Balance of Nature

EWEN‘K. PATTERSON

HENEVER man contrives to upset

that delicate adjustment known as
the “balance of Nature” he has to suffer
for it. This has been proved time and time
again in every civilized country, and in
Australia it is being proved at the present
time. Lately a number of very destructive
plagues have developed in Australia, and
these are a direct result of man’s wanton
slaughter of animals and birds.

In Eastern Australia a grasshopper
plague, the worst of the kind Australia has
ever known—has been causing millions of
dollars’ worth of damage monthly to crops
and pastures. This plague, efforts to con—
trol which have already cost a small for-
tune, has simply developed as a result of
the destruction by man of the insects’ nat-
ural bird enemies, chiefly the ibis and the
bustard. This was realized when a natur-
alist found upwards of 10,000 infant grass—
hoppers in the crop of one ibis at the end of
a day’s foraging. As a result of this dis—
covery, these birds are now protected by
law, and it is a criminal offense for any
person to shoot them. But it will take many
years for the birds to increase sufficiently
in numbers to keep the grasshoppers in
check.

In Queensland a saw-fly pest has also
developed and is responsible for the des—
truction of thousands of head of cattle
every year. This pest has only been
brought about by the ruthless slaughter of
possums for their furry skins. These mar—
supials have been almost exterminated by
hunters. The animals formerly kept the
saw—fly under control, by feeding on the
insects’ eggs, which are laid in the leaves
of gum—trees. At any rate, all scientific
attempts to control this pest have proved
unsuccessful, and now, to adjust the “bal—
ance of Nature,” the Government is fran-
tically setting apart and stocking possum
sanctuaries in the pest—ridden areas once
populous with the marsupials but now
trapped out. But in this case also, it will

be many years before the marsupials are
plentiful enough to be able to keep the saw—
fly in check.

Within the last few months a serious rat
plague has also developed in the tropical
regions of Northern Queensland. This
plague, which is the worst of the kind Aus—
tralia has ever known, has also resulted in
an outbreak of a dreaded disease which af~
fects humans; this is known as Weil’s di—
sease, and several deaths have already oc—
curred from it. This plague is simply an—
other result of man’s thoughtless interfer-
ence with the “balance of Nature,” for it
has arisen simply from man’s wholesale
killing of carpet snakes and pythons (which
are the rat’s natural enemies) for their
skins to satisfy the demands of fashion.
Until recently the skins of these snakes,
which are entirely harmless reptiles, were
in great demand, being used in the manu—
facture of ladies’ shoes, handbags, etc. Now,
however, this demand has ceased; the
snakes are no longer hunted for their skins.
But in many areas the reptiles have been
well-nigh exterminated, and it will be a
long time before they can again assist man
by keeping the rats under control. Mean-
while, large sums of money are being spent
in a “war” against the rats. Flame—throw-
ers, such as were used in the Great War
of 1914-1918, have even been brought into
operation for destroying the rats’ hiding
places.

These plagues have taught Australia a
lesson, and before any further killing of
native birds and animals is permitted, in—
vestigations will be made as to whether any
pests are likely to develop as a result of the
killing.

In Australia it has been definitely proved
that plagues of this nature cannot success—
fully be controlled by artificial methods.
The only satisfactory results are obtained
by biological control—by adjusting the
“balance of Nature;,” that is, by bringing
into the “war” the pests’ natural enemies.

 




L
l
c
l
t
l
i

 

 

 

 

_.1-.- 3.1 V4--.» w .

 

 

 

Page 91;
@112 Eleni! nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the preSI-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and seventy-four new
Bands of Mercy were reported during April.
Of these 253 were in Illinois, 186 in New
York, 66 in South Carolina, 37 in Virginia,
20 in Massachusetts, five in Pennsylvania,
four in Texas, and one each in Connecticut,
Georgia and Oklahoma.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 216,790.

Mission Swallows Return

GENEVRA COWAN

their return on March 19 last, the
swallows of San Juan Capistrano Mission,
California, again arrived as predicted. For
the past sixty-eight years, Father A. J.
Hutchison reports, these birds have depart—
ed from the nests about the Mission on San
Juan Day, October 23, and returned on St.
Joseph’s Day. During the months of the
swallows’ absence, white-throated swifts
occupy the nests and in general, hold sway.
But when the swallows return, the swifts
abdicate.

It is amusing to see the preparations
made to receive the swallows. In addition
to the tourists who travel to the little town,
a great broadcasting company set up its
paraphernalia in the patio where, in general,
for 159 years only affairs of the church
have been conducted. There, at a certain
time, a program was broadcast throughout
the nation to tell of the return of the birds.

Photographers swarmed about the Mis—
sion, climbing ladders to investigate the
mud nests and to photograph them, clam-
bering over the roof of the Mission to view
the birds from all angles.

Contrary to the belief of some, the cliff
swallows do not descend in one dramatic
cloud but arrive in groups of various num—
bers. Likewise, the swifts depart in more
or less the same manner. They fly Skyward,
not quickly disappearing from sight, high
in the sky but soaring in great dignified
circles, gradually disappearing.

The crowds wait in the Mission gardens
all day long, watching with great interest
the proceedings of the birds and noting the
peculiar piercing cries of the swifts. They
wander into the church, stroll the garden
paths, observing bird life in general, and
buy small envelopes of grain for the white
pigeons which also inhabit the Mission en—
virons. The pigeons display no fear of the
visitors and calmly occupy their nests while
viewing the crowds below them.

WITH hundreds of people awaiting

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

PIGEONS AT CAPISTRANO MISSION So

 

June, 1936
One More Credit

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

HILE I like to be counted

with those who would sim-
plify our school curricula rather
than add any more new points of
emphasis, I should like to see one
more credit added to the records of
pupils. This would be for things
done entirely outside of the school
routine. I should like to see cred-
its given, certainly through the
ﬁrst five school years, for deeds of
kindness done.

Such a plan would be a fine one
for increasing kindness-to—animals
consciousness on a national scale
were it generally in practice in our
public schools.

I am sorry that I have to go
clear to India for an instance of
such a school plan.

In Srinagar, the capital of Kash-
mir, in the north of India, there is
a boys’ school of high standing.
Daily each boy as he enters is met
by a master who asks the question,
“Have you done a kind deed?” If
so, its nature is learned, and a
record is ‘kept accordingly for each
pupil.
stimulating toward doing

 

The Mink and the Fox

ELLA C. FORBES

A little mink and a little for

Sat on top of a wooden box.

Side by side, like brother with brother,
They sat and talked with one another.

“Do you like humans?” asked the fox.

He felt a shudder that shook the box.
“No,” said the mink, “I don’t; instead,
When man is around I am filled with dread.
He sets his trap, then awaits the hour
When I am helpless, in his power.

And all because he wants my ‘ fur

To make a coat for Her.”

The little fox’s face grew pale;

He looked at his own fine, fluffy tail.

Cruelly schooled in the art of running,

His parents had taught him a certain cun-
ning.

But this, he knew, would avail him nought;

Sooner or later he would be caught.

And there on the box he sensed the snap

0f the merciless jaws of the hidden trap.

Having closed, it would hold him tight

Till the slayer came, with the morning
light.

And his nice little coat with its fluffy tail

Would be dressed and tagged and put up
for sale.

School Rhymes About Pets

The Band of Mercy in the Irving School,
Tulsa, Oklahoma, under the direction of the
teacher, indulged in a rhyming contest, each
child composing a simple rhyme in from
four to twelve lines about his pet. The re-
sults were very satisfactory, and we wish
we had space to print some of them.

greater kindness has this school
method proved that, though the boys of this
school. are from highest-caste families,
many deeds of kindness towards low-caste
people are done. The boys of the school care
nothing for the ridicule of many in doing
such kindness to those of lower castes, so
strong is the school influence in the matter.

If there is anything like this system in
use in any of our own schools I hope it
may have publicity.

The Boy Scouts have set a good example
in keeping kindness. to others, and to an-
imals, prominent in its routine. But isn’t
it time for our schools to do a little more
deﬁnite work of this kind, and isn’t this
method of kindness credits a simple and a
practicable one toward this end?

 

PRODUCTS OF A KANSAS FARM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

Thanksgiving

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Outside the barn the wind is strong,
Bringing cold November rain;

Within these walls the hay is sweet,
Bins are filled with yellow grain.

The cows are quiet in their stalls,
The newest calf is sound asleep;

And close together in. their pen
Rest the gently breathing sheep.

-The mare’s big colt is by her side
To share with her the golden hay—-

I’m truly thankful, Lord, that these
Are fed and sheltered on this day.

Kindness to Animals in the
Mosaic Laws

ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

IXTY-EIGHT years ago George T.
S Angell founded the Massachusetts So—
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty of An-
imals. But thousands of years before that,
provision was made in what have been
known as the Mosaic laws, not only for
preventing cruelty to animals, but for
treating them humanely, looking after their
wants as carefully as providing for the
welfare of the people.

If we read the books of Exodus, Leviticus

and Deuteronomy, we find that when an ox
was employed to tread out the grain, his
owner might not muzzle him, but must leave
him free to eat as much as he needed.
, Every seventh year special provision was
made for the animals, for that year the
ground was to lie fallow, and whatever it
produced of itself, the owner might not
store for his own use. He must share with
all who needed, including domestic and wild
animals. The Vineyards and olive orchards
were subject to the same rule.

If one chanced to find a bird sitting on
her nest, whether the nest contained nest-
lings or only eggs, the mother bird was in
no way to be disturbed. This prohibition
was forced by the promise of a reward.
“That it may be well with thee,” said the
lawgiver to the one who should care for the
birds.

If a man saw a beast of burden carrying
too heavy a load, he could not be excused
for saying it was not his affair, but he must
see at once that the beast was relieved. Also,
a beast suffering an accident must be re-
lieved by whoever found it, no matter whe-
ther it belonged to him or not.

So, if one found an animal that was lost,
he was to look at once for the owner and
restore it. If he could not find the owner,
he was to care for the animal himself till
the owner was found.

The ox and the ass were the special
beasts of burden and there is frequent men-
tion of them. But they were not to bear
their burdens continuously. Mercifully, one
day in seven was set apart for them to cease
from their labors, for we are told that when
the sabbath was ordained, it was to provide

rest not only for man, but for the faithful
beast as well.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 1936

“Old Jim”—Just Another Horse

JOHN

F you were to drive along the outskirts
H of Tulsa, Oklahoma, you would see vast

stretches of pasture land ﬂanking both
sides of the highway. In one large enclo-
sure you would see a dapple-gray horse with
enormous proportions browsing contentedly
on the sweet clover—grass that surrounds a
large watering trough set in the cool shade
of a spreading elm. If, as in all probabili-
ty you will, you pass up the animal with
the fleeting thought that he is “just another
horse,” you will be snubbing a horse with
a past.

Five years ago next Candlemas, “Old
Jim” and I teamed up. After securing a job
as route salesman with a milk company I
was told to go to the stables and pick me a
horse. I needed the job, so said nothing re-
garding my ignorance of horses. I might
have deceived the manager but these domes-
ticated dobbins, no. At once they sensed 1
was a tender—foot and no amount of coax—
ing could make them submit themselves to
the harness. I was about to give up in de-
pair when I spotted Old Jim and cautiously
approached him. When I stroked his mane
he surprised me with a low whinny as he
gently rubbed his smooth nose against my
arm. From then on Old Jim and I were
partners. Just a “man and beast” team, but
we were friends.

After I hitched Old Jim to the wagon and
drove to the loading dock, the manager
spied us.

“Get another horse,” he commanded. “Old
Jim is too slow for your route.”

Old Jim stamped and pulled on his traces,
eager to go. i

There and then I resolved to have Old
Jim or quit. I could handle no other horse
and besides I had taken more than a liking
to the old veteran. I pleaded with the man—
ager, I even had the nerve to demand Old
Jim. Finally I compromised:

“If I don’t show you that we can get over
the route with time
to spare and bring in
a new customer to
prove it, I’ll eat Old
Jim’s rations for a
week.”

“Done, hop to it.”
said the manager.

Old Jim and I
took good care of the
route and we fulfill—
ed the promise re-
garding the new
customers.

Winter came
cold, bluster, and
the snow for two
w e e k s stubbornly
held its own at four
f e e t. Competitive
milkmen were un-
able to service their
routes. The com—
pany’s horse—drawn
routes, with the ex-
ception of ours were
taken over by trucks,
but they failed—the
snow was too deep.

FEEN

In most parts of the city, little children were
crying for their milk. But Old Jim and I
managed to serve our customers. From
dawn until far into the night we plodded
through snow and hail and sleet. I, with a
guiding hand on Old Jim’s bridle walked
every step of the way. At the end of two
weeks we were worn to the point of exhaus-
tion, but we made it and liked it. Many
times I tried to sneak away from Old Jim
and service my route with an old undepend-
able truck. Old Jim at once sensed my in—
tention and literally kicked the barn down.
Miserable and dangerous though the weath—
er was the fiery old steed was determined
to go.

I never whipped Old Jim.
to—I didn’t want to. His plodding steady
old gate was fast enough for me and I
could trust him. He knew each house on the
route as well as I, for many is the time he
stopped abruptly before a residence that I
was about to pass.

The next spring Old Jim’s right eye went
blind. He was through—there was no doubt
about it. Back to the stables he went and
my heart went with him.

One day the manager called me aside.

“Old Jim’s other eye,” he said, “he’s los-
ing it.”

“What are you going to do with him,” I
gulped.

“Shoot him I guess. He’s past any use.”

“You don’t have to shoot him,” I said, “I’ll
buy him—pay the company so much a week.
Can’t you put him out on the company’s
farm? I’ll pay for his keep too. Can you
arrange it?”

The manager could and did.

So, if you drive along the outskirts of
Tulsa and see that old dapple—gray horse
with enormous proportions, stop a minute
and say a kind word to him, for Old Jim
is not, “just another horse.”

I didn’t have

 

HE SERVED ONE FAMILY FOR TWENTY-FIVE YEARS

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 190
3119 Earth nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and thirty-ﬁve new Bands
of Mercy were reported during October. Of
these there were 349 in Texas, 121 in Massa-
chusetts, 85 in Maine, 51 in Illinois, 48 in
Florida, 44 in South Carolina, 43 in North
Carolina, 38 in Virginia, 30 in New York,
21 in Georgia, four in Pennsylvania, and
one in Kansas.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society, 219,110.

Rescuing the Robins

Last October a cold snap in central Eu—
rope caused great suffering to the robins in
Germany, Austria and Yugoslavia. The
authorities gathered up about 7,500 of the
birds and took them by airplane to Venice,
Italy, where they were set free. Thousands
of swallows were also rescued and sent to
Italy from Austria.

Au ’voir, Little Nance!

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

Dear Little Nance,

Dear little light-footed Nance, you are lying
so still!

And your soft little, warm little paws are so
stiff, and so chill!

And there’s never a glance

From those mirthful and mischievous eyes,
once so luminous-bright,

So filled with gay zest for living, and lov-
ing, and light!

Some mystical trance?

Ah, no, Little Nance!

Our hearts crave a reason for guessing, for
hoping, but no!

You were hurrying home to your babies,
your darlings, and so

You just took a chance

Across the wide road, little mother. Then
day went all black!

And Juggernaut sped on, serenely! And
no one looked back

From its lightning advance!

Well, Little Nance,

lVe’ve made your small bed just as fair and
as soft as we can,

And we’ll lay the turf over so gently!
Your earth—life’s brief span

Years could not enhance,

Mayhap. It was perfect and rounded in love
—a bright sphere!

There—your orphans are calling—we’ll do
our poor best for them, dear.

Au ’voir, Little Nance!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

PEDIGREED PERSIANS

Little Buddy Guest, Beverly, Mass, who has been bed rid-
den for years with a weak heart, makes a hobby of raising

Persian kittens and all sorts of birds.

Dec. 1936

July 81: “This morning
we left our old she—cat at
camp. At breakfast I
missed her and Mr. Man—
uel (Lisa) sent a man
back for the cat. He re—
turned with her in the
evening. This remark
may seem ridiculous but
an animal of this kind is
more valuable in this
country than a ﬁne
horse. Mice are in great
abundance and the com—
pany has lost for want
of cats several thousand
dollars in merchandise
which was destroyed at
the Big Bellies (Gros
Ventres) station. There
has not a night passed
since our departure from
Bellefontaine where I got
that cat that she has not
caught from four to ten
mice and brought them
to her kittens.”

In frontier army posts,
it was desired for many
years to maintain a cav—
alry, since pursuing the
Indians, mounted on fleet
horses, was well nigh
impossible for infantry—
men. One reason why
this was never done until

 

 

 

Cats Helped to Win the West

EDNA LAMOORE WALDO

I-IE lazy, almond—eyed cat who sleeps

on a fine cushion before the ﬁreplace
may seem to be more ornamental than use—
ful. In this modern day of apartments and
automobiles, she may not have the chance
to earn her “board and keep” by freeing
cellar and barn of mice. But one need not
go back as far as the cat—worshipping Egyp—
tians to show how pussy’s forebears helped
to win the great American West.

The Missouri river was for many years
the gateway to the West. Up its swirling,
muddy, uncertain waters went explorers, fur
traders, steamboat pilots, frontier soldiers,
miners, and settlers. The supplies they car—
ried were doubly precious for they were so
far from their home bases and the expense
and time needed for transportation so very
great. What they had must be cared for at
all costs.

They left it to the old cat and her kittens
which, at some inconvenience at times, they
tried to take up-river with them. Indeed,
there are references in old manuscripts
which lead us to believe that one outﬁt
often tried to lure away the cat of another
crowd by more lavish offers of tid-bits from
the game the hunters had brought in.

The traveler, Brackenridge, who went up
the Missouri in 1811 with the Spanish tra—
der, Manuel Lisa, and whose accounts are
relied upon by all later historians of that
country, mentions several cats and kittens
that were being taken upstream by men
who were planning to establish trading
posts.

Luttig, young clerk for the Missouri Fur
Company in 1812-3, wrote in his diary one

 

General George Arm—
strong Custer brought his 7th Cavalry to
the Dakotas and Montana in the ”70’s, was
because of the difficulties of keeping grain
at the crudely built, adobe forts. Mice and
rats, army officers maintained, could de-
stroy supplies more quickly than they could
be brought in and when the post was two
thousand miles up the Missouri river, with
boats able to make the trip only between
April and August, transportation was a big
item.

Here, too, cats were useful friends and
helpers and as many as could have been
secured would have been welcome at any
outpost in the West. If anything happened
to the army eat, it was as important as if
the stockade had been attacked. For lacking
the ever—watchful guard duty of Mrs. Cat,
a very real enemy, hordes of mice and rats,
would have over—run the place.

Protective Coloration

One of the best examples of Mother Na—
ture’s protective coloration is the protection
given the Michigan red deer by the like-
ness of their winter coat to the leaves of
the scrub oak. Deer inhabit the oak—grown
plains country and the oak clumps are low
growing and bear a dense foliage which
does not shed until late spring. It changes
from a lovely deep crimson to a russet
brown. The leave-s make a faint rustling
sound and are constantly a-quiver. A deer
can become a lost “spirit-like” creature
right before our eyes when it bounds into
the oak scrubs. The coloring, the faint

sound and the eternal movement of the
leaves all conspire to protect the deer from
the greedy eyes and the deadly aim of the
FERN BERRY

hunter’s gun.

 

 

 

 




 

May, 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ’71

Heroic Work of Our Branch During Flood

The Doctors at Our Springfield Hospital and Their Associates, Often Risking
Their Lives, Rescued, Fed and Cared for Hundreds of Animals

ERHAPS for the ﬁrst time in the his-
P tory of the humane movement in
America, the devastating ﬂood which de-
scended upon Springﬁeld, Massachusetts,
and the whole Connecticut Valley, in March,
presented an opportunity for organized
effort devoted wholly to the saving of ani-
mal life. With thousands of persons made
homeless by the inundating waters, the at-
tention of the public was naturally focussed
upon the preservation of human life and
the serving of human needs; but hand—in—
hand with that great work, there was
carried on by the Springﬁeld branch of the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals an equally effective cam—
paign to preserve the city’s lesser creatures.
Ordinarily in times of ﬂood or other great
catastrophe, domestic animals are left
pretty much to shift for themselves. Not
through indifference or heartlessness, but
because there have existed in the stricken
areas no organized forces to cope with the
situation. Often such disasters occur in
out-of—the—way places. There happened to
be in Springﬁeld, however, an organization
adequate to the emergency, and the story of
its accomplishments is well worth the
telling.

Springﬁeld Hard Hit

As members of the Society know, the
Springﬁeld branch has a hospital that has
been developed along lines similar to those
of the much larger Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital in Boston, to take care of the needs

 

3

PUMP AT WORK REMOVING WATER
FROM BASEMENT OF ANIMAL
HOSPITAL, SPRINGFIELD

HOWARD NOBLE

 

 

 

BRANCH OF THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL OF THE

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A., 53—57 BLISS STREET, SPRINGFIELD.

THIS BUILDING HOUSED THE ANIMAL REFUGEES OF THE GREAT
FLOOD AS DESCRIBED HERE

of that community. The work of the branch
has been growing constantly, with the
growth of the public’s appreciation of its
resources. It was not, of course, equipped
to handle the enormous burden of work
thrust upon it by the ﬂood, any more than
were the agencies in that city devoted to
human needs. The manner in which it
nevertheless accomplished its job is the
reason for this narrative.

Springﬁeld was one of the hardest hit
cities within the country’s ﬂooded areas this
spring. Between a point east of Main
Street and the Connecticut River, for a dis-
tance of perhaps two miles, the city lay
under water for a week; and across the
river, in West Springﬁeld, a district nearly
as large was equally afflicted. The Con—
necticut was on the worst rampage in its
history. Water eight to ten feet deep
swirled through many streets with the force
of a stream in freshet, making navigation
by small craft extremely dangerous. Ex-
tensive business districts were inundated
and rendered useless for the time being, and
thousands of dwellings were made unin-
habitable. At the ﬁrst descent of the ﬂood,
people ﬂed for their lives to the higher land
east of the river, necessarily leaving behind
them thousands of their household pets and
domestic animals. The human refugees
were housed in churches, school buildings,
halls and other public buildings, and were
fed, clothed and taken care of by the city’s
various social agencies and by the Red
Cross. The extent of the disaster is indi-
cated by a recent news dispatch which said
that 6,000 families must be given rehabilita-
tion aid.

But What of the lesser creatures caught
in the catastrophe? Of course, many were

drowned. The loss of animal life was con-
siderable, but it was not so large as usual
under such circumstances. For once in the
annals of such affairs, the occurrence of a
bad ﬂood and the existence of the efﬁcient
animal welfare organization coincided.

Like Noah’s Ark

At the hospital on Bliss Street, when the
rampant Connecticut River invaded the
city, was a force of nine persons, consist—
ing of Dr. Alexander R. Evans, and Dr.
H. L. Smead, the two veterinarians, Fred
F. Hall, the Society’s prosecuting ofﬁcer for
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin coun-
ties; Clifford Kelley, Wallace Downhill,
Owen Downhill and Harold Clement, hospi—
tal attendants; and Miss Mary E. J. Smith
and Miss Cecilia Wynn, office staff. After
the ﬁrst day or two, Howard Willand, one
of the Boston prosecuting ofﬁcers, was sent
to Springﬁeld to help out. The entire work
thus fell upon the shoulders of eight men
and two women.

On Wednesday, March 18, the ﬁrst of the
refugee animals began to trickle into the
hospital. Cats and dogs mostly, brought in
by their owners who had taken time by the
forelock and removed their pets from the
threatened area. The hospital had its usual
quota of regular patients, but quarters were
found for the newcomers. Before the day
ended, it became apparent that the city was
in for a bad time. Hour by hour the Con-
necticut rose to unprecedented heights. The
doctors and their associates scurried
around and secured a rowboat and a canoe.
Every sort of craft was at a premium. By
midnight the hospital began to take on the
aspect of Noah’s Ark.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




;—~r , ---.

a;n=—_.—« .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 142
6112 Earth nf ﬂung

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seventeen new Bands of Mercy were re-
ported during July. Of these there were
eight each in Georgia and Virginia, and
one in Indiana.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 218,085.

The Shy Otter

WALTER L. REEVE

F ALL our wild folk the shyest and

most difﬁcult to observe is the otter.
It is not a rare animal but its habits are
such that only a skilled observer can detect
and learn about them. The thrill of ﬁnd-
ing and observing the haunts and habits
of the otter has a reward all its own. It
seems to bind one to a friendship to these
solitary creatures and brings a satisfaction
and a sense of protection for them that is
experienced by all true nature lovers.

The otter is not gregarious but always
travels in pairs—a male and female, with
the exception of summer and early fall when
the young otters are with them. It is
thought by many naturalists that otters
mate for life and it is known that an otter
who has lost his mate readily shares his
range with a newly mated pair. My own
observations on this point always bring
within me a feeling of pity for an old
otter whose tracks I have followed. Season
after season, while making his way over the
ponds and streams, he would always stop
and carefully search the Spot where his
mate had been caught. In the winter his
trail in the snow led directly to the place,
and he would cross and recross a dozen
times before he ﬁnally left. Each pair
of otters have their own miles of stream
and ponds and they make, except during the '
breeding season, regular rounds over it
throughout the year. They visit in turn
each pond and lake and will travel over land
with uncanny sense of direction to any iso-
lated pond, swamp or spring-hole. Otters
usually have two or three well-hidden dens
on their range, one of which is very care-
fully hidden and used for rearing the young.

The young otters are born about the last
week in. April to the first week in May
and range from one to four in a litter. The
den, whose outer entrance is secreted in
deep water, is lined with dried leaves and
grass, making a comfortable, warm home
for the young otters. Other tunnels from the
den lead to dry ground, through which the
baby otters have their ﬁrst glimpse of the
outside world. Young otters must be taught

DUMB ANIMALS

 

KI.ND.NESS TO ANIMALS POSTERS
MADE BY MEMBERS OF HUMANE
EDUCATION GROUP IN WASH-
BURN SCHOOL, DULUTH,
MINNESOTA

M

to swim, and it is comical to see the antics
of mother otter as she tries to induce her
little ones to venture in. Finally, coaxing
is given up and mother otter grasps one
ﬁrmly but gently by the scruff of his neck
and hoists him into the water. While he
struggles she buoys him up and pushes
him along with her nose. By this method
the young quickly learn to swim.

Through the summer the family travel
together, breaking up in late autumn and
the young half-grown otters traveling off to
explore and ﬁnd mates of their own. The
principal diet of the otter is ﬁsh but it also
likes fresh water clams, frogs and any other
small life found along the shores and ponds
and streams. The speed of an otter through
the water is phenomenal; fast though a ﬁsh
may be, he falls easy prey to the otter.

The otter, using his tail as a rudder, can
wheel and dart like a ﬂash of light. It is
a unique creature in many ways; it has a
long stream-lined body, short stubby legs
and powerfully armed webbed feet. Its tail
is very thick at the base and tapers quickly
to a blunt point. Its fur, which is a com—
bination of a soft silvery undercoat and
coarse stiff black to brown guard hairs, is
grade A as to durability, all other fur rang—
ing downward in the scale. Of great inter-
est is the fact that the jaw of the otter
is solidly attached to the skull by means
of beveled hinges set into heavy sockets of
bone. Otters vary in size from two to four
feet in length and will weigh as high as
thirty pounds. The otter will never become
extinct due to the very nature of his habits
and environment.

Sept. 1936
In Memoriam

MARION DOYLE

Plume curled over his tawny head,
Paws tucked in, demure;
When he slept in the flower—bed
One never could be quite sure
If it was “Omar,” overcome
By ennui—or a chrysanthemum—
Till, bending ever so cautiously,
One caught the sound of his purr,
The rumble of organ music in
A ball of yellow fur!
A streak of sunlight through the grass,
He brightened sunless days,
So may his little wandering ghost
Slip by on darker ways
And come at last to some rare place
Reserved for such as he—
While here we cover his finite self
Under the lilac tree,
And place a little stone, engraved:

HERE LIES A GENTLEMAN CAT,
OMAR, THE FIRST—AND THE LAST——
ALAS!
PHILOSOPHER, DIPLOMAT.

Nixon Waterman Says:

OME of the cats I have owned have
S acquired some very queer and clever
tricks. Usually the reason for their pecu-
liarities could be accounted for by what had
been suggested to them through their train-
ing or otherwise. The “why” of some of
them, however, was deeply hidden.

As is generally known, a cat that lives
apart from its own kind and associates
closely with humans is more likely to ac-
quire queer, uncatlike quirks than is one
that consorts only with its fellows. The
particular quirk of the cat I have in mind
at this moment was its insistence on being
fed twice instead‘ of once before it would
appear satisﬁed that it had been, properly
looked after. The cat’s supper was its
chief meal. This plan of feeding was ar-
ranged for the purpose of getting the cat
indoors at a time when it could be safely
in for the night. The lady of the house
and the family maid were both very fond of
the cat. Sometimes one fed him ﬁrst and
sometimes the other, but no matter from
which one he received his ﬁrst supper he
would linger about the feeding—place and
cry piteously and hungrily until the other,
too, fed him, when he would consider it a
day and go contentedly to bed.

EDITOR’S NOTE: The above concludes this interesting
series of anecdotes which have been running since
last January.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118

' An Expert Pedestrian
HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

heriff Amstead’s big black and white

duck is constantly crossing the street,
bound for the pond on the other side
of the road from the house and barn.
He moves with a singleness of purpose that
is most commendable. Cars may put on
screeching brakes and drivers may shout,
but the duck is not disturbed. Almost ma—
jestic is his waddle, as if he knew that be—
longing to the sheriff was protection in it-
self. So disregarding auto horns, he moves
leisurely, looking neither to the right nor
to the left. Wise he seems, with a wisdom
all his own, not rufﬂed like a hen.

Twenty—four years he has lived with the
sheriff. He and his mate were left on the
sheriff’s porch one day when the sheriff
was at court. A gift for a kind deed.

“What shall I do with them?” phoned
Mrs. Amstead to her husband.

“Put the crate in the barn,” he said. “I’ll
look after them when I come back.” So the
pair of ducks remained, living on year after
year on the sheriff’s small farm, content in
each other’s companionship.

Then several years ago the sheriff went
out to the barn one morning and found the
old drake standing guard over the dead
body of his mate. Motionless, erect, he
seemed to mourn.

Alone now, he continued on his way.
Sheriff Amstead’s lone duck. Inscrutable in
his sturdy independence, known throughout
the country-side, respected in his own right,
he moves on towards his twenty-ﬁfth
birthday,———wise, deliberate, calculating a
safe crossing.

The practice of religion involves as a
ﬁrst principle a loving, compassionate heart
for all creatures. BUDDHA

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1936

The Quail Schemes for Protection

BENNETT B. SMITH

ﬁelds along a country fence. Sud-

denly the dog stopped, poised and
pointing, and coming up I soon recognized
his ﬁnd as a mother quail. I, too, stopped to
see what would take place. A tiny object no
bigger than my thumb ran from under the
mother and scurried silently into the grass
and leaves, then another, and another until
many tiny objects had scurried away. Then
with a whir, the mother, who had re—
mained motionless until then, sailed away
for some distance.

It was the same old story and the same
old way that the mother quail has pro-
tected her young for perhaps thousands of
years. She ﬂew for only a short distance
because her wings are short and made only
for short ﬂights. Try as I might I could
not have found a trace of those little
youngsters for they were securely hidden
under the leaves and grass that they so
greatly resemble. But the mother was
nearby, on guard, and when I had gone on
and all danger had passed, she would re-
turn and with her mother call would sum—
mon the little ones to her again.

R ecently my dog and I strolled in the

Various means are used to attract the
attention of an intruder from the young.
Coming upon a mother and her young one
day, she ran rapidly with one wing drag—
ging as though injured. I did not follow, for
I knew her scheme. I watched. The babies
scampered to safety in a split second and
then, when the mother thought all were
safe, she ﬂew rapidly away. She tempted
me to follow her and thus draw my atten-
tion from her young.

When night comes a covey of quails will

 

WHERE THE QUAIL SEEKS PROTECTION

arrange themselves in a circle with tails
toward the center and heads out. This
gives a pair of eyes to look in all directions
and at a warning by any one bird, the
whole group “explodes” and dashes away,
spreading like a fan. The inexperienced
person may be startled for the moment and
that is the plan of the bird, for during that
short time of surprise he has gone some
distance to safety.

Quails are found over all the country. If
you live in the south, you know them as the
partridge; if in the middle states, they are
the bobwhite; while in the north and west,
they are the quail. But bobwhite is per—
haps the best for that is the name he calls
himself and few there are who do not rec—
ognize the clear, snappy call toward even-
ing and during moonlight nights. On the
Paciﬁc coast the bird is a little different
and is a cousin to those east of the Rockies.
This bird is darker, lays a speckled egg
instead of white, and has a different call.

The bobwhite is quite valuable and al-
though he lives in the grain fields and
woods nearby, he does not eat the grain be-
fore it is harvested. He is a mighty enemy
of weed seeds and saves the farmer many
hours of hoein-g and plowing because of the
quantity he eats. When the harvest is over
he eats the grain that otherwise would be
wasted. Nor is his value based only on his
weed destruction activities but he is an en—
thusiastic insect eater and lucky is he
who has a covey of quails take up their
abode near or in his garden.

Quails belong to the scratchers, the same
as the common hen and turkey, and are the
smallest of this group. They do not mi—
grate but remain nearby during the winter
months.

The young need not have food carried
to them as do nearly all other birds but go
with the parents into the fields almost as
soon as they come from the shell to learn
to eat and scratch for themselves. No
other bird becomes so independent in so
short a time.

Baby Meadowlark

JUDY VAN DER VEER

I found a baby meadowlark,
Mottled softly brown;

I held it nestled in my hand
Before I put it down.

I found it in the roadside dust,
I heard its mother cry;

I wondered how it got so far
When it could scarcely fly.

The mother bird flew after me;
I took the little one

And hid it in the pasture grass,
Sheltered from the sun.

How soft it nestled in my hand!
I felt its small heart beat;
A joy today to think of it,
So little and so sweet . . . 7

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

JIar.1936

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

ﬂ
3'—

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

.r. ‘ (K '0‘” _l //—/
I 'l?’ ’l’ % , I ‘
¢J£@%%WW@E@P

A Promise

RUTH STIRLING BAUER

 

I will promise not to give

Pain to things that feel and live,
I will always try to be

Worthy of their trust in me.

I will let the wild things roam,
Never make my house their home;
I will see no harm befall

Any creature, great or small.

Let the Calf Teach Your Child

MARGERY E. WERTMAN

H, MOTHER, his tongue tickles,” cried Patricia who was
becoming acquainted with a new calf, “but I like him.”
Most little children are like Patricia, and their innate inter-
est and delight in baby animals should be carefully fostered
and trained while the child is young and his interests are new.
Baby calves which are not as helpless as tiny puppies or
kittens, are especially good subjects for beginning instruc—
tion on how animals should be treated, since they are too
large to be picked up or squeezed.

Daughter and son are fascinated when they see father or
some farmer teaching the calf to drink—noticing excitedly
how the little creature follows his dripping fingers into the
milk pail. Soon they themselves must try to teach this calf or
another to drink. By gently and carefully working with the
baby calf, the children lay the foundation for the tenderness
we wish them to show toward all weak, baby creature-s.

If one lives in the city, some kind farmer of one’s acquaint-
ance will be only too glad to allow one’s family to watch him
feed his stock, and so begin the children’s education in the love
for the correct treatment of animals. Later, when smaller
pets may be brought into the home, the youngsters, having had

their preliminary training will treat them with gentleness.

 

    

1k

“LITTLE CALF, I’LL SOON TEACH YOU TO DRINK”

 

 

 

The Music-Loving Woodchuck
‘ ALFRED ELDEN

A T Drinkwater’s Point, Yarmouth, Maine, on the old fam-
ily estate Louis Wright built a summer cottage on
the banks of the Royal River. One day while playing his
radio he noticed a pair of bright eyes peering at him from
a near-by pile of rocks and timber. It was a cute little wood-
chuck, evidently with an ear for music for the moment the
radio was shut off it disappeared like a ﬂash. Louis began
placing cookies and other titbits on an old log in front of
the black shadows into which Chuckie had vanished. But
the animal wouldn’t come out until the radio again sounded.
Then there he was, his sharp little nose in air, his expression
asking “Is breakfast ready?” He soon found the morsel
placed for him and after that it became a game with him.
Every morning Louis placed a bit of food on the log but soon
discovered that “No music, no Chuckie.” So he tuned in,
out came his little wild pet, devoured the food and whishl
he was gone. Louis is wondering if his music-loving wood-
chuck will be waiting for him another summer.

Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

N each of the following sentences one animal is hidden.
See if you can find them all.

. Jim made errors in every answer.

He came last on the list. '

He said a banshee put a spell on him.

He finds our house with walls of adobe a very com-
fortable one. I

A medical fellow sold it to us.

We got terms that suited us.

The corn crib extends over the creek.

1 saw a man with a fishing pole catch a trout there.

. I was told that a certain person is a big nuisance.
He sold rugs at our picnic at amounts ranging from
one to five dollars.

Jim’s house has coats of arms carved on keystones
over every arched doorway.

See next month’s Children’s Page for correct answers.

ll

same

P®Wﬂ@@

1

11.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




The American Ofﬁcers of Both Societies

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary 0 .
ALBERT A. POLLARD' Treasurer Preventionof Cruelty toAnImals
Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY

The Massachusetts Society

. FOR THE
Humane Education Socnety

 
 
    
      
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND Maacv TO . .5
EVERY LIVING ’ 2
CREATURE.

 
 
 
 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

19
t“
w Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

170-184- Longwood Avenue, Boston

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by CEO. T. ANGELL in 1868

Ofﬁcial organ of all our Societies

 

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-Prom, United Shoe Machinery Corp.
PHILIP STOCKTON. President, First National Bank of Boston

The Societies have had bequests from one thousand one hundred and eighty-two
deceased friends. The Societies are supported by gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual, $1.;
Children’s $0.75. - , .

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free. '

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even
than in the cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at

53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931. Altogether we have treated 500,718
animals, 145,798 in the Hospital and 354,920 in the Dispensary.

 

 




1, triwr _ 1,.

— .g.‘ &*:£;_m_' “ ' 1.1 -—

an;

- 11—1,:31': Av;

Luz-mg.

l

 

 

Page 48

Australian Forests Suffer

from Loss of Animals
EWEN K. PATTERSON

P till the beginning of the present cen-
U tury the forests of the eastern States
of Australia literally teemed with possums
and koalas or native bears—these rare and
delightful marsupials which are known fav-
orably throughout the world. The creatures
were so plentiful that it was imposs1ble to
walk a mile anywhere in the bush without
seeing dozens of the wonderful little am-
mals on the ground and in the trees. But
then, unfortunately, someone discovered
that the skins of these harmless little crea-
tures made warm rugs and overcoats, and
a ruthless slaughter followed. The possums
and bears were pursued relentlessly; count—
less millions were slaughtered, and it was
not until a few years ago that the Govern-
ment, in response to numerous public pro-
tests, prohibited further killing. But. the
marsupials had been well—nigh exterminat—
ed, and today are only rarely seen in the re-
motest parts of the bush, and in sanctua—
ries.

There were many persons who believed
that the “balance of Nature” could not be
upset in such a manner without serious re-
percussions, and they have proved correct.

Since the slaughter of the marsupials a
plant pest, which was formerly kept in
check by the animals, has been increasing
by leaps and bounds. This pest is mistle-
toe, which has now obtained such a hold
that it is menacing the valuable forests of
Eastern Australia. Mistletoe slowly strang—
les tree life; at first it merely decreases
the wood increment of the tree, but if al-
lowed to prosper it invariably kills its own
host. Authorities agree that if the pest
is allowed to continue unchecked it will
mean an annual loss of millions of dollars
to the Australian timber industry.

In view of this, forestry experts have
been frantically trying various artificial
methods of controlling the pest, but no
satisfactory results have been obtained.

The pest is definitely attributed to the
slaughter of the possums and bears. We are
now paying the penalty for years of indis-
criminate slaughter of these bush friends——
the possum and the native bear.

It is now realized that the only satisfac-
tory results in controlling the pest will be
secured by adjusting the “balance of Na-
ture.” Experiments with bears and possums
in sanctuaries have proved that the ani-
mals eat the mistletoe with relish, and num—
bers of these marsupials are to be released
in the forests to combat the pest.

War Horses in Germany

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

1001 QUESTIONS A N S WE R E D
ABOUT YOUR AQUARIUM, Ida M. Mel-
len and Robert J. Lanier.

There are at present more than sixty
Aquarium Societies in the United States,
and some 30,000 species of fishes are known
and recorded. New species, we are told,
are added almost weekly. These facts at-
test the popularity of the aquarium and
the fascinating study of the many forms of
aquatic life.

The authors have contributed a vast a-
mount of useful information upon the sub—
ject and presented it in the form of ques-
tion and answer —— a method which has
found favor with those “enthusiasts” who
seek to learn by the quickest and easiest
way. There is little doubt that there are
many thousands of amateur aquarists who
have felt the need of just such information
and advice as this comprehensive volume
offers.

To note some of the contents of this book
we observe a chapter on “The Fresh-Water
Aquarium,” its construction and care; the
foods of fishes, plants, scavengers and en—
emies. The variations, foods and breeding
of goldfishes are covered by many perti-
nent questions and answers. “The Salt-Wa-
ter Aquarium” “Diseases of Aquarium
Fishes,” “The Garden Pool” and “The Ter—
rarium” are titles of other chapters. A
Bibliography of some 250 books, leaflets
and other publications and a well—ordered
Index are appended. Many illustrations in
color and half-tone feature the text.

450 pp. $3. Dodd, Mead & Co., Inc., New
York.

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The

Mar. 1936

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for December, 1935 — 31 Days

Daily average large animals 41.9

Forage for some $67.89
Daily average dogs 7.9

Forage for same 8.09
Put to sleep 33 11.74
Transportation 14.21
Wages, grooms, etc. 55.92
Resident secretary’s salary 131.58
Superintendent’s salary 82.24
Veterinary’s salary 29.61
Sundries 71.59

$472.87

Entries: 8 horses, 11 mules, 66 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 8 mules, 35 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 17 horses, 90 mules, 95 don-
keys, 17 dogs.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometers trav-
eled, 127; cases investigated, 325; animals seen,
3,898; animals treated, 964; animals trans-erred to
Fondouk American, 38; pack-saddles—infected—des-
troyed, 8.

JUST ONE DAY’S WORK

Tuesday, December 24th: Rainy weather. 8:00 A-
M. Usual work of treating animals. At 10 :00 o’clock
the policeman of the Place du Commerce telephoned
asking us to come to see a mule which had fallen
near the Mellah yesterday night. As I was waiting
for the veterinarian I replied that I would come
with the veterinarian as soon as possible. We went
to the Place du Commerce wher?‘ we saw the mule
with broken leg was incurable. But as its owner had
abandoned it (thus not having to pay knacker and
police for killing it) I must obtain authorization of
the Commissariat of the Ville Nouvelle to put it to
sleep. P. M. At 12:30, with the man of the Fondouk,
helped owner of a horse drawing carriage which had
fallen in a ditch near the Fondouk, to Unload the
carriage and bring out the horse which was not
harmed. At 1:00 went to Bou Jeloud and Talaa in-
spection, visited 16 Fondouks, saw 105 animals,
treated 15. Then at 3:00 went to the Commissariat
of the Ville Nouvelle, who had ordered an inquest
versus owner of mule abandoned on Place du Com-
merce. Advising them .that this animal cannot re—
main on Place du Commerce in that condition and
that the veterinarian had ordered me to put an end
to its suffering, they told me to go to the Com-
missariat of Fes Jedid which controls the Place du
Commerce. Killed the mule with strychnine and or-
dered knacker to transport the corpse. Returning
Fondouk at 4:00 o’clock.

Our Dumb Animal—s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

 

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that It’lS the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of .Cruelty to Animals 1n the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Soc1ety. . . _

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital 18 not incorporated but 18 the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of. . . ._ ........................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property)-

A special cable to the Boston Transcript
from Berlin, says that Der deutsche tier-
sclmtz, a periodical for animal lovers, has
discovered 587 horses still living in Ger-
many that served during the World War.

All 587 have been “decorated” with
shields of honor on their harnesses, and for-
ty-five whose present owners are in need
have been given extra rations of oats for
the holidays. On the shields of honor appear

the iron cross and the words, “Old War
.. Comrade.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page ’72

All Vote to Stay

Thursday morning, the nineteenth, dogs,
cats, canaries, rabbits and other small ani-
mals in large numbers were taken to the
hospital by their owners and the police, and
three of the assistants, accompanied by Dr.
Smead and Ofﬁcer Hall, went out in the
boats and began the active rescue work.
During the day, with the water pouring into
the cellar, the staff was ordered to abandon
the hospital as unsafe, but every man on
the force and the two girls voted to stay,
the police and the National Guard notwith—
standing. The place was full to overﬂowing
with animals, but somewhere, somehow,
space was always found for others as they
arrived.

At this time, water surrounded Bliss
Street at both the Main Street and the Col-
umbus Avenue ends, and had approached to
within about 75 feet of the hospital. It
never actually invaded the building, which
sits on land a little higher than the general
neighborhood. The water in the cellar was
caused by a backﬂow from the sewer. There
was water enough, however, to put the heat-
ing system out of commission. The heater
was disconnected and the motor was moved
to the second ﬂoor. From that time on, the
doctors and the helpers worked in the cold.
The electric light system went out of busi—
ness at midnight, and recourse was had to
candles and kerosene lamps.

Late Thursday night an incident occurred
that might have led to loss of human life.
Mr. Hall, accompanied by Wallace Down-
hill and Harold Clement, took the rowboat
and went to a store on South Columbus
Avenue to rescue a large number of hens
marooned there. Crates full of hens were
stored in the boat, and then it was found
there was room for but two men. Clement

told the others he would remain until they
returned for him.

In the Nick of Time

The water was rising rapidly. When the
boat left with the hens, it could pass
through the door; but Clement saw that the
room would be completely ﬂooded by the
time it got back, so he built a rough pyra-
mid of empty crates and as the water rose
he added to it. Fortunately, plenty of

 

OFFICER FRED F. HALL OF MASS. S. P. C. A. SPRING-
FIELD, HIS CAR AND THE CANOE USED IN
RESCUING ABANDONED ANIMALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ﬁlay,7936

 

Photo by H P. Beaudrin

THE SOCIETY’S OFFICER, FRED F. HALL, AND ASSISTANT RESCU-
ING AN IMPERILED HORSE FROM A FLOODED STABLE

crates were ﬂoating around and he managed
to keep fairly secure. When the ﬂood
reached the top of the doorway, he smashed
open a glass transom and was prepared
either to swim for his life in the dark, in
ice-cold water, or to try to climb up a water
spout to the ﬂoor above. The water in the
store was then nine feet deep. When ﬁnally
rescued, Clement was in a position not
greatly different from that of a rat in a
submerged trap.

After Hall and Downhill had delivered
the hens to the hospital and had started
back to get Clement, they were stopped by
the police and told they could not proceed
to the place in question. Orders had gone
forth that absolutely nobody was to go in
there that night. The police promised to
rescue Clement themselves, and they did

i

so about midnight—none too soon.

Up to Friday morning, March 20, some
20—odd cages of animals were still being
housed in the basement, well up from the
water. They were then moved upstairs in
spite of the congestion there, as it was felt
unwise to take any further risk. On the
main ﬂoor there were 40 cages, with two
or three animals in a cage, and dogs scat-
tered all over the place, tied to the cage—
legs in the wards. Lacking regular cages
for the accommodation of so many, recourse
was had to strawberry crates, hen crates
and all sorts of boxes. The exercise yard
was congested with animals, also the gar—
age. “Room for one more” became the slo—
gan of the day, although at times it seemed
impossible to live up to it, so fast came the
arrivals.

 

HOMELESS VICTIMS HERDED IN THE COURT OF
THE ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL AT
SPRINGFIELD

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

June, 1936

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

   

 

 

 

. ML. tl’:

;« .2941 Eli .

g " "1:21'53’1‘3'“ I w. if-x‘.
M 7"” ”1-?" .
Ecs'e‘wr « r ’

 
 

 

 

 

 

Tenant Wanted

ALFRED I. TOOKE

I’ve made a little bird-house,
And hung it in a pine,

And near where I have put it,
I’ve placed a little sign,

So any bird can read it,
Just as he flies along:

THIS VERY MODERN BIRD-HOUSE
TO RENT

FOR JUST A SONG

“Old Kizer”

CONRAD O. PETERSON

ATHER purchased “Old Kizer” from a logging concern
which ceased operations. He said that he needed an

extra horse to assist with the farm work, and as the work

was light, thought that Old Kizer could help us. '

Old Kizer was really an old lumberjack. He had spent al—
most his entire life in and around lumber camps, and in so
doing had grown Wise and resourceful. I soon found this out
as Kizer and I worked together for some years.

One day during the winter months we went to a near-by
tract of woods to gather some firewood for home use. I cut
down some of the smaller trees and had Kizer drag them to a
suitable place where I could pile them up. The snow was deep,
but Kizer showed some of his lumberjack training by carefully
plowing through the drifts. When a log snagged on a stump
or fallen tree, he would turn to- one side and pull the log free
and then go ahead with his load. This was done without. any
instruction from me. He knew where to stop, where to turn,
and in fact taught me some ways of handling logs that I had
not known before.

Old Kizer gave us plenty of assistance for some time, and
then spent his remaining years in our pastures, the winters in

our big barn with the other farm animals. He is gone now,
but he left a pleasant remembrance.

The Useful Drummer
CLARA RADER

Woodpecker is a drummer,

A gay, wee drummer is he;
Wearing his brigiht red cap,
Tapping his rappety-rap-rap,

On telephone pole or tree.

Woodpecker is a worker,
Though he drums so merrily,
He’s tapping for sleeping bugs,
He’s rapping for worms and slugs;
Oh, a useful drummer is he!

Answers to “Missing Bird Words” in last month’s puzzle:
Kite, bat, cranes, ﬂicker, dipper, swallow, hawk, quail, lark.
chat, grouse, bunting.

 

 

AN ARIZONA TEA PARTY

 

A Collie Saves Two Lives

ROBERT SPARKS WALKER in Advance

LLIAM WORKMAN’S father gave him a collie dog.
William had seen John Campbell’s dog swim into the
creek and bring out sticks for hours at a time, but the dog
would not bring out anything else. William told John that he
would not permit his collie to swim into the water and fetch
out anything except something useful. John laughed at him.
Day after day William took old “Lige,” his dog, to the creek.
He carried with him a cap, a woolen hat, a derby, a straw hat,
and two dolls, one dressed as a girl, the other wore trousers.
One by one William tossed all of these things into the middle
of the creek until old Lige became expert in swimming in and
catching them in his mouth, and then he would hurry out to
the bank as quickly as possible. Sometimes old Lige would
dive and get them as they sank.

Two years after William Workman had trained his collie to
do this kind of work, he was out on the river with his father
ﬁshing on the Fourth of July. As usual, there were hundreds
of other people on the river, some ﬁshing, some boating and
some in swimming.

Just before noon they were startled at the cry of a small
boy and girl, and, on running up the bank, they saw the two
children being carried down the stream. The father had no
boat, and he himself was such a poor swimmer that it was
dangerous for him to jump into the water. Calling quickly to
old Lige, William Workman threw a clod of dirt that struck
the water by the side of the little boy who was all but drowned.
Instantly the dog was in the water, and in less than ten
minutes he had both of the children safely out on the bank.

The father of the two children hugged and kissed old Lige
as he would have had the dog been a man. In a few minutes

a very large crowd gathered about to learn what the faithful
COllle dog had done, and they all praised William Workman for

his wisdom in training his dog to swim in the water and carry
out something useful.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 1936

On Entering the Forest

MYRTLE G. BURGER

Softly tread, O woodland lover,

Where the rabbit runs to cover!
Creatures beady-eyed and furry

At your footsteps shrink and scurry.
Let no misstep nor needless error

Fill their small wild hearts with terror.
When your foot the dry twig crushes
Now a startled covey flushes,

Fearing bullets’ angry patter

Their tender flesh to rend and shatter.
Nestling close amidst the yarrow

Sits the brooding mother sparrow.

0 how her tiny bosom flutters,

But no cry of fear she utters!

Dare not stumble, rash, unbidden,
Where the dappled fawn lies hidden!

If these secrets you’d discover,

Softly tread, O woodland lover!

Friendly Young Wapiti
W. J. BANKS

NLIKE the moose, white-tail and
other members of the deer family
who favor twins, the wapiti, or North
American elk, usually has a single baby. In
early June the fawn or calf is born in a
secluded thicket, where he lays hidden con—
stantly for a few days, and after that
whenever mother elk leaves him for a time.
He is quite a capable actor when it comes
to imitating a dead thing, or a piece of log.
And sometimes this ability saves his life.
For on the approach of danger, instinct
tells him to remain wonderfully still. His
dull, yellowish coat blends with its sur—
roundings in the shady bush, and its white
spots look for all the world like tiny patches
of sunlight peeping through the leafy can-
opy. Even a dog or wolf may pass within
a few yards of baby wapiti without realiz—
ing it. As yet the calf gives off very little
scent, While the thicket is permeated with
the strong, musky odor of his mother. Thus
does nature protect the helpless baby.

Even when he grows a little older, and
romps with the other youngsters of the
herd, our little friend will drop in his tracks
and lie as still as death upon the unex—
pected approach of real or fancied danger.
But while quite young, the elk calf is easily
tamed, and if lost or orphaned will follow
a man home with little coaxing.

With the fall, the young elk calf’s darken-
ing coat will lose its whitish spots. The
young will stay with the mothers during
the ﬁrst winter; indeed, it may be four
years before our ”little friend is old enough
to have a son of his own. What a majestic
ﬁgure he will present! In his prime the
bull elk has all the pride and grace of car-
riage of the finest Arabian steed. Happily,
this noble species of huge deer is now
increasing in numbers in the national parks
and other protected areas. The folly of
man had almost spelt its doom a genera-
tion ago.

Sympathy with animals is so intimately
connected with what is good in character,
that one may confidently affirm that he
who is cruel to them cannot be a good man.

SCHOPENHAUER

OUR DUMB

ANI MALS

Page 119

Where Wild Life Abounds

HENRY H.

GOOD many years ago, when I ﬁrst
Aused to go camping in the Warm

Springs creek game preserve in the
beautiful Sawtooth Mountains of Idaho, I
was appalled and disappointed at the lack
of animals and birds. True, there were some
furred and feathered creatures in the early

GRAHAM

the visitors take cameras instead, enjoying
themselves far more than in the past; the
wild life is enjoying itself far more, too.
More of these game preserves should be
established by the federal government. It
is more fun to look at wild creatures than
to shoot them. Grouse are becoming so tame

 

BEAVER COLLECTING WOOD FOR HOUSE

years of the reserve’s existence, but only
an occasional bit of wild life. This was
doubtless due to the fact that years were
required for the woodland folk to return to
the area after a long period of merciless
hunting.

On my next trip into the preserve several
years later I was also appalled, but in a
more pleasant way. Wild life was every—
where. Deer grazed on the ﬂower-covered
slopes, coming to the creek each evening for
a drink. A lovely doe browsed in the sur—
rounding clearing all of the time we were
building a summer cabin. Often that sea—
son I saw six or seven of the beautiful ani-
mals on the slopes and even in the road
between the cabin and town. Now several
elk have been placed in the preserve.

During a single hike up pine-studded
Warﬁeld canyon, a tributary of Warm
Springs creek, a companion and I saw ﬁve
coveys of grouse, several coveys of sage
hens, numerous ﬂickers and many bluebirds,
wrens and chickadees. We also beheld
many porcupines, pine squirrels, chipmunks
and marten; but the crowning event of the
day came when a brown bear struggled up
the hillside before us, accompanied by two
of the cutest cubs either of us had ever seen.

All hunting and trapping is now forbid—
den in this region, and wild life is coming
back rapidly proving that such refuges
are well worth While. I have never seen
such a wonderful change in a region as that
which occurred after the establishment of
the preserve. Above and below the cabin
beavers have built ﬁne dams every half
mile or so. They are unmolested and free
to enjoy themselves. The animals have mul-
tiplied beyond belief and attract wide atten—
tion from campers and summer residents.

In the old days nearly every vacationist
who went into that district had a gun. Now

that they ﬂy unafraid to the creeks and
springs to drink. Chipmunks eat from a
person’s hand, and one summer a mother
mallard raised a brood of little ones in per-
fect safety within a stone’s throw of my
slabbed cabin. .

I always make a practice of protecting
wild life at every opportunity. Many a time,
upon seeing a shadow on the ground, I have
run out and frightened a menacing hawk
or owl away. My nephews have a dog
named “Jerry.” He has made friends with
most of the creatures of the hills, but he
loathes birds of prey and more than once
has saved a chipmunk or snowshoe rabbit
from a hawk by his ﬁerce barks. Dogs can
be taught to protect the woodland folknf
one is painstaking and thorough in the 1n--
structive process.

Dogs as Passengers

The British railways encourage the trav-
eling of dogs on passenger trains. Their
advertisement states, “When gomg on a
holiday, take your dog with you.”

Special facilities and cheap fare for dogs
accompanying passengers are prov1ded.
Usually the fare for the dog is about one—
fifth of the passenger rate. The fare up to
150 miles does not exceed $1.10. Not more
than three dogs can accompany one passen—
ger.

At different stops along the way the sta—
tion agents will furnish drinking water for
the dogs. .

It would be a piece of good enterprise
for the American Kennel Club and other
dog clubs to secure similar arrangements.

—Dog World

{9‘ , F‘

Annual Humane Convention, Rice Hotel,
Houston, Texas, Sept. 28—30, Oct. 1, 1936.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Sept. 1936 OUR DUMB

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Little Pal”

PATRICIA BANNER

“LJittle Pal,” I think of you
Every single ‘day, l
0f little things you used to do
Your cunning little way.
Your little bark, your little whine,
Your eager eyes that used to shine
Especially at dinner time—
Dear little Pal.
Little Pal, I wonder why
You ‘had to go. away,
I know it does
no good to cry,
But, at the close
0f day,
I think of how
we used to walk,
To romp and play,
to rest and talk,
And how, to tease me
you would balk——
Dear Little Pal.
Little Pal, your
memory
Is all that’s left
for me;
Memories of
days gone by,
Of things
that used to be.
In Puppy Heaven,
romp and play,
Be happy every
single day;
I love to think
of you that way—
Dear Little Pal.

 

PATRICIA BANNER, INDIANA, AND
“LITTLE PAL”

 

Froggie Would a-Traveling Go
(A True Story)
WINIFRED E. RICH

E lived in a good safe swamp where he could see in all

directions and if danger approached could dive into a
thick mud-hole out of sight. But the swamp was drying up
and, the juicy flies and bugs had mostly left for new play-
grounds. So, in spite of a little warning voice deep down in-
side himself which spoke of danger ahead, he hopped out of
the swamp, across the road and found a cool, mossy place
where the water—trough overflow ran all day long. No dan-
ger of going dry or hungry here. What a perfectly delight-
ful time he had for two or three days!

Then, one hot afternoon, a shudder of fear came over him
as he saw, not a foot away, a big, spotted snake with a wick—
ed gleam in its eyes. He tried to spring back into the trough
which was just behind him, but his hind foot tangled in a bit

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

of brush and he couldn’t get away. The snake came closer.
“Help! help,” called the frog. (I know he did for I heard

him from where I sat on the porch and sent Oren to see
what was the matter.)

Now despair overcame him for here was his worst enemy,
—a boy with a stick. Then he saw that the boy was trying
to drive the snake away. Very gently the boy released the
imprisoned foot. Froggie dived under the bridge planks and
lay there with quivering heart.

Maybe he’s still in the ditch or maybe the snake eventually
swallowed him, but we hope he returned safely to the swamp
hole and will live to tell his great grand—children of his ex-
citing adventure and that there are some boys who are
friends to frogs and even snakes.

Not Enough Names to Go Around

< : ONSTERNATION reigns at the Golden Rule Farm for
Boys in Franklin, N. H. It was like this:

“Tootsie,” the farm dog, mother of several litters of pups,
decided to present her friends, the boys, with a new family.
The lads, anticipating the blessed event, conjured together
and decided to have five typical dog names in readiness for
the christening. “Spot,” “Pal,” “Rex,” and the like were all

considered. Past experience had proved to the boys that
names like “Herbert” and “Elizabeth” were not dependable,

because Tootsie could not be relied upon to give the boys all
Herberts or Elizabeths as they might wish.

At last the great event has taken place. But imagine
Tootsie’s supreme moment when, in place of the expected
quintuplets she presented the world with a bushel basket
full of eleven little, black, wriggling, healthy doglets. The
news has spread like wildfire. Tootsie, wearing a dog-
smile of self—satisfaction is the pride of the Golden Rule
Farm. She has set a record for all the farm dogs in this
part of New England.

P. S. There were only two Elizabeths this time.

The Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

Thereis a well—known animal hidden in each of the fol-
lowing sentences. See if you can find them all:

1. Jim thought it would be a. very good thing to go for a
hike. '

2. There are pretty flowers of orange-and-buff along the
pathway.

3. We cross where they span the river with a suspension
bridge.

4. The Boy Scouts’ Club is on the other side of the river.
5. We may pause as we pass to attend the knot-tying con.-
test.

6. They had a clam bake on their beach yesterday.

7. The Art Store has donated a new easel for their art
class.

8. Teaching them art enables them to appreciate Nature
better.

9. We may then, if you prefer, return by another route.

 

 

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1936

The Lower Plane

A Choice Bit of Satire
LEYLAND T. NUTTER

ENRY JAMES, philosopher and Chris-

tian; Henry James, commentator on
the profound, spiritualistic writings of
Swedenborg; Henry James, a distinguished
gentleman in American life, brings to all
dog fanciers a revelation.

In substance, Henry James informs us
that where it is found that man and dog
are mutually attracted to each other it is
because of the qualities of the dog in man
rather than because the dog is possessed
of human attributes. In effect we are in—
formed that we men, women and children,
of this class, are on a lower spiritual plane.
We have much further to go in our spiritual
development in the realms beyond before we
reach the higher plane of such humans as
are not possessed of the dog’s harmony.

To me this revelation is a comfort. To
me, after half a century midst human asso-
ciations, there comes the thought that, after
all, I should not despair of salvation in the
life to come when this strife—stressed world
is left behind.

Does my statement sound illogical against
J ames’s assertion? Perhaps. I intend that
a far different conviction may be derived
from J ames’s words.

To me, after many years in public ser-
vice in various governmental ofﬁces—midst
political party strife, conniving, threats
and supplications—there comes a ray of
hope as I contemplate my constant compan-
ion lying peacefully at my feet; a compan-
ion constant in every sense of the word. He
knows naught of the chaotic proclivities of
modern society.

To me, after many years in legal con—
flict—midst the owlish wisdom of legal
justice—justice which often departs from
the Christian morals of man—there comes a
mental calm as I contemplate my faithful
dog. He knows naught of legal smartness,
legal technicalities, legal distinctions which
have no difference, nor of legal callousness
which thrives on the strife and contentions
of embittered fellowmen. I see a beam of
light leading me on in this lower plane.

To me, after many years of active work
in “reform movements” for the economic
welfare of suffering humanity, there comes
a sigh of satisfaction as I dwell upon my
status in this “lower plane.” My dog knows
naught of the utter indifference of surfeited
man toward his impoverished fellow-crea—
tures. When my dog has had his fill he
denies no other dog the similar satisfaction.
He does not seek to hoard, to monopolize, to
control the future dispensation of bones; he
places no legal obstacles in the way. He
maintains no idle pastures wherein a va—
grant dog may not stray. “No trespassing”
means naught to him. He cannot conceive
of his fellow dogs starving in the midst of
plenty. He does not preach that bones
should be made scarce because the price of
bones is “too low.” This is something which
my dog cannot comprehend. It requires
the mentality of the “higher plane” to wit—
ness and to be reconciled to such extremes
in progress and poverty.

To me, after witnessing for many years
the wanton waste, extravagant expendi—

 

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 167

 

Photo Service

RESCUED AT SEA, REVIVED AND RETURNED TO WOODS

The frightened and nearly exhausted deer was discovered by two young ﬁshermen,
William and Frank Balkus, (see inset) swimming three miles off the Nahant shore.
They bravely went to his rescue in their small power boat. After a struggle for half
an hour, in which the 150-pound animal nearly upset their boat several times, he was

pulled aboard and securely tied.

The boys conveyed the deer to land where, with

the help of Sea Scouts, game warden and others, he was fully revived, carried by truck
to the woods in Wakeﬁeld and set free. Only the timely arrival of the Balkus brothers
and their humane rescue of the animal at the peril of their own lives saved the deer

from perishing.

 

tures and utter incompetency in public af-
fairs, there comes a peaceful joy in the
companionship of my dog. He cares not
for fancy collars, nor embellished harnesses,
nor bejewelled society. He wastes no food.
He seeks no political pull to secure a modern
pavement upon which he may run in splen-
dor to his kennel or to his haunts. He does
not ask that his offspring shall bear a
grievous, ﬁnancial burden for many future
generations so that a selfish desire for mo—
dern improvements may be satisfied. He
does not leave behind him mortgages of so
many thousands of bones. In councils, in
city halls, in legislatures where dogs meet
incompetency is never tolerated; each mem-
ber of canine society must prove his worth
. . . or else . . . scram!

As my dog sits and fixes his bright,
brown eyes upon me—patiently watching
for the slightest indication of my next act——
a guilty twinge steals o’er me as I realize
that I am not completely worthy of the im-
plicit confidence which beams from his
trustful eyes. I have a long way to go be-
fore reaching his standards of faithfulness.
“Going to the dogs” may prove to be an
upward step in many persons’ peregrina-
tions through this hectic life.

Tomorrow my dog goes to the Angell
Memorial Hospital; an institution where

doctors of dogs, and friends and attendant
aids stand ready to attempt relief in answer
to the greatest appeal ever extended to the
intelligence of man—the mute appeal of fix—
ed, focused, bright brown eyes—a mute ap-
peal which pours forth more eloquence than
the most ostentatious oratory ever voiced
by mere man’s lips. The answer to this
mute appeal manifests the highest spiritual
attribute ever displayed by humans who
are “created in His own image.”

There will be no Valhalla for me if my
canine companion is not waiting for me
when I step ashore ’tother side of the River
Styx.

Such is the sublime height of the “lower
plane.”

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene—
fit of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu—
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved.
We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




  
  

 

‘V- Vi

'5 - “a P ‘j‘; 3“ afﬁx g 2:?
~ ' ', um: ..

‘ r-wmrwaxw

an

 

'65wﬁﬁxttﬁu’iﬁ‘ _

{aw-9.13113" 115;- Lain!
z :‘a (”w "W A r“; g“; W w ' .
:3 u I} n J l“‘ibgk/i"1\ﬂ"1r..}, a“ £1 ”'1 gﬁCi-Iﬁ'ﬂt

484 JOHNSTGN AVENUE;
JEEﬁ-EY QATY; Hz J;

. , ‘ .
M mﬁmﬂvﬁ’r‘uﬂ

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Pageﬂt
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Oil Pollution of Coastal
Waters

E have received from the League of

Nations a very full account of the
meetings of the Committee representing the
League to deal with this serious question.
Letters have been sent out to the world’s
maritime powers asking for replies as to
the best methods to combat this evil. These
replies have been discussed by the Commit-
tee. The practicability of oil separators,
the distances at which oil may be discharg-
ed from ships without danger of its drift-
ing into coastal waters, and apparently
every other question that could be raised
with regard to this problem has been dis—
cussed by the Committee.

It will surprise many to learn that oil
discharged at sea may be found to form a
film upon certain waters when winds and
currents have been favorable which has
reached coasts 150 miles away.

The Committee was composed of repre—
sentatives from Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, the Division of Western Eu—
ropean Affairs, the United States, Italy,
Japan, Norway, Denmark, France. A con-
vention of all the maritime powers will be
called as soon as the necessary prelimi-
naries can be taken care of. Such a con—
vention was held in Washington in 1926.
No satisfactory agreement, however, was
reached at that time, at least no action was
taken binding all the powers to its enforce-
ment.

 

 

Four million pounds of beef, five million
pounds of pork is estimated as the annual
national loss from bruises the result of ig—
norance, mishandling and at times cruelty.

The national loss in money is estimated va— _

riously from $20,000,000 to $40,000,000. This
from an address before the Livestock Loss
Prevention Association of Ohio. Who will
ever know the millions saved the great
packing industry in this country as the re—
sult of humane education and the work of
societies for the prevention of cruelty to
animals.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An English Victory

ROM the Royal S. P. C. A. comes the

good news that after years of hard work
and much expense on the part of the Society
the British Board of Jews has issued in—
structions that the Weinberg Casting Pen
must be used in all slaughter—houses in
Great Britain where Jewish slaughtering
takes place. This is a great victory won.
The old, and almost universally used, meth—
od of casting has been to jerk the animal
up by a chain or rope attached to a wheel,
causing it to fall violently upon the hard
floor of the slaughter-house. The Weinberg
Revolving Pen lays the animal gently on the
floor and in position for the use of the
knife. This Pen has recently been greatly
improved. Great Britain is rapidly moving
far ahead of us in this country in securing
humaner methods in the slaughter of food
animals.

In Honor of a Stag-hunter

October 8, last, a strange service to be
held in a Christian church took place in the
Children’s Chapel of Exeter Cathedral,
England. A stained glass window was
dedicated in memory of one Hugh, 4th Earl
of Fortescue, for years the leading stag--
hunter in Devon and Somerset, responsible,
so it was repcrted, for the killing of “pro—
bably over 5,000 stags and binds.” Many
protests were made by humanitarians
against placing such a memorial in the
cathedral. The window was a high tribute to
St. Hubert as a stag-hunter. That this St.
Hubert should be considered as the Patron
Saint of hunters is rather surprising as he
was converted from stag-hunting and
should, therefore, as one has said, “be re—
membered as the Patron Saint of the tor—
tured victims.”

Perhaps we in this country should not
criticize. ‘Twice in recent years we have
read of some clergyman at his church doors
blessing the hounds as they made ready
for the hunt.

The Sandwich Men and
Women

The English humane societies have a way
of protesting against acts of inhumanity, or
pleading for their cause, which we might
well adopt. For example: The Lord Mayor
of London put on a great show sometime
ago. It included as attractions representa-
tions of a decadent sport, fox hunting,
animals destined for slaughter were parad—
ed on the streets, and by implication also
the acts of performing animals were ap—
proved. Ten humane organizations contrib-
uted sixty sandwich men, each bearing
front and back a large poster protesting
against the show as degrading and demor—
alizing. The poster parade, it is said, ex—
tended the whole length of Victoria Street.
The answer of the Lord Mayor’s Mansion
to the letters of protest and of public dis-
approval was as follows:

“A number of letters have been received
from members of some minor bodies. We
are taking no notice of them.”

We honor the sixty sandwich men vastly
more than we do the Lord Mayor.

Feb. 1936

Norway’s New Humane
Laws

Y an Act of June, 1935, Norway’s new

laws for the protection of animals from
cruelty went into effect. They cover a mul-
titude of Specific cases and, in general,
would seem to meet about every form of
cruelty. One quite unsatisfactory feature
about them is that the King can annul cer—
tain of them at his pleasure. For ex-
ample, the “King may grant permission
to certain persons in certain specific places
to carry out in the interests of science pain—
ful experiments on animals.” He can also
make such rules as he deems necessary for
the enforcement of this law. He can also
issue regulations for the transport of ani-
mals and for the use of animals in trans-
porting goods and passengers.

Here are a number of interesting special
prohibitions: To hit an animal with a stick,
with a rope or cord, either knotted or hav-
ing metal spikes or such like attached, is
forbidden; to train or use animals for
shows or films in any way to cause harm
or pain is forbidden, also to put a cord or
ring in the snout of a pig to stop it from
rooting; to castrate poultry, to feed poultry
forcibly for fattening, to organize or main-
tain a menagerie, to dock the tails of horses,
to use live fish for bait.

We congratulate the Norwegian humane
societies upon the work they must have
done to secure so much in the way of hu—
mane legislation.

Encouraging

Here is good news for all who have been
discouraging the gifts to children of toys
which have to do with ﬁrearms and the
things that have to do with war. We copy
it from the Boston H erald :

“‘Paciﬁst’ Toys Replace Soldier by Scout,
‘G’ Man”

The tin soldier, traditional companion of
childhood, is almost non-existent this Christ-
mas since toy manufacturers have gone
paciﬁst. His place has been largely taken
by the “G” man. Even the ABC blocks
which used to carry the soldier’s picture on
the block which illustrated “S” now have
pictures of scouts. Toy manufacturers, in
developing a social consciousness, have de-
cided to make no toy which would encourage
children to play games suggesting killing.

The United States Biological Survey,
after as careful a census as was possible,
estimated that probably some 20,000,000
waterfowl have ﬂown South this year, and
further says that the gunners of the United
States will kill and get between 5,000,000
and 6,000,000 of them. The More Game
Birds Foundation, a gunners’ organization,
asks us to believe the incredible when they
say that a census taken by airplanes ﬂying
over marshy grounds increased the number
to 60,000,000 or 70,000,000. A census of
game birds by airplanes! “Believe it or
not”—certainly “not.”

Join the Jack London Club—a great move-
ment whose goal is the prevention of cruelty
to performing animals.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Dee. 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 191

 

 

 

My Christmas Present
GEORGENA BERGTOLD

SINCE “Pepper,” a cat, came to me on Christmas day, he
is thought of as a real Christmas gift. Where he came
from I do not know, but this I do know, that my life has been
made happier by his presence.

 

“PEPPER” AND BUNNY

At the time of his arrival he was a kitten. He was not
only a very mischievous kitty but possessed an air of self—
confidence and showed intelligence in several ways. One day
I was attracted by an unusual noise coming from the hall.
Upon investigating I saw Pepper sliding down the stairs
on a large box cover and enjoying himself immensely.

Whenever I feed him anything he especially likes, he will
arch his back and sit up on his hind legs.

When he wants to come in during the summer, he opens
the screen door and lets it bang. I always know when Pep
is at the door. In the winter time he knocks. How he does
it I do not know, but whe,n.I hear the noise, I go to the door
and find him there.

He has lots of respect for my neighbor whom he visits
quite often. She told me Pepper knocked at the door one
day so she let him in. He lay down in the sun-room.
Soon after that she had to leave the house and she said “Pep-
per, I must go out now.” So Pep got up at once and left. I
would not know what to do without this cheerful Christmas
present.

Answers to “Hidden Animals” in last month’s puzzle: Pan—
ther, elephant, antelope, jackal, beaver, lemur, rabbits, bison,
seal, weasel, baboon, camel.

 

 

      

       
  
  

 
 
 
  

          
 
 
  

 
 

 

    
   
   
    

  
  

    
  

  
   

 _ slaw
"P \ ”ll”? 3 ,-‘

     

   

 

Neatness
SOLVEIG PAULSON

My hitten’s name is “Baldy.”
I wish that I could be

Always careful to remember
To be as clean as he.

He never eats a single meal
. But that, when he is through,
He washes off his little paws

And chin and whiskers, too.

And sometimes, when. he’s sitting still,
And neat as he can be,

He starts to brush and wash again;
How strange that seems to me!

His Best Preacher

Martin Luther, in his autobiography, says: “I have one
preacher that I love better than any other on earth; it is my
little tame robin, which preaches to me daily. I put his
crumbs upon my window-sill, especially at night. He hops
to the sill when he wants his supply. From thence he always
hops to a little tree close by and lifts up his voice to God and
sings his carol of praise and gratitude. He is the best preacher
that I have on earth.”

 

“Where’s My Pal?”

RUSSELL STANTON

That’s what this baby deer seems to say as it sniffs the
tricycle of Nancy Newman, six-year-old daughter of Game
Warden Carl W. Newman, of Dover, N. J. Orphaned by dogs
which killed its mother, the fawn was adopted by Nancy
when her father brought it home to grow, and the tiny wild
creature adopted Nancy, too. As soon as it gained enough
strength to outrun dogs, the fawn was returned to the woods.

 




APRIL 1936 PRICE 10 CENTS

(9w Q)

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY ~

yr

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

M ay, 1936

 

CLIFFORD KELLEY, RESCUED BY DR.
SMEAD FROM THE SEETHING
WATERS WHEN THEIR BOAT

CAPSIZED

No Light—— No Heat

Late afternoon of Friday witnessed the
rescue of a horse, made by Mr. Hall and
one of the men. The water in the stable,
at 58 Loring Street, was between four and
ﬁve feet deep, so the poor beast was pretty
well submerged. The ﬂood was pouring
through the barn with the force of a mill-
stream. The boat shot through with a rush.
The horse was cut loose from its stall with
difficulty. The animal was half crazed with
fright, and there was a lot of trouble get—
ting it out of the barn. It was ﬁnally
towed to dry land and was rubbed down
and properly cared for. ‘

For two days now there had been no
electric light and no heat. It was impos-
sible to conduct clinics, and only emergency
cases were operated on. The instruments
were sterilized on the gas stove in the diet
kitchen. The gas supply never once failed
throughout the ﬂood, nor did the telephone—
two immense boons, the lack of which would
have spelled serious trouble. Two cats had
kittens. A dog gave birth to her puppies.
A rabbit bore eight little ones. All the
mothers were doing nicely, thank you.

Saturday morning, March 21, members
of the Springﬁeld branch Women’s Auxil—
iary, and other kind friends began to re-
ceive many of the refugee animals into
their homes, thus relieving some of the con-
gestion at the hospital. Quite a few animal
lovers, in no way connected with the So—
ciety, had telephoned they were willing to
help out, so as fast as people arrived with
their pets they were shunted off to the
homes of these good people. There was
never any food shortage at the hospital.
Hundreds of pounds of meat were received,
and an ample supply of milk, grains and
other animal rations.

A Thrilling Incident
At 4.30 that afternoon, Dr. Smead, Mr.
Hall and Clifford Kelley were over in the
West Springﬁeld district in a rowboat, res-
cuing animals. They had secured a dog,

OUR D UMB ANIMALS

two cats and two canaries and had reached
the corner of Main and Day Streets, on
their way home, where they got into serious
trouble. The water was eight feet deep
in the streets, and it was tearing through
like a turbulent river. In spite of all they
could do, their craft, thrown against a tele—
phone pole, capsized.

When they came to the surface, Dr.
Smead and Mr. Hall managed to get their
arms around the pole and held on. They
were then able to climb up the pole on the
spikes put there for the linesmen. Kelley
was not so fortunate. He was unable to
swim a stroke. The force of the current
may be gaged by the fact that he was
swept against the side of a business build—
ing, 75 feet away, before he could drown.
Beyond the corner of the building was a
broad expanse of water, with no other
refuge in sight. Luckily, Kelley managed
to grasp the second—story window—sill as he
was borne along. For a few minutes he
held on, encouraged by the shouts of his
companions on the pole. Finally, the watch—
ers saw him shake his head.

Without further ado, Dr. Smead dove into
the ﬂood and swam to Kelley’s relief. The
young man afterward said he could not have
held on much longer. " The distance was not
great and Dr. Smead made a swimming
sprint of it. Grasping Kelley, he managed
with his free hand to pull himself and his
burden against the current into a position
where they could work their bodies over
the window—sill to a place of temporary
safety. When they recovered their breath
and looked around, they saw the dog sit-
ting on. a neighboring window-ledge. The
cats and the canaries were never seen

Page '73

again.

Meanwhile, Mr. Hall, from his perch on
the telephone pole, was blowing lustily on
his police whistle. After what seemed like
an age, a naval reserve crew came steam-
ing in sight and rescued the men—and the
dog! Kelley was hOSpitalized for 24 hours,
but it was several days before he was able
to resume work. Dr. Smead and Mr. Hall
came out of the affair without any bad
effects. In estimating the seriousness of
the incident, it must be remembered that
the water into which they were plunged
had the temperature almost of ice.

Al Hard Problem Solved

Sunday, March 22, found conditions at
the hospital somewhat improved. Many of
the animals had been removed to temporary
homes, and those among them that were
very sick or had been badly injured were
painlessly put to sleep. All the others were
doing nicely. The water in the basement
was three feet deep in the ﬁre—pit, and the
building was still without electricity or
heat. Fortunately, the weather was not
cold, and it remained at a fairly even tem-
perature throughout the entire period of
the ﬂood.

On this day the Board of Health and
the Police Department commissioned the
S. P. C. A. workers to feed the animals
marooned in houses and stores throughout
the ﬂooded area. Hundreds of owners had
been seeking permission to visit their pets
and had been turned down because of the
«danger to life and health. The authorities
hailed the advent of the S. P. C. A. into
this work as a happy solution to a perplex-

 

A . A.

 

A

DINNER TIME FOR HUNGRY REFUGEES AT THE BLISS STREET

HOSPITAL. DOGS OF ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS ARE BEING FED
BY ATTENDANT HAROLD CLEMENT AND DR. A. R. EVANS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'- .t‘Jm‘mT.’L.::T_;-v ~_ A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
     
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
 
     
  
   
 
   
 
   
    
   
   
    
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
    

 

 

 

 

A. ‘mwmm mmzmm "m

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96
Be Kind to Animals Week

(Continued from page 86’)
Activities in Virginia

In Richmond Miss Blanche Finley, ﬁeld
worker of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, supplied 59 schools with hu-
mane posters and special programs and
placed posters in stores and institutions.
More than 100 Parent-Teacher Associations
and Junior Humane Leagues were reached
during the Week. Rev. John W. Lemon,
ﬁeld worker among the colored population
of rural Virginia, reports this as the best
Week yet observed.

South Carolina Loyal to Mr. Lewith

It was at Charleston, South Carolina,
home of the late Henry F. Lewith, that the
expression. “Be Kind to Animals” originated
as a national motto and the Carolinians
love to remember this fact. Governor Olin
D. Johnston issued a proclamation in which
he called upon the people of the state to
observe Be Kind to Animals Week “with
increased consideration for all animals and
wild things.” Similar proclamations were
issued by the mayors of Columbia, Charles—
ton, Aiken, Greenvilleand Winnsboro. The
state superintendent of schools, Dr. J. H.
Hope, called for a general observance in the
schools and many teachers’ associations en-
dorsed the plan. The State, leading news-
paper of South Carolina, had a long, lead-
ing editorial, “National Humane Week,” on
April 19, in which pleasing reference is
made to The News, a special Be Kind to
Animals bulletin issued in the name of the
American Humane Education Society by
Seymour Carroll, ﬁeld worker of Columbia.
Mr. Carroll was responsible for much news—
paper publicity, especially in the colored
press, both in his own. state and outside.
The Humane News, published in February,
March and April, was mailed to editors,
news writers and educators throughout the
South. Radio Station WIS of Columbia
carried four humane broadcasts during the
Week, each with a distinguished speaker or
unusual musical program.

Radio Programs in Georgia

Every one of the ten broadcasting sta-
tions in Georgia presented humane pro-
grams daily during Be Kind to Animals
Week. Though her own home had been
partially destroyed in the tornado, Mrs.
Katherine Weathersbee, ﬁeld worker of the

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

American Humane Education Society, ’re-
ported that it had been a great Week in
that state, with humane education programs
and pet parades in all of the schools. On
Saturday Dr. Ralph Ramsey, secretary of
the Georgia Education Association, spoke
on “Humane Education and Humane Legis—
lation.” at the quarterly meeting of the
Georgia Humane Society. Mrs. Weathersbee
herself spoke twice daily to group meetings
of Parent—Teacher Associations and each
evening to “Father—Mother” gatherings, be—
sides attending demonstrations in the
schools of Atlanta and Fulton County.

Publicity in Florida

The DeLand Sun News in an editorial
on “Be Kind to Animals” spoke especially
of dogs as man’s greatest friends. In a
previous issue of this paper there was a
column—long editorial on the work of the
American Humane Education Society
through its competent ﬁeld representative,
Rev. R. E. Griﬂ‘ith of DeLand. Mayor Hatch
of that city issued a proclamation for the
Week. On Saturday a pet show was held
under direction of the Park and Recreation
department in the DeLand bandshell.

Editorial in Wisconsin

“Kindness to Animals” was the subject
of a leading editorial in. the Sheboygan
Press of which C. E. Broughton is editor.
It prophesied that “much will be accom-
plished through the inculcation of ideas
which will remain in the minds of many
for a lifetime.”

Interesting Events in Texas

The Eve Meyer Foundation, Inc., of Hous-
ton, secured much publicity during the
Week, including a historical account and
“Humane Echoes” in the Houston Post. Ap-
propriate stories and poems were presented
over Station KPRC by Frank Colby in his
“Bandwagon” feature.

Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, ﬁeld worker of
the American Humane Education Society
for the colored people in Fort Worth, was
ably assisted by a committe of teachers
who helped plan a very successful Week.
There were radio broadcasts, poster, scrap-
book play and pet animal show contests for
pupils; and a general observance by the
schools in Greenway Park on Saturday, the
main feature being an. original play com-
posed and staged by high school students.
Eleven community churches of the city held
humane services on Sunday.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to_The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

June, 1936

California’s Celebration

Secretary McCurrie of the San Francisco
S. P. C. A. thus sums up the high lights of
the celebration sponsored by that Society:
“We had a good observance with lots of
publicity. On the ﬁnal day we exchanged
cameras for air-guns and rifles, and held
an opening of a new building for boarding
dogs. I have gathered to date 650 inches,
column width, of news articles. How Henry
Lewith would have enjoyed riding in one of
our 1,000 street cars seeing an attractive
sign, Be Kind to Animals National Obser—
vance, April 19—25, San Francisco S. P.
C. A. The signs were kept on cars all
week. Public schools took more interest
than before. We used material from Hu—
mane Exercises, getting a circular for the
ﬁrst time to 1,800 teachers in the schools.”

The Latham Foundation for the Pro—
motion of Humane Education of Oakland
sponsored 25 different radio talks during
the Week; awarded 157 cash prizes and
1,120 certiﬁcates of merit in its annual
school poster contest; and arranged for var-
ious pictorial displays, decoration ceremon—
ies and humane entertainments.

In a North Carolina School

The Sarah J. Eddy Band of Mercy Clubs
of the Washington Street Primary School
in Greensboro celebrated by having pro—
grams in each classroom, arranging bulletin
boards and making posters about four-foot-
ed pets. Many school children tried to do
some special act of kindness. The school
paper for April was a Kindness to Animals
number, with attractive drawings of dogs
on the cover and the text made up of inter-
esting items and bits of prose and verse.
This issue was dedicated to Miss Sarah J.
Eddy, director of the American Humane
Education Society.

Humane Play Contest

One hundred manuscripts were received
in the prize contest for simple humane
plays, adapted to presentation by grammar
school children, announced by the American
Humane Education Society in our March
number. Announcement of the results will
be made in the next (July) issue of Our
Dumb Animals.

Our Dumb Animal—s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

 

 

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 120

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., ‘3 which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

AUGUST, 1936

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Anima’s are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

Protesting the Bull-fight

NFORMED by a prominent humane

worker in Texas that it was proposed
to hold some form of bull-fighting in Gal-
veston early in July, the Secretary of the
American Humane Education Society for-
warded the following protest to the city of—
ficials:

June 22, 1936

To the Mayor and Council
Galveston, Texas
Gentlemen:

We have just been advised that it is pro-
posed to hold some form of bull—fight at
Galveston Downs, July 4—5, next. Whether
this is to be an actual fight of the typical
Spanish form or some kind of mock fight,
the principle involved is the same. Such
performances, we believe, have no place in
civilized America. The moral effect upon
the children of the community is enough to
condemn such exhibitions, to say nothing
of the other evils such as pandering to the
baser elements of human nature and the
danger of cruelty both to men and animals.

For forty-seven years the American Hu-
mane Education Society has been trying to
educate the youth of our land to a more
considerate treatment of animals, its prime
object being that in teaching kindness to
animals it also teaches children to be kind—
er and more just towards each other. In
the name of Humanity, therefore, we ear—
nestly protest against the holding on Amer—
ican soil of any sort of exhibition even re—
motely resembling the iniquitous bull—fight,
and we trust that the authorities in Galves—
ton will not permit such a show to take
place to stain the fair name of the city or
that of the great state of Texas during this
memorable Centennial Year.

Respectfully submitted,
ThIe American Humane Education Society,
nc.

One Year’s Work

Here is an illustration of what our hu-
mane education workers are doing in the
schools of this country. From one city a-
lone comes the following report of one of
our efficient workers :- Schools visited, 125;
Bands of Mercy organized, 1,795; pupils
reached, 77,566; adults reached 2,460.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Pathetic Appeal

T comes to us from Hungary. It is a

cry out of a heart distressed almost
beyond measure because of the lack of in-
terest shown in the welfare of animals in
that country. This faithful worker, who is
devoting her life to the creation of a public
sentiment that will lessen the burden of
suffering on the part of the unfortunate
beasts of burden and the smaller animals,
says:

“Please stress the poverty of the men
and of the country where I am. Tell how
many horses of 80 to 35 years are dragging
the heaviest burdens and fall down upon
the streets from weakness because they are
so badly fed, especially after a very bad
harvest. As to men’s poverty, I only men«
tion the poor old men who get from the
Government but $1 a month. Then, imag-
ine the fate of beasts! Thousands of
horses are covered with wounds because
they are so emaciated that lying down
causes these wounds above each bone.
Thousands of men let free their dogs be
cause they are unable to pay the high li—
cense fee, and the dog—catchers and dog—
stealers gather these up and take them to
the clinics and laboratories for experimen-
tation.”

We insert this plea here in the hope that
there may be some able to give some finan—
cial help to this struggling woman who has
written us. Any gifts we shall gladly for-
ward to her.

Roadside Zoos Regulated

In June, Pennsylvania passed a law re—
quiring all roadside zoos to have a permit
from the State Board of Game Commission—
ers, the penalty for violation being a ﬁne
of $25 and costs and, in default, imprison—
ment for not more than ten days. We are
advised by Mr. Thomas S. Carlisle, chair-
man -of the legislative committee of the
Federated Humane Societies of Pennsyl—
vania, that the Game Commission is not
friendly to these zoos and that the regula-
tions will be such that very few can con—
tinue. The text of the Act, which appears
to be a very effective one, is too long to be
reprinted here, but those interested may
obtain copies by addressing Mr. Carlisle at
Springﬁeld, Pa.

Since writing the above we have been
shown a telegram, dated June 24, from the
secretary of Governor Hoffman of New
Jersey saying, “Govern-or Hoffman has just
approved Assembly bill 487 prohibiting ex-
hibition of wild animals at roadside stands.”

Police Dogs

The term “police dog,” as the German
shepherd dog is commonly called in Amer-
ica, is a misnomer. A real police dog is
an animal which has been trained to do
police work, whether it is a German shep-
herd, a Dobermann pinscher, or any other
breed. In Germany, airedales are known
as “war dogs,” because they were used by
England during the war for service with
the army.

Aug. 1936
Then and Now

OOKING into the issue of Our Dumb

Animals of just ﬁfty years ago (Au-
gust, 1886) we ﬁnd that the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. then maintained three prosecut—
ing agents at the Boston ofﬁce, relying upon
local volunteer agents for the other dis-
tricts in the state. Now the Society main-
tains five prosecuting officers at its Bos-
ton headquarters, with nine others covering
all sections of Massachusetts—fourteen in
all.

For the year ending February 28, 1886,
the Society’s total expenses were $12,265.-
81; for the year 1935 the total expenses
were $282,554.66, more than twenty-three
times as much after fifty years.

In the August, 1886, issue we read
“There are now 5,246 Bands of Mercy reg-
istered at the Society’s ofﬁce.” Now, Au—
gust, 1936, there are 218,068 Bands of
Mercy registered.

S. P. C. A. in Trinidad

The forty-first report of the Trinidad S.
P. C. A., shows forty convictions for cruelty
in 1985. This Society, with 171 subscribers,
maintains inspectors who patrol the streets
and public places in Port of Spain and sur—
rounding country districts, regularly visit-
ing markets, wharves and jetties. About
100 animals were humanely destroyed.
Nearly $100 was subscribed by school chil—
dren for the support of the work. The So-
ciety has a Branch in San Fernando (Ven—
ezuela) where the inspector deals with the
evils of bird-catching, conditions in which
fowl are kept for sale, and the inconve—
nience under which animals labor while
climbing hilly oiled roads.

Awards for Humane Traps

The American Humane Association of
Albany, N. Y., announces that the ninth
annual contest for the most humane traps
has just been concluded. Hundreds of new
devices were submitted by trappers and in—
ventors. Awards totaling $500 were made,
emphasis being placed on traps that would
take the animal alive and uninjured.

Sixteen contestants submitted traps in
which a pliable chain grip was substituted
for the cruel steel jaws. The judges found
that they could place a finger in these traps
and that the chain grip would hold without
pain. With this method it would be possi-
ble to take an animal alive and to release
it unharmed if not wanted. Highest award,
$100, in this group went to D. Ralph
Knapp, Plattsburg, N. Y., and awards of
$50 each to D. A. Epp, Henderson, Nebras-
ka; Vernon Bailey, Washington, D. C.; and
Jess M. Hassinger, Reedsville, Pa.

For improved types of cage traps $75
was awarded to E. M. Long, Cadiz, Ohio;
$50 to Allen McMullen of Number Four,
N. Y., and $40 to Rupert Merkl, Ossining,
N. Y. For a trap designed to kill humane-
ly Richard J. Johnson, Langdon, Minn., won
a prize of $85.

The Association states that this year’s
contest has brought it much nearer its goal
—furs without cruelty.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

slim agg’.~-._‘ ”—ﬂiwamr , .,

Page 1 41;

 

‘IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

THE RIVER PASTURE, Judy Van der
Veer.

Discriminating readers of verse in recent
issues of Our Dumb Animals must have
noted the excellence of the contributions of
Judy Van der Veer, and some of them have
surmised correctly that the author is a
ranch girl. Now comes the first volume, in
prose, from the pen of this young Californ—
ia writer, dreamer and lover of animals. Of
her, the publishers say: “Judy Van der
Veer is the four—leaf clover among writers
that publishers are always searching for
and so rarely find. She is a real discovery.”
So we might have written of her two years
ago, when her work began appearing regu-
larly in these columns.

“The River Pasture” will charm all who
care for intimate descriptions of domestic
animals. From her mountain ranch in
southern California the author pours out
frankly her devotion to the various animals
that came under her care. Here is real
life; nothing artificial, nothing written for
effect merely. “Calves and colts and lambs
—I can never decide which I love most,”
she comments in one of those happy mo—
ments when her observations remind one of
Stevenson’s in his travel books. “William,”
the friendly cow, and her daughter,
“Daisy”; the numerous colts, “Penny” and
his humorous actions, “Pepper Tree,” the
gay, “Pericles,” the independent, and
“Johnny,” the faithful; “Cherry Pie,” the
pathetic. Guernsey calf; even “Wucky,” the
duck—all come in for the reader’s lasting
affection as he hears of their exploits, gay
and sad. Yet this is a book for adults, with
its frank language and sage remarks on the
ways of animals and men. If we are not
greatly mistaken, its. author will some day
become well known in the field of letters.
The chapter headings and tail—pieces are
drawn by Dorothy Waugh.

213 pp. $2. Longmans, Green & Co., New
York and Toronto.

THE ROBIN FAMILY, Anne Altha Single-
ton.

This is an attractive volume of juvenile
short poems designed, hand set, illustrated
and printed by Burnley Weaver at the G01-
lifox Press in Biltmore, .N. C. Part I is
“for the almost young” and Part II “for
the very young.” There are not so many
verses about the robin as the title might
imply, the subjects including other birds,
the horse, dog, cat, bumblebee, flowers and
inanimate things. When the» author is at
her highest, one is reminded of Stevenson
in “A Child’s Garden of Verses.” Indeed
a perusal of this new volume, intended even
for younger readers, would be a fine intro—
duction to Stevenson’s juvenile classic.

75 pp. (large). $1.50. Bruce Humphries,
Inc., Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“ Five-and-Tcn” Canary
VIRGINIA GRILLEY

He lifts his little voice on high
Above the stuffy chaos of the store,
Asking no homage of the passers—by
Who hurry through the scarlet—painted
door.

N aught does he know of nests that cling
To gray, paternal arms of friendly trees,
0r flocks that mark the dear return of

spring . . .
His small untutored heart shares none of
these.

Busy his fragile feet are, gripping tight
The magic swing and pale enamel bars;

They bring to him no mockery of flight
Outward and up to wind-encircled stars!

Convention at Houston

LANS have been practically completed
by President Sydney H. Coleman for
the annual meeting of the American Hu—
mane Association at the Rice Hotel, Hous—
ton, Texas, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, September 28, 29, 30, and
October 1, 1936. Child protection subjects
will occupy the first two days, while the
last two will be given to animal protection.
Among the speakers on animal topics will
be Rev. A. W. S. Garden, Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Eric Hansen, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. J. T.
HayWard, Tulsa, Okla. ; Robert F. Sellar,
Boston, Mass; Mrs. Frank Sweeney, Mem—
phis, Tenn.; Miss Kate Wakeling, Los An—
geles, Ca1.; Dr. A. T. Ishkanian, Mexico
City; Dr. Jose Perez Cubillas, president of
the Band of Mercy, Havana, Cuba; Prof.
Leo P. Schleck, Madison, Wis.; Miss Kate
Friend, Waco, Texas; Guy Richardson, Bos—
ton, Mass.; P. J. .Neligan, Chattanooga,
Tenn.; Frank B. Rutherford, Philadelphia,
Pa.; John P. Eastwood, president of Louis—
iana S. P. C. A.; and Dr. Wesley A. Young,
Chicago Anti—Cruelty Society. Mrs. Charles
M. Kindel, Grand Rapids, Mich., will pre-
side at an open meeting when delegates
may present any subjects of special interest.
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, assisted by Mr.
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, field workers of the
American Humane Education Society, will
conduct a special meeting for colored chil—
dren. on Wednesday afternoon.

The annual banquet, with Governor All—
red expected as chief guest, will take place
at the Rice Hotel, Tuesday evening. On
Wednesday afternoon Mrs. George A. Tyler
and Mrs. Herbert A. Kipp will give a gar-
den tea to the delegates.

 

 

T O OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the pmperty).

 

 

Sept. 1936
McGuffey Readers

ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

ULY 24 and 25 of this year, 1936, were
set aside by Miami University at Ox-
ford, Ohio, to celebrate the hundredth an—
niversary of the publication of the First
Reader, written by William Holmes Mc-
Guffey, a young professor of the university.
Fortunate is the family that has had
preserved on its bookshelves a complete set
of the old McGuﬁ'ey Readers, which have
now largely passed into the hands of col—
lectors.

Running through the series, one finds
that Professor McGuffey’s first object was
to inculcate good morals in his young read—
ers, and it is interesting to note that he
gave a prominent place in all his books to
the kindly treatment of our dumb animals.

To illustrate, one of the stories for the
tots in the third grade was that of a man
who paid a boy ﬁve dollars for a cageful of
birds the boy was selling on the street. As
soon as the boy had taken. his money, the
man opened the cage door and let all the
birds ﬂy away. On- being asked by the sur—
prised lad why he had done such a thing,
he explained that he himself had been for
three years a prisoner of war and never, so
long as he lived, would he see anything in
prison that he was able to free. A picture
of the man in a long coat and silk hat, let—
ting the birds out of the cage, while the
astonished boy looked on, accompanied the
story. What child, being drilled in words
of two syllables, would ever want to see a
bird caged after learning this tale?

Humane treatment of bird and beast did
not have the prominent place in literature
then that it does now, and there was then
no society for the prevention of cruelty nor
Band of Mercy in the entire country. Who
knows how many children learned to re—
frain from acts of cruelty to our feathered
and four—footed friends from reading the
McGuﬂ’ey Readers, the whole series of
which reached the almost incredible sale of
a hundred and twenty—two million copies?

‘0

Kindness must be taught. Teach the
children kindness to animals and they will
learn to shun cruelty in every form.

 

 

Our

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Dumb Animals

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

Postage free to any part of

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.7 5

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




JANUARY 1936 PRICE 10 CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d

ﬁ THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS '

_ AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

Feb. 1936

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁce-rs

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston .

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis ..

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
et uen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A-—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY

AND BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,995

Cases investigated . .............. 469
Animals examined ............... 5,993
Animals placed in homes .......... 140
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 50
Number of prosecutions ........... 7
Number of convictions ........... 6
Horses taken from work .......... 13
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 45

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,290
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 55,551
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep.. ............ 17

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re—
membered in the wills of George F. S. Sin-
gleton of Franklin, and Allie L. B. Ellis of
Southbridge.

January 14, 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

9.6.9331?“
bownmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 911 Cases 2,558
Dogs 694 Dogs 2,051
Cats 201 Cats 455
Birds 9 Birds 40
Rabbits 4 Goats ‘5
Horses 3 Horses 2
Squirrel 1
Rabbit 1
Operations 1,021
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 .......................... 185,303
Dispensary Cases .................. 324,816
Total ........................ 460,119
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 180
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 402
Operations ........................ 165

MASS. S. P. C. A. IN THE COURTS
Some Prosecutions in December

For his failure to provide his livestock
with proper shelter, a farmer pleaded guilty
and was fined $25.

The driver of an automobile ran over a
dog and did not stop to ascertain extent of
its injuries. He was charged with subject—
ing dog to unnecessary torture, found guilty,
and was fined $10. He was also required
to pay the value of the dog which had to
be killed.

For permitting a horse to be worked when
it was afflicted with gall—sores, a defend-
ant was convicted but only required to pay
costs of the court. Another defendant paid
a fine of $20 for non-feeding his horse.

The owner of fifty-one head of cattle
was prosecuted for failing to provide fit
and proper shelter for his animals, the con-
ditions being such as to warrant the charge
of subjecting the animals to unnecessary
torture. He was found guilty and sen-
tenced one month to the House of Correc—
tion.

“Look on This—Look
on That”

There is something about a deer which
commands admiration; whether it is the
trusting innocence of the animal or its un-
rivaled beauty doesn’t matter, comments
The Carroll Journal of Carrollton, Ohio.
But to see one go by, as one did here Sat-
urday afternoon, glassy-eyed and blood-
spotted and hamshackled to an automobile,
is the most revolting sight this side of civil-
ization.

Page 25

The Horses’ Christmas
Dinner

EPEATING a custom which was

started a score of years ago, the Mass-
achusetts S. P. C. A. distributed free
Christmas dinners to work—horses on the
day before the holiday.

From a large platform truck, loaded with
a generous supply of provisions and drawn
by three horses abreast, bags of feed con—
sisting of oats, chopped carrots and apples
were passed out to drivers of teams or
placed upon their trucks. Hot coffee and
doughnuts were a welcome treat to many
drivers on one of the coldest days of the
season.

Using India Square as a base, more than
two hundred individual bags of feed were
filled and carried by a small motor truck
to South Boston and Charlestown where
many horses were reached. The horses of
the street peddlers in the market district
also received a generous “helping” as they
stood for long hours in the cold.

The Horses’ Christmas is approved by
many who expect its observance and con-
tribute towards it. It is much more than
a mere humane gesture. It is a deserving
recognition of the faithful service yet ren—
dered by our old friends, reduced in num-
bers, to be sure, and perhaps increasingly
lost sight of in the maelstrom of mechani-
cal transportation.

The best deer story comes from Marsh—
field. Roy Joseph of that town was out
on the hunt when a deer appeared within a
few feet of him. Joseph could have killed
the animal with a knife, if necessary, but
something happened. With those lustrous
eyes turned upon him, Mr. Joseph could not
pull the trigger of his gun. Ambition of
youth, the rivalry with fellow sportsmen,
these said ‘Shoot’ but something higher and
finer said “No.” The young man turned
and made his way home. His was the
prouder part.

—Scituate Herald

 

A Remarkable Cow

This is not the famous cow with the
crumpled horn, but one worthy of note. She
is twenty-four years old. For eleven years
she has had no calf to warm her motherly
heart, but she has still kept right on re—
warding her owners, Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Fletcher of Freedom, Maine, with the daily
supply of four quarts of milk.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagel68
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

A New Type of Ambulance

The Society’s new horse ambulance, a
picture of which is seen on the front cover,
is in large part a gift of a very warm
friend of animals. It bears on the right
side, under the Society’s seal, the words:

IN MEMORY OF
J. SANBORN and ELLANOR DOE
SAN FRANCISCO

A rolling platform, not seen in the photo—
graph, can be drawn out over the inclined
entrance on to a level space where a horse
that is down can be turned over on to it
and then drawn up into the ambulance.
That is where we have to take up a horse
that is down in the street or in a stable. A
great deal of thought and time were given
to the planning of this ambulance. It will
be noticed that there is no trailer connected
with it, making it much easier to handle,
and it is so equipped that it can transfer a
horse standing and also care for any that
may be in such condition that they have to
be drawn in because of sickness or injury
or inability to walk.

One Copy Read by Seventeen

In estimating the probable number of
readers of any periodical, it is customary
to multiply the number of copies circulated
by ﬁve, the average number of persons in
a family. We have just received a mes-
sage from a physician in Massachusetts,
expressing appreciation of his copy of
Our Dumb Animals “in the name of the
seventeen children who have been reading
it.”

A letter of inquiry to the Treasury
Department, Public Health Service, Wash-
ington, conﬁrms the report that the Presi-
dent has signed a bill allotting $1,500,000
for the erection of buildings at Bethesda,
Maryland, for the conduct of the research
work of the Public Health Service. Of
course this means another thoroughly
equipped laboratory for animal experimen-
tation. Part of this million and a half
dollars will have to be paid for out of
the taxes contributed by the public, many
of whom are conscientiously opposed to
such experimentation.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Humane Society of
Baltimore County

The President of our two Societies, Dr.
Rowley, returned, just as we are about to
go to press, from a trip to Maryland where
he attended the opening and dedication of
one of the most attractive memorial build-
ings for the care and treatment of animals
in this or any other land. This stone struc—
ture, beautiful architecturally and complete,
apparently, in every detail, with its nu—
merous wards for small animals, its special
section for horses, its equipment for hospi—
tal work, its facilities for the distribution
of humane literature, is an ideal headquar—
ters for a live and vigorous humane organ-
ization. It is situated in Pikesville, some
fifteen miles from the heart of Baltimore,
and is the gift to the Society of Mrs. Boll—
ing Barton as a memorial to her father.

The dedicatory exercises were held Sat-
urday, October 3rd. Several hundred peo-
ple were present, and the Rev. Dr. Philip
Jensen, Honorary President, presided and
unveiled the tablet erected to the memory
of Mr. Seegar, Mrs. Barton’s father. Miss
Frances E. Clarke and Dr. Rowley were
the guest speakers. Preceding the indoor
exercises there was a very interesting ex-
hibition, given on a large platform in front
of the building, of folk dances, largely
those of foreign countries, and at the close
generous refreshments were served.

The Province of Quebec
S. P. C. A.

One of the most shocking cases of in-
humanity toward horses has been called
to our attention by an article in the
Quebec Chronicle-Telegraph. We shall
not go into the details. Enough that
through the vigilance and energy of the
Society above mentioned two horses that
had been the victims of teamsters in a
lumber camp were mercifully put out of
their misery and the perpetrators of the
cruelty caught and convicted. The sur—
prising thing is that the punishment
should have been a ﬁne simply of a few
dollars. Much credit is due to the local
branch of the S. P. C. A. for ﬁnally
arresting the guilty parties who, it is said,
skied 44 miles in their attempt to escape.

The Artist and the Rustic

The artist was painting—sunset red,
with streaks of green dots. The old rustic
at a respectful distance, was watching.

“Ah,” said the artist, looking up sud-
denly, “perhaps to you, too, nature has
opened her sky—pictures page by page?
Have you seen the lambent ﬂame of dawn
leaping across the livid east; the red-
stained, sulphurous islets ﬂoating in the
lake of ﬁre in the west; the ragged clouds
at midnight, black as raven’s wing,
blotting out the shuddering moon?”

“No,” replied the rustic. shortly; “not
since I signed the pledge.”

She—Why do editors return your manu-
scripts?

He—I have no idea.

She—Ah! That explains it.

Nov. .1936

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for August, 1936— 31 Days
Daily average large animals 54.1

 

Forage for same $132.98
Daily average dogs 4
Forage for same 5.91
Put to sleep 53 24.18
Transportation 23.23
Wages, grooms, watchman and stable-boys 74.34
Superintendent’s salary 115.63
Superintendent’s replacement cost 31.72
Veterinary’s salary 29.73
Motor bicycle upkeep 8.89
Sundries 40.27
Building account, upkeep, etc. 37.99
$524.87

Entries: 19 horses, 14 mules, 75 donkeys, 1 cow.
Exits: 2 horses, 6 mules, 46 donkeys, 1 cow.
Outpatients treated: 42 horses, 60 mules, 3 dogs, 95
donkeys, 1 cow. ..
Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 102 cases investi-
gated, 2,437 animals seen, 490 animals treated, 32
animals transferred to Fondouk American.

NOTES FROM THE FONDOUK

Those interested in the work of the Fon-
douk at Fez will be glad to know that the
value of the work of the Fondouk has be-
come so recognized that we are having the
active co-operation of the police, of the city
ofﬁcials and of the courts. The following
extract from the Cour/rte?" du Mame, dated
August 22, is an illustration of this:

“The Agent Bedos has conducted to the
Fondouk American by his owner, Ahmed
Ben Driss, (of Ouled Djama) one miser-
able donkey, starved and covered with
wounds, loaded with two sacks of salt,
weighing together 130 kilos. (286 lbs.)
Driss was reproved for his cruelty when
taken to S. E. le Pacha, where he was ﬁned
Frcs. 50.”

Furthermore, it is interesting to know
that there are in and about Fez owned by
Europeans and natives, according to the lat-
est report, 28,345 horses, mules and don-
keys. What the Fondouk has meant to thou-
sands of these ill-treated, half—starved, over—
burdened, suffering creatures Heaven only
knows.

The Great Need in Hungary

Reports are coming to us of the pressing
need in Hungary of the organization of
some kind of humane work for the unfor—
tunate animals of that country. Stories of
the treatment, not only of beasts of burden
but of the smaller animals, that tourists
bring back are almost unbelievable. The
idea that these lower forms of life, which
have been the servants and companions of
man for centuries, have any claim upon
mankind for just and fair treatment has
scarcely found lodging in the minds, ap—
parently, of the greater part of the inhab-
itants of that land.

Some individual effort is being made, but
the indifference of the greater mass of the
people and the ignorance as to how ani—
mals should be treated, which is part of
the inheritance of the centuries, it is al—
most impossible to overcome. Furthermore,
the Government, so far as we can learn,
has taken no active part in securing such
legislation and its enforcement as would
make for the awakening and fostering of a
genuine spirit of humanity toward ani-
mals. It is devoutly hoped that every en-
couragement may be given to the individual
efforts that are being made to better con-
ditions.

 




 

Page 192

The Oxen

KADRA MAY SI

We are the humble oxen which you pass
upon your road——

The bearers of the burden and the drawers
of the load——

For centuries accustomed to the heavy yoke
and goad.

We are the ancient oxen. For the grazing
herds of kine,

.We broke the stony pastures in the hills of

Palestine. .
From our tilth there sprang the grain ﬁelds
for the asses and the swine.

We are the patient oxen. Man. has never
paused to heed—-

When he strokes his dog for courage and
he cheers his horse for speed——

That, beyond the trough and manger, we
may have another need.

We are the clumsy oxen. With our splayed
and swaying pace,

We walk devoid of beauty and we rise devoid
of grace,

Hindquarters ﬁrst, as though we paused to
kneel upon the place.

We are the weary oxen. But—when we
kneel—we are

Again beside The Manger and, two thousand
years afar,

Beneath the shining splendor of a silver
eastern Star.

For, we are the beasts who worshipped by
the Crib wherein He lay.

Although dumb, we bowed, adoring, upon
that ﬁrst Christmas Day;

And, in memory of the Christ Child, still,
we kneel as though to pray.

DOG DAYS, Florence Trullinger and
Doris Day.

The adventures of “Nicki” and “An-
gus,” the one a wire—hair, the other a
Scottie, are related and pictured by the
author and the illustrator. Both are
newspaper women who have combined to
produce a unique and drolly captivating
work, especially for children. The eighty-
seven photographs from life at once. sug-
gest that both dogs are “model subjects.”
for the camera specialist. In fact, we
are told the wire—hair has made so much
money posing before the camera that he
now has his own bank account.

128 pp. $1.50, Thomas Y. Crowell & Co.,
New York.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ﬁn Urgent Invitation

You are cordially invited to attend
the Annual Fair of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A.
at SOCIETY’S BUILDING
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston
Wednesday, December 2, 1936
10 a. m. to 5 p. m.

Holiday Articles, Foods, Candies, etc.,

on attractive sales tables

LUNCHEON
AFTERNOON TEA
BRIDGE
SEERESS

MUSIC

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, President,
General Chairman

Mrs. Harry Cole, Treasurer, 180 Longwood
Ave., Boston, to whom all contributions of
merchandise or cash should be sent.

 

 

Startling Revelations

“Finishing the Mammals” is the title of
Publication No. 59, recently issued by the
Emergency Conservation Committee, 734
Lexington Avenue, New York City. It is
written by Mrs. Rosalie Edge, chairman of
the Committee which is doing so much to
save animals from the cruel steel—trap and
trying to awaken humane societies, women’s
clubs, and similar organizations to the un—
necessary and unwarranted killings spon-
sored by the United States Bureau of Bio—
logical Survey. Read these 24 pages, in-
cluding illustrations, with their startling
revelations of some of the cruelties and
wrongs now being perpetrated upon our
wild life. Here is an indication of the con—
tents: “Killing Wholesale—Man the De-
stroyer”; “Killing for Proﬁt—The Fur
Trade and the Steel-trap”; “Killing for
Fun—‘Sport,’ ‘Sportsmen’ and ‘Sportsman-
ship’ ”; “Killing without Warrant— Propa-
ganda vs. Facts—Cruelty without Apol-
ogy”; “Killing for Graft—Bounties—‘Ver—
min’ Control”; and “Killing Paramount—-
the U. S. Bureau of Biological Survey.” A
copy of this enlightening pamphlet will be
sent free upon application: to the Committee
at the address given above. ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Dec. 1936

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

VALIANT DOGS, Frances E. Clarke.

. Some twenty—five of the superior dog sto-
ries of our day are comprised in this hap-
pily conceived volume. It is an excellent
compllation, as would be expected, by one
so familiar with the best animal literature
as 1s Its compiler.

'Miss Clarke has been for some years the
director of humane education for the Ameri—
can Humane Association and has written
extens1vely herself in behalf of bird and
animal life. Her selections are from the
writlngs of such well-known authors as
John Galsworthy, Hugh Walpole, Richard
Le Galhenne, Booth Tarkington, Albert
Payson Terhune and a score of others who
have acclaimed the dog in story. It is a col—
orful collection, all of uniformly high liter-
ary quality and should insure a host of dog-
1ov1ng readers. We believe Miss Clarke has
rendered another distinct service to the ani—
mal cause 1n presenting so desirable a book.
It .1s 1n every respect the admirable
Chrlstmas gift for every discriminating
glver to make to a friend who has a dog.

336 pp., $2.50, The Macmillan Company,
New York.

WHERE PUSSY-WILLOWS DIP, AND
OTHER VERSES, Jemima Remington

This collection of interestin verse is b
Mrs. F. E. Bevans, the very gble editor oyf
Animal Life, organ of the Toronto (On-
tarlo) Humane Society. Naturally the sub—
Jects are chieﬂy animals and birds, all of
them hav1ng been published originally in
the paper mentioned. A sample appears
elsewhere in this issue of Our Dumb Ani-
mats, which shows the merits of “Jemima
Remlngton’s” work. The booklet, in decor-
ated paper covers, will make a welcome gift
to any lover of animals.

32 pp. 60 cents, postpaid. Mrs. F. E.
Bevans, 11 St. Albans Street, Toronto.

THE DUKE A BOOK ABOUT YOUR
DOG AND MINE, Robert E. Acorn.

Many inquiries are made for just such
adv1ce as this small but substantial book
contalns. It is to be recommended especially
for those about to decide to have a dog, and
W111 be most useful in informing them on
the. purchasing, feeding, grooming and
tralnlng of said dog. Random th'mghts,
experlences and recollections of the author
make diverting reading. It is put out in
paper covers.

95 pp. 25 cts. Rufus H. Darby Printing
Co., Washington, D. C.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
leassachusetts. Boston Oﬁce: 180 Longwood

venue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
[BL 1SPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

 




 

 

 

 

Page ’71;

 

HAROLD CLEMENT’S LOVE FOR DOGS
IS MUTUAL. THESE ARE THREE
HE HELPED TO RESCUE

ing problem. Householders by the scores
surrendered their keys at the hospital, and
daily thereafter, Dr. Smead, Mr. Hall, Mr.
Willand, each in a boat or a car with a
helper, made the rounds and fed the ani-
mals, carrying back to the hospital those
that required special care.

Monday, March 23, conditions remained
about the same. Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, president of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. Women’s Auxiliary, made a
trip to Springﬁeld and presented the hOSpi—
tal with several gasoline lamps, which
greatly relieved the lighting situation. Up
to this time the entire male staff had
worked practically 24 hours a day, catching
a few minutes’ or an hour’s sleep whenever
they could. Miss Smith and Miss Wynn
worked the clock around in rotation. There
was never help enough at the hospital, but
somehow the work was done. It was end-
less, but it was done. The next two days
were without special event. The ﬂood was
subsiding and some of the people were be—
ginning to get back to their homes. As fast

as conditions permitted, the animals were
returned.

How many animals were cared for during
the ﬂood had not been tabulated at the time
of this writing, but as late as March 29
some 250 were still being hospitalized. The
list included dogs, cats, canaries, parrots,
rabbits, pigs, horses, etc., some of which
had been received from their owners and
many picked up as strays. Hundreds of
others were fed daily in their homes. Alto-
gether the preservation of animal life by
the Society during the ﬂood was large. The
value of organization work in the saving
of life was marked, but not more so than
its value in the preserving of life as in-
stanced in the feeding of animals marooned
1n their homes. Otherwise, large numbers
of .these must have died from hunger and
thlrst, as it was impossible for the authori-

ties to permit the people themselves to care
for them.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

It was a pretty grim ﬁght while it lasted,
but the situation was not without its lighter
moments. One day a woman walked into
the hospital with a parrot perched on her
shoulder. There was no proper cage for
the bird, but a box was wired as a make—
shift and Polly was put into it. Another
parrot in a nearby cage greeted the new—
comer with a raucous cry of, “What’s the
matter, what’s the matter?” To which the
latter responded with a burst of Homeric
laughter. The other bird joined in, and
for the next few minutes the place re—
sounded with ill-timed hilarity. Finally,
the lady who had brought the bird evi-
dently had enough of it and said, “Good-
bye, Polly, I’m going now.” Whereupon
the other parrot craned his neck through
the bars of his cage, cocked his head on one
side, and said, “Where?” This also was
considered a joke by the birds and they
went into another spasm of laughter.

The following was clipped from a Spring-
ﬁeld newspaper of March 24:

“Two newspaper men driving through the
restricted zone in the North end section late
yesterday afternoon were hailed by a naval
reserve ofﬁcer, who asked if they knew any
way a maternity case could be removed.
The newsmen were somewhat surprised
over the matter—of—fact manner in which the
question was asked and inquired for further
details. The ofﬁcer pointed to the front
entrance of a chain grocery store at Donald
and Main Streets, where a small basket
was resting. ‘We have a cat and a kitten
there,” the man explained. ‘Oh, is that all?
Put it in the car and we will take it to
the S. P. C. A. hospital on Bliss Street.’

“The ofﬁcer brought over the basket, the
reporters looked. ‘How many kittens did
you say were in the basket?” they asked.
‘One,’ the ofﬁcer explained. ‘Well, there are
two now,’ the reporters chorused, and they
started the run to the hospital. Arriving
at the Bliss Street headquarters of the
S. P. C. A., the reporters announced they
had a cat and two kittens. The attendant
started to ﬁll out the slip. ‘How many kit-
tens did you say there were?’ he asked.

“ ‘Two,’ replied the reporters.

“THREE

   

MEN IN A CANOE,” THIS VIEW SHOWS THE CONDITIONS

 

May, 1936

“ ‘Look again,’ said the S. P. C. A. man.
‘There are three.’

“ ‘Oh, well, just put down cat and kittens,’
the reporters said, rushing out of the build-
ing before quintuplets should arrive.”

Greater Needs Than Ever

The data for this plain write—up of the
Springﬁeld ﬂood were furnished by Dr.
A. R. Evans. In his notes, often jotted down
with hands blue from the cold, he was un-
sparing in praise of his associates. “Not
once,” he says, “did any member of our staff
of workers grumble or complain. During
the whole trying period, when everybody
was almost at the breaking point through
overwork and lack of sleep, not one im—
patient word was spoken.”

Nor did Dr. Evans Speak a word of him-
self in the rough narrative he wrote. It
was all about the wonderful work and the
loyal devotion to duty of Dr. Smead and
his other associates. The latter, however,
are not so reticent concerning Dr. Evans’
share of the achievement. The-y tell how
he didn’t have his clothes off for days,
working the clock around, operating on ani-
mals with ﬁngers stiff from the cold, attend-
ing the sick creatures day and night, feed-
ing the animals, cleaning out their cages,
cooking special food for those who needed
it, doing three men’s work at the least.

“The people here in Springﬁeld in many
instances have lost all their possessions,
and some have lost their homes,” he con-
cluded in his notes. “We haven’t seen much
sickness here yet, but we shall and will be
prepared for it. The charity work of the
hospital will necessarily increase from now
on, and we will probably be the last organ-
ization to recover, as we usually are. I
hope, however, that in the response of the
public to human needs they will not forget
our humble friends, the dumb animals. This
area has been hard hit, and I suppose we
will receive much less cash for work done
at the hospital for months to come. But it
will be too bad if it should turn out that
way, because the field has broadened
through this catastrophe and our needs are
greater than ever before.”

    

UNDER WHICH THE S. P. C. A. MEN WORKED DURING THE
FATEFUL DAYS AND NIGHTS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     

 

SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
' * and THE AMERICAN l-IUMANE EDUCATION

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS ‘
SOCIETY ~

 

 

  




 

 

 

J’IIWE . \

\

in
i:
§
1%
LS

yl

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POL-LARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Oﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue. Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.
Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.

KIBBE, Pres. ; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch. Am. Humane Education Soc.—’

MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers. . 16,735

Cases investigated ............... 666
Animals examined ............... 9,206
Animals placed in homes .......... 120
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 25
Number of prosecutions ........ . 5
Number Of convictions ............ 4
Horses taken from work .......... 29
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 47

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,745

Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ................ 44,987
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ....................

In character building, which is our chief
business in this world, very much depends
upon our treatment of the animals com-
mitted to our care.

RUSKIN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians

oammwm
boweme

 

 

 

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE
Including Springﬁeld Branch
Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 835 Cases 2,686
Dogs 662 Dogs 2,292
Cats 159 Cats 346
Horses 5 Birds 28
Birds 4 Horses 5
Rabbits 4 Goats 3
Monkey 1 Rabbits 3

Monkeys 2
Squirrels 2
Toad 1
Fox 1
Mink 1
Rat 1
Operations 941 Chameleon 1

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 140,085
Dispensary cases .................. 338,450
Total .............. 478,535

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 138
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 457
Operations .......................... 221

Deer Visits Springfield

In late June a medium-sized native doe
came into Springﬁeld, Mass, and in the
afternoon got caught in the fence of a resi—
dence on Maple street.

The Mass. S. P. C. A. ambulance, re—
sponding to a call from police headquarters,
appeared on the scene and after some diffi—
culty caused by the fastness with which
the forest creature was caught, its pro-
pensity for kicking and general nervous-
ness, released it and took it, unharmed ex—
cept for minor scratches and bruises, to the
headquarters of the society on Bliss street.

After the examination, Game Warden
John T. Whyte was called and it was agreed
that the most humane course would be to
release the animal in the country. Deer
generally die if conﬁned. Accordingly, the
animal was taken by the warden and an
S. P. C. A. attendant to a spot in the foot—
hills of the Wilbraham mountains where it
was released.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has been
remembered in the wills of Frances Straus
England of Pittsfield, Frank M. Hotchkin
of East Natick, Ella F. Kimball Of Boston,
and Archie R. Thomas, Springfield, Tenn.

July 14, 1936.

Page 121

Mr. Burgess to Lecture

rJMANE Sunday, April 11, 1937, and

Be Kind to Animals Week, April
12—17, seem a long way Off, but already
preparations for their celebration are being
made by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
In addition to accepting our exhibition
of prize—winning humane posters, made
by children in the public schools of the
state, the Boston Public Library has
arranged for a lecture to be given in its
regular lecture course on the evening of
Humane Sunday, April 11, under the aus-
pices of our Society. We are very happy
to announce that this lecture will be
given by the noted naturalist and writer,
Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, who has cho-
sen for his subject, “Friendly Folk in
Fur and Feathers.” It will be illustrated
by lantern slides. We suggest that animal
lovers in the vicinity Of Boston put this
date down at once, and then prepare to ar—
rive at the lecture hall of the Boston Pub-
lic Library, Copley Square, early on the
evening of Sunday, April. 11, in order to get
a seat. The lecture, of course, is free to
all.

Relief for Work Horses

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. maintains
five watering stations for horses in Boston
during the hot weather. We know that this
service is relied upon and appreciated by
both drivers and horses. It provides the
great relief that otherwise could not be had.
An attendant is employed at each station
to give assistance. Contributions are ur-
gently needed to support this service. They
will all be gratefully acknowledged.

Frank M. Hotchkin

On June 5 last Frank M. Hotchkin, for
several years a valued director both Of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the Ameri—
can Humane Education Society, died sud—
denly from a heart attack. Mr. Hotchkin
was a native of Waterville, N. Y. After
engaging in business there and in Chicago
he came to Boston where, with his brother.
William C., he had been for 25 years a se-
curity dealer.

Few men have been such ardent advo-
cates for the protection of animals as was
Mr. Hotchkin. Says the Times of Water—
ville: “Mr. Hotchkin was a lover Of nature,
especially of animals, a true friend of all
God’s creatures however humble or lowly.
‘Be Kind to Animals’ was his slogan. Wild
folk of fur and feather seemed to know by
instinct that he was their friend and ben—
efactor. His daily life was an exemplifica-
tion that we should cause no innocent crea-
tures unnecessary pain—their anguish was
his. Though he has gone from our midst,
we trust that his spirit and great work
lives on in the hearts Of his many friends
and followers, and we will all be a little
kinder to animals.”

To his wife, two daughters, brother, and
their families we Offer sincerest sympathy
as we join in» mourning the loss Of one
whose life meant so much to the cause for
which this publication stands.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

005.8% 0* ﬁg wage: EQEE
W>U~O WW—ZDM g>mm>nICmmHHm m. V. O. .9. .HO 4.2m WmmnCm Amom 63% 58

 

4.1m Z>mm>OICmm44m MOO—m...< 10” ._.Im
_ ﬂﬂm<m24_02 O—u ﬁﬂcmrd< 4.0 >2_:>rm

cam 4.1m >ZMEO>Z ICZ>ZM MOCG>4JOZ
Oﬂ_m.ﬁ< l

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

.Nov.,1936

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POL‘LARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances.) Lovngwood6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLIN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles Traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,804

Cases investigated ............... 412
Animals examined ............... 9,807
Animals placed in homes .......... 117
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 44
Number of prosecutions .......... 2
Number of convictions ............ 2
Horses taken from work .......... 15
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 22

Small Animals humanely put to sleep 1,902 ’

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected .............. 67,715
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 16

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re—
membered in the wills of Alice McClure
Foretier of Quincy, and Mabel Hawkins of
Daytona Beach, Florida.

OUR" DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 61100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬂ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLIN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
R. EVANS, v.M.D.
L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

oaomwm
bowsmn

 

 

F?

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 999 Cases 2,841
Dogs 789 Dogs 2,358
Cats 251 Cats 430
Birds 6 Birds 20
Horses 2 Goats 29
Goat 1 Rabbits 2

Horses 2

Operations 894
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

 

1, 1915 ........................ 142,941
Dispensary Cases ................ 346,593
Total .............. 489,534

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases. entered in Hospital ............ 158
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 499
Operations .......................... 174

Recognition Well-Deserved

A lad of twelve years, school boy and
boy scout, Luis Romero Morales, whose ad—
dress is Santiago de Chile, recently per—
formed as heroic and humane an act as is
seldom recorded. Seeing a poor, old, and
nearly blind woman and her dog in immi-
nent danger of being run over by a heavy
truck, he sprang to the rescue and saved
the woman from being struck down. With
his right leg he pushed the dog aside,
though the animal sustained a severe injury.
To aid the dog, the boy gave him his im-
mediate attention, binding up his wound
with a handkerchief. To all inquiries from
by-standers the brave lad refused his name
and ran away. When he was later discov-
ered and the details of his heroic act be-
came known, President Alessandri sent for

Page 169

him, presented him a check—book, autograph-
ed portrait and his congratulations. Medals
were presented the young hero by the Na-
tional S. P. C. A. and the Association of
Boy Scouts. When the well-authenticated
facts were received by the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. it at once sent its humane medal
to the boy.

Annual Fair, December 2

EMBERS of the Women’s Auxiliary

of the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have
made arrangements to hold their annual
Fair at the Society’s Building, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, from 10 A. M. to 5
P. M., Wednesday, December 2. All depart—
ments of the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital, for the benefit of which the Fair is
held, will be open to visitors throughout the
day.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president
of the Auxiliary, will be general chairman;
Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt, assistant chair-
man; Mrs. George Ramlose, chairman of
hostesses; and Mrs. John A. Dykeman will
be in charge of decorations. Luncheon will
be served from twelve to one, with Mrs.
Charles C. Hoyt as chairman; and afternoon
tea, at which Mrs. Ethel H. Fairweather
will preside. Mrs. John A. Jennings will
be chairman of bridge; and Mrs. Charles
Staniek and Mrs. Frank Towne will have
charge of the seeress booth. A special mus—
ical program has been arranged, and new
and interesting features will make the af—
ternoon one of interest.

The Food table will be under the direc—
tion of Mrs. Herbert E. Prescott; Mrs.
Charles Rowley will be chairman of the
Candy table; Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher of the
White Elephant table; Mrs. Frances G. Car—
riero, Flowers; Miss Katherine Walker,
Literature; and Miss Marianne Morrill,
Noah’s Ark.

Contributions of funds or articles will be
gratefully received and may be sent to Mrs.
Harry Cole, treasurer, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston.

A Great Loss

The sad news comes to us, just as we go
to press, of the death of Mr. N. J. Walker,
Secretary and General Manager of the
American Humane Association. For twen—
ty-eight years he had been the efficient
Secretary of the Association. He easily
won the confidence of all who knew him by
his devotion to his work and by a character
marked by great sincerity and kindliness.

 

 

out, “Who’s there?”

ter and listened.

 

him. And Mr. Brown did.

Little Dog Knock, Knocks on S. P. C. A. Shelter

From Attleboro Sun
Knock, knock. But Charles E. Brown, local M. S. P. C. A. Agent, didn’t call

It was a knock but there was that intangible quality in it that marked it as not
of the human hand. Mr. Brown paused in his duties at the North Mam Street shel-

Knock, knock. It came again, a bit louder this time but with no element of 1m-
patience. Just a gentle knock at the kennel door. Mr. Brown opened the door. Sad
eyes and a wagging tail spoke as plainly as words—“I’m lost.”

He was a weary, little dog, brown and black. If ever he had a collar he had
lost it. He was just a mongrel spaniel but with that uncanny canine instinct he had
known that Mr. Brown was the one man in the city sure to take him In and care for

 

_——__ ,___’ .___.——._—_

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE fan

BOOKLET N0. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

   
 

'l' )

WORM CAPSULES

eﬂ’ectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk N-58—A
mmal Industry Dept”

A
PARKE, DAVIS 8: (20., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

uticura OintmenH
Hctps Drstrgssmg

" 5km
it for PIMPLES
"UM? ° of RASHES
W 'ECZEMA

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR, 1936

Colored picture, “Green Pastures,” showing
cows in field. Humane hints on leaves of pad.

If preferred, Calendars will be sup-
plied with a picture in black and
white of a dog and a kitten. Be Sure
to state which picture is desired. Oth-
erwise the colored one will be sent.

Price, 20 cents per single copy, two
for 35 cents; $1.80 per dozen, post-
paid to any address. AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Nixon Waterman Says:

T was my good fortune, years ago,.while
wintering in Florida to associate 1nt1mate-
1y with two good friends of blessed memory,

the loved poet and story—teller, John Town-t

send Trowbridge, and the eminent natural-
ist, John Burroughs, whom Elbert Hub-
bard, the East Aurora philosopher, also
of blessed memory, loved to call “John 0’
the Birds.” These two noble men, so con—
genial in their kindly attitude toward men
and animals differed rather pointedly in
their answers to the age—old question. “Do
animals reason?” Trowbridge believed
they could to a considerable degree. Bur-
roughs thought they could not to any clear-
ly appreciable extent. He was constrained
to believe that what seemed to be the re—
sult "of reasoning came from the training
by humans or other animals or was dis-
covered by accident rather than by initia—
tive, inherent intuition of the animal, it-
self. I recall the air of quaint amusement
with which Burroughs greeted Trow—
bridge’s story of the Trowbridge house cat
that on every Friday morning—and on Fri-
day mornings only—would go to the street,
a considerable distance from the house,
and patiently await the coming of the fish-
man who never failed the reward the cat
for its friendly interest. It was the “only-
on—Friday—mornings” of the story that Mr.
Burroughs would eliminate from the narra—
tive and which Mr. Trowbridge—after long
observation of the feline performance—
was as insistent should remain in the story.

All the world is forced, betimes, to
fear that the owner of loved pets (as well
as the parents of extraordinarily preco-
cious babes and children) attribute to their
charges degrees of mental excellence which
they do not possess. Parrots, dogs, cats,
birds and other creatures are alleged to
say and to do things which it is hard to be—
lieve. Yet, so many things of an unusual if
not a supernatural nature do actually oc—
cur, it is a delicate task for one to pass
upon the truth or falsity of occurrences out

' of the ordinary.

The new bound volume of OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, containing all the numbers for
1935, with 192 attractive pages and approx-
imately 150 pleasing illustrations, will soon
be ready. Price only one dollar, to any ad—
dress in the world.

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses
of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two Reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s Poem

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

Poster Contest for 1936

scene of practical first aid to a dog
A that has been struck by a passing au-
tomobile is the design of the new medal of
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty; to Animals, offered in the
annual school prize poster contest, to be
conducted along the lines of previous years.
The 1936 medal, 114 inches in diameter by
11/2 inches in height, is finished in a hand-
some bronze. Medals, suspended by blue
ribbons, will be awarded as first prizes, and
medals with red ribbons as second. Sub—
scriptions to Our Dumb Animals Will be giv-
en for honorable mention. As usual, these
prizes will be distributed freely throughout
the various schools competing in the con-
test. Last year there were 6,096 posters
submitted and 1,289 medals and 1,073 sub—
scriptions awarded.

The conditions are as follows:—

1. The contest is open to public and pa—
rochial schools of grammar or high grade,
in Massachusetts only, closes positively on
April 1, 1936, results to be announced dur-
1ng Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20—
25. During that week many of the best
of the posters will be on exhibition in the
Fine Arts Department of the Boston Pub-
lic Library, Copley Square.

2. No more than five posters may be
submitted from any one room, and one only
from each pupil, teachers to make the se-
lection from all that are made under their
direction.

3. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut-
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
etc.), Silhouette, water—colors or charcoal

may be used. Color adds greatly to the ef-
fectiveness.

4. DRAWINGS, ON LIGHT CARD—
BOARD OR HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE
NOT LESS THAN 12 x 18 INCHES, NOR
MORE THAN 18 x 24 INCHES, and
should be SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled),
all charges prepaid, to reach the MASSA-
CHUSETTS S. P. C. A. not later than
April 1, 1936. It will be to the advantage
of contestants to send posters as much ear-
lier than this as possible.

5. In the upper right—hand corner, on
the back of each poster, must be written
legibly the contestant’s name, WITH FULL
HOME ADDRESS, also number of the
grade, name and address of the school, and
name of the teacher. Use white ink or
paste a white slip with names and addresses
when dark cardboard or paper is used.

6. All posters receiving awards become
the property of the Society. Other posters
will be returned only if request is made at
time of sending and return postage enclos-
ed, or arrangements made to call.

7. Address all posters plainly, Secre-
tary, Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

Send for Price List

For a complete price list of all humane
literature and Band of Mercy supplies sold
by the American Humane Education So-
ciety, send your name and address to 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, and it
will be forwarded promptly.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFI‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.

IBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; .LVIISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers . . 13,290

Cases investigated . . . . ........... 483
Animals examined ......... . . . . . . 6,994
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . . . . 103
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 189
Number of prosecutions . . ...... . 2
Number of convictions ....... . . . . . 2
Horses taken from work ...... . . . . 20
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,413
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 56,361
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
puttosleep..... ....... 56

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Elsie Fay LOe'fHGY'
of Medﬁeld, and Adele C. Parmenter of Los
Angeles, California.

April 14, 1936.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
. H SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

\

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
Including Springﬁeld Branch

oenwwm

 

 

 

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 933 Cases 2,281
Dogs 673 Dogs 1,807
Cats 234 Cats 424
Birds 18 Birds 41
Horses 6 Rabbits 3
Sheep 1 Goats 2
Rabbit 1 Horses 2
Monkey 1

Turtle 1

Operations 1,010
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

 

1, 1915 .......................... 137,645
Dispensary Cases .................. 331,176
Total ................ 468,821

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Case-s entered in Hospital ............ 199
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 372
Operations .......................... 162

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application.

Page 7 5

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
By His Excellency
JAMES M. CURLEY
GOVERNOR

A PROC LAMATION
1936

Here in Boston, the American Humane
Education Society was founded in 1889 by
George Thorndike Angell for the purpose
of fostering a Spirit of sympathy for all liv-
ing creatures. This organization has now
become nation-wide in its educational work.

This year, Sunday, April 19, is set aside
as “Humane Sunday,” and the week begin-
ning April 20 as “Be Kind to Animals
Week.” Therefore, I, James M. Curley, do
hereby set aside the week of April 20 to
April 25, 1936, as

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

and ask both young and old to remember
the just treatment that should be afforded
all living creatures, recalling the loyalty,
devotion and. sacriﬁce of many of them to
their masters. I urge that this week be ﬁt-
tingly Observed in all the schools of the
Commonwealth and that the teachers of
these schools inculcate in various ways the
great lesson of humane treatment of our
dumb animals.

GIVEN at the Executive Chamber, in Bos—
ton, this sixth day of April, in the year
of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred
and thirty-six, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the one
hundred and sixtieth.

By His Excellency the Governor,
JAMES M. CURLEY

FREDERICK W. COOK
Secretary of the Commonwealth

GOD SAVE THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS

Judge Thomas H. Dowd’s Dogs

“Tim” and “Jerry,”
lively Irish terriers
owned by Judge Tho-
mas H. Dowd of Suf-
folk Superior Court,
left their home in
Brookline one night in
March and went all
the way to the Angell
Animal Hospital
Where they scratched
on the door and a-
roused the night at-
tendant. The next day
Mrs. Dowd, upon en-
quiry, was pleased to
find her dogs safe.
They had previously
been to the Hospital
for baths.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 
     
  
     

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
g .
m
2';

   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Oﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANGROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR DECEMBER, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 1,340
Number of addresses made, 459

Number of persons in audiences, 58,106

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci—

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age
Address

.....................
...........
---------------

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dickens and Household Pets

HE one hundred and twenty—fourth

birthday of Charles Dickens will be cel-
ebrated February 7. Mrs. Helen H. Ed—
monds, of San Diego, writes:

We find in the writings of Charles Dick-
ens frequent mention of hearth friends in
the animal world. One must be stoical in—
deed not to experience a tightening of the
throat at the delicate account (in “Dombey
and Son”) of the lovelorn great—hearted
Toots, salvaging that ridiculous syndicate
of a canine, “Diogenes,” which Paul had
loved, and presenting it to the bereaved
Florence. And even the bullied and unpre-
possessing terrier, the companion of Bill
Sykes, had his good points, being, indeed,
faithful unto death. For Dora Copperﬁeld’s
spoiled Spaniel, “J ip,” her creator has not so
much admiration, yet the account of its last
moments, coinciding with those of the frail
“child wife,” is inﬁnitely touching. Dick-
ens’ dogs were not conﬁned to the written
page, however. He Kept several of the
larger breed and named one “Bumble” be—
cause of a “peculiarly pompous manner he
had of appearing to mount guard over the
yard when he was an absolute infant.” But
perhaps most of all Dickens loved feather-
ed friends, for they are mentioned in his
works rather constantly. When Nell of “Old
Curiosity Shop” fame had “fallen on sleep”
we are told that her little bird was stirring
numbly in the cage, and the brave heart of
the child mistress was “mute and motion-
less forever.” Then Barnaby Rudge and his
raven, “Grip,” are inseparably connected in
our minds, and here Dickens has obviously
drawn a portrait for he was particularlv
fond of ravens, and at diﬁerent times kept
two.

“Tess” is Dead

And “Tess” was a horse. For eleven years
of her life of twenty-two she was used to
produce the serum supposed to prevent
men and animals from death by lockjaw.
No matter whether the reader of these
words believes in serums or is wholly 0p-
posed to them, this fine mare during the
last half of her life, knowing nothing of
what it meant, gave out of her body the
serum the medical profession demanded.
Even to the battlefields in France it was
sent and hundreds believe that because of
her they are alive today. Be that as it may,
the American Legion in Pontiac, Michigan,
November 11, 1928, Armistice Day, put her
in a float and carried her through the
streets of the city. This was to show the
honor in which they held her. At last she
was pensioned off and spent her last days,
it is said, in comfort, playful, gentle in
disposition, and an object of interest to
many a visitor. She was at least credited
by all who knew her as worthy of honor and
affection.

Kidnaping. A Persian cat was kidnap-
ed from the home of a San Antonio lady
recently and a note sent demanding a
ransom of $5. “Put it in a tin can and leave
the can in your front yard.” Of course it
really was catnaped for kidnaped comes
from the word kid, as probably all know,
and the English word nap to seize.

Feb. 1936

DECEASED FRIENDS

Who Made Bequests to the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. and the American Humane
Education Society in 1935

NOTE :—Names of all earlier deceased friends,
making similar bequests, appear in the issues of Our
Dumb Animals for February, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931,
1932, 1933, 1934 and 1935.

Miss Edith Babcock, Milton

Editha C. Bagnall, Springfield
Maria A. Barlow, Ware

Helen C. Butterfield, Wakefield
Mary L. Crawford, Boston
Katharine C. Davis, Boston

David J. Edwards, Boston

Allie L. B. Ellis, Southbridge
Isabella H. Ellison, Lunenburg
Elizabeth P. L. Emmons, Hingham
L. Blanche Endres, Fitchburg

Grace Julia Fish, Roslindale

Mary W. Gilbert, Boston

Jessie A. Goddard, Newton

Beatrice L. Hall, North Attleboro
Mrs. Sarah A. Hall, South Sudbury
George Harrington, Winchester
Leota Saladie von Kieffer, Marblehead
Myra R. Knowlton, Boston

Mrs. Caroline E. Littlefield, Worcester
Charles Martin Turnov Loeffler, Medﬁeld
Eliza F. Mallalieu, Newton

Mary A. Mullen, Holyoke

Kate H. Muller, Watertown

Melvin L. Parker, Springfield
Florence B. Pettee, Newton

Fred A. Pond, Framingham

Marion G. Pratt, Middleboro

Annie F. Selfridge, Boston

George F. S. Singleton, Southbridge
Willa Bell Spencer, Staunton, Virginia
Joseph B. Tilton, Mt. Desert, Maine
Sarah L. Whitmarsh, Beverly

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for November, 1935 — 30 Days

Daily average large animals 42.1

Forage for same 3 75.53
Daily average dogs 5.6

Forage for same 5.58
Put to sleep 31 15.73
Transportation 14.90
Wages, grooms, etc. 56.07
Resident secretary’s salary 131.93
Superintendent’s salary 82.45
Veterinary’s salary 29.68
Sundries 34.67

$ 446.54

ENTRIES: 12 horses, 15 mules, 49 donkeys.

EXITS: 5 horses, 11 mules, 35 donkeys.

OUTPATIENTS TREATED: 44 horses, 64 mules,
54 donkeys, 17 dogs, 1 cat.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometres trav-
eled, 142; Cases investigated, 310; Animals seen,
4,848; Animals treated, 1,158; Animals transferred to
Fondouk American, 37; Pack-saddles (infected), des-
troyed, 13.

ONE DAY’S WORK

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25TH: At 7:30 A. M.
went first to the Souk e1 Khemis through Bou Jeloud
and Bab Mahrouk, where stayed half an hour. In-
spected 335 animals at the Souk, treated 59. Re-
turned to Fondouk through Place Baghdadi Where
inspected donkeys carrying straw, and Fes Jedid.
Burnt in the Souk one bad pack-saddle. An English—
man telephoned from the V. N. asking us to send a
man in order to hospitalize a wounded donkey. Sent
the stable boy. This donkey had wounds made by the
bit. At 11, Mr. Ancey, member of the Chambre de
Commerce of Fes visited the Fondouk. P. M. At
2. went to Bab Ftouh inspection through Bab Jedid
the Bou Hajjara and Makhfia, 27 native fondouks,
saw 271 animals, treated 91, hospitalized one mule
and one donkey. Returned to Fondouk at 5:15 P. M
Owner of horse sick with Lymphanzite refuses to
authorize us to kill this horse, which is incurable.
Following advices of our Vet. I ordered him to send it
out in the country, far from other animals.

SECRETARY GENERAL’S NOTES:

Since last spring, the Mayor, M. Lemaire, the
Pacha, and the Police, have not only shown greatly
increased interest, but give of the public’s time true
and most valuable aid to the Fondouk, as also in-
sisting with the natives that they as a Government
uphold and employ the American Fondouk.

 




 

 

 

 

     
 
  
  
 
   
    

(TETRCHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectiver remove

Large Roundworms
and Hookworms'
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE F OR
BooKLET N0. 6521
on the practical temfval
Of Worms clinagésggs (ADaDRESS DESK N—55—G
ﬂieds an Animal Industry Dept,
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 60., Detrmt, Mlch.

Drug Stores Sell *Parke - Davis Products

  
 
 

      
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

442’ BAB“ ‘00 Refreshing

 

 

 

 

ALL ANIMAL LOVERS

should read and circulate copies of

HEAVEN’S RAGE

By HELEN TREVELYAN
25 cents, net
Written in the cause of peiforming animals with
Foreword by Frank Swinnerton, it is a strong in—
dictment of the idea that circus animals are trained
by kindness. Three photographic illustrations are
included. Order of

American Humane Education Society, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpai-d.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/3x3% ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, ...... $1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ......
Trial of the Birds, play ..............

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2
How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air-gun and the Birds ............

cloth, $0.45
$2.00 per 100

.50 per 100

.50 “ (d

.50 “ 6‘
About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100

.50 5‘ (‘

Surplus Cats ..........................
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... , .50 ‘ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ................ 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ....... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 ‘ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6. Animals . ........ .50 “ “
Leaflets, No. 7, Farm Animals ...... .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 per 100
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “
Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. . . Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. .., . ........... 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
.1llus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. .....................
An .Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ...........................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ......
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy cloth. 96 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals 3.00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1936 .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

each, 10 cts.

each, 10 cts.

35 cts.
each, 25 cts.
each, 3 cts.

........

How to Teach It .. ................. .50
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . . .50
A Talk with the Teacher ............ 50

Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00
The Coming Education ................ .30

A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ ‘
Need of Humane Education Societies and
Methods of Forming Them .......... 50

Humane Sunday, 1936 ................ 1.00 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy .......................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

Special Low Rates will be made for the Summer Months for Rentals

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s famous poem of that name

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing the work of the Angell Memorial HOSpital, Boston, and that of the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses at Methuen.
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms of rental or sale on application to Secretary, Massachusetts S.P.C.A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

of our Two Films

and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




32:“ .a-fwm A. 2:31: 23% .

a”. _. _. m - a.” w—v—v

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 122

    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
       
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Oﬂicers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLILARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
JamesﬂD. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JUNE, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 462
Number of addresses made, 95

Number of persons in audiences, 23,066

Aged Workers’ Fund

WE are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene—
fit of field missionaries and others who have
Spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come

to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1936

New Animal Shelter, Memphis, Tennessee

 

Spurred on by the need of control of dogs
subject to rabies, the city of Memphis in
co—operation with the Public Works Ad-
ministration and with the full " support of
the Memphis Humane Society is erecting
this model shelter. The total cost will be
$19,000, of which the city will pay $6,000
and the PWA $13,000. Concrete and steel
construction will make the building ﬁre—
proof, and it will be adequately heated,
lighted and ventilated. The new one and
one—half story building will be provided
with isolation pens where the symptoms of
disease may be detected. There will be 44
separate compartments in- the observation
rooms. Twelve cage rooms with movable

partitions will provide a ﬂexible arrange—
ment for use of cats, dogs or other small
pets.

The new shelter has materialized as the
result of a vigorous campaign by the local
Humane Society, aided by the press, vari-
ous city departments and numerous citizens
who demanded action to remedy a situa—
tion where, in 1935, 10,000 dogs were col—
lected and. thrown indiscriminately into
large, wooden pens at an old work-house.
We rejoice with the Memphis Humane So-
ciety in this much needed reform, and
trust that other Southern cities, where
pound conditions are deplorable, will follow
with similar improvements.

 

American Fondouk, Fez

REPORT FOR MAY, 1936—31 DAYS

Daily average, large animals

Forage for same $ 96.72
Daily average, dogs 7

Forage for same 7.32
Put to sleep 33 16.39
Transportation 14.78
Wages, grooms, etc. (5 Arabs) 62.67
Superintendent’s salary 115.40
Veterinary’s salary 29.68
Sundries 44.25

$387.21
Entries: 6 horses, 12 mules, 65 donkeys.
Exits: 7 horses, 6‘ mules, 40 donkeys.
Outpatients treated: 67 horses, 6 mules, 4O don-
keys.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 338 case-s inves—
tigated, 5,434 animals seen, 1,325 animals treated,
50 animals transferred to Foundouk American; 13 in-
fected pack—saddles burned.

An Interesting Day

A Specimen Day—Just One of the 31

Monday, 11th. Cloudy weather.

6:45 A. M.——First round began at Bab Mahrouk
where stayed one hour; saw all freight animals and
donkeys loaded with lime and gravel. Hospitalized
3 donkeys. Then to Souk El Khemis. Inspected 360
animals, treated 83, hospitalized 3. Returned to Fon-
douk at 9:30. Usual work of treating animals. Mr.
Sultana planted a new palm tree near foot-bath. 2 :30
P. M. Went outside the walls, to Bab Ftouh in-
spection. Visited 2‘7 fondouks, saw 190 animals,
treated 80, hospitalized 3 mules and one donkey.
Stayed 45 minutes near the bridge of Bin el M’Doun
inspecting many animals passing there. Returned
Fondouk at 6 P. M. On my way, saw a mule great-
ly wounded on neck. Ordered driver to send it to
Hospital. Remained Fondouk.

Animals in Hospital, 60.

(Signed) G. DELON

The reports for the first six months of the year
are most encouraging. We have kept within our
budget and appropriation, and have exceeded the
daily average for the same period of 1935 by 15 an-
imals.

Important dates to be remembered—-
Humane Sunday, April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937.

Our Debt to Animals

A paragraph from a sermon delivered on
Humane Sunday by the Rev. M. L. Kain,
Rector of All Saints Episcopal Church, San
Diego, California:

“Civilization owes such a tremendous
debt to man’s animal friends that we can
truthfully say that without them we would
not have civilization. We would not even
be existing. For centuries it was the ox
which helped man to plow the field, mak—
ing possible his material existence. For
centuries it was the horse that carried man
on explorations to the widening of his ho-
rizons; that bore him into battle against
more savage invaders which threatened his
home and family; that enabled him to un-
dertake the chase which furnished him with
food and clothing. For all time it has been
the cow or the goat which has been the
foster—mother of the race; it has been the
dog which has been man’s constant com—
panion when other men have failed him, his
able auxiliary in the hunt, the alert guard-
ian of his herds and flocks; his protector
from the dangers of primitive conditions.
It has been the faithful dog which has
watched over his children, his house, his
possessions, and been eyes to the blind and
ears to the deaf. And the birds—who can
measure their assistance as seed—carriers
and pest-destroyers?”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET NO. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.
FOR DOGS

1‘ TRAGHLORETHYLENE c.1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk N-58-D
Animal Industry Dept” _ _
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 60., Detrout, Mlch

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

  
   
     

 

 

 

 

AAA‘A

 

 

 

 

The F riend of
Every Mother 903?
. “f Who
t‘c Values Her

0“ Children’s SkinHealth

Price 25c. Sample free. Address:

 

 

 

 

“Cuticura,” Dept. 6K, Malden, Mass.

AAAAAAAAAA

 

 

 

 

 

“THE TRIAL OF THE BIRDS”

Third Edition

A play for children, in one act, with
numerous characters. Ideally adapt—
ed for performance on Humane Day
in schools. The parts may be taken by
girls or boys. Paper costumes may
be worn to represent the different
birds.

Published in pamphlet form by the
American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. Price,
25 cents for twelve copies; $2.00 for
100 copies, prepaid to any address.
Send for free sample of this and other
simple plays for children.

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers for
1935. Beautifully bound in cloth and
stamped in gold. Ideal gift for hu-
mane friends and for institutions of
all kinds. 192 pages — 150 illustra-
tions. Postpaid to any part of the
world for One Dollar.

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20—25
and Humane Sunday, April 19, 1936

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1936 ............ each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1935. bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes, 1933 and 1934 .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3‘3/g ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 " “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atari, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ "
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00‘ “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play .............. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “
The Air-gun and the Birds ....... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... , .
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ................ 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

..........................

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ....... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 pe 100
What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6. Animals .. ........ .50 “ “
Leaflets, No. 7, Farm Animals ...... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ "
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. . . , . .......... 12 cents each; ten for $1 00
Care. and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

.1llus. . . . ._ ............ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Eeachger’s Helper in Humane Edu-

ca ion, 2 pp. ..................... h 1
Humane Education—for Parents and eac , OCtS.‘

Teachers, 20 pp. ................... each, 10 cts‘.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second I

grades .............................
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ...........................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants .....

each, 10 cts.

35 cts.
each, 25 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” placards each 3
...... , . , t .
TIE: Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. c s
. ow ey ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 ts.
Friends and Helpers (selections c

for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.

Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00
Phe B——K——T——A-—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
I‘r‘red Changes HIS Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25c.
And a thtle Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play

3 cts. each}. ten for 25 cts.

(( “

Humane Exercises for 1936 .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
prOJect, 8 pp. 2.00 “

Humane Education. the Vital Need, Dr
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 " “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 "

A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Humane Sunday, 1936 ................ 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

_ Badges, gold finish. large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ........................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) .............................. $3.00 per 100

Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses
of the Society's Animal Shelters. Two Reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI
Illustrating Longfellow’s Poem

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Entertainer

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

Pin: and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-.. 4.7.1...~ a -‘ --.,_._~..rmoasn 3... - ‘Aea— .. ..,:A..=u_.,_p- “A... a, -

 

 

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

« Boston

 

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

 

Main Ofﬁce

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
  
 
   
 

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE c.1'.

WORM CAPSU LEs

effectively remove

Large Roundworms

and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.
WRITE FOR
3 oo KLET #05133:

the ractica re
ﬁworgas in Dogs of all
breeds and ages . ADDRESS DESK N-58-K
Animal Industry Dept,
PARKE, DAVIS 8: CO., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell ‘Parke- Davis Products

   
   
 

 

     
  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
   

Healingljmnwtal
utlcura

SOAP~ OINTM ENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Mnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood'Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpai-d.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volume-s for 1934 ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/3x3% ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, ...... $1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . . .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp.. illus. ..
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25c. ............................... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

cloth, $0.45

.50 (t ‘5

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz: .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............... 1.00

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ....... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . 1.00 ‘
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ' .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 per 100
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ "

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. . .
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

Free

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” placards ......
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use). Sarah J. Eddy cloth, 96 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1936 .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

each, 3 cts.

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ ‘
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 " “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . . 50 “ “

A Talk with the Teacher
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “

50 ‘6

............

.....................

The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Humane Sunday, 1936 ............ . . . . 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J 50 cts.

. Eddy ............................
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

These two outstanding Humane Films have been in great demand:

THE BELL oF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s famous poem of that name

IN BEHALFanOF ANIMALS

Showing the work of the Angell hlemorial Animal Hospital, Boston,
and that of the Society’s Best Farm for Horses at Methuen.

 

 

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms of rental or sale on applicationto Secretary, Massachusetts 3. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
    
     
   
 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLILARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANGRJOFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California.
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD

WORKERS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1936
Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

118
Number of addresses made, 192
Number of persons in audiences, 51,344

Safe Annuity Bond 5

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
oooooooooooooooo
ooooooooo
ooooooooo

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Convention at Houston

NTHUSIASM of delegates, from New

Hampshire and Massachusetts to Cal-
ifornia and Washington, marked the four—
day meeting of the American Humane As—
sociation at the Rice Hotel, Houston, Texas,
September 28-30 and October 1. Those
who came from the North and the West
were impressed by the genial Southern hos-
pitality extended on every occasion. Mr.
A. H. Penland, chairman, and Mrs. George
A. Tyler and her associates of the Houston
S. P. C. A. were untiring in their efforts to
have everything carried out promptly and
efficiently.

Local people were conspicuous in the reg-
ular sessions and generously supported the
annual banquet held Tuesday evening, when
stirring addresses were given by Rev. J. W.
E. Airey, rector of St. Andrews Episcopal
Church, Houston; Professor Leo P. Schleck
of Madison, Wis.; Dr. Jose Perez Cubillas,
president of the Band of Mercy of Havana,
Cuba; and Mr. Alexander of the National
Youth Administration.

On Monday and Tuesday forenoon papers
were presented on children’s work, the Ses—
sions on animal subjects being held Wed-
nesday forenoon and all day Thursday.
“Small Animals in Large Cities,” was the
topic of Rev. A. W. S. Garden of the Ani-
mal Rescue League of Pittsburgh; “The
Great Opportunity in Mexico and the Next
Step,” of Dr. A. F. Ishkanian, who came
from Mexico City to be present; “How We
Train Our Humane Officers” by Eric H.
Hansen of the Humane Society of Missouri,
St. Louis.

Among other animal subjects were “Co—
operation between S. P. C. A’s. and Veter—
inarians,” Dr. W. A. Young, of the Anti-
Cruelty Society, Chicago; “The Pet Show——
What and Why?” Miss Kate Friend of the
Humane Society, Waco, Texas; “A Half
Hour of Retrospection,” Robert F. Sellar of
The Animal Rescue League, Boston; “It
Can Be Done,” Mrs. Frank Sweeney of the
Humane Society, Memphis, Tenn.; “Humane
Care and Protection of Wild Life,” W. E.
Sanderson of the American Humane Asso-
ciation; and “Thirty Years in Humane
Work,” Guy Richardson of the Massachu—
setts S. P. C. A., Boston.

On Wednesday afternoon delegates were
taken in buses to the Animal Shelter of the
Houston S. P. C. A., and then given a sight-
seeing trip before reaching the home of
Mrs. George A. Tyler, where tea was served.

A special feature, not on the program,
was an assembly of the pupils and teach-
ers of the Houston Negro schools—elemen-
tary, high and college—in the city auditor-
ium on Wednesday afternoon. Here were
assembled several thousand Negro pupils to
listen to a program of group songs by dif-
ferent schools, a pageant, “From Sea to
Sea,” very effectively presented, and brief
addresses by Mrs. Clinton S. Quin of Hous-
ton and William F. H. Wentzel of Pitts—
burgh. The entire affair was arranged by
the Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell of Fort Worth,
field representative of the American Hu-
mane Education Society, who served as
chairman, through the co—operation of E.
E. Oberholtzer, superintendent of schools,
the local S. P. C. A. and the American Hu-
mane Association.

 

Nov. 1936
A Dog’s Life in Mexico

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

HAD heard so much about the many

dogs of Mexico and the miserable exis—
tence they led, that I was anxious to see for
myself if their condition was as bad as re—
ported.

On a recent pleasant Visit to Mexico I
was relieved to find things not as bad as
many people think they are. True there
are countless dogs of every size and descrip—
tion in each village and town one Visits. The
large cities are over-run with them too,
but none of them seems to be starving nor
suffering in any way.

It would be strange if the dogs were torn
by hunger pangs, for a great part of the
Mexican population are engaged in some
form of food selling. Every street is lined
with vendors sitting on the ground, watch-
ing and selling their little stores of tortillas,
frijoles, sweet potatoes, sandwiches of all
kinds, fruits, and Mexican delicacies of
every variety. It stands to reason that dogs
would not roam about these stands quietly,
and be tortured with food odors, without at—
tacking them and getting at the food if they
were hungry.

Mexican people, particularly the Indians,
seem to ﬁnd eating a pleasant pastime, for
wherever you go you will come across fam—
ilies eating their lunches which they
brought with them to market or wherever
they may happen to be. Perhaps. they will
be munching on. something bought at one
of the stands, or preparing a favorite
dainty on their little charcoal burner which
is always near by. The remains of the food
are given to the dogs who come on the
scene, and often dogs and people eat to—
gether in a happy group.

Though the dogs roam about idly, per—
haps they are like people, forever seeking,
or maybe they are hunting for some tidbit
different from the regular fare.

My greatest fear was that the dogs would
be injured by passing trafﬁc, which often
observes. no speed laws. In Mexico City
where busses, street cars, heavily—laden
donkeys, and hand—drawn vehicles seem to
be in constant confusion, dogs would dart
out in the thick of the tangle and attempt
to cross the streets. Often I held my breath,
but the dog always escaped.

The climate in Mexico is beautiful, and
dogs do not pant and suffer from the heat
as they do in warm countries. Indeed I
think a dog’s life in Mexico is not bad at
all.

The people are kindly. I never saw any-
one hit nor mistreat a dog, although the ani-
mals are constantly under one’s feet. Many
people own dogs for pets, and take them
about, and are attached to them.

Mexican dogs are quiet and inclined to
mind their own business. With so many of
them about one would expect them to get
into ﬁghts and keep the air alive with their
cries. Still that is not the case.

I often fed a passing dog with some little
dainty and he took the offering with all the
grace of a well—trained family pet. Still he
was only one of the many dogs about town.

The dogs of Mexico need no sympathy.
They seem contented, and their numbers
show that they thrive there satisfactorily.

 

 




 

 

 

 

u U_S,Trade MarkRegistEmd \ I) 1
O 1. ANGELL lN 1868.AND FOR FORW‘ONE
EARS 50,,

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
-COWPER

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

ED 8}, HIM

AND Mencv To *

EVERY leme
CREATURE.

 

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 69

July, 1936

No. 7

 

The Governor of Kansas
to a Graduating Class

E read the other day an address made

by Governor Landon of Kansas to a
class graduating from High School in Kan—
sas. It seems a friend of the Governor had a
son in the class and at the father’s request
the Governor consented to be present and de-
liver the address. What the Governor said
was so fine that we wish we could repro-
duce it for all of our readers. There was no
reference to politics. Choosing a few fun-
damental principles as the foundation on
which one should build his character—prin-
ciples, some taken from the Bible, and all
of which, through the centuries, had stood
the test of time,—in clear, searching words,
he urged them upon his young listeners. “I
mean,” he said, “such things as ‘There is no
substitute for courage,’ ‘He is a man of his
word,’ ‘He is a man of principle,’ ‘His word
is as good as his bond,’ ‘Man cannot live by
bread alone’.” These were essentials for
character upon which he dwelt. He closed
with the words, “There is no detailed dia-
gram or road map that I can leave to guide
you on your journey through life but I can
give you this counsel on your way. ‘Keep
thy heart with all diligence, for out of it
are the issues of life.’ ”

Since upon these last words of the ancient
Hebrew writer of the Book of Proverbs was
based the pamphlet on “The Relation of the
Home to Character Formation” which we
prepared for the Parent-Teacher Associa—
tion, we ventured to send a copy to Gov—
ernor Landon. We doubted if he ever would
see it, but asked him if he did if he would
read the first paragraph, which is as fol-
lows:

“Who he was, no man knows. Where he
was born, just when he lived, no man knows.
But whoever he was, and whatever the date
of his birth, he was one of the world’s wis-
est. lNo thinker among the great minds of
Greece—land of philosophers and sages—

ever uttered a wiser word than that of this
unknown Hebrew, who said, “Keep thy heart
with all diligence, for out of it are the is—
sues of life.’ ”

Rather to our surprise we received this
reply signed by the Governor himself:

Dear Dr. R-owley:

I want to sincerely thank you for your
letter of May 19th. It is very encouraging
to me to receive such a word from you.

I note with interest the first paragraph
of your enclosure. Many sermons and ad-
dresses could be written on our mutual quo-
tation.

Let me hear from you at any time.

With high personal regards, I am

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) ALF M. LANDON
Governor

Look Out for the Slingshot

AD as the common homemade slingshot

is, what shall we think of The Slingshot
Corporation of Ohio, who sends out an ad-
vertisement like this:

AMAZING NEW repeating slingshot. Shoots 150
B. B. shot. Loads from handle. Shoots thru ordinary
100 page magazine. More powerful than an air rifle.
Send 25c. in coin, money order or stamps (coins and
money order preferred), for one of these REPEAT-
ERS.

The very day we saw this advertisement
the Boston H erald published the following:

Seven boys whose ages range from nine
to thirteen years, and a thirteen—year—old
girl of the “tomboy” type, appeared in the
juvenile session of Chelsea Court today and
were adjudged delinquent because they had
made too free use of slingshots.

Judge Roscoe Walsworth placed all on
probation after they had agreed to make
restitution to the Edison Electric Illumin—
ating Company for thirteen street lights.
The youngsters also admitted they had
smashed about $1200 worth of window glass
in a garage and several stores.

Many cities and towns have an ordinance
prohibiting the use of these abominable de-
vices by which so many birds are killed and
so much property destroyed and so many
people injured. The idea seems to be “sell
anything to make money, no matter who or
what is killed.”

The Humane Education Society of Man-
chester, England, deserves a high place in
the estimation of all lovers of this great
work. Its activities, its literature, its man-
agement put it in the front ranks of British
humane organizations.

We wish we could find room in our maga-
zine for all the pictures of the animals and
the stories about them that are sent to us.
But month by month we are overwhelmed
with more material than we can use. Oc-
casionally, for some special reason we have
to break over our rule.

A pamphlet of 26 pages prepared with
great care by the United States Department
of Agriculture gives what seems a complete
list of fruits attractive to birds throughout
our northeastern states. The names of the
trees and shrubs to be planted to secure
these many and varied kinds of fruit are
given. The pamphlet is most valuable. It
can be obtained by writing to the Depart-
ment mentioned above.

The world moves: Less than 100 years
ago Charles Theodore Christian Follen, a
prominent professor of Harvard College,
was dropped from the College because he
was too much the friend of the slave. When
he died the celebrated Boston clergyman,
Dr. Channing, was refused the use of the
Federal Street Church for his funeral. And
when the Fugitive Slave Law was passed by
Congress, ordering the return to his mas-
ters of any escaped slave, our good old Bos—
ton greeted the news with a salvo of 100
guns.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ya .

Aug. 1936

When the Cows Come Home

CLARENCE EDWIN FLYNN

If my hand could paint a picture
Of an hour of peace,

I would sketch a country evening
As labors cease.

I would paint a little roadway
Running through the gloam,

And a cottage in the twilight
As the cows come home

If my hand could write the music
Of a symphony,

I would weave the sounds of twilight
From the grass and tree

In a song of peace, as evening
Darkens heavens dome,

With the distant bells a—tinkle,
As the cows come home.

The Manchester Society

E refer to The Humane Education

Society of Manchester, England, of
which Mr. George Arliss is president
and Mr. Arthur Middleton is the secre—
tary and lecturer. Of course there are half
a dozen or more English societies, such as
the Royal S. P. C. A., for example, that
are working all the time in the interests of
humane education, but this one in Man—
chester seems patterned more than the
others on the lines of our own American
Humane Education Society. The Manches—
ter organization seeks to form Humane
Education Circles, the objects of which are:
(1) to stop all forms of cruelty to human
beings; to birds and animals; (2) to quick—
en in colleges, schools and elsewhere that
spirit of chivalry and humanity which
shall ﬁnally end warfare, prevent lawless-
ness, cruelty and crime; (3) to awaken and
sustain interest in Humane Education in
homes and schools; (4) to meet together
for discussion and mutual help; (5)
to supply to those interested, lists of books,
stories, poems, plays, pictures, and other
useful information.

We have been pleased to co-operate with
this Society by sending a supply of our own
literature, including Dr. Rowl-e‘y’s new pam-
phlet, “The Relation of the Home to Char-
acter Formation.” Recently the Manches—
ter Society ordered, 23 sets of our Child
Welfare posters for distribution through
the Teachers’ Association. Among its activ—
ities the Society maintains a Humane Ed-
ucation Centre in: London, at the Laycock
Street Schools, Highbury, N. 1. The home
ofﬁce is at 80 Mosely Street, Manchester 2,
England.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 123

Interesting Monuments to Animals
EWEN K. PATTERSON

NE of the finest monuments ever

erected to a domestic animal was re-
cently unveiled in the city of Oslo, Norway,
during a “drink more milk” campaign
staged in that country. The monument is
a large and imposing bronze statue of a
cow mounted on a high pedestal. A plate
on this pedestal bears the following simple
but striking inscription: “Erected to the
honor of the founder of our health.” That
is the first statue in the world erected in
honor of the humble cow.

Another unusual monument was recent-
ly erected in Queensland, Australia, where
a Memorial Hall has been built in honor
of a tiny caterpillar with the imposing name
of Cactoblastis cactorum. This caterpillar,
which is believed to be the first insect in the
world to be thus honored, has saved Aus—
tralia from the worst plant pest the coun—
try has ever known—the picturesque cactus
known as prickly-pear. Nearly one hundred
years ago some cuttings of prickly-pear
were introduce-d into Australia from South
America. The cuttings were cultivated in
flower-pots, and later it became fashionable
to use the cactus for hedges. And thus
commenced a tremendous plant infestation
without parallel in history. The prickly—
pear rapidly spread throughout Australia
until by 1925 it had covered an area of over
65,000,000 acres, and was spreading at the
rate of 1,000,000 acres a year. All methods
of controlling it proved unsuccessful until
scientists were sent to South America to
search for insect enemies of the cactus
which could be introduced into Australia,
and liberated amongst the prickly-pear. In
this way the Cactoblastis caterpillar was
discovered. The insect was located at the
Botanic Gardens of La Plata, Argentine,
and in 1926 a consignment of 2,750 of the
insects were shipped to Australia. Here,
after being acclimatized, they were bred
and liberated in the pear—infested areas.
They at once attacked the pest, and already
they have cleared over 40,000,000 acres.
They have spelt the doom of prickly—pear
in Australia, and because of their wonderful
work a Memorial Hall, known as the Cacto—
blastis Memorial Hall, has been erected.

In many parts of the world are memo-
rials to dogs, and one of the most interest—
ting of all is in the city of Edinburgh
(Scotland). This memorial is the statue
of a little dog, named “Bobbie,” who became
famous throughout Scotland for his faith—
fulness. Years ago when his master died

and was buried in the graveyard at an Ed-
inburgh church, Bobbie, who was present

at the funeral, refused to leave the grave,
and for thirteen years, day and night, the
faithful animal kept a ceaseless vigil over
his master’s resting-place.

Nothing could induce the noble animal
to leave the grave permanently; the only
time he did leave was at noon every day
when he would trot across to a near-by
restaurant to be fed. After the meal he
always returned at once to the grave. Bob-
bie became famous, and when he finally died
on the grave of his master, he was buried
alongside, and a statue, which is also a
drinking fountain, was erected to his mem-
ory outside the graveyard.

A dog is also prominent on Scotland’s
finest monument; this is the Sir Walter
Scott memorial in Princess Street, Edin-
burgh. One of Scott’s pets was his dog,
“Maida.” They were inseparable compan—
ions, and when. the famous novelist’s statue
was being erected, a statue of this dog was
also included.

Another famous writer’s statue, which
includes also a statue of his pet dog, is the
Lord Byron Memorial in. London (Eng—
land). The famous writer is depicted sit—
ting upon a rock with his chin upon his
hand, and by his side, looking up into his
face, is a striking statue of his famous dog,
which he called “Boatswain.”

A Gentleman Passes

A gentleman has just passed on.

He was kind and courteous, respectful to
his superiors and indulgent to his inferiors.

He had courage without bluster and pride
without vaunting.

He was a loyal friend and a devoted com—
panion. ,

He never picked a quarrel nor fled from
a fight.

He loved little children and delighted in
their enjoyment.

He was generous and never critical.

He was full of the joy of living.

His name was “Hurley” and he was a
sheep dog, eleven years old.

He lived happily, died serenely and left a
volume of satisfying memories.

——Fullerton (Cal.) News—Tribune

“Lay down, pup, lay down,” ordered the
man. “Good doggie, lay down, I say.”

“You’ll have to say ‘lie down,’ Mister,”
declared a small bystander. “That’s a Bos-
ton terrier.”

——American Mutual Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




U. S.Trade Mark, Registered \ 1

m 1868.AND FOR FORTy,
0- T. YEARS

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

  

The American Humane Education Society

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmouess. Jusrnc:
AND Mancv TO‘
EVERY lemc
CREATURE.

   

The American Band of Mercy

  
  
 

 
  

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced With polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

       

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class .matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

 

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.
‘VoL 69

Next to war, hunting brings the greatest
share of gun makers’ money—$300,000,000.

The record for 1933, last available for
statistics: some 6,000,000 hunters paid for
licenses nearly $9,000,000. The licenses re-
ported included 2,555,010 combined hunting
and fishing permits.

We are told that the billion dollars our
Government is spending this year on the
Army and Navy for military preparedness
represents a tax of $8 per head on every
man, woman and child in the country.

On World Day for Animals the Min-
ister of Education at Athens, Greece, or-
dered lectures on kindness to animals to be
delivered in every school throughout the
country. “Time marches on” and with it
the progress of our cause.

Is the European starling a nuisance? The
U. S. Biological Survey says, as quoted in
the Mass. Audubon Society Bulletin, the
starling is one of the most effective ene-
mies of the Japanese beetle which is such
a pest of early ripening fruit, corn and
truck crops.

All lovers of our wild fowl, the ducks
and. geese that have been so rapidly vanish-
ing from our waters, will rejoice that the
hunter can no longer bait these birds, or
use live decoys to entice them into reach
of his gun. There are hunters who are
sportsmen and hunters who are killers.

The Christian Science Monitor wisely
says: “As a nation, we become indignant
at munition manufacturers and would halt
the shipment of armaments to the warring
nations in other parts of the world. Let
us also become indignant at the shipment
of toy armaments to the children of the
nation. Let our arms embargoes begin at

home.”

January,l936

Nineteen Thirty-six

N Army with Banners! Unseen by any

of us as these words are written, this
army is marching silently toward each of
us. It numbers only 365 days, but each of
these, if we see the Whole year’s close, we
must face with What it will bring us of
joy and sorrow, health and sickness, suc-
cess or failure, peace and plenty or want
and worry. Yes, but here’s the great, un-
deniable fact to cheer us—they can only
come one at a time. How often courage fails
because we see them all as upon us at once.
Whatever each day brings, the next offers
another chance. If the page of today is
spoiled by mistake, the wrong Word spoken,
the wrong deed done, tomorrow comes with
an unstained leaf. If unexpected sorrows
come, so will unexpected pleasures. One
day at a time. So let us meet the future.
Heaven grant that the New Year, should
we see it through, may find the world a
little better because of us!

Congratulations to the
Toronto Humane Soc1ety

HIS strong and active Canadian So—

ciety must have the credit of a new
endeavor to stop a cruel practice too often
associated with horse shows. This is, the
gingering of horses. This consists of in—
serting into the horse’s intestinal tract a
caustic or irritant designed to cause the
animal to assume a posture in the ring
which some breeders consider stylish and
likely to Win approval of the judges.

The Toronto Society, at the horse show
held there recently, convinced that this un-
warranted practice was cruel, causing un-
necessary suffering, notified the manage-
ment of the show that it would prosecute
anyone discovered guilty of the act. No
little excitement was caused by this action.
An offender, taken into court pleaded
guilty. The attorney for the Society did not
ask for a heavy fine, stating that the or—
ganization would be content with a mini—

lﬁo.l
mum, which was imposed.

Mr. Russell Locke, K. C., attorney for the
Humane Society, said at the trial that it
was decided many years ago in the High
Courts of Great Britain that British law
does not allow the treatment to which this
man has pleaded guilty. It further appear-
ed that the law of Ontario prohibits the
use of any medicinal agents, such as gin—
ger, etc., and provides for punishment by
prosecution for any offense which comes to
the attention of the public authorities, and
the officers of the Humane Society are
charged particularly with enforcing the
law. According to the rules governing the
Toronto Horse Show, Rule 23 reads: “All
horses doctored or in any way improperly
or unfairly prepared or tampered with be—
fore coming into show ring will be dis-
qualified.” Such a rule as that ought to pre-
vail wherever in this or any other country
horse shows are carried on.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will take
every possible step to prevent this practice
in the future here in this state, and urges
every other similar Society in the country
to join in the campaign until it is stopped.

A Serious Mistake

The Boston Herald recently published a
picture of a hunter displaying a red-
shouldered hawk he had shot. The writer
of the article accompanying the picture an-
nounced that there was “no closed season
on these birds.” But “these birds” are pro-
tected.

In a letter to the H erald, Winthrop Pack-
ard, Secretary of the Audubon Society,
says, with reference to the article, “Red-
shouldered hawks are protected at all times
by the laws of Massachusetts. The red-
shouldered hawk is a help toward the pres-
ervation of our vanishing game and our
songbirds in that it lives almost entirely
on rats, mice, snakes, insects and such
‘predators.”’ Let us hope that this ig-
norance of the law as evidenced by the
writer of the Herald article will not lead
to further destruction of these birds.

 




 

 

 

‘ ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FOR”.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

——COWPER

u mMarkBegistemd n 1
ONE YEARS EDITED Q

8)» "II/t1

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv 70'
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

Entered as.s.ecend-class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 8, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13. 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. '

Vol. 69

It was a fine thing for the Royal S. P. C.
A. (England) to do to send a Veterinary
Unit, the “Silver Star,” to Addis Ababa
toward the close of the war. The Unit has
been highly commended for its splendid
service.

Coastal waters polluted with waste—oil
from oil-burning ships still mean a pitiful
and lingering death to thousands of our sea
birds. The legislative bodies of the mari—
time powers could stop this appalling evil
if they wanted to. They have all been told
about it.

Is it strange that some have wondered
if the cruelties and brutalities associated
with the popular pastime of bull-fighting
have made the average Spaniard less sensi-
tive to such atrocities as those that have
characterized the present civil strife? Cru-
elty to animals, practiced, or witnessed with-
out protest, inevitably deadens every finer
human characteristic.

In Wisconsin last November 255 arrests
were made, and in December 296 for viola—
tion of the conservation laws. These viola-
tions were largely of the hunting laws. In
many of the states the violations were
doubtless many times greater. Then who
can estimate the hunting law breakers who
were never caught? We should be. grateful
for any of our wild life still left us.

Many letters come to us asking if the
humane societies of the land cannot do
something to stop the cruelties to which
animals are so often subjected in the mak-
ing of moving pictures. Our answer is that
for years our own Society and every other
leading S. P. C. A. have been protesting
against these cruelties. Arrangements are
now being made, we understand, whereby
officers of one or more of the California
Societies are to be permitted to be present
whenever pictures are being filmed in which
animals are used.

 

October, 1936

The Education That is
Needed

UMANE education is as wide as hu-

man life. It means fair play, the spirit
of brotherhood between man and man, no
less than that treatment of all animal life
which springs from the highest sense of
justice and kindness. ‘

The measure of men and nations is rap-
idly being taken beside the standard which
demands that character shall be as gentle
as it is strong, as mighty to love as it is
powerful to think and do.

Cruelty, like a hundred other evil things,
is the child of darkness nourished by the
foster—mother ignorance. The night disap-
pears when the day arrives. We accept the
words of Victor Hugo: “The true human di-
vision is this, the luminous and the shady.
To diminish the number of the shady and
increase that of the luminous, that is the
object. That is why we cry—‘Education!
Knowledge!’ To learn to read is to light
the fire; every syllable spelled out is a
spark.” This is as true in the moral. world
as in the intellectual.

Cruelty, indifference to the claims of man
or beast, strikes back upon the cruel and
the indifferent. The destruction of our
birds is costing us the appalling loss of
something like eight hundred millions an—
nually. From every point of View humane
education demands our attention.

When the principles of this education are
masters of the souls of men, the day of
violence, strife, class hatred, race prejudice,
and war, is done, and governments and so—
cial institutions will have been established
on foundations that will abide. No more
sacred trust is committed to the parents of
today and to the teachers in our public
schools than this. When the fair fruitage
of this work issues in that better day that
is before us, to them, more than to any
others, will be due the golden crown of
praise.

 

No. 10

The Moving Pictures
and Cruelty ,

N the August issue of Our Dumb Ami.

male we told the story, as it came to us
from California, of the cruelties which oc-
curred in the filming of Tennyson’s poem,
“The Charge of the Light Brigade.” In that
story, as we received it from what we had
every reason to believe was a wholly trust-
worthy source, it was stated that two men
were arrested and fined for cruelty and that
it was found that between three and four
hundred horses were being used, and that
the majority of them were to die or be se-
riously wounded in the “Pit Falls” and by
the device known as the Running W, a wire
by which the horses could be thrown.

This story, widely circulated throughout
the country by the newspaper publicity
given it, aroused a storm of protest which
sent a flood of letters pouring into the head-
quarters of the offices of the Warner Bros.,
the makers of the film.

The moving picture companies have learn-
ed that there is a limit in their treatment
of animals beyond which they cannot go *
without incurring a practically nation—wide
condemnation. It is not enough, it seems
to us, that Mr. J. L. Warner assures us
that he knew nothing of the cruelties that
were to be inflicted in the rehearsals for
this picture. We should rather think it was
part of his business to know what was in—
volved in reproducing such a tragic histor-
ical event.

We print the following statement made,
under date of June 23, by Mr. Warner to
the San Francisco S. P. C. A.—

“Please allow me to first advise you that
I had no personal knowledge whatsoever re—
garding the subject—matter of your investi-
gation, nor did I know that the persons in
charge of our location unit were committing
any acts contrary to the aims and purposes
of your Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1936

So Rides the Hunt

LOUISE DARCY

For me no grace in tossing mane,
No beauty in the scarlet coat.
I see too clearly Reynard’s end:
Strong teeth bared for the pulsing throat.

I cannot feel that flaming skies,
The scent of smoke, the wind’s sharp
breath,
All the bright pageantry of fall
Are made more beautiful by death.

The Frigate Bird

ARTHUR EHRSAM

BIRD known to few landlubbers, but

to many seafarers in the South Paciﬁc

is the frigate bird, or the Man-o’—War bird.

This bird belongs to the genus Fregata

and is totipalmate, that is, all four toes are

united by webs; the same as its relatives:

cormorants, pelicans, albatrosses and jae-
gers.

The frigate bird a queer sea bird with a
body the size of a domesticated duck, long
Wings, spreading as much as eleven feet;
a long bill with hooked tip that affords a
formidable Weapon; and small feet so weak
that the bird can hardly waddle.

The bird is a peerless ﬁyer, circling and
diving in mid-air with lightning speed, or
bucking a gale without losing ground.

Its name is derived from its habit of
dashing forth in the manner of the old—
time frigate ship or full—sailed man—o’—war
in hot chase of a merchantman, and playing
the blackguard’s part with the inoﬁensive
booby return-ing home from the sea with a
maw full of ﬁsh for the young. The frigate
bird is the incessant bete noire of the poor
booby. The terriﬁed booby squawks and
dodges, but can not escape his pursuer;
so in despair it drops its prey in mid—air
and makes its escape. Then the frigate bird
dives like a plummet, and recaptures the
morsel before it falls into the sea.

Old salts who sailed in the South Paciﬁc
in the days of spanking brigs, and barks,
and those famed Yankee clippers, can spin
yarns by the hour about this unique bird.
To many of them it is the very incarna—
tion of some dead buccaneer’s soul. Sort
of like the Flying Dutchman.

 

FRIGATE MOTHER AND BABY

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Pheasant Exonerated

BENNETT B. SMITH

E were driving along a sandhill road

in western Nebraska—that section
far from a railroad and where roads are
trails and where laid-out thoroughfares and
fences are scarce.

Suddenly a mother
pheasant with a brood
of young dashed out
in front of us and the
little birds, not much
bigger than a good
sized thumb, darted
down the trail under
the wheels of the car.
I stopped as soon as
possible and went back
with an anxious feel—
ing to see how many
had been killed. But I
was pleasantly sur-
prised—not one had
met death under the
car wheels. And none
were in sight.

Those little fellows
had already learned
from instinct and
breeding how and
when to keep away
from danger. The mother was quite per—
turbed but in that short space of time they
had scampered away and neither she nor
a single baby was in sight.

The daddy bird _was not far away and
what a gorgeous fellow he was as he stood
there, independently, like a king surveying
his possessions!

In coloring a pheasant, it seems Nature
took her paint brush and dabbed out a bird
in modernistic style. The head is of steel
blue reflecting brown, green, and purple;
the back and wings are a mixture of or-
ange—red, black, brown, and light yellow;
the breast is golden red with each feather
margined with black and reflecting gold
and purple. What a beauty! The male is
always a wealth of color but the female is
of plain grayish—brown.

The name pheasant was first applied to
the bird on the ancient Phasis river where
they grew in abundance and from which
place they were brought to Europe before
the fourteenth century. A number of years
ago they were brought to the United States
and have become quite abundant in. Oregon
and Washington and east to the central
United States. They are not so abundant in
the eastern part of the country. I

Pheasants have been accused of great
depredations in ﬁelds and gardens. They
have been accused of destroying whole
wheat fields by digging out the seeds; eat—
ing the seeds of oats, barley, and other
grains; driving chickens from their nests
and even killing the young poultry. What
a charge!

But wait!

The United States Department of Agri—
culture made a study of this condition and
found the greatest food of the bird was in-
sects and weed seeds. The test was made
in. September, October, and December, and
some grain was found in the stomachs but,

 

INSECTS AND WEED SEED HIS GREATEST FOOD

Page 171

since it was late in the year, it is quite prob-
able that this grain was waste after the
harvest. The stomachs contained many
pests such as weed seeds and insects, es-
pecially the March fly. Great quantities
of grasshoppers and army worms are eaten
and the bird is especially fond of the potato
beetle.

 

ﬁg:

According to the Department of Agricul-
ture, the farmers of Oregon and the West
are so well pleased with the results the
pheasant gives in the destruction of many
pests that they will not permit hunting on
their farms, but lend every encouragement
to the bird to inhabit their places.

Parrot Island

L. E. EUBANKS

WRITER in Boys’ Comrade asks, “How

would you like to see 20,000 parrots all
at one time?” and says that we might see
that many any night if we visited the island
of Nen-gue Ngozo, or Parrot Island, as the
name means.

Nengue Ngozo is a small island off the
coast of Guinea, of Africa. At about sun—
down the parrots begin to fly in. They come
in flocks numbering from a dozen to a hun-
dred, flying all the way from the mainland
of Africa, which is nearly forty miles away.

There are no wild animals on the island,
and that is the main reason the parrots go
there to roost. They are safe from Wildcats
and other creatures that prey upon them. at
night. At three or four o’clock in the morn—
ing they awaken and begin to stir. Twenty
thousand parrots all chattering at once
must be “something”! But by sunrise they
have all left for the mainland, departing in
separate flocks, as they came.

During February an-d March many of the
parrots remain on the island to build their
nests in the hollows of the trees. Usually
there are two baby birds in each nest, and
as soon as the little fellows are old enough
to ﬂy they go to the mainland as their par-
ents do, returning each evening to roost in
the trees until sunrise.

In making your will , please remember the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

 

 

 




 

  
     
 
  
 

     
   

           

         
       

up“. I 7%

N w

H w ' w... .

, “Mil/l", A; ‘1

..\\l ‘h .4 11": -K-
='9.,'

 
 
  

.
!.
In %

  
        
 

  

       
 

01. AN

u U. S.Trade Mark,Registered \

oELL m 1868, AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COW‘PER

    

GLo'Rv TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO‘
EVERY lemo
CREATURE.

     
  
     

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 69

There have been pitiful sights along
some of our Massachusetts shores this win—
ter. Wild fowl dying by the hundreds, if not
by thousands, because of the oil pollution
of the coastal waters. Note the picture of
one of our agents on the Cape, page 53.

If only some generous soul who could
afford it would give us $500 for an ambu-
lance for the Fo'ndouk at Fez, Morocco!
Grateful as we are for the small amounts
that occasionally come for this purpose, we
wish the much—needed ambulance might be
had this year. It would not only save the
Fondouk money but it would make it pos—
sible to reach out more widely in our work
and save the suffering of many more
animals.

A Bill has been introduced into the New
York Legislature to repeal the law pro-
hibiting the cropping of dogs’ ears. This
ﬁne anti—cruelty law is now in force in
Massachusetts, New York, Connecticut,
New Jersey and Michigan. Against its re-
peal in New York State the Herald-Tribune
says, “We shall do our utmost to rally en-
lightened public opinion.” We cannot believe
so humane a law will be stricken from the
statutes of one of the foremost states of the
Union.

Readers of Our Dumb Animals have
learned about the International Journal for
Animal Protection published by the Scot-
tish Society of Edinburgh. This new ven-
ture, ably edited and very attractive, every
humane society in this and other lands
should have, as well as a great multitude of
private individuals. It is published twice a
year at the small price of what would be
87 cents in American money. It will be a
pleasure to us to forward to the Scottish
Society the subscription price for anyone
asking us to do so upon receipt of 40 cents.
We are glad to render this service to those
who may not care to arrange to send the
amount in English money.

April, 1936
The Flood at Springfield

ANY heroic rescues of animals
caught in the ﬂood waters at
Springﬁeld were effected by Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. employees. Hundreds of dogs,
cats, chickens and other domestic pets be-
came “marooned” in buildings whose own-
ers had hastily to vacate to save their own
lives. To aid the Society’s resident ofﬁcer
and his assistants, help was sent from our
headquarters. Boats were procured and
many animals were taken to places of safe—
ty. Our Hospital was early ﬁlled with ani-
mals to its utmost capacity. At one time,
when the basement was ﬂooded and the
waters still rising, we were ordered to va—
cate the building. Our staff, however, re-
fused and continued to do everything pos-
sible day and night. Two of our agents and
a boat—load of animals were capsized in the
raging waters. It was a narrow escape for
the men. Our ambulance driver also came
near being drowned. He was landed from
a rowboat in a submerged house where sev-
eral dogs and cats awaited rescue. He se-
cured the animals, but in the meantime the
man in the boat had gone on another errand
of mercy. When he attempted to return he
found it impossible to make headway against
the hurrying torrent. When a motor boat
ﬁnally reached the driver, about midnight,
he had prepared to take a chance and swim.
The water had risen to the top floor.

As this is written just as the flood has
started to subside, we are possessed of but
meagre information. It will be many days
before the full story of this unprecedented
flood can be told.

The loss of life among the birds and
other creatures of the forest through lack
of food because of the heavy falls of snow
this winter in many parts of the country
has, it is said, been very great. How much
do we really know about this? Do we know
how long birds and other animals of the
woods can go without food? Has Nature
made some provision in their organism
against such emergencies?

No. 4

Emergency Peace
Campaign

Amighty effort to mobilize the peace
sentiment of the nation is about to be
started. A peace movement, initiated by
the American Friends Service Committee
with headquarters in Philadelphia, will be
launched on April 21, by a group of em-
inent peace and church leaders. In an-
nouncing this campaign its Director says:
“Because the drift toward war is so rapid
today, there is no time to be lost. Many
people must lay down their present tasks,
important as they are, and throw them-
selves into this great struggle. They must
give themselves for peace just as in 1914-
1918 millions gave themselves to war.”

The program is the most extensive ever
attempted in behalf of peace in this coun—
try. It will bring together leaders of peace
organizations, religious bodies of all faiths,
labor and student groups. Volunteer service
from ministers, college presidents, pro—
fessors and teachers will be asked. The
youth of America will be called upon to
enroll for service in the cause of peace.
They will be carefully selected and trained
and under mature leadership will work
among other young people. Dr. W. 0. Men-
denhall, president of Whittier College,
heads the Campaign Committee.

The Rt. Honorable George Lansbury, M.
P., prominent British Laborite, is coming
to the United States to speak for the cam-
paign in twenty cities from April 1 to May
18. In addition to Mr. Lansbury, many of
the nation’s foremost peace and church lead—
ers have agreed to serve as members of the
speaking teams which will tour the country.

This campaign will be vigorously carried
on by those whose desire and purpose are
to keep the United States out of war and by
so doing promote world peace. To such a
program our American Humane Education
Society, whose motto includes “Peace on
Earth, Goodwill to all,” will give its strong—
est support and co-operation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1936

Lincoln’s Love of Animals
F. F.

BRAHAM LINCOLN was seven years
Aold when his family moved to Indiana
from his»! birthplace in Kentucky, in 1816.
The forests that were everywhere about
them were filled with wild animals; rac—
coons, squirrels, opossums, skunks, Wildcats,
bears, deer, wolves, panthers, turkeys,
grouse, quail, ducks and geese, with'pig-
eons flying overhead in flocks that obscured
the sun. The boy grew up in a land of
wild plenty. And yet young Abe did not
participate in the hunting and fishing of
his fellows. He was, from the first, ten-
der hearted with animals.

In the winter of 1818-19, while attending
school near Gentryville, Ind., he found the
other children one day putting hot coals on
the back of a turtle and he quickly stopped
that and wrote some short paragraphs say—
ing what he thought of any cruelty to an—
imals. A little later, at school, he wrote
some short compositions on that subject.
He was hurt by any display of brutality
toward animals and it was not his way to
remain silent where his sympathies were
stirred. Any degree of animal suffering a-
roused him to do all he could to stop it.

Lincoln’s thoughtfulness for animals did
not leave him as he grew up. He stopped
at Caleb Carman’s house one day, after he
had been elected to the Illinois legislature,
and took on his lap two kittens. He com—
pared their heads, saying “Jane has a bet—
ter countenance than Susan.” He became
so much interested in the two pets that,
when starting for Vandalia for the first
session of the legislature, he left word with
the Carmans that they were to take good
care of the kittens.

While living at the White House, absorb—
ed deeply in affairs of state, Lincoln still
found time to concern himself with pet ani-
mals. On April 2, 1862, he troubled to
write to Michael Crock of Philadelphia:
“My dear sir; allow me to thank you in
behalf of my little son for your present of
white rabbits. He is much pleased with
them. Abraham Lincoln.”

One of his telegrams, sent from the War
Department to Mrs. Lincoln, who was away
from Washington with their boy, Tad, said;
“Tell Tad the goats and father are very
well, especially the goats.” Again he tele—
graphed: “All well, including Tad’s pony
and the goats.”

Tad’s goats were privileged characters
about the White House, because of Lin-
coln’s fondness for animals and his anxiety
to have Tad amused. The pair were des-
troyed in a fire that burned the White
House stables, February 1, 1864. Lincoln
was in deep distress over this fire and Tad
himself climbed on the stable roof and
would have gone down through the ventila-
tor to save his pony, had he not been stop—
ped and ragged to safety. He was put to
bed in great grief, the grief only partly
lessened when he was allowed to have on
the bed with him the two white hounds he
loved, “Sumter” and “Pensacola.”

Please remember the Massachusetts Soci-
ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
of Boston, when making your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Pigeons as News Carriers
GENEVRA COWAN

NNUALLY, all Los Angeles newspa—
pers vie with each other on New Year’s

E Day to obtain the first photographs of the

Rose Bowl Football classic at Pasadena. In—
tricate and carefully laid are the plans of
each news sheet to rush the precious nega—
tives to their respective Los Angeles dark
rooms, into the newspaper, thence onto the
metropolitan streets.

The aid of a motorcycle rider is frequent—
ly employed but the traffic maze is a diffi—
cult one to negotiate. Airplanes are im-
practical as there are no landing facilities
either at the Bowl or near the newspaper
offices. So this year, one newspaper “out—
smarted” its competitors by using highly
trained homing pigeons.

John S. Michalak, government supervisor
of homing pigeons in nine western states,
was on the sidelines at the Rose Bowl, with
his birds. As each photograph was snap-
ped, it was taken from the camera and
placed in an aluminum container which was
fastened to the back of a bird. He then
released the pigeon and at the rate of fifty
or sixty miles an hour, it soared its way
back to its loft near the newspaper office.
Its precious cargo delivered, the most im—
portant phase of the journey was complet-
ed; these photos reaching the public some-
time before others.

Washington’s First Wish

My first wish is to see the whole world
in peace, and the inhabitants of it as one
band of brothers, striving who should con-
tribute most to the happiness of mankind.

GEORGE WASHINGTON

 

THEIR NAMES ARE “WATCH” AND “WARD”

”Page 27

Pride of Our Farm

ALICE JONES

Y six sisters and I had been promised

a horse of our own. _ My small brother
had a pony that had been given him by an
uncle and Father did not feel that he could
afford to keep two ponies; we felt that we
would be happy with just a gentle work
horse, even if it had to do farm work a part
of the time.

Often Father went to farm sales and
each time‘he told us that we might expect
a new horse. We stood many times at the
gate waiting for our father to return with
the promised horse, and we had almost lost
hope. One day as we were looking anxious-
ly up the road awaiting his return, we all
gave a shout of surprise and happiness.
Father was riding “Old Dick” but leading
another horse behind! Our joy knew no
bounds, and as we looked at our new horse
we wondered about his name.

My first thought was, “How proud he
is!” He had 'a sleek bay coat, thick glossy
mane and tail and held his head proudly
erect. I said to my sisters, “Let’s call him
Pride,” and so he was our “Pride” to the
end of the chapter. How proud we were of
him when he took the younger members of
our family to school, two miles away. Often
we would turn him loose at the school and
he would go back home and into his stall.
When it was time to return from school,
our father would start him up the road and
he would gallop up to the school—house and
wait patiently until we were ready. He had,
or so it seemed to us, strong likes and dis‘
likes. When my small brother would go
into the barn to put the bridle on him, he
would hold his nose high into the air, and
no amount of pulling or persuasion could
get it down. He had a
way of turning his
head to glance at each
of us as we entered the
barn that was all his
own. If my small bro-
ther went to the pas-
ture and called him, he
would kick up his heels
and gallop off; but if
any other member of
the family called him,
he would come trotting
up quickly. Father soon

discovered the reason
for all this. When
Pride was a v e r y

young horse the fam-
ily that owned him had
a boy who was very
rough in his treatment
of horses; he was told
that Pride would even
kick and bite at him,
and did not seem to
like boys after that.
The second owner said
he had proved to be a
very gentle horse, and
he had always trusted
him with his four
daughters.

When in the pasture
or working in the field
with the other horses,

 




 

 

Page 1;

Give the Animals a New

Year Thought

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

APPY New Year!

Fine, cheerful words they are. And
what makes them finer still is the fact that
they are uttered in various languages round
the world. New Year’s Day is our oldest
and our most romantic popular festival and
is recognized throughout the world as no
other holiday is.

We have records of New Year festivals
that go back to 3000 B. C. in ancient Baby-
lonia. They were called Zakmuk and, be-
lieve it or not, the people made resolutions
then as now. They were, however, a bit more
conscientious than some of us today. Their
resolutions were only for a period of twelve
days. After that if they kept them, well and
good, but if not, why they had at least lived
to their twelve-day resolve. So there was
no moral stigma to breaking the resolution
after this short period of nobler aspiration.

But while we are in the mood of resolving
this and that for our own and for others’
benefit for our longer period, the whole
new year,—at least for that long—,why not
add a resolution about being kinder to ani—
mals, and other tame and wild things, in
1936?

If we drive cars, a resolve to keep a more
watchful eye and better-controlled car as
respects the creatures of all kinds that are
wont to cross our public highways would
be in the spirit of a happier new year. I
am sure that every resolver would feel bet-
ter in his heart for having made sincerely
such a resolution.

Then, whether we drive cars or not, it
would be fine to resolve to seek more oppor—
tunies, and to rise to more opportunities,
of being more humane to the humbler crea—
tures of God’s good earth.

How often we see little creatures in dis—
tress and yet put off the chance to end their
misery mercifully, or to help them out of
their hard ways. Let more of us resolve
to be more merciful to the helpless in 1986
than we were in 1985 and to be prompter
about it.

The well—known story about Robert Louis
Stevenson the time he interfered with the
owner of a dog who was abusing it will help
all who make such a resolution to strive
their best to keep it.

“It’s not your dog,” was the owner’s
sharp rebuke, coupled with physical threat
at the famous Scot’s apparent going beyond
his rights.

“No, but it’s God’s dog,” came the vigor-
ous counter challenge with no fear of the
physical threat in the gallant heart of the
many-sided genius.

I never read Stevenson’s “Child’s Gar—
den,” which is the eternal telling to the
world of the gentleness within him, but I
think of that reply, “It’s God’s dog.”

Here’s hoping that many resolution mak-
ers this year will follow these suggestions.
and by making and keeping a resolve or two
about God’s dogs, and cats, and wilder kin,
help to add much new happiness on the old
earth that hears everywhere *Happy New
Year! Happy New Year! from countless
millions of human lips.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
Lady in Church

MARY A. HURD

I went to church to pray and sing,
But could not pray at all
Because a lady wore a fur.
(’Twas strange a thing so small

Could so disturb me that I saw,
Instead of choir and priest,

A hunted brother of the woods——
A little, frightened beast.)

I could not eat the sacred bread,
I could not taste the wine.

For the tired eyes of a hunted fox
Were gazing into mine.

I went to church to find the Lord,
But found this truth instead:
Christ cannot break with those who kill,
The consecrated bread;

He cannot drink with those who maim,
The sacramental wine;

For all His friends love is the law
And kindness is thesign.

I could not touch the sacred bread,
I could not drink the wine.

For the tortured eyes of the Crucified
Were gazing into mine.

Sears, Roebuck, a large mail—order and
wild-life-conservation house, issued a print—
ed warning to motorists to drive carefully
and not run into birds. “Give our feath-
ered friends a chance. With no real in-
convenience to yourself, game and song
birds can be frightened from the road by
sounding your horn.” The warning was in-
serted in each box of shotgun shells sold by
the house. —The New Yorker

Read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry,” mailed, post free, to any address
upon receipt of price, 75 cents. The Jack
London Club is built on it. The present
membership is 655,488, all pledged to do
everything possible to stop the cruelty at-
tendant upon trick animal stage perform-
ances. Will you join it? No dues. Write
for full information to 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

 

IN WINTER QUARTERS

Jan. 1936

Animals in Ethiopia
E L L A

HOSE who have led caravans into

Ethiopia, or who have had any contact.
with the people at all, tell us that the na-
tives for the most part treat their animals
considerately. In fact the children and ani-
nlllals live together in carefree companion-
s 1p.

MCELLIGOTT

The little mud-walled cabins with grass
roof usually consist of three rooms, and
one of these is reserved for the smaller
animals. Large animals are kept in a
shelter called a thorn. boma. They have to
be securely locked up at night, as wild
beasts prowl about’and wound or kill any
animal they can reach.

The Emperor, Haile Selassie, is very
fond of dumb creatures, and a small play-
ful dog is his constant companion. Cubs,
small monkeys. and other pets keep the
royal grounds full of excitement.

One sees a great variety of animals in
Ethiopia. Mules and horses are plentiful,
and do much of the work. Fine Arabian
steeds, gaily decorated, carry the many
chiefs about, and horses of humbler breed
transport heavy loads of hides, firewood,
and other materials along rocky trails.

When the roads are too dangerous, mules
are used, as they are very sure-footed. De-
spite their size they have great endurance,
and can carry large packs a great distance.
In the rainy season it is often necessary for
both horses and mules to ford streams, and
this is one part of the journey that finds
no favor with them.

Oxen are the mainstay of the Ethiopian
householder. They pull the old fashioned
forked-stick plow, and then when the grain
1s ripe they thresh it by treading upon it,
just as was done in Biblical times. A va-
riety of millet, called teff, is the principal
crop. The women grind the flour at home
in a rude stone mill, and make their bread
in two large pancake-like loaves.

There is an abundant supply of the
humpbacked variety of cattle in Ethiopia,
and countless sheep graze on rich pasture
lands. Animals must constantly be guard-
ed, as the ever‘—watching hyena is ready to
pounce upon a herd if someone is not al-

ways on the lookout.

In the southern part of
Ethiopia camels are more
common. Here water holes
are scarce, and as camels
can go without water for
long periods, they are in-
valuable for lengthy jour
neys.

All the wild animals
known to Africa are found
in the forest and rocky hid-
ing places, and their cries
are heard at night.

Ethiopia is known as the
naturalist’s paradise, and
those who expect to visit
the land some day surely
have something about
which to dream and to look
forward.

 

 




.— ,‘ 4‘, .

[l
:1
l
i
l

gig-EAL «g: ”‘3. .<..xw:..«z—=s==w—m_z.:vrx :v: 11-72—51.

 

_ ‘3‘

Mr.— h—uv— mus; Hera.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 100
The Trap

RUTH DAVIS WASSON

A cold steel jaw,
A soft white paw,
A night of cruel pain!
A cherished pet
Is missing yet——
I call and watch in vain.

Expecting me
To set her free,
Alone she suffers on.
A thoughtless boy!
A source of joy
Is blotted out at dawn!

Beatty Fined for Cruelty

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society Se-

cures Conviction

AVING witnessed the ﬁrst performance
H of Clyde Beatty, noted animal trainer,
and his lions at Pittsburgh, May 26, agents
of the Humane Society warned the manage-
ment of Cole Brothers Circus, of which
Beatty’s act is a part, that such brutal
tactics, prodding, clubbing and ﬁring of
blank cartridges, as were employed, must
not be repeated.

The warning was disregarded and at the
next performance even more violent and
cruel tactics were used. Beatty and his
partner, Bernardi, were arraigned before a
Justice of the Peace court, found guilty, and
ﬁned $20 each. This was the maximum ﬁne
which the court could impose.

Many signiﬁcant facts were brought out
by this action of the Humane Society
against Beatty. Individuals of prominent
standing were present, observed the treat-
ment the animals received, volunteered as
witnesses, and even suggested that private
action would be taken should the Society
have failed to prosecute.

The Humane Society receives its meed of
both criticism and commendation, as would
be expected, but the general opinion prevails
that its action was justiﬁable and impera—
tive. In a statement to the press Mr. Wil-
liam F. H. Wentze'l, secretary of the So?
ciety, makes a strong point in these words:

“It is well known that one of the ambi—
tions of an animal trainer is to come for—
ward from season to season with the ap-
pearance of an act that embodies the strong—
est evidence of ferocity, and the appearance
of the greatest risk to the performer. In
order to bring this about, it is not uncom—
'mon to use harmless and docile creatures
for the purpose of safety, but to prod them
into excitement and behavior that will make
them look vicious to the public.”

When the trickery and cruelty preceding.
and sometimes attending, the so—called
“trained animal” performance, as in this
case, become known to the public, then does
the popularity of such shows appreciably
wane.

A royal antelope, also called the dik-dik,
is the smallest ruminant known. It is a
native of West Africa, and is only twelve
inches high.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1936

The Hardy Musk Ox

ARTHUR EHRSAM

HE musk ox is a unique animal. Few

II people know of its existence, probably

because of the isolated regions of its

habitat and because little has been written
about it.

If you look at the map you will see that

pasturage becomes exhausted.

Its great covering of long hair and its
formidable horns give it a more imposing
appearance than its actual size warrants,
but it is quite agile and capable of defend-
ing itself against wolves. When alarmed, a

 

MUSK OXEN ON CAPE SPARBO, DEVON ISLAND, CANADA

Canada is divided into two sections, lower

and upper. The lower section is the more
progressive and more populated.

Upper Canada is divided into three dis-
tricts: Yukon, Franklin. and Keewatin. To-
gether they are known as the Northwest
Territories. They have a pOpulation of
3,500 inhabitants, three—fourths of whom
are Eskimos and Indians. The habitat of
the musk ox is in Keewatin district, between
the Seal and Churchill rivers. It is barren
rocky country of innumerable rivers, lakes
and swamps.

The musk ox belongs to the family “Bovi—
dae” (cattlebeasts). Eskimos call it Oom~
ingmak. The musk ox is nearer to the
American buffalo in anatomy than to any
other extant animal. It may be described
as a form of buffalo specialized for life on
the Polar barrens.

In size, the musk 0X is smaller than the
domestic cow and larger than a sheep. It
has a deep—brown coat of dense wool, the
whole being overlaid by long coarse hair.
It has horns unlike those of any other ani—
mal in America. They suggest the “S” bent
weapons of the American buffalo. Its tail
is usually specialized as a fly—flapper, being
only about a foot long.

The musk OX has an intense musky person-
ality which is utilized as a protection
against mosquitoes which are a great abom-
ination in that land of numerous swamps.

The musk ox is one of the hardiest ani-
mals known, being able to thrive on the

dwarf willows, saxifrages and grasses that

flourish in favored localities in these re-
gions.
them during the winter.

It paws away the snow to get at
Unlike the barren-
ground caribou, it does not migrate, other
than retreating to sheltered regions during
extremely cold weather, but prefers to re-
main in the same locality, grazing quietly
like domestic cattle, and moving only as its

herd forms itself into a square, the males
facing the enemy and fighting savagely
with their effective horns. This trait,
however, makes them an easy prey to hunt-
kers.

It is claimed that the musk ox can be
domesticated readily. Since its natural hab-
itat is in the North, its preservation there
would constitute an asset which might be
utilized in cases of emergency or to such
extent as the surplus warranted, and in
areas which could be put to no other eco-
nomic uses.

As a preliminary step in the conservation
of this valuable animal the Canadian gov—
ernment has prohibited killing the musk ox
or trading in its hide. These restrictions
apply to whites and natives alike and are
rigidly enforced by the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police.

 

l HE Jack London Club, named for

the late author, who first sug-
gested a way by which much cruelty
to animals can. be prevented, is com-
posed of members who pay no dues
but simply pledge themselves to leave
a theater or any place Where trained
animals are compelled to perform un-
natural acts. All one has to do to
belong to this club is to agree to this.
It is hoped all members before pur-
chasing tickets at any theater or place
of amusement where performing ani-
mals are ever exhibited, will ask if
any such features are on the program,
refusing to purchase tickets if the
answer is in the affirmative. When
leaving any place because of any ani-
mal performance, always let the man—
agement know why you are leaving or
going out during that part of the per-
formance, or write a letter to the man-
agement after returning to your
home. Send your name for enrolment
to Our Dumb Animals.

______..___._'. #

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




——..sv_—v-—_r-——-w—_ . . .. .__

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

«exam: @ F

“a «em—:-

1
l
l
l
‘l
l
i
l
.
l
l
I
l l l
l
l
l
l ‘l
‘.‘
, ,
i
l‘ l
l
, , l
l
l
y l
, l
1' w
, .
y:
y ‘ .
\
I
l
i
u
i
l l i
l.
l I
H ‘
r.
, l
I
.1. n 1
h
l, ‘ 1
l. l l
, x
l ‘ ‘
’ ‘i
l f l
I' 1 ‘2‘
i
l l
. ‘ W
l
\

 

 

 

 

 

Page I 24

AN ARMFUL OF HAPPINESS

 

“He Knows Where He’s
Welcome”

LOWELL FORD

T was my privilege to spend a summer

on the shores of the Ponderay river in
northern Idaho. Here there is a privately
owned farm that is devoted to the protection
of the wild animals of that vicinity that
are fast becoming extinct. An old farmer
and his wife have kept this section of the
country free from hunters and woodsmen
for many years. The cattle from their
small dairy roam about the meadows and
towering trees of the virgin forest at liber-
ty and unmolested. Intermingled with the
domestic cattle are the wild animals. Deer
and cows graze on the same meadow.

Among the deer, especially, there are cer—
tain ones that have become special friends
of the old couple who have so faithfully
guarded the refuge. During the long twi-
light of the summer evenings the farmer
and his wife sit on the porch of their house
that faces the meadow and watch the deer
as they venture near the house.

“Joe” was a peculiar sort of buck. He
was unusually friendly and would come
right up to the old people and start a con-
versation. Strange though it seems, Joe
liked to have his nine—pointed horns rubbed.
If the farmer would not rub his horns vol—
untarily, Joe would rub his horns on the
farmer. Together they would nod and mut—
ter to each other’s satisfaction.

When asked why this particular deer took
such a liking to him, the old farmer replied,
“That there deer don’t come down here to
be fed sugar or nothing the like. He just
knows where he’s welcome.”

This close friendship grew around an ex-
perience that the old farmer gladly relates
to anyone who is willing to listen. I was
eager to hear.

“Well, you know me and ma has kept

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

kinda close watch of these here parts to
keep out fellas that don’t know no more’n
to shoot a deer,” he began, as he bent down
one of Joe’s ears and let it fly back into
place.

“Yes, sir, neigh onto seven years ago
one of them city fellas came up the river a
huntin’ for deer. He must a spent most
half a day down there just below them falls
a shootin’ before I stopped him,” he said,
pointing in the direction of the falls that
could plainly be heard in the distance.

Becoming quite indignant, the old man
came over closer to me and continued his
story, making sure that I understood every
point. “He hit Joe right in the front leg.
And the first thing I knowed, Joe came a
hobblin’ up to the barn. Right then and
there I went to f‘ixin’ him up.”

“No, father,” said his faithful wife, “don’t
you remember you went to hunt for the bad
man that shot our Joe.”

“So I did, and I’d a shot him, too, only
ma wouldn’t let me take a gun,” confessed
the old man. “Then it was after I got back
from the falls that I took to fixin’ Joe up.
I, I, I bandaged his leg right up.”

“Father always gets kinda fussed 1110'

when he thinks about Joe gettin’ shot,” in-
terrupted the old lady, after a patient wait.

Knowing that his wife was not going to
be completely ignored from the honor of
caring for Joe, the farmer hesitated,
“That’s right, ma had some warm water
and cloth and ointment ready when I got
back, and she helped a little bit to fix a
board on Joe’s leg so’s the broken place
would get well.”

Not able to wait for her husband to finish
the story, the old lady added, “Joe just
lived here all summer and got along fine.”

“Yes, Joe learned to like me and ma,”
said the old farmer as he seemed to be rem—
iniscing, “He knows where he’s welcome.”

Watching Nature
EUNICE WINGATE QUIMBY

HEN you are tired of what you are

doing this summer, try this. Watch

something that is alive, either crawling or

flying, and find out what it knows and how
it feels.

A wasp gets into the house by mistake,
ﬁnds a window, and does not understand
why he can not ﬁnd an opening through to
outdoors. He walks to the top and drops
back over and oVer again, sometimes fall-
ing with a buzz, as if impatient and almost
discouraged. But again he climbs, an ex-
ample of patience. It is worth the risk of
a sting to fold him up hastily in a dust-
cloth, throw cloth and all outdoors, and
smile to think how glad and free he will
ﬂy away.

One day as I was sitting on a long gran-
ite curbing around a cemetery lot I saw a
caterpillar on it. As he was crawling away
from me instead of toward me, I simply
watched him. He didn’t seem satisﬁed with
his sidewalk, and now and then would
swing the forepart of his body off over the
edge to ﬁnd something different.

Soon a ﬂy alighte-d on his back. It
seemed like one of those black ones that
stick so tightly to a horse. The caterpillar
was much disturbed; he tried to wrinkle

Aug. 1936

him off or run away, but the ﬂy clung.
Then the caterpillar turned on him, and
there was a silent rough-an‘d—tumble ﬁght
till the agitate-d ball rolled off the curbing.
In an instant the ﬂy disappeared and the
caterpillar was traveling contentedly over
grass and sticks. That’s the way with us
sometimes. Something happens that we
don’t like, but afterwards things are better
than they would have been without it.

One morning a gray squirrel scalloped
along the sidewalk with part of a loaf of
rye bread as baggage. He scampered to a
tree and began to get it up into safety.
About three times he stopped and steadied
it with a fore paw, turned around head
downwards to get his teeth in deeper, and
then climbed a few inches higher, till he
ﬁn’ally reached a limb where he could
nibble without fear.

Sitting once beside a country road, I
looked to see what there was alive around
me. A shining black bug was walking
around and I coaxed him up on a piece of
paper. This strange new place was not
so satisfactory as the old. He walked
around on? it from edge to edge and from
side to side to ﬁnd a place to step off onto
the ground, but it was too high up. Just as
I was on the point of setting the paper
down where he could step off home again,
he ﬂew right up into the air, quite inde-
pendently.

Have you been to the beach and watched
the sandpipers scurrying along the sand to
pick up what the waves leave? They ven—
ture as near as they dare without getting
tripped by the waves. Once I saw a one-
legged one. He hopped very well, but for
long stretches he took to his wings.

There is fun in getting acquainted with
the animal life around us, tiny and larger.

When humane teachings are properly im-
parted to young people, the response is not
simply kindness to animals and birds, it is
far wider in scope, it leads to the develop-
ment of Character, Good Citizenship, Peace
ARTHUR MIDDLETON

and Progress.

 

“PEGGY”
Owned by Frank P. Church, Natick, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148

“After reviewing the entire situation
with Mr. Obringer, I desire to reiterate. h1s
assurances to you that the acts complained
of will never be committed eithter by this

an or any of its agen s or emu
plgges.yAlso, may I advise you that I have
personally and severely cr1tlclzed all .per—
sons involved in- the unfortunate Incident
which occurred and that the particular
scene which resulted in the necess1ty of the
above referred to conference will not be
used by us in connection with the photoplay
when it is finally released for public show-
n .
1 Z(‘3):Likewise, may I assure you that in the
event of any efforts on the part of your
Society to legislate with respect to the sub—
ject matter of your recent complaint I shall
be only too happy to do whatever I person—
ally can do to assist and co—operate With you
in such undertaking.” . .
One can but hope that out of the pubhc1ty

given this sad story of the coining of ani- -

mal suffering into financial profit the fu-

ture of other animals used in the moving»

picture films will be a happier one. . .

The American Humane Assoc1ation 1s
planning, we understand, some form of
agreement with the moving picture industry
whereby it is hoped the cruel treatment of
animals may have no. place in the making

of future films.

Moose Hunting in the Days
of Thoreau

HIS hunting of the moose merely for the

satisfaction of killing him, not even for
the sake of his hide,——without making any
extraordinary exertion or running any risk
yourself, is too much like going out by
night to some wood-side pasture and shoot—
ing your neighbor’s horses, writes Henry D.
Thoreau in “The Maine Woods.” These are
God’s own horses, poor, timid creatures,
that will run fast enough as soon as they
smell you, though they are nine feet high.
Joe told us of some hunters who a year or
two before had shot down several oxen by
night, somewhere in the Maine woods, mis—
taking them for moose. And so might any
of the hunters; and what is the difference
in the sport, but the name? In the former
case, having killed one of God’s and your
own oxen, you strip off its hide,—because
that is the” common trophy, and, moreover,
you have heard that it may be sold for
moccasins,——'cut a steak from its haunches,
and leave the huge carcass to smell to heav-
en for you. It is no better, at least, than
to assist at a slaughter—house.

This afternoon’s experience suggested to
me how base or coarse are the motives
which commonly carry men into the wilder—
ness. The explorers and lumberers gener-
ally are all hirelings, paid so much a day
for their labor, and as such they have no
more love for wild nature than wood—saw-
yers have for forests. Other white men
and Indians who come here are for the
most part hunters, whose object is to slay
as many moose and other wild animals as
possible. But, pray, could not one spend some
weeks or years in the solitude of this vast
wilderness with other employments than
these—employments perfectly sweet and
innocent and ennobling? For one that comes

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1936

 

RECENTLY LEGISLATED FROM NEW JERSEY AND PENNSYLVANIA,
THE “ROADSIDE ZOO,” WITH ITS CRUEL CONFINEMENT, PERSISTS
IN MASSACHUSETTS DESPITE REPEATED EFFORTS BY THE
S. P. C. A. TO PREVENT IT

 

with a pencil to sketch or sing, a thousand
come with an axe or rifle. I already,
and for weeks afterward, felt my nature
the coarser for this part of my woodland
experience, and was reminded that our life
should be lived as tenderly and daintily as
one would pluck a flower.

Why Charlie Quit

OR twelve years a man in California

had been a trapper. Now he is through
and has pulled up his trap lines to prove it,
says Nature Magazine. The following story
tells why he decided to quit: '

Charlie was making his rounds and as he
approached a coyote trap he heard moans.
Creeping through the brush he discovered
a cinnamon bear cub, its forefoot fast in
the trap. The mother bear was nursing
the youngster and another cub was looking
on much puzzled. Charlie’s first impulse
was to free the cub, but a mad mother bear
promised'to be too much for one trapper
with a‘ipistol. Besides, he wanted to free
the cub, not injure the family. The only
way he could see was to put the cub out of
its misery, so he went for his rifle and fi—
nally did what he felt was best. Rearing on
her heels at the sound of the shot, the moth—
er bear, growling in anger, circled about
trying to find the attacker. Charlie crawled
away and took to his heels.

“I’m through with traps,” he declared.
“The mother’s moans when I shot the cub
were too human. I’m done, boys; that made
me sick.”

In making your will , please remember the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Fall

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Fall is a gay time,
Frost is in the air;
(Frightened wild creatures
Are hunted everywhere.)

Fall is a bright time,
Leaves are yellow, red;
(Hidden in the hills
A wounded deer bled.)

Fall is a good time

To wear a warm wrap;
(A little red fox

Died in 'a trap.)

 

 

JACK LONDON SAID:

“Let all humans inform themselves
of the inevitable and eternal cruelty
by the means of which only can ani-
mals be compelled to perform before
revenue-paying audiences. Show the
management that such turns are un—
popular, and in a day, in an instant,
the management will cease catering
such turns to its audiences.”

Do you know that since 1918, when
the Jack London Club was started by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 674,851
persons in this country have joined
as a protest against this form of
cruelty? Send your name and ad-
dress today for full information to
The Jack London Club, 180 Long-
wood Ave.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 172

The Turtle Dove

BENNETT B. SMITH

HE turtle dove is known

in every state of the
Union. It is one of the ﬁrst
to arrive in the spring and
winters from central United
States to Panama. It re—
sembles the passenger pig—
eon and is often mistaken
for this bird which is now
extinct. ‘

It is called mourning dove
because of its plaintive call,
but it needs no sympathy.
It mourns because it is
happy. When properly mat-
ed, there is no happier bird.
Its call is well known. It
may also be identified by
the sharp whistle of its
wings when flying.

The bird has always been
associated with peace and
used as a symbol in religion.
A legend says that a dove

THE MOURNING DOVE—BIRD OF PEACE

 

 

hovered about the cross upon which Christ
was crucified, crying out the sadness of its
heart. And when Noah’s ark landed after
the great ﬂood, the dove was the ﬁrst to
be sent out to see if the waters had re—
ceded. In legend and in story it has held
a place.

Too little concerning the value of this
bird has been known. A study the past
few years has given it a place as one of
the most valuable to the farmer. Nearly
100 per cent of the food of the bird was
found to be vegetable and nearly all of
this was seeds of noxious weeds. No fruit
was eaten, and but little grain which was,
perhaps, waste left in the ﬁelds. It also
eats grasshoppers and other insects.

The nest of the dove is a loosely con—
nected mass of sticks, a little grass, and
perhaps some strings. No effort is made
for artistry or style. It is remarkable
that the eggs do not fall through or out
of the nest. Usually there are two white
ones laid which require two weeks for
hatching. The young are hairy, homely,
helpless things. At feeding time the
mother eats the food which is then carried
to_ the young, and the partly digested mass
mixed with ﬂuid from the mother is pump-
ed from her crop into the mouth of the
young bird. This is known as pigeon milk.

Caging Wild Birds

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HOUGHTLESS persons often suggest
. that it is not cruel to keep wild birds
in cages, provided they are given plenty of
food and water and sufﬁcient space to
spread their wings.

The recent passage of a bill affording
protection to the wild birds of the British
Isles, brought out many statements that
ﬂatly contradict such a suggestion. These
statements are based upon long years of
experience and research.

For example, Professor J. B. Gatenby, of
Trinity College, Dublin, declared: “I can—
not believe that the small amou'nt of pleas-

ure given to some people by possessing
caged wild birds, in any measure atones for
the cruelty to which the birds are exposed.”

Professor J. Stanley Gardiner, of. Cam-
bridge, stated: “I feel there are great
cruelties involved in the catching and cag-
ing of British wild birds.”

Speaking in support of’ the same bill,
Professor L. A. Harvey of the University
College, Exeter, said: “The distress inﬂicted
in the caging of most birds, although it
must vary greatly among different species
of birds, is certain to be very great.”

These are random selections from the
many arguments that were advanced in
support of the bill’s passage. It might be
added that there are enough logical reasons
to further substantiate these opinions.

In the ﬁrst place, the life of a bird de—
pends upon the almost constant use of its
wings. To deprive it of this natural activity
and freedom of motion is certain to torture
the creature.

A caged bird is denied any response to
that great migratory urge that animates
most birds at certain seasons of the year.
Can any clear thinking person assert with
any degree of ﬁnality that a bird of the
wild does not suffer when captivity stifles
this natural impulse?

A caged bird is denied the variety of
food that is wisely provided by nature. A
caged bird is exiled from all association
with its feathered comrades, and the fulfill—
ment of all its hereditary impulses of mat-
ing, nest—making and caring for its young.

Deprived of its natural reactions to these
instincts, can it be honestly said that a
caged bird is not a victim of thoughtless
cruelty upon the part of those unreasoning
persons who thus conﬁne it within the nar-
row limits of a cage? The impulses and
instincts of nature have been inbred in wild
birds through countless centuries of evolu-
tion and time. Not even a lifetime of cap—
tivity will lessen the intensity of their
appeal!

Humane Sunday, April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937.

Nov. 1936

How the Great Guest Came

Before the Cathedral in grandeur rose;
At Ingelburg where the Danube goes;
Before its forest of silver spires

Went airily up to the clouds and fires;
Before the oak had ready a beam,

While yet the arch was stone and dream——
There where the altar was later laid,
Conrad the cobbler plied his trade.

Doubled all day on his busy bench,
Hard at his cobbling for master and hench,
He pounded away at a brisk rat-tat,
Shearing and shaping with pull and pat,
Hide well hammered and pegs sent home,
Till the shoe was fit for the Prince of Rome.
And he sang as the threads went to and fro;
“Whether ’tis hidden or whether it show,
Let the work be sound, for the Lord will
know.”

Tall was the cobbler, and gray and thin,

And a full moon shone where the hair had
been.

His eyes peered out, intent and afar,

As looking beyond the things that are.

He walked as one who is done with fear,

Knowing at last that God is near.

Only the half of him cobbled the shoes:

The rest was away for the heavenly news.

Indeed, so thin was the mystic screen

That parted the Unseen from the Seen,

You could not tell, from the cobbler’s theme

If his dream were truth or his truth were
dream.

It happened one day at the year’s white end,

Two neighbors called on their old-time
friend;

And they found the shop, so meagre and
mean,

Made gay with a hundred boughs of green.

Conrad was stitching with face ashine,

But suddenly stopped as he twitched a
twine:

“Old friends, good news! At dawn today,

As the cocks were scaring the night away,

The Lord appeared in a dream to me,

And said, ‘I am coming your Guest to be.”

So I’ve been busy with feet astir,

Strewing the floor with branches of fir.

The wall is washed and the shelf is shined,

And over the rafter the holly twined.

He comes today, and the table is spread

With milk and honey and wheaten bread.”

His friends went home; and his face grew
still

As he watched for the shadow across the
sill.

He lived all the moments o’er and o’er,

When the Lord should enter the lowly door--

The knock, the call, the latch pulled up,

The lighted face, the offered cup.

We would wash the feet where the spikes
had been;

He would kiss the hands where the nails
went in;

And then at the last would sit with Him

And break the bread as the day grew dim.

While the cobbler mused, there passed his
pane

A beggar drenched by the driving rain.

He called him in from the stony street

And gave him shoes for his bruised feet.

The beggar went and there came a crane,

Her face with wrinkles of sorrow sown.

 

 

 




 

.Ian.1936

 

Copyright, 1935, by Universal Newsreel

HAILE SELASSIE, KING OF KINGS, EMPEROR OF ETHIOPIA,
AND HIS DOG, THE ROYAL PET

Winter sunset

BEVERLEY GITHENS

I heard the wind blow through the pines
I saw their branches bend and sway,

1 saw the sun sink low, and paint
The" snowy slope in colors gay.

’

Beneath a pine a rabbit paused,

His head thrown back, his glance alert.
.My gun beside me was forgot;

That helpless life I could not hurt.

A bird flew low, a streak of black
In bold relief against the white;

The day was fading fast, the world
Was resting in the arms of night.

Gone was my passion for the chase.
I bowed before the age—old law,
“‘Live, and let live.” In this calm place,
Amid the pines, I knelt in awe.

Camels’ Feet

Camels are being used by the Ethiopian
army in Africa for transportation of sup-
plies, according to the Boston Globe. The
camel is especially adapted for desert travel.
Its feet consist of two elongated toes, each
tipped with a small, nail-like hoof. The
weight of the animal does not rest upon
the hooves, but upon an elastic pad under
the toes.

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day and Be Kind to Animals week this
year. The dates selected are: Humane Sun-
day, April 19; Be Kind to Animals Week,
April 20-25, 1936. Friday, April 17, will
be observed as Humane Day in Schools in
Boston because of the school vacation the
following week.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

Hm5

 

Internatlonal News Photo

EMPEROR HIROHITO OF JAPAN AND HIS
FAVORITE SADDLE HORSE, “SHIRAYUKI”

Robert Burns—Champion of Animals

ARTHUR

T is not surprising that Robert Burns

attained universal and immortal fame

through his poetry. He was so intense—
ly human, so kind and tender to the weak
and oppressed, and so ready to champion
the cause of dumb creation when wronged
by man. Some of his finest poems were
inspired by his love for animals, and possi—
bly no other poet has entered so deeply in-
to their feelings, and expressed so tender-
ly and beautifully, the love which exists
between man and the lower creation. The
sight of cruelty to dumb animals filled his
soul with righteous indignation, and some
of his animal poems, written when his
heart was hot with wrath, must have filled
many a guilty reader with feelings of
shame and remorse.

Burns had a favorite dog called “Luath”
which was his boon companion. It was
killed by the wanton cruelty of some per—
son. He said he would like to confer im-
mortality on his old friend, and in an in-
spired moment he wrote one of his greatest
poems, “The Twa Dogs.” The other dog,
“Caesar,” was merely the creature of the
poet’s imagination: created for the purpose
of holding a chat with his favorite dog.
Between “The Twa Dogs” “there began a
lang digression, about the lords o’ the
creation.” They discuss the advantages
and disadvantages of wealth and poverty,
and Caesar, the laird’s dog, arrives at the
conclusion that invariably the poor cottager
is a nobler and more contented person than
the class to whom he belongs. After a long
conversation, so full of homely truth and
Wisdom, they find the day is drawing to a
close and thinking it is time to get away
home,

HEDLEY

“Up they gat, an’ shook their lugs

Rejoic’d they were na men but dogs:

An’ each took aff his several way

Resolved to meet some ither day.”

On one occasion, when sowing some grass
seeds in the early morning, Burns heard a
shot fired on a neighboring plantation, and
presently a poor little wounded hare ran
past him, sorely crippled. In writing to
his friend, Alex Cunningham, of this inci-
dent, he said, “You may guess my indigna-
tion at the inhuman fellow who could shoot
a hare at this season when all have young
ones. Indeed there is something in this
business of destroying, for our sport, in—
dividuals in the animal creation that do not
injure us materially, which I could never
reconcile to my ideas of virtue.” While
his soul was yet fired with wrath he wrote
a very human poem, “The Wounded Hare.”

Inhuman man! curse on thy barb’rous art
And blasted be thy murder-aiming eye:
May never pity soothe thee with a sigh

And never pleasure glad thy cruel heart.”

In tender and beautiful language he pic-
tures the poor mangled creature seeking a
dying bed among the sheltering rushes; or
maybe, she has managed to reach her home
and offspring before expiring.

“Perhaps a mother’s anguish adds its woe

The playful pair crowd fondly by thy side

Ah! helpless nurslings who can now pro-
vide

That life a mother only can bestow.

0ft as by winding Nith, I musing wait

The sober eve, or hail the cheerful dawn

I’ll miss thee sporting o’er the dewy lawn

And curse the ruffian’s arm and mourn thy
hapless fate.”

 




 

Aug. 1936

Locating Lost Dogs
HUGH KING HARRIS

HAT tragedy is embodied in these

two words—DOG LOST! Someone
frantic over the loss of a true friend—a
child robbed of its playmate. A home with-
out the well-known companion. Worry and
wonder, almost as deep as is the human
tragedy,—it may be that the animal, so
long accustomed to care and love, is run-
ning about maimed by a car, hungry, be-
wildered. Perhaps picked up by some one,
to be abused. Such tragedy may often be
eliminated by simple common-sense meas-
ures. It seems strange that when one so
loves a dog, so valuable and well cared for,
—that an identification tag is not securely
attached to the collar, or harness. Certain-
ly an insignificant cost, and little trouble.

In shelters and pounds in cities of not
over 200,000 population the annual pick—up
of “strays” often totals 3,000 to 4,000; and
in larger cities the number is much greater
—-lost dogs which might be speedily re-
turned to worried owners, were there an
identification tag.

Let me urge identiﬁcation tags and have
them on the dog every time the animal goes
out-of-doors. If your dog is lost, with no
tag, then call the shelter, or pound at once,
giving a description of your pet. Use the
lost and found classiﬁed columns of the
newspapers. Check up on all of the found
dog ads. If your dog has been lost several
days, go back over the newspapers for the
full period of time. But when these ﬁrst
aids have been utilized there are other
deﬁnite ways to go about locating the wan-
derer. In our neighborhoods are the mail
men, newspaper boys, and the bakery and
laundry route men; these are familiar with
dogs in the homes where they call. They
cover wide territory and may have seen
your dog. Get in touch with these men and
boys. Then go to the schools in the neigh-
borhood—if you want eager, intelligent co-
operation from the boys and girls.

I recall having a ﬁne Scotty persist in
remaining upon my porch one stormy after-
noon. There was no tag, and no report had
gone into the shelter of such a loss. I
drove with the dog to the near—by school at
dismissal time.

“Do any of you happen to know where
this dog lives?”

Scarcely had I passed the question, than
my car was surrounded by an excited ring
of boys and girls. Several wanted to take
the Scotty home as a pet for themselves. A
few ventured a guess as to its owner; then
a lanky boy of some fourteen years, pushed
through the bunch and declared it must be
“Widow Haven’s dog—I don’t think she
lets it out much.”

He was glad to get in and direct me to
the widow’s home. As we parked at the
curb there was no doubt about Scotty’s
knowing where he was, ten long blocks from
Where he had taken to my porch.

And there was the collie found by my
wife in the south end of town. From the
tag we learned that dog was owned by a
man in Toledo, Ohio, a distance of 178 miles.
The owner was glad to pay for having the
dog shipped back. It had left the car on

0 UR D UMB ANIMALS

a trip to northern Michigan, and had it not
been for the tag that collie would never
have been returned to its master. To avoid
the “lost dog” worry and tragedy, be sure
an identiﬁcation tag protects your dog.

The Dog in Fact and Fable

DAVID LEE WHARTON

S FAR back as the dim trails of time
lead, we ﬁnd the indelible footprints of
the dog.

In the Book of Job, said to be the oldest
writing extant, the dog, already domesti-
cated, is mentioned more than once as the
trusted guardian of the ﬂocks. Exodus II,
17, tells us that when the children of Israel
departed from Egypt with their families,
cattle and other possessions, amid all the
commotion—and what a commotion it must
have been—not a dog lifted his tongue
against them.”

Every nation has its treasure house of
dog lore, legends, proverbs and fables.

The brightest star in the skies is Sirius,
the dog star, so named for it’s faithful—
ness, and absolute dependability. The old-
est known monument on earth is the “dog’s
monument” built to honor the memory of a
dog who after striving vainly to prevent his
shepherd friends from eating poisoned por—
ridge gulped it down himself, dying imme-
diately.

One of the famous dogs of mythology is
“Cerberus,” the triple-headed dog of Pluto,
who stands guard at the gate of the infernal
regions. Then there is the dog of Ulysses
who died of joy upon the return of his
master after a prolonged absence. Also the
fabled dog who stood guard over the seven
sleepers, and through all the years never
moved, ate, nor slept.

Among Indians the Pottawatomies believe
that in the moon is an old woman weaving
a basket, and that the earth will be de-
stroyed when the basket is ﬁnished; but a
great dog ruins her work at intervals.

The Aztecs sacriﬁced a red dog to carry

Page 125

the soul of the king across a deep stream
and announce his arrival. The Iroquois kill
a white dog in January as a scapegoat. It
is then burned and the ashes sprinkled at
every door.

Spartan Ephebi offered a young hound
to the war god before going forth to battle.

A dog of Parian marble was placed on
the tomb of Diogenes, and in the splendid
sepulchers of ancient monarchs, amid treas—
ures of fabulous value there is sure to be
the image of a dog, a statue, or likeness
carved on the wall, and so on down through
the ages.

Even in this age of materialism gone
mad, every daily paper carries one or more
items concerning dogs—some act of incredi—
ble heroism or devotion. Who is not famil-
iar with the story of “Greyfriar’s Bobby?”
and the pioneer’s dog whose master, cross-
ing the continent with a covered wagon
caravan died on the way and was buried on
the “lone prairie” far from any human habi-
tation. The faithful dog refused to leave
unguarded the grave of his friend and re-
mained with it, facing certain death from
starvation and thirst. What were his
thoughts as he watched the caravan fading
into the distance? Whatever they were,
the dog remained steadfast and died upon
the lonely grave.

Never until the leaves of the Judgment
book unfold will the nobility, self—sacrifice,
and loyalty of the dog be fully known.

“Dogs show as mortals seldom do, a high
ideal of being true.”

Anyone who is kind to animals is pretty
sure to be good also to helpless children,
women and old people; in other words, he
is pretty sure to be chivalrous—like the
knights of old.

SIR ROBERT BADEN—POWELL

Wild animals never kill for sport. Man
is the only one to whom torture and death
of his fellow creatures is amusing in it—
self.

J. A. FROUDE

 

SAMOYEDE PUPPIES — “THEODORA,” “SUZANNE,” “BEAUTIE
QUEEN,” AND “MITZIE MITE”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1936
“Come Unto Me”

BUENA SOWELL

You introduce your gracious song,
0, dainty wood thrush, on the tree,
I-Vith flute-like notes which seem to say
In liquid strains, “Come unto Me.”

Once in the days of long ago

“Come unto Me,” the Master said;
I wonder if your forebears heard

In near—by treetops overhead.

The Elephant Switchman

L. E. EUBANKS

In India there is a very large lumber
company that has diminutive locomotives
to pull trains of logs along its narrow-gauge
railway to its mills. The logs are brought
in from three different directions and the
three lines converge into the main line. At
the point of convergence there is a switch
directing the wheels of the train on to the
main line. An elephant is employed at this
switch as the switchman.

His work is so reliable that he requires
no direction from man. Each of the differ-
ent lines converging into the main line is
designated by a disc of a different color
from the others, but of the same size. One
is white, one is black, and one is red. The
switch has three positions, and these posi-
tions are designated by discs of correspond—
ing colors.

When the elephant sees the locomotive
coming down the main line, he throws the
switch to correspond with the disc on the
engine and the train travels over the track
intended for it. According to eye—witnesses,
the elephant is so delighted when the train
passes him that he (often throws up his
trunk and makes a tremendous noise as if
for sheer joy of accomplishment.

It is not too soon to begin plans for
Humane Sunday, April 11, and Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937.

 

VESPER SPARROW AT‘NEST FEEDING HER YOUNG

0

it

UR DUMB. ANIMALS

Page 149

The Useful Vesper Sparrow

ALVIN M. PETERSON
Photograph by the Author

favorites among birds—birds that

have endeared themselves to them in
various ways: by their songs, unobtru—
sive ways, charming dress, confiding char—
acter and neighborly habits. One of my
favorites is the vesper sparrow. I prize
this bird because it is a sweet singer, is
always much in evidence but never bold,
noisy or troublesome, is very useful and
has always been a near neighbor of ours.

Early in April, upon first going outside
in the morning, I hear a lovely bird song
coming from across the fields. The song
consists of runs and trills interspersed
with “chees” and whistled notes. The first
notes are louder and uttered more slowly
than the latter ones. I at once recognize
this as being the song of the vesper spar—
row, a song hard to describe but of such a
nature that it at once enables you to iden-
tify its author correctly, provided you have
previously heard it and have it well in
mind.

Usually I at once take a walk in the
direction from which the notes seem to
come, and, as a rule, have little trouble
discovering the songster. Were I to point
it out to you, you would at once tell me
it is a sparrow of some kind, for it is
dressed in a typical sparrow’s suit of gray
and brown. As likely as not, I find it
perched on a post, the top of a tall weed,
or one of the lower branches of a tree. I
watch it and take notice that it raises its
head as it sings its inspiring song. The
mandibles move rapidly and the throat
pulsates as the notes-are uttered. The song
over, the bird lowers its head, looks about,
preens its feathers, and then sings again.

But aside from its song, how do I know
the bird is a vesper sparrow? In the first
place I notice that its throat, breast and

MOST bird students, I suspect, have

$0

sides are streaked. Secondly, by looking at
it closely with a field glass, I see that its
shoulders are reddish, which has given it
the name bay-winged bunting. More impor-
tant, I find that it has white outer tail
feathers—the field-mark of identification.
There is but one other sparrow that has
that white along the sides of the tail—the
lark sparrow—with which it may be con-
fused. However, the lark sparrow has sev-
eral white—tipped tail feathers just inside
the outer ones. Its tail, when spread, as
it frequently is when the bird is alarmed,
courting or flying, looks like a tiny fan
with a pretty white border. The lark spar-
row also has a brown crown, brown patch-
es over the ears, a spot in the center of
the breast, and dark lines through the eyes
and along the lower edges of the cheeks.

While a singing vesper sparrow is often
to be found on the top of a post or tall
weed, this bird is a typical ground bird.
It lives largely upon weed seeds and in-
sects it secures from the ground; it loves
to take dust baths in roads, gardens and
fields; and it always nests on. the ground.
Take a walk through a field or treeless
pasture, or drive along a dusty country
road, where vesper sparrows are numer-
ous, and the birds will dart from the
ground, flit from weed to weed, or post to
post, ahead of you, showing their white
outer tail feathers during each brief stage
of their forward progress.

The vesper sparrow nests on the ground
in fields, meadows and open pastures. The
nests. usually are built in tufts of weeds
and grass, piles of leaves and litter and
so on. Many nests also are built in hills
of corn, beans, potatoes and other plants.

The incubating or brooding mother re-
mains in her nest until you are right be-
side it, then flushes, spreads. her tail,
drags her wings andgutters sharp notes of
alarm. Off she goes, trying her best to
make you think she has been injured and
doing all she can to attract your attention
and keep you from finding the cradle.

The nests are made of grasses neatly
coiled about slight depressions in the
ground. They are lined with fine grass
and hair. The eggs are pinkish white but
thickly spotted with brown. Many vesper
sparrows’ nests are destroyed by live stock
and farm machinery; others are looted by
animals of many kinds. Cowbirds also im—
pose upon these pretty and useful song—
sters very frequently.

Have you heard the vesper sparrow’s
evensong? Although this bird sings freely
throughout the day, it also sings long‘and
sweetly late in the day. Indeed, it often
sings sweetly after eight o’clock at night
in June, when most other birds are silent.
If you have not heard this song, listen for
it. It may be soft and low, because it
comes from across the fields; and it has
a drowsy, peaceful quality. It is, in fact,
a sweet pastoral hymn. Is it any wonder,
then, that this charming and useful song—
ster is known far and wide as the vesper
sparrow? '

 

 

 

 

 




73:..mg 4 4% v; mniwdmr 7‘12?“ "‘ :

1r
L,

I1
I

25:;

Via.“ <5". ._ av

-m. _‘. ~ (4;? .__-_-—-w-. . -—

 

 

Page 28

he always seemed superior to them, and I
think the pony felt this very keenly.

Pride seemed to have a great affection
for mother. One day she led him through.
the kitchen gate up to the kitchen door
where we children fed him apples and sugar
but he would accept no such offering from
my brother; he would have none of it, and
would hold his head high in the air until
some one else offered the dainty titbits.
After this, he was almost a daily morning
visitor at our kitchen door and knew all the
arts of untying knots in ropes and opening
gates. Many times he has been known to
u-ntie the halter rope and go to the corn-crib
and eat his breakfast; he never ate more
than was good for him.

A school teacher boarding at our house
wished to ride horseback to her home eight
miles away to spend the week end. She
rode proudly on the back of Old Pride. It
was the first time he had been over this
road, but in the morning when Father went
to the barn to do the chores, there was
Pride in his stall, glancing somewhat sheep-
ishly at Father as he entered.

And, finally, when we were all grown up
children, and he had lost his usefulness
on the farm, except for an occasional gentle
ride by the grandchildren, he roamed at
will over the farm, enjoying his old age; he
still kept the same sleek coat and proud
manner of his youth. One day Father
noticed that he seemed ill and he was put
into the most comfortable stall and tended
with utmost care. Early one morning
Mother heard a familiar sound at the
kitchen door. There stood Pride—his proud
head bent low. She gave him some sugar
and a few gentle pats; he seemed to be say—
ing “Good—bye.” He turned away, opened
the gate and walked toward the orchard.
Shortly after this Mother went to look
for him. She found him—dead, under a
large apple tree in the shade of which he
had so often rested and which he loved.

Birds of Cocos

LESTER BANKS

ITH good reason, Cocos has been

called the most romantic island in
the world, for it is the burial place of count-
less pirates and, it is rumored, of their
treasures as well. Many brave men have
journeyed to this tiny spot of land in the
Pacific Ocean in search of treasure, but if
they have been successful in finding any
they have kept very quiet about it.

The island is famous, not only for its
treasure and its beautiful scenery, but also
for its birds which live there by the thous—
ands. Hardly does a ship drop anchor off—
shore before myriads of boobies—(so-called
because they are very stupid) and noddy
terns invade the vessel. All doors have to
be closed to prevent the feathered trespass-
ers from practically filling the boat.

Literally, the sailors have to fight the
birds as they go about their duties on board
and when a man goes ashore he must cov-
er his face to protect it from the sharp
beaks and the large threshing wings.

The birds nest by the hundreds in low
trees along the shore of Cocos Island and
live principally on fish, catching their prey
as neatly as any Chinese fishing cormorant.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1936

Bats: a Great. Surprise
BEATRICE M. PARKER in “Fergus News-Record”

 

HEN a friend told me that there
W are few creatures that are so in-

teresting and that have been so
little studied as the bat, I made up my
mind that I would conquer my dislike for
this animal and see for myself just how
much interest I could get from studying one
that took up her headquarters in the shed
of my summer home.

I had a great surprise when I watched
this little mother make her toilet. I had
always heard that bats were very unclean
and that they brought all kinds of bugs to
any place they chose as their habitat. But
I found that “Madame Silky,” as I named
her, was very particular about her appear—
ance. It was a comical sight to see her
accomplish her morning bath. First she
washed her face with the back of one wing,
surely a curious wash cloth for a little
lady! Then she licked the wing clean to be
sure that no dirt remained. Her body was
washed by a combination of wing and hind
foot, after which each washing implement
was thoroughly cleansed. Those big ears
came in for considerable attention. A hind
foot for each ear accomplished the purpose,
and after each washing each foot was again
cleansed. Those hind feet certainly got
their share of washing each day.

But what a job she made of washing her
big wings! For a moment or two she wig-
gled this way and that as if to get a more
satisfactory position. Then she seized a
wing edge with her mouth and commenced
to pull it through, bit by bit, as her tongue
worked back and forth like a scrub woman’s
arm. How that wing membrane did stretch,
and I could readily believe that it must have
been made of silk elastic! Upper and
lower sides were treated alike. Would she
ever get it back to normal size and shape
again! But she finally finished her bath,
hung her head downward after a shake of
her body and wing, and settled off to a
good nap. She deserved it!

Madame Silky had won my heart, and
I no longer had to force myself to visit her.
In fact, it became one of the “look-ahead”
enjoyments of the day. I have read that
only swallows and swifts can compare with
the bat in celerity of wing and agility, and
I can easily believe it since becoming well
acquainted with Madame Silky.

As she winged her way through the air
in the duskiness of twilight, she seemed like
some wonderful ace of our aviation corps,

doing flying stunts. This way and that she
flew, making turns in the air that seemed
almost impossible. Her mouth was al-
ways wide open to scoop in the insects she
met. She also has a net that she carries
with her, and thus has a great advantage
over her bird acquaintances. This is the
wing membrane that she stretches between
her hind legs and her tail and is doubled
up as she flies, like an apron. The insects
are caught in this net, and Madame Silky
reaches down and gobbles them up.

I called her Madame Silky because her
fur is as fine and as soft as the best silk.
After we became so well acquainted that
at my call she would come to be fed, taking
insects from my fingers, I occasionally
stroked her back as she voiced that toy-
wheel—barrow-like squeak of contentment.
Perhaps she thought she was purring or
crooning to me, but bats do not have musi-
cal voices, and one can note the difference
only by the quality of the squeak. An en-
emy or a quarreling neighbor causes her to
squeak in a manner that allows no mis-
take as to its intent of warning. That
squeak is very harsh, and one is surprised
to hear such a noise coming from such a
little throat.

But when she brought her family around
for me to see, what a proud little mother
she appeared! Baby bats are born dur-
ing July and are usually twins, although
sometimes there are three babies in a litter.
She cuddles them in her soft wings as they
eat. Her method of taking them for an
airing is to let them cling tightly to her
neck as she flies about in her search for
insects. But when she wishes to go out
alone, she hangs them up, one at a time, on
a convenient twig, and there they stay,
heads down, until she returns to cuddle
them some more.

Yes, in my study of Madame Silky I was
given a great surprise, for I had no idea
that a bat could be so entertaining and in—
teresting.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, Mass.

 




 

Nov. 1936

A bundle of fagots bowed her back,

And she was spent with the wrench and
rack.

He gave her his loaf and steadied her load

As she took her way on the weary road.

Then to his door came a little child,

Lost and afraid in the world so wild,

In the big, dark world. Catching it up,

He gave it the milk in the waiting cup,

And led it home to its mother’s arms,

Out of the reach of the world’s alarms.

The day went down in the crimson west

And with it the hope of the blessed Guest,

And Conrad sighed as the world turned
gray:

“Why is it, Lord, that your feet delay?

Did You forget that this was the day?”

Then soft in the silence a Voice he heard:

“Lift up your heart, for I kept my word.

Three times I came to your friendly door;

Three times my shadow was on your floor.

I was the beggar with bruised feet;

I was the woman you gave to eat;

I was the child on the homeless street!”

EDWIN MARKHAM in- “Shoes of Happiness”

His Better Self

AMELIA WOFFORD

OMETIMES amusing, but always en—

tertaining, is the Samuel Pepys whose
“Diary” made him famous. And an interest-
ing ﬁgure, one distressingly rare in his
time, is the Samuel Pepys who cherished
a sympathetic and tender consideration for
animals.

His household pets, at different times,
were an eagle, a monkey, a cage of canaries,
a cat, “an excellent mastiffe-Towser,” Mrs.
Pepys’ spaniel, a blackbird that could
whistle fragments of songs, and a sparrow
brought up by Mercer, the first of Mrs.
Pepys’ succession of companions, which
“mightily pleased” him by its tameness and
flying about the table at mealtime and peck-
ing and eating of everything “so pleasant-
1y")

“A very rude and nasty pleasure,” he
branded the old English sport of bull-bait—
ing, which had been suppressed by the
Puritans and re-established at the Restor—
ation. He was troubled when a canary he
had had for three or four years died. See-
ing a dog ill-treated “made him mad.” And
he was “mightily” disturbed when, at home,
he bethought himself that he and Mrs.
Pepys had left their “poor little dog which
had followed them out of doors, at the
waterside; and God knows whether he be
not lost, which did not only strike my wife
with a great passion but I must confess
myself also; more than was becoming me,”
says his conﬁdant, his famous, telltale
Diary.

During the great ﬁre in London, in the
fall of 1666, which destroyed 13,000 houses,
St. Paul’s and eighty—three lesser churches,
he had a pitying eye for the “poor pigeons”
which nested in the houses, and which,
“loth” to leave their homes, “hovered about
the windows and balconys till they burned
their wings and fell down.”

A favorite pleasure for Pepys was to
walk in Spring Gardens and other places
where the nightingales and other birds
sang.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Clever Boston Cat

W. L. PARSONS

E discovered “Jack” on a farm in
Maine ten years ago, and brought
him home to Winchester, Massachusetts, in
the auto. He found this method of travel
so much to his liking that he curled up on
my daughter’s tam-o’-shanter on the auto
cushion and went to sleep. The tam—o’-shan-—
ter was placed in his wicker basket in- the
basement where he slept for some weeks,
but one morning we found him asleep near
the radiator in the kitchen—and to our sur-
prise, he was curled up on the tam-o’—shan—
ter. The basement he had found too cool
and so moved to a warmer spot in the kitch—
en, and had brought his tam-o’—shanter with
him.
As he grew larger Jack learned to take
in his teeth the small wool blanket from
his bed and drag it about the house. We

 

PAUSING FOR A POSE

went away for a week-end, leaving Jack’s
feeding in the care of a neighbor. On the
day after our departure, he took his blanket
to the neighbor’s and dropped it on the
front door mat. He had really “moved.”

Jack’s chief sport is to search the neigh—
borhood and bring home all available pieces
of cloth or garments and leave them at our
front door. Recently I found a white stock-
ing at the door. Laughingly, I said to Jack,
“We can’t use one sock. We need a pair.”
That very night he brought home the mate
to it. My wife is kept busy finding out who
owns the property
Jack brings and re-
turning it.

It is a great delight
to Jack to get into my
bedroom at night. He
hops up on the blan-
ket, sets up a vigorous
purring, comes up and
touches my face with
his nose, and then set—
tles down for a sleep.
Of course the bed is
forbidden ground, but
he will never be recon-
ciled to that rule of
t h e household. T h e
trouble he has taken
and the intelligence he
has shown in ﬁnding a

Page 173

way to my room are hardly believable. Jack
has a small door, especially made for him,
which swings both ways and permits him
to enter and leave the basement. It was
easy for him to push open his door. A long
jump took him from the front porch rail-
ing to the porch roof. A perilous journey
along the gutter at the level of the second
story of the house, brought him to the sun-
parlor roof; from there he could jump to
my window sill, and he was. on my bed
agaln.

Then I placed a button on Jack’s door
and another on the door frame, so that when

the buttons were turned in a horizontal posi-'

tion the door could not be moved either
way. He soon discovered that with his
paw he could move the button on the door
to a vertical position and push open his
door. My next move was to make this but—
ton fast, so that the door could not be push-
ed open. But Jack then turned the other
button, pulled the door inward, and was still
able to get out of the basement and come to
my room.

Interested to see how complicated a prob-
lem Jack could solve, I affixed a screen
door hook. For some time he did not ap-
pear in my room, but finally one night
again I was awakened by the familiar
“plump” on my bed and lusty purring. The
next night I concealed myself in the base-
men and watched. Jack first pulled down
the button with his paw to a vertical posi-
tion, passing his paw downward along the
edge of the door several times to make sure
the button was free of the door. Then he
sat down in front of the door. The hook
was too tight for him to lift with one paw,
so he took both paws, and pulled up with
all his might until the hook lifted and the
door was free.

As a final test of Jack’s skill, I placed on.
his door a bolt of the type which unlocks
by lifting a metal projection to a position.
just opposite a slot and moving the bolt
horizontally. At last one night he mastered
the whole combination and appeared again
on» my bed.

My neighbor says, “Put on a Yale lock
and hide the key,” but our household agrees
that Jack has already earned the right to
share my bed.

“Somebody once said that it is better to
keep your mouth shut and be thought a
fool, than to open it and remove all doubt.”

 

MISS MYSTERY

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

PMgeG

Scotland’s immortal bard was fond of
selecting the lower animals as subjects for
his muse. One of his finest poems is that
written “To a Mouse.” This poem seems
to have issued perfect from the mint of the
author’s mind when as a ploughman, he
stopped the ploughshare’s further progress
on observing the tiny creature escape across
the rig. It touches the imagination and
moves us with feelings of tenderness and
pity as we see the little animal robbed of
its home and fearing the hand that has
disturbed its rest.

“Wee, sleekit, cow’rin’, tim’rous beastie,
0, what a panic’s in thy breastie!

Thou need na start awa sae hasty

Wi’ bickering (speedy) brattle (scampered)
I would be laith to rin and chaise thee,

Wi’ murderin’ pattle (hand—stick).”

The poet is full of deep remorse at the
thought that he has destroyed its nest and
compelled it to face the bleak December’s
wind. He reflects on the labor and care ex-
ercised in building the nest.

“That wee bit heap 0’ leaves and stibble

Hast cost thee mony a weary nibble!

Now thou’s ruen’d out for a’ thy trouble

But (without) house or hald

To thole (suffer) the winter’s sleety drib—
ble

An’ craureuch (hoar frost) cauld.”

In the poet’s moral reflections arising
from this little incident there is a deep
melancholy, a sentiment of doubt and
dread that rises to the sublime.

“But mousie thou are no thy lave

In proving foresight may be vain

The best-laid schemes 0’ mice an’ men
Gang aft agley

An’ leave us nought but grief and pain
For promised joy!”

One of the most human of Burns’ ani-
mal poems is “The Auld Farmer’s New
Year Salutation to his auld mare Maggie.”
Professor Wilson, in his famous essay on
Burns, declares that to his knowledge the
recital of this poem has brought tears of
pleasure to the eyes, and humanized the
heart of a Gilmerton carter.

“A Guid New Year I wish thee Maggie!

Hae, there’s a ripp (handful) to thy auld
baggie (stomach)

Thou’ thous’ howe—backit (hollow-backed)
now

And knaggie (bony)

I’ve seen the day

Thou could hae gaen like any staggie (colt)

Out—owre the lay (lea).”

The auld farmer associates his faithful
mare with all the varied experiences of his
life; with his happy bridal day and days
of labor, want and sorrow. Yet, as they
come to the end of the road together all
their needs have been supplied. He promises
auld Maggie an easy old age for all her
fidelity.

“Wi’ tentie care I’ll flit thy tether

To some hain’d (spare) rig

Where, ye may noble rax (stretch) your
leather

Wi’ small fatigue.”

Through such poems Scotland’s immor-
tal bard did much to humanize the relation-
ships of life and to make life sweeter and
easier for God’s dumb creation.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan.1936

The Kookaburra—Living Wonder

EWEN K. PATTERSON

HE kookaburra of Australia ranks a-

mong the living wonders of the world,

and is by far the most popular mem—
ber of Australia’s great feathered tribe.
This remarkable bird, which is found no—
where else in the world in a wild state, is
also known as the “Laughing Jackass” be-
cause of its laughing-song, by means of
which it has won its way into the hearts
not only of Australians but of millions of
people all over the world. Even though the
majority of people outside Australia have
never seen the bird, they are familiar with
its laughing-song because it is now used
to introduce all overseas wireless broad-
casts made from Australia. The song is al—
so used as an introduction to all motion
pictures dealing with Australia. No other
bird in the world has been honored in a
similar manner.

In connection with the song used in ra—
dio broadcasts an interesting story has
reached Australia from a resident, Mr.
G. Ariss of Baltimore (U. S. A.). Writing
to the wireless authorities in Australia, Mr.
Ariss mentioned that when he tuned in to
Australia the laughing-song of the kooka-
burra turned his bulldog into a very angry
mood. “The dog flew at the speaker,” wrote
Mr. Ariss, “and if I had not been present
he would have torn the speaker to pieces.”

Although the kookaburra does not actual-
ly laugh in the full meaning of the word,
the bird’s medley of gurgling chuckles and
other notes is almost human, and is near
enough to laughter to be called such.

One of the most remarkable sights that
can be witnessed in the bird world is that of
young kookaburras receiving lessons in
laughing from their parents. Perched on
a branch of a tree, the parents together
make the bush ring with their laughter.
Then they are silent While the young ones
try to imitate their parents’ merry notes.
They produce all sorts of hoarse, croaky
noises. But the parents give them every
encouragement, and the lessons are contin-
ued day after day until the young ones are
as good at laughing as are their parents.

The kookaburra is about the size of a
crow, and it is of a rich chestnut—brown
and brownish—white color, while its wings
are slightly chequered with light blue. It
is closely protected in Australia, for it has
a wonderful reputation as a snake and rat
killer. The bird has an immensely strong
beak, and takes a heavy toll of snakes, rats,
lizards, insects and their larvae, and other
pests.

The kookaburra’s method of killing
snakes is truly remarkable. When it has
caught a snake the bird flies high into the
air with the reptile in its beak and then
drops it to the ground. By repeating this
two or three times the snake is killed, and
then the bird eats it. The kookaburra de-
vours its prey whole—skin, bones, and all.
But only the flesh is digested. All bones,
etc., are rolled into tiny pellets inside the
bird’s stomach, and by a wonderful provis-
ion of nature these pellets are vomited up.

When seeking food the kookaburra pre—
sents a fine picture; it perches on a fence,

 

AUSTRALIAN KOOKABURRA

tree branch, or tree stump (as shown in the

accompanying photograph), and keeps a
wary eye on the ground all about. It has
extraordinary eyesight, for as soon as an
insect or some other tiny creature moves
the kookaburra swoops down with a rush
and rarely misses its victim. When the
bird ﬁnds a good feeding spot it stays there,
sometimes for weeks. It is very compan-
ionable and is quick to chum up with work-
ers or travelers in the bush. On farms the
birds will often perch on the shoulders of
farmers at work, and from that vantage
point they keep a close watch for any in-
sects or reptiles disturbed by the farmers.

The kookaburra nests between September
and January. The nest is usually built in
a hole in a tree or a hollow limb about
twenty feet above the ground. The female
lays from two to four perfectly round and
pure—white eggs.

Calendar from Holland

Our Dumb Friends Calendar for 1936,
beautifully illustrated and with humane se-
lections on each of the twenty-six leaves,
comes to us from the publisher, J. Philip
Kruseman, The Hague. A large photograph
of deer adorns the cover. Other photo—
graphs include dogs, cats, birds, horses and
various wild animals. The days of the
week are given both in Dutch and in Eng-
lish, while the quotations, including several
appealing verses, are in both languages. Al-
together this is one of the handsomest hu-
mane calendars we have seen. The price,
postpaid, is $1.75 in the United States, and
7 shillings in England.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 6

 
      
       
 

7
Q;
m
2

 

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusruce 0
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

omcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MARCH, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 858
Number of addresses made, 400

Number of persons in audiences, 52,838

Prayer of Saint Francis of
Assisi

ORD, make me an instrument of Thy

peace; where there is hatred, let me
sow love; where there is injury, pardon;
where there is doubt, faith, where there is
darkness, light; where there is despair,
hope; and where there is sadness, joy. 0
Divine Master, grant that I may not so
much seek to be consoled as to console; to
be understood, as to understand; to be loved,
as to love; for it is in giving that we re—
ceive, it is in pardoning that we are par-
doned, and it is in dying that we are born
to eternal life.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

For Parents and Teachers

HE keynote of the coming National

Congress of Parents and Teachers is
to be “The Relation of the Home to Charac-
ter Formation.” This is precisely the title
which President Francis H. Rowley of the
American Humane Education Society has
chosen for an attractive booklet that has
just been printed. In a dozen carefully
written pages, Dr. Rowley, from the stand-
point of a parent and a teacher, has made
a swift survey of this whole subject.

The writer traces the need of “an awak-
ened sense of moral ideals,” back of all the
training that can be given in home or school
or college. Quoting philosophers, scientists
and others, he leads up not only to the sig-
niﬁcant statement of Pestalozzi that “Edu-
cation should begin from the cradle,” but
also to the striking statement of J. Edgar
Hoover of the U. S. Department of Justice,
that “Crime begins in America today in the
cradle.” ,

He discusses parental responsibility with
plain words, and points out the supremacy
of “what we are” over precept. The con—
cluding paragraphs very concisely sum up
what is meant by Humane Education and
show that its goal is not primarily the ani-
mal but the child whose character is trained
through the reaction upon it of the prin—
ciples of justice and compassion ﬁnding ex—
pression in conduct and life.

While intended principally for parents
and teachers, a copy of the pamphlet will
be sent free upon application to any ad-
dress. For quantities, send for special
prices to the American Humane Education
Society, Boston.

“ Shipmate ”

This is the title of a 32—page booklet by
Clarence Hawkes, the blind writer of Had-
ley, Mass. “Shipmate” is a dog whose at-
tachment to his drunken Owner is described
with a tenderness that reminds one of Gals-
worthy or of Loti. In all the forty-odd
volumes from this proliﬁc author, many of
which have been reviewed in these columns,
we have found nothing quite so touching,
quite so gripping as the graphic portrayal
of Shipmate’s career. It is, incidentally, a
powerful temperance story. Some readers
will feel that a different denouement, one
of less religious signiﬁcance, would have
been preferable so far as the human ele—
ment is concerned, but this does not affect
the interest aroused in the dog himself.
Every “dog” man, woman and child, will
wish to read this pamphlet which is bound
in heavy paper and published privately. In
the recent disastrous ﬂood Mr. Hawkes lost
nearly all his stock of books and manu-
scripts, but while they last he will mail
copies of “Shipmate” for 25 cents each. Ad—
dress, Clarence Hawkes, Hadley, Mass.

Johnny: “Aren’t you driving rather fast,
Father?”

Father: “You don’t want to be late to
school, do you?”

Johnny (thoughtfullyz) “No—0.
much rather be late than absent!”

But I’d

May, 1936

Questions

Is there not something in the pleading eye
Of the poor brute that suﬂers, which
arraigns
The law that bids it suffer? Has it not
A claim for some remembrance in the book
That ﬁlls its pages with the idle words
Spoken of man? Or is it only clay,
Bleeding and aching in the potter’s hand,
Yet all his own to treat it as he will,
And when he will to cast it at his feet, .
Shattered, dishonored, lost for evermore?
My dog loves me, but could he look beyond
His earthly master, would his love extend
To Him who—hush! I will not doubt that
He
Is better than our fears, and will not wrong
The least, the meanest of created things.

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

__American Fondouk, Fez

Report for February, 1936 —- 29 Days

Daily average large animals 52
Forage for same 3 69.70
Daily average dogs 8.5
Forage for same 8.20
Put to sleep 20 5.50
Transportation 9.92
Wages, grooms, etc. 56.70
Superintendent’s salary 116.74
Veterinary’s salary 30.02
Sundries 35.35
$332.13

Entries: 9 horses, 7 mules, 6O donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 2 mules, 30 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 32 horses, 84 mules, 6O don-
keys, 5 cows, 5 dogs.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES :—Kilometres trav-
eled, 137 ; Cases investigated, 334; animals seen,
3,174; animals treated, 796; animals transferred to
Fondouk American, 55; pack-saddles (infected) des-
troyed, 14.

A DAY’S WORK:

WEDNESDAY, 12th: Fine weather. 8 A. M: Us-
ual work of treating animals. A native came w1th a
cow (outpatient) sick with congestion of udder. As
it is a bad case, sent it to Service de l’Elevage. We
have not very bad cases in Hospital today. At 10
o’clock took bus to Bab Etouh. Inspected. potters’
quarter, 23 native Fondouks, and some anlmals on
way. Saw 180 animals, treated 50, hospltahzed 4
donkeys. Ending at 12 o’clock, went directly home
and sent stable boy with the 4 donkeys to the Fon-
douk. P. M. At 2:30 went to Fondouk. At 3 o’clock
left for Bou Jeloud, Talaa and Kasba de Nouar 1n-
spection, through Fes Jedid. Visited souks from
there to Moulay Idriss and Attarlne. Inspected 17
native Fondouks, saw 107 animals, treated 34, hospl-
talized 3 donkeys. Returned to Fondouk through
Talaa Kebira. Stayed one hour at Bab Mahrouk 1n-
specting donkeys loaded with lime and gravel. One
of the donkeys we hospitalized had Its flanks bleed-
ing from poisoned goads. Ordered owner to unload
his animal at the gate. Destroyed hlS bad pack-
saddle. Returned to Fondouk through Place Bagh-
dadi (where stopped and hospitalized one very lame
donkey, which had been treated w1th red-hot irons on
shoulder.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 52
At the Zoo

EDITH GANTT DUKER

Oh Mamma, see the tiger; like a great big
yellow cat

He bristles up his striped fur that looks
so soft to pat.

He slinks around his narrow cage on heavy,
padded paws,

You have to watch them carefully to
glimpse his knife-like claws.

Just see his shoulder muscles, how they
ripple when he turns.

His tail he lashes furiously for his heart
with anger burns.

His great jaws grind together, and his
dagger teeth drip foam

For he knows his strength is useless in this
prison—barred home.

I don’t want to feed the monkeys! I don’t
want to watch the bears!

I just want to make the tiger know that
here is one who cares;

Who understands his loneliness, his rage,
his hurt surprise

That flashes helpless hatred from his sad
and vengeful eyes.

God made him fierce and feared of man;
God made him wild and free,

A king of strength and beauty, though a
killer he may be.

Oh Mamma, let us go away and tell the
folks at home

A tiger must not captive be, but in his jun—
gle roam!

King George’s Lonely Pets
ALICE BOORMAN WILLIAMSON

HREE of King George’s pets are lonely

and sorrowful since their royal master
died, though only one of them can say so.
“Jock,” the white Highland pony, misses the
kind friend he carried on his back only a
few days before, and so does “Bob,” the
little cairn terrier, accustomed to run at
the king’s heels all over the estate of San-

w

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

dringham; but it remains for “Charlotte,”
the gray Australian parrot, to voice the
plaintive query: “Where’s the Captain?”

Charlotte was picked up by the Sailor
King in an Eastern port while he was in
the Navy. She had been his constant com-
panion ever since. When the Court moved
its residence, Charlotte moved, too. She
loved to ﬂy about the King’s study at San—
dringham House, perching on his desk or on
his shoulder as he worked. Often in the
evening she was with him in the drawing-
room, again ensconced on his shoulder, for
she was a great favorite. Many a journey
she made with him in life, by motor or rail-
way, and she traveled from Sandringham to
London in his funeral train. Charlotte ﬁnds
Buckingham Palace a dreary place without
her beloved comrade and meets every visitor
to the royal study with her puzzled question,
“Where’s the Captain?”

In the simple procession escorting the
body of the King from Sandringham to the
station of Wolferton the white pony, sad-
dled, and led by a groom, followed his mas—
ter’s coﬁin, through the winding lanes of
Norfolk, bordered with rhododendrons and
bracken, the roads that had seen their
happy rides together. Now Jock is back at
Sandringham, where perhaps he confers
with the little terrier regarding the mas-
ter’s strange absence.

King Edward has inherited his father’s
love of animals. It is told of the new King
in his early boyhood that Earl Roberts saw
him gazing out of a window, wistful-eyed
and thoughtful, and asked the lad what he
was thinking.

The little Prince turned and said:

“When I am King I shall do three things.
I shall pass a law against cutting puppy—
dogs’ tails, I shall not let them use bearing—
reins on horses, and then I shall do away
with all the sin in the world!”

It is not likely that the young ruler will
be able to realize all these laudable ambi-
tions, but it is pleasant to know that, in his
childhood at least, he possessed such aspira-
tions. It is also comforting to feel that King
George’s humble friends will continue to be
cared for tenderly.

 

PERSIAN SHEEP AND LAMBS

 

Apr. 1936

King of the Polar Ice-Pack

W. J. BANKS

AN—NOOK—SUAH,” the big white
bear, does not read the diet books, or
strive for a properly balanced menu. If a
kindly fate keeps him provided with a gen—
erous supply of seals, he seeks no variety
and considers that all is well with the world.

“NAN—NOOK-SUAH”

Nor does he attempt even to mix fat with
lean. Unless he is unusually hungry, Nan—
nook seldom devours more than the seal’s
skin and blubber. Doubtless feeling at the
moment that he will never be hungry again,
he leaves the meat and bones to the arctic
foxes, who partly live on his bounty, though
Nan-nook’s generosity to these despised lit-
tle neighbors is quite unintentional.

But all the northern folk unite in respect
and admiration for Nan—nook-suah. His
are the qualities to which the Eskimo as-
pires. Human hunters copy his patience
in seal stalking. They pay tribute to his
courage as he fights to the death against
their dogs and spears and arrows as well
as the unknown, unseen and deadly ex-
panding bullet. They envy his tremendous
strength and the tirelessness which carries
him on for endless miles when all other
creatures drop in exhaustion. Little won-
der that the charm bag around the child’s
neck contains a bit of Nan-nook’s fur or
claw; for what better guardian spirit could
one hope to have?

Like all the animal people Nan-nook tends
to move southward with winter and north—
ward with summer. His favorite hunting
ground is the shore line or the edge of the
slowly moving ice—pack, for here he best
can obtain seals. On "shore, where his kind
have learned to avoid the haunts of men,
Nan—nook is wary. But. far out on the sea
ice he is undisputed monarch, knowing no
forms of life but his own and that of seals,
foxes and gulls. Thus the infrequent trav-
elers sometimes have exciting encounters
with polar bears who walk fearlessly into
their camp on the sea ice.

Stefansson, .the noted explorer, believes
that these visits, which sometimes replenish
depleted larders with welcome bear meat,
are due to the camp’s aroma of seal. “Aha,”
says Nan—nook, sniffing the air from afar
with sensitive nostrils, “I smell dead seal.”
In daylight, he walks up unconcernedly and
if moving against the wind he may be al-
most on top of the men and dogs before

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 196
3112 Earth nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Four hundred and seventy-six new Bands
of Mercy were reported during June. Of
these 339 were in Illinois, 102 in Massa—
chusetts, 1’7 in New York, eight in Penn—
sylvania, seven in Virginia, and three in
Lebanon.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 218,068.

Release from the Snare

(A reply to Mr. James Stephen’s poem, “The Snare”)

SARAH JOYNER

Little rabbit in the snare
I am glad I looked for you,
Searched the bushes everywhere
Till at last you met my view.

Till at last you met my view

And your little cry of pain,
Signaled to me, and I knew

You would soon be free again.

You would soon be free again
And your little foot would mend;
Once more you could roam the plain
Knowing you had found a friend.

Knowing you had found a friend
Who would never set a snare:
Go in peace, my little one,
And of cruel traps, beware!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Spick-and-Span
L . E . EU B A N K S

F course I think a lot of the eat, but;

we simply can’t take him into the new
home.” Mrs. Curtis jammed the last paper—
wrapped glass. into the carton as though to
emphasize her decision.

Mr. Curtis, also busy with the packing,
made no answer, and his wife continued:
“With all our new furniture, everything
spick-and-span, it’d be ridiculous to have a
little vandal like “Spot.” He’s so used to
lying on the chairs here, sticking his claws
into everything, and owning the place gen—
erally, that he’d—”

“But he is a dear,” Mr. Curtis defended.
“I don’t want to be here when the fellow
comes for him; seems tough that our move
has to cost him his life. I’ll miss his crawl-
ing all over me, purring, and curling his
little feet. Remember when he got into the
deep snow, how pathetic—”

“Will you hush!” snapped the woman. “I
asked everybody round here—they’ve all got
cats, or want none. All we can do is to let
the Humane Society despatch him. He
won’t suffer.”

“But we will,” lamented Curtis; “after
all, Spot’s the only ‘kid’ we have, and—”

“Just got to forget it,” she insisted;
“we’re making a big change, at last got a
nice place of our very own, and I’m in favor
of cutting all the ties, all reminders of the
miserable years we’ve spent in this shack.”

At 10 o’clock next morning Spot was put
into a box for his last journey. But it was
Mr. Curtis who attended to it; when the
wife saw the man coming she dove into the
bedroom, handkerchief in hand.

They moved in the afternoon, and dark-
ness was settling on the new “spick-and-
span” place as the last article was carried
from the van. Busy hours followed, and
little was said; but when they sat down to
the late supper, Mrs. Curtis asked:

“Did you tell that fellow to try to find
a home for Spot?”

“Yes, and he said he would. The little

 

RESTING HER WEARY EYES AFTER A BUSY DAY

Aug. 1936

darling purred to me when I put him in the
box. He curled right down while I nailed
the slats on. If I live a thousand years I
don’t want to go through that again. He
trust-ed me, and— I can’t think of anything
else, and I can see that you’re in the same
fix. Poor little dear, always so timid. I’ll
bet he’s scared to death.”

Mrs. Curtis’ face was pale, her eyes
moist, but her husband observed the signifi-
cant set of her jaw, and said no more.

The brilliant sunshine of the next day,
the beautiful house and grounds, the new
furniture, waiting to be arranged by the
loving hands of the home-makers—none, nor
all together could awaken the expected re-
sponse in the new owners.

“What a night!” moaned Curtis; “I didn’t
sleep two hours.”

“Neither did I,” confessed the wife. “I
suppose it’s the strangeness of the place. I
wonder if they’ll kill Spot today.”

“There you are!” Curtis almost shouted.
“That’s why we didn’t sleep. That’s why
we’re not getting any kick out of being here
—when we really love the place. I’m going
to have him back, too!”

“If we only can!” Mrs. Curtis’ face beam-
ed with hope. “If it isn’t too late. Let him
claw the things—or I’ll get one of those
little cat trees for him. Oh, I didn’t know
how I loved him! Wait, Jim, you’ve got
on your overalls—and better take your over-
coat.”

But Jim Curtis was gone.

Spot had experienced one hectic night;
but he’s now enjoying many comfortable
ones as compensation, luxuriating in the
“spick-and-span” home—that somehow just
wasn’t a home without him.

Nixon Waterman Says:

HE cogitations of a mamma cat re-

garding the most desirable surround—
ings in which to rear her offspring, are be—
yond all means of finding out. Many true
stories relating to this matter are as seem-
ingly fantastical as anything that could be
devised in fiction. Nothing of this charac-
ter of an extreme nature ever occurred
about my own household, yet there was one
occurrence along this line that at the time
of its happening interested the household to
a pleasant degree.

Our family had moved into a new neigh-
borhood in the early spring. We were so
much engaged in getting things in order we
had not taken the time to have the screen
doors attached. Very soon after getting
our goods into the new home, a cat belong-
ing to one of the fairly near neighbors wan-
dered in. We were pleased at her air of
sociability. We interpreted it as a sort of
“welcome to our town” greeting.

We were so keenly engaged in our work
of getting settled that we had no time to
give our feline caller the attention she de-
served. But although we may have been
sparing and hasty in. our rather inattentive
greetings, she overlooked our shortcomings
and proved that she deemed us as warm-
hearted, dependable friends and neighbors
by depositing in the soiled clothes closet off
the kitchen her family of four kittens, one
of which we long cherished as an esteemed
member of our household circle.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Friendly Fantails of Australia

EWEN K. PATTERSON

0 other birds in Australia enjoy such
N wide-spread popularity and freedom
from hunters and trappers as the
little fantails, or “wag-tails” as they are
popularly termed. Their popularity is due

 

AU STRALIAN

FANTAIL ON NEST

to their valuable work as insect pest de-
stroyers both in the city and country, and
it is for this reason that the birds are close-
ly protected by law, shooting or trapping
them being a serious offense.

Everybody loves the fantails. Dainty in
all their ways, they are the friendliest of
all birds. They are widely distributed in
Australia, being found not only in the bush
country, but in the heart of the cities as
well. They render valuable service in city
parks and gardens by destroying insect
pests, while in the country they help farm-
ers in a similar way, as well as removing
ticks and other parasitic insects from the
backs of horses and cattle. It is, indeed, a
wonderful sight to see a. dozen or more fan-
tails riding on the backs of grazing cattle
and horses, picking merrily away at ticks,
or hopping down to pick up insects dis-
turbed by the animals when feeding. The
animals all welcome the birds, and the
friendship between them is one of the most
inspiring in the bird world.

Another striking thing is the fantails’
friendliness when mixing with other kinds
of birds. They go about in quite neighborly
fashion with other birds, and I have often
seen fantails helping to feed other baby
birds, as if they were their own. No other
birds in Australia have a more friendly
disposition than the fantails, which are
called “wagtails” because of their interest-
ing tail—wagging habit.

The color of the Australian fantails is
either black and white or grey with black
and white stripes. The birds have a very
pretty little song, which is often heard at
night. They are one of the few Australian

day birds to sing at night, and when heard
in the dead silence of the night their little
song is most beautiful.

A female fantail sitting on her nest is
shown in the accompanying photograph.
The nest is a little webby cup with a long
tail or “beard.” Despite their friendly
disposition at other times, the fantails at
nesting time become very vicious and will
ﬁercely attack any person, animal or bird
that comes near their nest. The birds have
great courage in this respect, and will de—
fend their nest to the death if necessary.
This courage in so small a bird is a ﬁne
thing to see, especially in so good a cause.
The birds only attain an average length of
about four inches, exclusive of the tail.

Apart from their friendliness to other
birds and animals, the fantails are also
very companionable to humans, and are
quick to chum up with workers and travel-
ers in the bush.» On farms, too, the birds
will often perch on the shoulders of farm—
ers at work, and from that vantage point
they keep a close watch for any insects
disturbed by the men.

My Garden Fairy

V. WINIFRED CHIVENS

OU do not believe in fairies? Then,

come sit with me in my garden and
I will show you a creature so ethereal and
dainty, that I think you will at least
amend this statement to say, “Well, not in
human form, anyhow.”

The ruby-throated hummingbird is, to
me, one of the most wonderful and inter—
esting of feathered folk. So very tiny,
less than four inches in length, yet it
possesses more energy and vim according
to its size than we may ﬁnd in any other liv-
ing creature. It is almost symbolic of per-
petual motion, and this tireless movement,
with the humming accompanying the rapid
movements. of its wings, makes one won-
der if somewhere in its tiny anatomy we
might not discover a dynamo producing
the driving power which this wee elf pos-
sesses. Now here, now there, gone with
the swiftness of an arrow from our sight.

Beautifully colored feathers showing
iridescent in the sunlight, brilliant ruby
red throat, on whirring wings this fairy
of mine hangs poised above the garden
ﬂowers, its long bill thrust into their
heart in search of sweetness concealed
therein. This hummingbird also has the
characteristic of fearless courage, and
will attack and vanquish anything from
bumblebees and members of its own
species, to the largest of birds which arouse
its antagonism.

This visitor of mine is rather selﬁsh,
and when once it ﬁnds feeding-grounds to
its satisfaction, it refuses to share its
delicacies with others. Many desperate
battles are waged over my garden as the
ruby—throat, who holds priority rights,
with squeaks of anger and humming wings
sends the interloper on his way. .

.The nest of the ruby—throated humming—
b1rd is a work of art and is built almost

Oct. 1936

 

RUBY-THROATED HUMMINGBIRD
VISITOR PAUSES FOR A MOMENT’S
REST ON A BUSY DAY

without exception by the female. An
exquisite, tiny cup, fashioned on a tree
limb, of lichens and sometimes a bit of
bark, lined with milkweed and other plant
downs, joined with the webs of insects. In
this lovely cradle are deposited two wee
white eggs which are brooded lovingly
until the young are hatched; then they
are tenderly cared for until able to ven-
ture forth into the world for themselves.
The diet of the hummingbird consists
of . nectar from ﬂowers, which they also
fertilize by carrying pollen, also a goodly
amount of insect food. Thus, it is desir-
able for us to cultivate their company for
economic as well as esthetic reasons.

Butterflies
ANNIE GRAHAM KING

My garden’s full of flowers,
And all the bees are there,
And butterflies in. radiant guise

Are flitting everywhere,

And like a dream, so bright they seem,
I’d seize them for my own——

I’ll make a web and capture them,
Before they all have flown.

I’ll weave it out of moonlight,
Or out of starry beams,
I’ll fling it on my garden,
And catch those restless dreams!

Yet like a dream how dull they seem—
How lifeless in my grasp!

Ah! I will tear their prison up,
And free them from my clasp.

And see! Above my garden
Once more on glowing wing

The butterflies are dancing——
My dreams are fluttering!

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application. We will gladly send free sam-
ple copies to prOSpective subscribers.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 171;
@1112 iﬁanh nf ﬂﬁrrrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect the-m from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and twenty—six new Bands
of Mercy were reported during September.
Of these there were 106 in North Carolina,
six each in Georgia and Virginia, four in
Oklahoma, and one each in Florida, Illinois,
New York and Pennsylvania.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 218,275.

Abandoned

CLAUDE WEIMER

You are crying, wee kitty,
And only half-grown.
Did they throw you away
By the roadside alone?

You have nothing to sleep on
But sticks and stones,

And your lank body feels
Like a bagful of bones.

You are hungry and chilly
And afraid, little cat.

Why did they throw you
Away like that?

Do they ever kneel down
By the bedside and pray

For God not to throw them
Unwanted away?

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

' Cheer as and ism/s;

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Maggie, the Goat

LEONIE HUNTER

OATS are animals that most people

know little about at first hand, but we
all have heard a lot about them, mostly not
to their credit. What with the widespread
nonsensical notions about their eating any-
thing from Father’s new straw hat and the
clothes on the wash—line to tin cans, and
their grossly exaggerated propensity for
butting, it might appear that the only place
a goat is welcome is at an initiation.

As a matter of fact goats are now being
raised in- many sections and, contrary to
general opinion, they have proved to be
easy to raise and care for and are not all
untractable and troublesome as one might
suppose. With the demand for goats’ milk
growing all the time, it has become increas-
ingly profitable for farmers to keep goats.
The milk of goats is alkaline, unlike cows’
milk which is acid. For this reason, it
makes an excellent food for invalids and in—
fants and, when properly chilled, it is diffi—
cult to distinguish in taste from good rich
cows’ milk.

Occasionally goats may show a tendency
to indulge in butting, but they can be train-
ed out of it. They are creatures of habit
and like to have a fixed routine observed in
all that concerns them.

The case of the goat “Maggie” plainly
illustrates this (Goats are intelligent ani—
mals and learn their names just as a dog or
horse and will even respond with a funny
ma-ah.) Maggie was one of four milking
goats kept on an Alabama farm. It was the
custom of the keeper to milk the goats by
turn each time. First came “Babe,” then
“Maggie,” then “Queenie” and “Snowball.”
The man had built a little platform with a
trough for feeding at one end; each goat
mounted the platform as it was called and
the keeper seated himself to milk the goat.

It happened. that a neighbor’s child was
critically ill. The parents were told that
goats’ milk would be good for it, so Maggie,

 

Nov. 1936

the goat, went to the neighbor’s place to
stay for several months. At the end of that
time she returned to her old home.

This time the man milked the other three
goats first as he had been doing during
Maggie’s absence. Then he called Maggie.
Maggie refused to come. She had to be
chased around the barnyard and finally
picked up and forcibly placed on the milk—
ing platform. The next few days following,
there were similar difficulties. No one
could understand why Maggie had suddenly
become so unmanageable when formerly she
had been a quiet, docile creature.

“Suppose you try milking her second as
you used to before she was away,” some one
suggested.

The keeper decided to try it. That eve-
ning he milked Babe first. Then he called
Maggie and she came and walked up on the
platform as promptly as anyone could de—
sire. She remembered when her turn came
and she expected the schedule to be proper-
ly adhered to and observed.

Goats have their peculiarities, but they
are good animals when understood.

Leave Covers for Wild Birds

HENRY H. GRAHAM

HEN I lived on a farm years ago a
W neighbor had an experience that
made him a wild—life protector the rest of
his days.

One winter morning he went to the back
of his place on an errand. En route he saw
a sight that made him sick at heart. More
than a dozen bob—white quail had frozen to
death in a bunch. Unable to ﬁnd protec—
tion from a recent blizzard and the intense
cold they had huddled together as is the cus-
tom of quail and, despite the heat generated
by their bodies, they had succumbed.

“Up to that time I had never thought
much about wild life,” this man told me.
“Never had I left weed patches or shelters
of any kind for the birds. From now on I’m
going to see that they have plenty of cover,
and, what’s more, I’m going to throw into
the bushes above the snow that will come
several bundles of wheat or oats at harvest
time.”

He was true to his word. Other farmers
in that locality followed his example with
the result that bird life increased beyond
belief. Because birds repay us many times
over for all efforts in their behalf by de-
stroying harmful insects there is no reason
why such a plan should not be carried out
on a constantly widening scale. Cold win—
ters are a severe test on all non—migrating
bird life.

Harvest time is hard on feathered crea-
tures, too, because the machines destroy
young birds and even eggs. Thousands of
birds are killed or maimed annually at this
time. But there is a way to prevent it. This
consists of installing on the reaper a device
sold by harvester companies. Every ma-
chine should be equipped with one.

“Why did you tear the back part out of
that new book?” asked the long—suffering
wife of the absent—minded doctor.

“Excuse me, dear,” said the famous sur-
geon, “the part you speak of was labeled
‘Appendix’ and I took it out without think-
ing.”

 




 

Oct. 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Devoted Dog Lover

AMELIA WOFFORD

IR HORACE WALPOLE loved all
8 dogs.

“The dear, good—natured, honest, sen-
sible creatures! How can anybody hurt
them?” he wrote in 1760, when London,
panic—stricken at a rumor of hydrophobia,
was slaughtering dogs indiscriminately.

For pets his choice was small dogs.

The ﬁrst dog of his manhood, a gift,
was “Tory,” “a little black King Charles
spaniel, but the prettiest, fattest, dearest
creature.” Its name dated back to its
ﬁrst master, Humphrey Parsons, a
staunch Tory, alderman and twice Mayor
of London, and though opposed to Sir
Horace’s Whiggism he did not change it.

Unfortunately for Tory, whither Sir
Horace went, his pet dog went. And so,
in 1739, Tory accompanied him, and his
Etonian friend, Thomas Gray, on their
continental tour. Crossing Mont Cenis,
Tory, put out of the coach by his master
for a little exercise, was seized by a wolf
and carried off before a hand could be
lifted in his defense.

“It was shocking to see anything one
loved run away to so horrid a death,” Sir
Horace wrote; and ever afterwards moun—
tains were abhorrent to him.

A year later, while touring Italy, he
had recovered sufficiently from the loss of
Tory to take to his heart a little silver-
ﬂeeced dog, which he christened “Pata-
pan.”

“He shall go to England, where I will
get him naturalized and created a peer
by the title of Viscount Callington,” he
said to a friend, when notifying him of
his prize.

The pocket borough of Callington 1n
Cornish had just elected Sir Horace to
represent it in Parliament.

England agreed with Patapan. He grew
handsomer and fatter; and for six years
he was a cherished member of his master’s
household.

The death of his pets was no light
matter to Sir Horace. When Patapan
died he wrote to a friend: “You have
nothing but misfortunes of your friends
to lament. If it would not sound ridicu-
lously, though, I assure you, I am far
from feeling it lightly, I would tell you of
poor Patapan’s death: he died about ten
days ago.”

Patapan’s successor was one “Fanny.”
Not a notable character nor especially
loved seemingly, as only her name sur-
Vives.

Next appeared “Rosette,” a black and
tan spaniel. She was credited by her
master with saving his Arlington house
from being burned, by standing before the
chlmney—place and persistently barking.
He discovered the chimney was on ﬁre;
and had it not been extinguished immedi-
ately, the house would have been destroyed.

When a fatal illness seized Rosette, she
had a faithful nurse in her master. He
was out of bed twenty times every night;
and on one occasion sat up with her until
three in the morning.

The epitaph he wrote her “came from

his heart, if ever epitaph did,” he wrote
a friend. It ended with this wish:

“Some happier isle, some humble?" heaven
Be to my trembling wishes given,
Admitted to that equal sky,

May sweet Rose bear me company!”

“Tonton,” another black and tan spaniel,
succeeded Rosette in her master’s affec—
tions. He came to him by the will of the
eccentric Marquise du Deﬁand, who loved
Sir Horace “better than all France,” and
whom he admired. Well acquainted with
his devotion to animals, she was comfort—
ably certain of the home her pampered, ill-
tempered pet would have with him.

Tonton’s entrance into Strawberry Hill
did not promise peace to its inmates. He
attacked and ran off Sir Horace’s beauti—
ful white cat.” He attacked the dogs; bit
one, and was well bitten in return. His
wounds were soothed by his new owner
and by Margaret, the housekeeper, who
“loved all creatures so well she would
have been happy in the Ark, and sorry
when the Deluge ceased.”

Whatever the cause, the lesson the dog’s
spirited resistance taught him, or the gen-
tle inﬂuence of Margaret and Sir Horace,
no more outbreaks are recorded against
him.

Tonton is shown sitting on a sofa by
his master’s tea table, sharing his bread
and butter, but not the tea he drank from
ancient Japanese porcelain cups. When
stone deaf and blind he was still his
master’s constant companion, and the ob-
ject of his tender care. His own health
poor, Sir Horace feared that should Ton—
ton survive him, it “was scarcely possible
he would meet a third person who would

study his happiness” as he did. He sur-
vived Tonton.
“I shall miss him greatly, and must

not have another dog. I am too old, and
should only breed it up to be unhappy
when I am gone,” he said to Lady Ossory.
He kept his word.

Tonton died in Berkley Square, London.
He was carried by Sir Horace to Straw—
berry Hill and buried “behind the chapel
near Rosette.”

Page 151
Dog Worship

BLANCHE BUTLER

H OW many dog lovers know that there
was a time, many, many years ago,
when men worshiped dogs?

Herodotus tells us that when a dog be—
longing to an Egyptian family died, the
members of that family shaved themselves
as an expression of grief. The dog was re-
garded as a god, and was represented with
the body of a man.

Cynopolis, (Dog City), was built in honor
of Anubis, to worship whom priests cele-
brated great festivals, and to whom they
sacrificed earthly dogs. At that time hu—
man beings were nOt the only mortal crea—
tures embalmed by the Egyptians, for many
mummies of dogs have also been found.

From Egypt dog worship spread to other
countries. By the Jews and by the Moham—
medans, dogs were believed to howl just be—
fore a death because they were able to see
the Angel of Death going about on his
mission.

The Iranians had rites in which the dog
figured prominently in the casting out of
evil spirits. The dogs were forced tofollow
the corpse, which was then thrown out into
the field to be devoured by dogs and vul—.
tures.

In the olden times some believed that the
dog was ever on guard at the gates of par-
adise to keep out unworthy souls.

According to Aryan belief, the soul passes
over a stream, crosses a bridge, and meets
a dog or two.

The Iroquois Indians believed that the
spirits of the departed, on their journey to
the happy hunting grounds, were beset with
dangers; that a swift river was crossed on
a log that shook beneath their feet, and
that ferocious dogs opposed their passage.

Protagoras, after his return from Egypt,
founded a new school in southern Italy,
teaching, as did the Egyptians, that at
death the soul entered into various animals.
He would hold a dog to the mouth of a dy-
ing friend to receive the departing spirit,

saying that there was no animal which

could perpetuate his virtues like a dog.
Whether the earthly dog himself has a
paradise is still a question, though many of
the greatest poets and philosophers believe
the dog will gain admittance to Paradise,
if not in man’s, at least to one of his own.

 

“BABE” AND “FAT,” CANADIAN BEAUTIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Nov.1936 OUR DUMB

   

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Mickey,” Would-be Fire Fighter

E. H. DONLEVY

ICKEY,” member of the Cambridge, Massachusetts,
M Fire Department, attached to Engine House 7, has a
deﬁnite position of monitor, and has been ﬁtted for a natty
little uniform that will be to his liking, by the ﬁremen who
think there is no one like Mickey. He has owned a tin fire
badge for some time, even though he is but a brown-faced
little monkey.

He is a spark, and although only a year and a half old, he
has learned to love the sound of a siren and to get ready for
action, as he sees the men do. He begins to chatter his en—
thusiasm, and hustles over to the ladder. Then Captain John
Collins, his master, says sternly, “Not this time, Mickey.
Wait till we come back, and we’ll tell you about it!” And
Mickey, postponing his hopes, goes back and waits at the
window.

His favorite job is inspecting the firemen’s uniforms, going
down the line, ﬁngering buttons that shine, turning up his
nose at unbrushed coats, and saluting at roll-call. Now and
then, he hides raincoats, hats, lunch-boxes, and pretends to
help the owners hunt for them!

At mealtime, the firemen have taught the little animal to
know the call of “Come and get it!” How he scuttles to
the plates, and looks them over, before sitting beside his
Captain, who has the fullest plate! Mickey eats simple food,

varied when he is extra good by a full—course dinner with
plenty of his favorite food—watermelon.

Mickey came from Brazil. He was brought from Maine
as a gift to Cambridge firemen. Captain John Collins in-
dulges him in everything but the one thing Mickey yearns
for—a good fire. No matter how deep in sleep the monkey is
beneath the coverlets of the Captain, he leaps when the gongs
ring the alarm. He is trying to impress the firemen to
recognize his ﬁre-ﬁghting ability, so that he may soon have
the distinction of being the ﬁrst monkey to race to ﬁres on
the shrieking engines.

My Dog

E. T. MEGOW

I’ve got a dog, a mangy dog
That’s what my folks all say,

But, gee, it makes me awful sore
To have them talk that way.

Why can’t they see he’s just as smart
As any dog can be?

And aren’t his friendly ways worth more
Than any pedigree?

What if his hair is sort of thin
And lets his ribs show through?
And ’cause he’s only got one eye
The other seems more blue.

Oh, you can have your brindle pups
And eollies and the rest,

Of all the dogs in this whole town
I like my stray dog best.

Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

In each of the following sentences an animal is hidden.
Can you ﬁnd them all?

1. In that pan there is some fudge for you.
2. Call in Mabel, Eph, Anthony and Jane and share it with
them.
That key on the mantel opens the sideboard.
Open it and give Jack all the apples he wants.
Then it will be a very fine idea to run out and play.
Did I hear Lucille murmur something?
Yes! Close the door again or the cat may grab bits of
cold meat from that plate.
Turning the knob is one way to keep the door closed
. without locking it.
9. It has been in use a long time.

73.03.0199"

9°

10. Turn it slowly. Now ease lightly to the left.
11. I ﬁnd that big tub a boon for keeping apple butter in.
12. Those who came late may have some of that now.

Correct answers will be printed next month.

“A dog is the only thing on this earth that loves you more than
he loves himself!”

 

 

 




 
  

 

 

 

Page 176

Animal Life on Everest

L. E. EUBANKS

OMPARATIVELY few animals and
C birds care to live at altitudes ranging
from 17,000 to 27,000 feet. The favorite
height of the Himalayan Mountains wild
sheep is about 15,000 feet.

The cold at these heights is intense and
a strong gale blows nearly every day. As
with many animals in our own country, the
Himalayan goat, the yak and the Thibetan
dog have their heavier coats in winter; but
how do those frail little apollo butterﬂies,
seemingly happy at 17,000 feet, keep from
blowing away in those fearful winds? They
refuse to ﬂy at such times but flatten
themselves tightly against a rock.

Grasshopers, one might think, would keep
to low vegetation, but there is one kind that
goes up to 18,000 feet, where it haunts the
most desolate moraines.

Some birds go to very great heights.
More than ﬁfty different kinds have been
seen at altitudes greater than 14,000 feet.
Choughs, mountain ﬁnches and ravens are
particularly venturesome. Choughs would
probably follow campers even to the summit
of Everest. ‘ . .

To see an animal or bird at a surpr1s1ng
altitude does not, of course, prove that
place to be its habitat; it might be an acci—
dent—its presence there, or the creature
might have been moved by a temporary
wanderlust. It isn’t as remarkable to see an
occasional chough at 27,000 feet as it is to
ﬁnd animals permanently established at
21,000 feet. ,

What could live at that elevation? One
might think some warm-coated creature,
well adapted to resist cold. But no; earth’s
highest inhabitants are minute spiders,
naked, soft—bodied, with no apparent device
to save them from being frozen to death.
They are not the kind that make silken
snares; they stalk‘and spring upon their
prey.

What do they feed on at 21,000 feet? It
is a mystery. They seem so utterly alone
in their desolation. And how do they sur-
vive those ten months of the year when
every inch of their habitat is iron—bound
with frost or buried under masses of snow?
For perhaps two months of the year they
can run about in the open; for the rest they
must be frozen into hard pellets.

Like arctic caterpillars, which in winter
you can snap in pieces as though they were
slate pencils, so for ten months of the year
must the Everest spiders be living nodules
of ice.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
“Hillside Acre”

HE Animal Cemetery of the Massa-

chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals is in a suburban section
of Methuen, less than two miles from the
city of Lawrence. It is conveniently and
beautifully situated; a few rods from the
main traveled highway, Route 28, and bears
the name of “Hillside Acre.”

Having acquired by gift, some twenty
years ago, a fine estate, upon which the
Society established its “Best and Retirement
Farm for Horses,” and its small animal
shelter, the need of a suitable burial place
for animals cherished in life by their own—
ers, for their friendliness and loyalty,
early became apparent.

“Hillside Acre” was selected as an attrac—
tive spot for an animal cemetery. Part of
the cemetery slopes up a shaded hillside
and part stretches away from a grassy
knoll on to nearly level ground. The land—
scape effects are pleasing. Shade trees,
flowering plants and shrubs are in striking
evidence and the entire lot is as smooth and
verdant as any well—kept lawn. A high gal—
vanized iron fence surrounds the enclos-
ure and protects it at all times from un—
wonted intrusion. The Society provides
perpetual care.

Most of the graves, of which there are
at the present time more than 800, are
marked with modest, marble headstones.
With few exceptions they are of uniform
size and stand in orderly rows. There are
but few elaborate or expensive monuments;
practically all are miniature markers, yet
fully expressive of the lasting regard in
which owners hold their faithful animal
companions in memory.

The cemetery was primarily designed not
for the burial of the small animals whose
owners could aﬁord expensive marble or
granite headstones, but rather for the
great multitude who, unable to do anything
requiring large expense, desired to ﬁnd some
place where, within their means, they might
bury their greatly—loved small animal pets.

Animal cemeteries exist in or near many
of the largest cities of the world. London,
Paris and Tokyo have them containing
thousands of burials. In the United States
the larger cities that lack them are poor
indeed. But such burial places are increas—
ing in number. Who can say that this does
not betoken the growth and Spread of the
humanitarian spirit, and this, too, in the
“times that try men’s souls?”

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

.. I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
  

        
   
   
   
    
    
   
    
     
    
    
     
     
    

N02). .1936

The Grateful Messenger
SARAH JOYNER

Last winter when I fed the birds
I had no thought of pay;

But yesterday a cardinal
Woke me at break of day.

He lighted on a lilac tree
And turned his head to me,
Singing a song that filled my heart
With lyric melody.

 

I wish you might have seen that bird
Swell out his crimson throat,

He lifted up his crested head
And sounded every note.

He sang a song of hope and joy
And acted well his part,

This grateful messenger who left
His song within my heart.

Queen Mary, world’s biggest ship, has
children’s nurseries that are veritable fairy-
lands. No military toys, no soldiers, no
tanks, no toy guns. Thrills are provided
instead by trains, tunnels, chutes ——- all
miniature examples of peacetime invention.
The man who planned this floating toyland
is George Ramon, a Hungarian.

 

 

It is estimated there are 15,000,000 dogs
in this country, of which 12,000,000 are
licensed.

SEMI-ANNUAL STATEMENT

. Statement of the ownership, management, circula—
tion, etc., of Our Dumb Animals, published monthly
aggglorwood, Mass., required by the Act of March 3,

Publishers—The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Norwood, Mass.

Editor—Guy Richardson, Back Bay Station,
Boston, Mass.

Managing Editor—Francis H. Rowley, President,
Back .Bay Station, Boston, Mass.

Bﬁls1é1es: Managers —- Ofﬁcers of the Mass.

Owners: (If a corporation, give names and ad-
dresses of stockholders holding l per cent or more
of total amount of stock.)

The _Mass. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (Charitable Corporation). All funds
and property controlled by Board of Directors,
Franc15 H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson,
Secretary; Albert A. Pollard, Treasurer.

Guy Richardson, Editor

. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this twen-
tieth day of October, 1936.

L. Willard Walker, Notary Public
[Seal] (My commission expires Jan. 21, 1938)

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Oﬁice: 180 Longwood ’
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies. ‘

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETWr
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00

 

Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00‘
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.




 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~

.Q/{réé
////é/f/7//

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1936

The Misunderstood Eagle

BRUCE JENNINGS

HEN the American pioneers first

drove their slow—moving oxen across
the plains, it was not uncommon for them
to see an eagle perched upon some rocky
crag or soaring in flight far over their
heads. The sight perhaps cheered them in
their arduous enterprise, for the eagle had
become symbolical in this country of the
nobler virtues to which men aspire and of
the larger freedom which their fathers had
won for them.

A century has passed, and the pioneers
have long since driven their last ox—cart in-
to the face of the setting sun, and with
time and the pioneers has also gone the
eagle. A nation has allowed the living rep-
resentative of the national emblem to be-
come so nearly extinct that the average
American will never see the bird which is
shown upon the national seal except in some
museum. The little band of survivors each
year becomes fewer in numbers.

The near extinction of the eagle is the
consequence not so much of public indiffer—
ence as of misrepresentation and deliber-
ate persecution. The fantastic and incredi-
ble stories related of the eagle are legend.
No other animal or bird, perhaps, has been
so villified by the story-teller. Many have
actually been led to believe that the eagle
is capable of attacking and carrying off
living animals and even human beings and
devouring them upon some lofty crag.

Such stories are almost entirely lacking
in truth. The eagle when full grown weighs
from eight to ten pounds. The enormous
wing spread of several feet gives the bird
his large appearance and accounts for some
of the stories of his prodigious strength;
yet as a matter of fact the eagle is inca-
pable of carrying off more than his own
weight.

Two species of eagle remain in the Uni—
ted States. The golden eagle is sometimes
guilty of forays against small fowl and
animals. The bald eagle, which is the na-
tional bird, is entirely inoffensive in his
habits. Because of the great similarity in
the appearance of the two species, however,
the bald eagle has often been accused of
the sins of the golden eagle, and, being the
less wary of the two, has suffered by far
the most for the unsavory reputation of his
brother bird.

By nature the bald eagle is neither wary
nor cunning. His chief characteristic is a
sublime indifference which has made him
a comparatively easy prey for those who
have listened to and believed the many fool-
ish stories concerning him and have warred
upon him as an enemy of mankind. It is
not yet too late to make amends to the eagle
for this misrepresentation of his true char-
acter.

But if the eagle is to be saved from ex-
tinction, immediate steps must be taken to
afford him protection. Today, of the larg-
er birds native to America, the bald eagle,
emblematic of liberty, is the only one which
is unprotected by law in many of the states.
Legislation is now the only means by which
the eagle can be secured from the malice of
those who desire his blood. ,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wild Bird Drama

RAYMOND s. DECK

Formerly assistant curator, dept. of natural sciences,
the Brooklyn Museum, expedition ornithologist, Amerlcan
Museum of Natural Histsry, etc.

Photograph by the Author
OR weeks I had heard the rich min—
strelsy of a catbird rising from a dell
of mountain laurel near the house. Many

times I had seen the singer, just after
dawn and in late evening, perched in a

THE CATBIRD IN THE MOUNTAIN
. LAUREL

shrub which overhung the lake. Sometimes
his song was loud and clear, sometimes
whispered in an undertone, but always it
was heartening to listen to.

Things were happening fast among the
wild creatures on my Connecticut retreat
then, just as they always do in New Eng-
land’s May and June. Big, shadowy bass
were guarding their teeming broods along
the lake shore; a pair of wild wood ducks
had nested in a lightning-riven tree top.
There was so much to draw my interest
that I never peered into the Catbird’s lit-
tle thicket until summer had come of age.
It took but a moment to locate the nest,
fairly lighted with blooming mountain lau—
rel. The sight was such a pretty one that
I set up a camera in a light blind nearby
and sat down, to take some pictures of the
birds at home. My neighbors of the laurel
copse were very shy. A long time elapsed
before they began to feed their three fledg-
lings in a normal way, and do the other
chores of catbird home life. The female
seemed the shyer of the parents. Even
when her mate had grown reconciled to the
camera’s big glass eye glaring from a cam-
bric tent, she sulked in the bushes. To each
furtive trip she made to the nest with a
skimpy insect or two, the father would
come half a dozen times, his bill dripping
with fat caterpillars or blueberries.

It all happened very suddenly. The
mother had just fed the young and I had
snapped my only picture of her as she
paused for a moment to survey her brood.
Now she was sitting calmly on a branch

 

Page 7

three feet above the nest. Suddenly there
was a scream like that of a diminutive
hawk. The mother shot like a falcon from
her perch to the nest, seized one of the nest-
lings by the wing and fell with it to
ground. There she lay panting, wings
spread, head tucked under her as though
to shut out sight of the doom she expected.
The fledgling—not a week old; not half
ready to leave the nest —— lay blinking at
the sun, quite too weak to hop away. So
complete was the trance-like state of the
mother bird that though I jumped from the
blind in some excitement, carrying the
camera from its tripod, she lay unmoving,
hoping in her simple, instinctive way that
I would come for her while the fledgling es—
caped. Before I could bring the mother
and young bird into sharp focus on the
ground glass, the father came hopping out
of the shrubbery. Obviously dismayed at
the queer state of affairs, he cocked his
head first at the youngster, then at the
mother. Then with a disgruntled air
which seemed to say “Cut out this foolish—
ness right now,” he hopped over and
thwacked the mother soundly with his bill.
In a flash the little drama was ended. A
bit foolishly the mother flew off. I placed
the young bird back in the nest, placed the
shielding branches back in place over the
catbird home, and took blind and camera up
to the house. Instinct tells wild birds and
animals to take their young away from
the nest when it is discovered. That is why
I secured only one picture of a porch—side
catbird home.

The Rhinoceros Bird

A curious companionship is that between
the rhinoceros and his feathered satellite,
the rhinoceros-bird (Buphaga erythrorhyn-
cha), writes John Lea, M. A., in “The RO-
mance of Bird Life.” The rhinoceros—bird
is a little fellow'about the size of our Eng-
lish blackbird, with a grayish—brown back,
a yellowish waistcoat, golden eyelids, and a
light red beak. It is found over almost the
whole of Central Africa and as far south
as Natal, and is usually seen in little flocks
of six to eight birds following about the
country some of the larger kinds of animals
—often, as its name suggests, the rhinoc-
eros, but not infrequently elephants or
herds of cattle, or even giraffes. The birds
may constantly be seen perching on the
back of one of their strange comrades, who
appears not to pay the slightest attention
to them. As a matter of fact, he is no doubt
very pleased to receive such visitors, on
account of the good services they render
him, for, from his point of view, it is their
business to deliver him from the discomfort
occasioned by bots or ticks, which he
would find it extremely difficult or perhaps
impossible to get rid of were it not for the
assistance of his little friends.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and .ken-
nels will be given upon application to the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston. Mass.

 




 

 

Ftb.1936

Youngsters in Distress

CORNELIA BENNINGHOFF

HAVE you ever tried to be a foster par-
Rent to a wild creature? I have, to a
family of orphaned marmots and the exper-
ience was entertaining enough to more than
pay for the trouble.

It came about in this way. The sound
of dogs barking in a cottonwood grove a
quarter of a mile distant had been wafted
to us for a period of several days and
nights, when quite suddenly the sound
ceased. “Well,” I said, “Our neighbors’
dogs at last have caught whatever they’ve
been watching. They take turns, so noth-
ing can escape them.”

Then because I had not troubled to inves-
tigate the matter, my conscience began to
bother me and I persuaded my husband to
share a ramble through the woods. A
strange red animal lay dead under a tree.
“A marmot,” said my husband, turning it
over with his shoe, “a nursing female. Dogs
killed her. They kept her up that tree un—
til in a desperate attempt to reach her
young ones she came down.”

After a fruitless half hour’s search a-
mong the rocks to find the young marmots
my husband grew impatient. “But I won’t
go home without the little ones, that is if
they are still alive!” I explained firmly.
Then he began to hunt in earnest. “Look
in that tree behind you, about twenty feet
up,” he whispered. “There’s one with his
head stuck out of a hole.” Its bright beady
eyes were watching us intently.

The mother marmot had selected an old
hollow-trunked cotton-wood for a home and
seven little marmots the size of barn rats
were still alive in the hollow. After the
tree had been cut down it was no small task
to get them out. Although mere bundles
of skin and bones they fought fiercely.
They were almost starved to death!
thick leather gloves and persistence con-
quered and they were captured and dropped
one by one into a sack. We carried them
home and emptied the bag into a large box.
Then one by one they were forcibly fed
warm milk with a teaspoon. Feeding them,
consumed most of my spare time for sever-
al days but soon they learned to drink from
a pan and ate almost anything given them,
especially fresh clover of which they con—
sumed bushels.

They grew fat, red and shiny and were
indeed a fair and pleasurable sight when
all seven, sitting erect, were munChing a—
way at pieces of biscuit held in small paws.
The noise made by seven pairs of little
jaws was rather surprising. They did not
become at all tame but safely could be
picked up without the use of gloves.

After six weeks we decided they were old
enough to shift for themselves so one sunny
morning we carried them up the mountain
side, loosing them in a place which seemed
to have home-like possibilities.

Sometimes when we are driving over Te-
ton Pass and marmots scurry across the
road to hide until the fancied danger is
past, perhaps one, unafraid and different
than the rest, stands erect to watch us go
by. Then we smile and say, “See! How
brave that one is! Probably, one of the
little orphans!”

But-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

More about Hawk Mountain
N 0 RM A N C .

AWKS, falcons, swift accipiters,
mighty eagles and buteos, truly mag—
nificent birds, cross Hawk Mountain in
great numbers each year in the late fall on
their southward journeys through air. For
more than twenty years marksmen have

SCHLICHTER

 

RED TAILED HAWK

brought these birds down ruthlessly. Hun-
dreds of them would be shot in a single day,
many of them to drop only wing-clipped
down despairingly into the thousand—foot
deep canyon. Now they are given protec-
tion through the establishment, in 1934, of
the Wild Life Sanctuary in eastern Pennsyl—
vania.

The Keystone State gives no protection to
hawks, although only a very few of the
hawk family, numbering thirty branches,
have been outlawed by our Federal Bureau
of Biological Survey. Among these are
the Cooper’s hawk, the sharp-shinned hawk,
and the goshawk. Most of the hawk fam—
ily wage such relentless war on rats and
field mice as to be of great benefit to farm—
ers generally.

News of the new sanctuary has spread
fast and, although this is only the third
year of this migratory protection, this
mountain has become a mecca for bird stu—
dents. Ornithologists say that they know of
no other place where these passing birds of
prey may be so well observed, as the new
peace they find here is becoming broadcast
in their own way among the feathered fra-
ternity.

A trained ornithologist and conservation-
ist has been placed in charge of the new
refuge, where wild animals will also re—
ceive what welcome may be accorded them
within the existing laws in their behalf.

The refuge is proving to be a pulpit for
the widespread preaching of that good bird
gospel that many so-called birds of prey are
friends instead of enemies of man.

Send one dollar for the bound volume of
“Our Dumb Animals” for 1935.

Gulls

EDGAR W. COBB

They come, a phantom fleet,

Out of the far, into the near;
Like ships, their white wings beat

The morning breeze. They have no fear,
Brave gulls of Provincetown.

High noon, they range the deep;
Rise high to scan, dip low to find,
At last, with mighty sweep,

To grasp the prey that feeds their kind,
Great gulls of Provincetown.

Comes night, the day’s work done,
They disappear, as melting snow
Before the noon-day sun.
Each dawn they come, each dusk they
m
White gulls of Provincetown.

A Floating Aviary

L. E. EUBANKS

THE conduct of birds at sea has always
been an interesting subject. The motor-
ship “Delftdyk” of Rotterdam throbbed a
windswept sea far out of sight of land.
Storm clouds drooped heavily and a gust of
rain spattered across the bridge. Capt.
John Stamperius, tucked his wool muffler
more tightly on his chest, then looked aloft.

Down fluttered a tiny bird, exhausted.
It crouched on the deck. A seaman picked
it up tenderly and took it to the bridge.
Captain Stamperius opened one of the many
doors to the floatlng aviary and put the
aerial adventurer inside. “Another for the
collection,” he said.

“Most of these birds,” said Captain Stam-
perius, indicating the forty-odd inmates of
the aviary, “came to me at sea. When they
are lost and see the ship, they land on the
deck, and they’re not hard to catch.”

In twenty years with the Holland-Ameri-
can line Captain Stamperius has acquired,
either by accident or swapping, probably
the most complete private aviary in all Hol—
land. In his cages, which take up one whole
wall on the lower bridge of the big refriger-
ator carrier, are Japanese thrush, saffron
finches from Colombia, Holland blackbird,
Cuban doves, rare canaries and two Clarke’s
crows. The last-mentioned represent a puz—
zle to students of bird-lore. They flew
aboard the Delftdyk off the Gulf of Tehaun-
tepec, Lower California, when the weather
was very hot. Yet Clarke’s crows are not
hot weather birds, being from the high al—
titudes. Those Holland blackbirds are won—
derful singers, and Captain Stamperius was
grieved when, during his ship’s stay at a
Spokane pier, one of them flew away.

“What do you feed them?” asked one of
the passengers.

“Worms,” answered Stamperius.

“Where do you get the worms?”

“Grow them,” was the surprising answer;
“look here.”

He brought out a two-foot box, covered
with screening, filled with oatmeal and
leaves. In and out crawled a myriad of
beetles.

“Before he is a beetle,” said the captain,
“he has to be a worm. So I have lots of
worms.”

 

 

 




 

 

Page8
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL. Assistant

 

JANUARY, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Damb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commiss1ons are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

A New Peril

HE San Francisco Society tells us in

its magazine of a man discovered by
the Sacramento S.P.C.A. who had charged
with electricity a pond on his property that
he might destroy any cat or dog that trou-
bled him should it come in contact with the
pond. A little eight—year-old girl venturing
into the water was electrocuted. The man
was arrested, charged with manslaughter.
The trial had not taken place at the time of
writing. The City Court is now drafting an

ordinance prohibiting any such dangerous
trap.

The Deadly Oil

From a New Haven, Conn., dispatch of
the Associated Press comes the following
sad story:

Crude oil, believed to have escaped from
an oil tanker which sank off the middle
breakwater recently, was held responsible
today for making the New Haven harbor
a death trap for thousands of wild ducks.

The birds, flocking in from the open wa-
ters of Long Island Sound following the
close of the duck hunting season last Tues—
day, have been rendered helpless by the oil
which has matted their feathers.

Sportsmen and shore residents have be-
gun to rescue scores of the waterfowl along
shore. The birds have been washed up in
a starving condition, their oil—soaked feath-
ers making it impossible for them to fly
or to dive and secure food.

This oil, we are glad to say, was not de-
liberately discharged into the water but
came to the surface from a sunken tanker.

Orange City, Florida, has been declared
a game and bird sanctuary. All the proper-
ty within the city’s limit is protected against
all forms of shooting or destroying game
or birds. Many squirrels and birds have
been fed and tamed by the citizens and
much interest awakened in animal life.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Fire on the Farm

N excellent article entitled “EXPECT

A FIRE?” appeared recently in a New
York paper written by one of our field
workers. Its purpose was to suggest to the
farmer ways by which his buildings and
livestock might be saved from fire and what
to do if a fire should occur. We quote a
few sentences:

We are thinking of barn fires. What
shall we do about them? This question we
must ask ourselves with desperate earnest-
ness. In good barns, on good farms, aw-
ful things have happened. Whose turn
will come next? What can be done to pre-
vent a barn fire?

NO SMOKING IN BARN OR
BARNYARD!

This sign posted up conspicuously, and
faithfully lived up to by everybody, from
the master of the farm down, will cut down
the fire risk immensely.

The feed alleys should be kept clear of
all litter of hay, straw, shavings or any
other inflammable material. This in itself
would cut out 50 per cent of barn fires.

Two buckets of water, never emptied, al—
ways kept full, should always be hung in-
side the stable, ready for instant use. This
would stop many a fire in the first few
minutes.

But what if the fire starts? How can
the helpless live creatures imprisoned with-
in, be rescued? All other losses are as
nothing compared to their agony.

Every farm house is a fire department.
Every person in it, old enough to help,
should have a definite plan for the rescue
of all the stock in case of fire, and should
practice that plan over and over so as to
carry it out with the greatest speed and
efficiency.

How quickly could we clear the barn? Is
there more than one door? There should
be.

A very sharp knife always in its place
by the kitchen door will be useful, in case
of actual fire, to cut halters when there
may be no time to untie knots. Does every
member of the family know how to quickly
unfasten the stanchions and release the
cows? Not merely know how, but be auto-
matically familiar with operating them?

A Cruel Process

Pate de fois gras is the French name of
a table delicacy made from the livers of
geese. It is regarded in high favor by the
epicure, but what is not commonly known
about it is the cruel treatment to which the
geese are subjected in the preparation of
this food. The bird is closely conﬁned, it
is said, fastened to some sort of platform
and stuffed with food until, having no ex-
ercise, a fatty enlargement of the liver
takes place. When this treatment has been.
carried to the extreme limit the bird is des-
troyed and the abnormally fat liver prepar-
ed for the market. So is this unfortunate
creature subjected to this wholly unneces-
sary suffering to secure this so—called lux-
ury for the gourmand’s table.

Be kind to animals three hundred and six-
ty-six days in 1936.

Jan. 1936
Mark Twain the Hunter?

HE anniversary of the birth of Amer-

ica’s much loved and honored Mark
Twain a hundred years ago, November 80,
1935, was widely celebrated. What did he
think about animals? This is what he puts
into the mouth of Huckleberry Firm: “The
moment Tom begun to talk about birds 1
judged he was a goner, because Jim knowed
more about birds than both of us put to-
gether. You see, he had killed hundreds
and hundreds of them, and that’s the way
to ﬁnd out about birds. That’s the way
that people does that writes books about
birds, and loves them so that they’ll go
hungry and tired and take any amount of
trouble to ﬁnd a new bird and kill it. Their
name is ornithologers, and I could a been
an ornithologer myself, because I always
loved birds and creatures—and I started
out to learn how to be one and I see a
bird sitting on a dead limb of a tree, sing-
ing, with his head tilted back and his mouth
open, and before I thought I ﬁred, and his
song stopped, and he fell straight down
from the limb, all limp like a rag, and I rur.
and picked him up, and he was dead, and
his body was warm in my hand, and his
head rolled about, this way and that, like
his neck was broken, and there was a white
skin over his eyes, and one little drop of
blood on the side of his head, and laws! I
couldn’t see nothing more for the tears; and
I hain’t ever murdered no creature since
that warn’t doing me no harm, and I ain’t
going to.”

How the Robin Gets
His Worm

As observed by J. M. Brennan in General
Grant National Park and recorded in The
Western Tanager, organ of the Los An-
geles Audubon Society.

Now, if you bird-lovers will observe the
robin in the act of locating his worm, you
will notice during the time he makes his
run the entire body is thoroughly relaxed.
the head is dropped back within the shoul-
ders, and the feathers are all loose. He sud-
denly stops, and now he becomes all atten-
tion—rigid, taut, his head erect, all feath-
ers flat, stiffened legs and tail always
touching, as do both his limbs, the ground.
Now, my theory is that while the Red
Breast is standing thus his faculty of feel-
ing and not of hearing is brought into full
and complete play. Observer, please note
his head is raised from the ground and not
lowered as would be natural if he was
making use of hearing the earth movements
of the worm beneath his feet.

The position he takes gives strength to
my theory that the worm is located by
“Bone Induction,” induced by earth vibra-
tions caused by the moving worm. The
robin drills, and, like the Canadian Mounty.
rarely fails to get his man.

Ahumane boycott of all vicious and dis-
creditable shows, featuring animal acts, was
long ago suggested and urged by the Jack
London Club. Send to headquarters, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, for detailed in-
formation about it.

 

 




 

 

 

 

May, 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Not All Sparrows Arc English

have loved the common people because
he made so many of them. And I am
wondering if the same cannot be said of the
sparrow, since there are so many of them.
Then, too, the Bible says something about

H IN COLN once said that the Lord must

 

ENGLISH SPARROW

not even a sparrow falling without the
Father’s notice.

The name sparrow more than likely sug-
gests to you the little, common fellow which
is seen in such great numbers in all regions
of the country and in nearly all lands, pick-
ing in the streets—the English sparrow.

But all sparrows are not of this kind,
and some you might wonder that they are
called sparrows at all, they seem so dif-
ferent.

The English sparrow just mentioned and
so well known is common almost every-
where. There are more of this kind than
any other bird. It remains close to man,
and where there are no inhabitants this
sparrow does not stay; he refuses to remain
alone. The bird is the only one that many
children of cities, especially New York,
have ever seen. It is the only bird that
likes a congested condition of living, almost
all other birds desiring a quiet, man-free
abode.

A story is told of a man who once put a.
sparrow egg in the nest of the sparrow’s
cousin, the canary. When the egg hatched
the bird learned the songs of the canary
and sang with enthusiasm. But, one day
when the door of the cage came open, the
sparrow escaped and was lost to his owner.
Months later a sparrow with a broken wing
was found by a little girl and taken home.
One day, when it was well again, the
sparrow broke out in a beautiful canary
song. The family was greatly surprised
and a newspaper carried the story. The
original owner read the story and, in court,
proved his ownership and took the bird
back.

The English sparrow is a native of

 

BENNETT B. SMITH

Europe. In 1850 several pairs were brought
over to the United States. These died,
but later over a thousand were released in
Philadelphia. In 1864 twenty—eight birds
were taken to Topeka, Kansas, where only
ﬁve survived and they were released. From
these importations the country has been
densely populated with the English spar—
row. Many have been found in Utah and
have been destructive to the weevil of
alfalfa.

But all sparrows have not had the career
that the one from England has had. There
are others less well known.

The song sparrow is another of this fam—
ily that is abundant. It is a hardy bird
and often remains in the north during the
winter, although many go south. The song,
which resembles the canary’s, is very musi-
cal and pleasing. Although this bird may
be found around houses, he prefers bushes,
vines, and hedges and here he builds his
nest, but, if these are not found suitable, he
may build on the ground.

It has been observed by naturalists that

 

SONG SPARROW

the song sparrow does not sing so enthus-
iastically when he goes south for the win-
ter but renews his efforts on returning
north again. This appears to be a charac—
teristic of the songbirds — reserving their
musical efforts for their summer homes and
while nesting.

The vesper sparrow gets its name from
the habit of beginning its song as evening
comes on, a song that resembles that of the
song sparrow. The two birds are similar.
The vesper is a shy fellow and likes to in-
habit roadsides and dry pastures and here
builds his nest of coarse reeds and lines it
with grasses and hairs.

The vesper sparrow is an insect eater
and is especially fond of grasshoppers and
beetles, as well as cutworms and army
worms. He is a great asset to the farmer
and should be well protected for the good he

does.

One of the best known and best loved
sparrows is the chippy or chipping. His
name comes from the familiar little “chip,
chip, chip,” so pleasant to hear. He is a
companionable bird and builds his nest in
vines or shrubs around porches, provided he
is not molested. His appearance is similar
to the tree sparrow.

The inexperienced may confuse another
sparrow—the field—with the chipping or
even the tree sparrow. There are some dis-
tinguishing marks, however, as the white
breast and white stripe over each eye of the
chipping sparrow, the dark spot in the
breast of the tree sparrow, and the red col—
ored bill and plain breast of the ﬁeld spar-
row. The field sparrow appears to like
heat for, no matter how hot or dry the sur-
roundings, he lives happily. Dry fields or
burned—over ground are favorites of this
bird. The nest which is a weak affair is
placed in weeds or bushes or even on the
ground.

Many other sparrows, more or less simi—
lar and worthy, could be mentioned, but one
more must have attention. This is the
white-throated sparrow. Although this
bird is plentiful, to many he is known only
by his song because he likes best to remain
near a woods and feed in the underbrush or
leaves. The white—throat is rated as the
best singer and the most beautifulof all
the sparrow family. Laws have been passed
in some states protecting this bird be:
cause of his value in eating many weed
seeds. He is always busy on the ground
and is often seen with song sparrows and
juncos. ,

There are other sparrows—the savanna,
a quiet retiring bird; the grasshopper, so
named because of the insect—like tone of its
voice; the seaside; the fox; and others. And
how different and how far removed from the
little chattering English sparrows, so com-
mon, yet they are a part of the same family.

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHIPPING SPARROW

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1936

discovery. For Nan-nook goes noiselessly
and his coat blends with the landscape.
When he comes close enough to see the men
and dogs moving about he supposes them to
be some particularly noisy variety of fox
or gull; for it never occurs to him that he
has anything to fear on the sea ice.

At night, the bear similarly approaches
the sleeping camp. He thinks that the forms
of the tethered dogs, sleeping on the snow,
are the dead seals he has winded. But sud-
denly a dog gives some sign of life or move-
ment. “These seals must be alive after
all,” decides Nan—nook. Now he drops to
his stomach and begins to stalk the sleeping
“seals” carefully. Occasionally he is suc—
cessful, seizing and killing a dog before he
realizes that it isn’t a seal. But usually
the dogs catch wind or sight of him and
put up a great clamor. “Wrong again,”
thinks Nan—nook. “These are only some
noisy kind of fox or gull.” And he resumes
his walking approach, but now the men are
awake and wait the moment for a shot
behind the heart.

Yet sometimes Nan-nook really takes the
camp by surprise. It is not pleasant to hear
a thousand pounds of white—skinned dyna-
mite climbing over the snow—house, which
suddenly seems to the excited imagination
no stronger than an egg—shell. But like
that farm—yard product the igloo will bear
surprising weight, though breaking easily
under a sharp blow. Fortunately Nan—nook
has no suspicion that a lazy swoop of his
trip—hammer paw would send him down a—
mong the inviting smells of the iglOo, which
would be embarrassing to his hosts whose
rifles are probably resting against the wall
outside.

This monarch of the polar ice fields, un-
like his black cousin of more temperate
climes, does not become very friendly with
man. In zoos the polar bears are regarded
as among the more dangerous inmates. Of-
ten northern travelers have taken the cubs
of dead or missing bears, though the little
chaps fight manfully against capture. In
a few recorded cases very young bears have
become tame enough to accompany their hu-
man captors about. But they remain far
from domesticated and reduce to a sham-
bles the interior of any dwelling whose walls
attempt to confine them. If allowed their
freedom they soon hear the call of the wild
and desert the haunts of men.

In the full freedom of his natural home,
Nan—nook-suah is in truth a noble beast,
and seldom dangerous to man when unmo—
lested. He should be killed only in cases
of necessity, for though still fairly common
in some regions, his numbers are dwindling.

Feeding Gulls at Plymouth

E. HARRIETT DONLEVY

INTER blocked the harbor of Ply-
mouth, Mass., for many weeks last
winter, and above the ice and pitiless cold
winds, the sea—gulls soared, screaming their
hunger to the sky. Finally they were driven
from the shore to the inland where there
were small homes and bits of food in back-
yards.
On those zero mornings the air would be
dark with their ﬂapping wings as they
soared inland, and at intervals, their lead-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 53

The Fatal Oil Pollution

 

TANKERS

Photo from Boston Global”
OFFICER HAROLD G. ANDREWS OF THE MASSACHU—
SETTS S. P. C. A. WITH DEAD WATERFOWL, PICKED
UP WITHIN A SHORT WALK ALONG A CAPE COD
BEACH, KILLED BY THE OIL DISCHARGED
FROM OIL-BURNING SHIPS AND

......................................................... .—

Mr. Andrews says
that the Coast Guard
people told him that
there are thousands of
ducks that are dying
t h i s horrible death,
that most of them seem
to be washed in with
the tide and are dead.
Then the sand covers
them up so it would be
impossible to tell the
total number. “You
could stop anywhere,”
he continues, “and in
no time gather as
many dead ducks as
you pleased. We pick—
ed up some forty in a
few minutes and these
in the picture are a
few of them. We saw
only three that were
alive. It surely is an
appalling sight to see
these ﬁne birds of all
species lined along
these shores and then
to think of the suﬁer—
ing they must have
gone through before
death came.”

The ﬁshing industry
in this and other coun—
tries is also affected by
.. this discharged oil
washing the shores of
the rivers and seas.

One wonders how
long before federal and
state action will be
taken to stop this dis-
tressing situation.

 

 

 

er would swoop down to investigate food
conditions. Loving their sea and lonely
shores, only extreme cold would have sent
the birds where there were people, and
where boys with guns lived. But here was
food, scraps of bread, and they were des-
perately hungry. Into the night sometimes
they would cry, as like an invading army
they came. People in the town complained,
but did nothing to help them.

In a small gray house not far from the
harbor, one woman heard their pleas, and
she understood. An artist, in her kitchen-
studio, was deeply moved by the torment
of those cries. She had lived in the little
harbor town for many years, and always
fed the birds, but this Winter was unusual-
ly severe.

She put down her brushes, sealed her
paints for the time, and went first to the
bakery shop, bought pounds upon pounds
of stale bread and cake; went to the gran—
ary for meal and to the meat market for
as many pounds of suet as the astonished
butcher could supply. It wasn’t long before
she was back in her kitchen, her overshoes
still on, mixing meal and suet cakes in
great quantities, baking it quickly because
the cries outside had grown imperative.

The gulls hovered over her garden,

finishing the cake crumbs, sensing that
more was coming and that there was friend-
liness in this house. Ten minutes later, this
benefactor was standing in her yard, di-
viding her meal cakes with the birds whose
greedy beaks snapped them with relish.

The next morning they were back, and
their friend had not failed them. Great,
lean, gray birds—they were quick to under-
stand this woman’s kindness. They brought
back their families and friends, until after
a week, the artist was forced to spend her
entire morning getting their food ready, and
all her money for her loved paints and art
materials was turned over to their more
important need. It was sheer hard
work, planning so huge a daily fare, but
she loved it, and minded not the responsi—
bility their trust had placed upon her.

Until the harbor finally was broken up
in February by a tug, the gulls paid their
morning visit to their friend calling her
out with their haunting cries. Then they
crossed their names from her welfare list
and went back to foraging the shores for
whatever food would be there, carrying on
their service to man.

They will not forget their meal cakes and
suet, and the kindness of the woman who
understood them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

_. 1. Lung Aw‘

Page 78

@119 Z‘ianh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, speclal Band, of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and seventy-nine new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
March. Of these 261 were in Illinois, 186
in Texas, 121 in Georgia, 97 in Massachu—
setts, 96 in Florida, 67 in South Carolina,
22 in Pennsylvania, 12 in Virginia, 5 each
in California and Tennessee, 2 in Oregon,
and 1 each in British West Indies, North
Carolina, New Hampshire, Oklahoma and
Syria.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
zed by Parent American Society, 216,216.

 

 

ANIMATED AND ALERT

 

For the Lawyers

“Pardon me,” said the stranger, “are you
a resident here?”

“Yes,” was the answer. “I’ve been here
goin’ on ﬁfty years. What kin I do for
you?”

“I am looking for a criminal lawyer,” said
the stranger. “Have you any here?”

“Well,” said the other, “we’re pretty sure
we have, but we can’t prove it.”

Troy (N. Y.) Record

Deer in Alaska, exclusive of domesticated
reindeer, number approximately 42,500.
Bears are set at 10,700, moose 520, moun—
tain goats 8,300, mountain sheep 1,525.

It is estimated that there are 8,500,000
dog owners in America who represent a ca-
nme investment of $500,000,000. Surely this
must go far towards proving that the dog
is man’s best friend.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aristocrat
MARY WARD

Right royally you 'wear your furs,
While your unconscious ego 'pu‘rrs.
From out the dusk your starry eyes
In candle—light blink their surprise.
With graceful motions ever ﬂeet
You pirouette on dancing feet.

You are a small aristocrat——

My dainty little Persian cat.

“Pockets”

GENEVIEVE V. HUNT

HAVE always been fond of animals, but

never relished the idea of having a white
rat for a pet. One afternoon, however,
when Paul came dashing home from school
with a bulge in his blouse pocket, I took
one peek and instantly lost my heart to the
pink—eyed baby rat that was cuddled in—
side.

Instead of being repulsive looking as I
imagined it would be, the tiny creature was
as white and soft as a downy new powder
puff.

That was over a year ago, and since then
“Pockets,” as we have named him, has de-
veloped into a handsome big fellow with a
friendly disposition that has captivated the
whole family.

Whenever we have company, Pockets
likes to show off by doing tricks. One of
them is to walk a tight stretched wire. As
a circus performer uses a parasol or pole to
balance himself, he uses his long, strong
tail. When he comes to the end of the wire
he sits up very straight and waits to be
petted.

He is rather fussy about his bed and has
his own particular style of making it. First
he tears rags into small bits with his sharp
teeth, until they are as fluffy as feathers.
Then he forms them into a round nest, and
kneads them into place with his paws. Dur-
ing this process he stops a number of times
to try out the bed. When it is completed
to his satisfaction, he carefully washes him-
self, then curls up for a much deserved rest.

I was under the impression that the only
sound made by white rats was a disagree-
able squeak. Imagine my surprise, one day,
when I heard a musical, cooing sound flow-
ing from our pet’s throat. I have since dis—
covered that he sings whenever he is espec—
ially pleased about something.

Pockets is a glutton for pine nuts, and
seems to know as soon as they are brought
into the house. Standing on his hind feet
with his long whiskers combing the air, he
will beg until he is rewarded. It is inter-
esting to watch the dexterous manner in
which he nibbles off the end of the nut and
removes the kernel.

On warm, sunny days Paul often takes
Pockets out into the yard to dig in the sand-
pile, and if by chance a strange cat or dog
should happen too near, Pockets will scam-
per to Bob, our old Shepherd dog, for pro-
tection. The two animals have become
very close friends, and it is a never ending
source of attraction for the neighbors
when the white rat goes for a ride on Bob’s
back, or cuddles up close to the old dog for
a nap.

 

May, 1936

Humane Education in
the Garden

ELLA MC ELLIGOTT

OW that spring days have come, hosts

of garden enthusiasts are busy out-
doors, digging, spading, and preparing the
ground for planting. Their determined
rakes will rout from home and burrowing
place, countless worms, grubs, and insects
that have had full possession of the ground
during winter months.

Great destruction of small life goes on in
the garden yearly, some of it unnecessarily,
but it is against the manner in which
worms and insects are destroyed, that I
would particularly speak.

I have seen gardeners half kill a cater-
pillar, worm, or bug, by knocking it a care—
less blow with a stone or handy instrument,
and then leave the unfortunate creature to
wiggle in pain until merciful nature ended
its life. Others upon finding a little worm
in the patch of ground they are tending,
will cut it into a dozen pieces, with a vic-
iousness that is puzzling. Children who pull
off the wings and feet from flies and other
insects, likely may have gotten their ideas
of torment from observing a grown-up work
in the garden.

If one must kill, even though it be only
something that creeps and crawls, kill
quickly and humanely, and be certain the
tiny thing is truly dead before you cast it
aside. Remember anything that has life,
no matter what its size, has a sense of feel—
ing, and will suffer if tortured or muti-
lated.

Many of the so-called garden pests render
invaluable aid. Worms by their boring
aerate the soil, break it up and make it
more pliable. Without their ceaseless toil,
the ground would be hard-packed and life-
less, and the gardener’s efforts would bear
little fruit. Grubs, insects, and other
ground residents, ugly though they be, keep
down the crop of smaller insects, and main—
tain a balance among the countless forms
of life found in the earth.

Rather than to kill right and left with-
out thinking, one should endeavor to let
each creature have its day and go about its
business of gathering food and finding shel-
ter. The use of insecticides will keep many
insects away from flowers, and not make it
necessary constantly to keep exterminating
them. If your spade tosses up a worm, in-
stead of destroying it, why not let it find a
home in another corner of the yard away
from prized flowers?

This attitude of tenderness toward things
that crawl may sound weak and sentimen-
tal. Yet, however, if we have compassion
for dumb creatures, should it not extend to
the lowest order of life?

The gardener will discover, however, that
a sympathetic regard for the tiniest of crea-
tures, will awaken his heart to the many
wonders of nature about us, and will fill
him with a kindness and understanding that
will make his days peaceful and happy.

As we go to press, indications point to a
record—breaking celebration of Be Kind to
Animals Week this year. See our next
(June) issue for full reports.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 30
@7112 Eanh nf ﬂint};

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage. .

The American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirtv
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, spec1a1 Band, of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

1,425 New Bands of Mercy

One thousand, four hundred and twenty-
five new Bands of Mercy were reported
during December. Of these 534 were in
Illinois, 363 in Georgia, 204 in Massachu-
setts, 133 in New York, 64 in Virginia, 54
in Florida, 45 in South Carolina, 12 in
Pennsylvania, ten in Tennessee, four in Sy—
ria and one each in New Jersey and Pal-
estine.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 214,165

Christmas for the Birds

The Band of Mercy of the School Street
School, Fitchburg, Mass, set up a Christ’-
mas—tree for the birds in the school yard.
A committee decorated the tree with. strings
of food which they will renew whenever
necessary during the winter. The members
gathered around the tree at recess and sang
carols. At a special Christmas meeting of
the Band, Clifton Leupold showed suet
cakes which he had prepared for the birds
and explained how they were made. A play,
entitled “A Good Christmas,” was present-
ed by the pupils of the third grade. These
activities were carried out under the direc—
tion of the teacher, Mrs. Grace D. Proctor.

Washington’s Name

Washington is the mightiest name on
earth—long since mightiest in the cause of
civil liberty; still mightiest in moral re-
formation. On that name an eulogy is ex—
pected. It can not be. To add brightness
to the sun or glory to the name of Wash—
ington is alike impossible. Let none at—
tempt it. In solemn awe pronounce the
name and in its naked, deathless splendor
leave it shining on. A. LINCOLN

Pet and Hobby Show

The Norfolk (Nebraska) Society for Hu-
mane Education conducted the Northeast
Nebraska’s Pet and Hobby Show at the
Y. M. C. A. Building, Norfolk, on January
1, to promote among children and adults a
greater interest in, and better care of their
pets. There were many entries of various
breeds of dogs as well as of mixed breeds.
There were no charges whatever in con
nection with the show. Children’s clubs are
rapidly being organized by the Society.

That nation has not lived in vain which
has given to the world Washington and
Lincoln, the best great men and the great—
est good men whom history can show.

HENRY CABOT LODGE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dog on Mail Route

HANS P. DREYER

strange phenomenon was revealed re-

A cently in Brookfield, Missouri, when

Lee Fletcher, veteran mail carrier in the
business district, told his story.

Six years ago a white dog answering

to the name of “Jiggs” was shot by the

 

. N .- m ”I: I z

“JIGGS” AND THE MAIL CARRIER

dog catcher and left for dead on the street.
Lee Fletcher noticed that the dog was not
dead and carried it to his garage and left
it there. The dog disappeared for three
weeks. Then things began to happen. A
white dog stood on Tooey’s corner every
morning from then right on up to today,
looking down Brooks Street towards the
post office. When Lee Fletcher came with
his satchel of mail the dog started to wag
its tail and followed him on the route. It
has done so every day for the past six
years.

On Sundays and holidays Uncle Sam does
not carry mail, but J iggs, the mail—carrying
dog, does not understand this, so he stands
on Tooey’s corner all day long on Sundays
and holidays and waits for Lee Fletcher,
the mail carrier, who does not come.

Rain or shine, snow or clear weather, the
little white dog stands on the corner at 8
o’clock every morning, turning its head and
looking down towards the post office. When
Lee comes, the dog nonchalantly starts out
and follows him over the entire route.

Some of the wise ones ask, if anything
happens to Lee, the veteran, what will the
faithful dog do?

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

F%5.1936
WhyNot a “Dog” Party?

ALICE B. PALMER

HE winter season brings suggestions

for many interesting indoor entertain—
ments. You will wish to add this fascinat-
ing “Dog” party to your list.

Have the rooms in your home in festive
decoration for the occasion, to furnish a
real “doggie” atmosphere. Ask your guests
to bring pictures of dogs also, to be added
to your clever display of “man’s best
friend.”

Dogs of all sizes, colors and pedigrees in
china, wood and paper must be in evidence
throughout the house. It will be jolly good
fun to take plenty of time in your selec-
tion of these pleasure producing items. An-
ticipation of the event will prove to be quite
as interesting as the party itself.

Guests are given numbered tallies upon
which appear dog silhouettes, and for each
event on the program of entertainment,
partners are secured. For the amusement
of all, each is given the name of a dog to
which he answers throughout the evening.

Now for the games: The first one is a
dog hunt in which miniature dogs are found
hidden throughout the home. These may
be made of candy or cut from cardboard
and placed in every conceivable nook and
corner. The one locating the greatest num—
ber of dogs is awarded a prize of a beau-
tiful china dog.

Then there is a drawing contest which
gives the guests an opportunity to try their
skill in the art of animal designing. This,
too, calls for prizes and keys up the party
with hilarious laughter.

Still another game is that of passing pic—
tures of various kinds of dogs around the
circle, the guests being required to name
them as to family. This game is instruc-
tive as well as interesting and creates much
pleasure for both young and old.

Luncheon for your dog party is later en-
joyed at small tables which are appointed
in a color ensemble of red, black and white.
Each table is centered ’with a red taper
tied with white tulle and supported in a
black candlestick. White paper napkins
are adorned with dog designs and place
cards are inscribed with the “doggie”
names of the guests. Miniature dogs of
chocolate are the favors found at each
place. Instead of the usual luncheon cloth,
parchment doilies of “doggie” pictures cen-
ter the table with duplicates at each place.

At the close of the evening, when all are
delightfully fatigued from the romping,
each guest is required to relate a true dog
story, either of his own experience or that
of another. This is a pleasant conclu—
sion to your dog party as all are ready and
willing to relax in earnest contemplation of
the mental treat in store for them.

As this feature comes to a close and the
guests are ready to depart, you still have
another surprise for them at the door. The
host or hostess of the evening, is dressed to
represent a dog, having donned fur coat
and dog—mask. He reaches out a great
friendly paw (fur glove) to bid them one
by one, farewell. This final sentiment,
causing much excitement, creates an echo
of laughter in the distance and proclaims
your 1936 “Dog” party a huge success.

 




 

Feb.,1936 OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

  
     

 

 

 

 

 

. 5 f\— l I 451*
mm W — /t/, , *3. /'
\w ' \K\ '
‘ $§ ‘ .- a-..

A Lesson in Living from Diana

CARROLL VAN COURT

(We call our little black kitten “Diana the Huntress,” because she
can hunt out a mouse or a cozy place to sleep and relax with
equal ingenuity.)

See her slowly stretch her legs,
Letting out her claws;

Clo-ordination superﬁne,
Knowing Nature’s laws.

Now she turns her tiny neck,
Pretty as a queen;

Gracefully she stretches out,
Dignified, serene.

Ah, what balance, skill and grace,
In that form so pretty;

It’s an interesting sight,
When I wake up Kitty!

We can learn a bit of life
By her demonstration;

Kitty shows she really knows
The Art of Relaxation.

The Star of Yesterday

TOM ROONEY

HE North Shore district of Metropolitan Chicago is grow-

ing familiar with little Maurice Murphy, son of George
Murphy, Highwood, Illinois, and his sturdy pony, “Lazybones,”
and to see them loping along the busy highway, with smiling
motorists slowing down to pass by, one is impressed with the
picture they present.

There is strong contrast in the ages of Maurice and his
charger, but the graveness of the latter is perhaps not engen-
dered by time alone. No doubt the old fellow realizes the re-
sponsibility that is his. Or can it be that he is expressing
mute and solemn gratitude to the world for his recent libera—
tion from a cruel existence? Perhaps his memory often pa—
rades over a score of years, years replete with travel and the
torturous adevnture of circus life, wherein animals were often
mistreated in order to learn the stunts which thrilled the vast
audiences of the “big top.” Even today, when the national
anthem is played, this little horse will sit down and raise his
right hoof in salute. He has not forgotten the trick taught
to him during the World War, when he played before crowds
of doughboys in Europe. He must still recall the stinging
lashes from the trainer’s whip which came frequently with
promiscuous punctuation of boisterous curses. It was Maur-
ice’s big sister, Evelyn, who procured “Lazybones” for her
brother. A tall man with dazzling vest ornaments and a five-
gallon sombrero toyed with his whip and spat thoughtfully in
the sawdust. “‘Lazybones’ ain’t worth anything for turns
any more,” said the circus gentleman. “Too slow. Kind 0’
lost his nerve, too. But he’s still a good little hoss for lots 0’
things. I sort 0’ hate to sell him.”

There have been swifter mounts than “Lazybones,” but none
more dignified, intelligent, or friendly. He can prance like
the steed of Galahad, whinny at his children friends with the
alluring cadence of a merry laugh. He can play hide-and-seek
with all the enthusiasm of a small boy on a Friday evening,
when school is out and the lessons of Monday are far, far away.

   
    

\—
—
-

MWMWIJZE ﬂ”; ~\ r ,é/W,_ .ﬁ
‘ J as M \\ »

 

 

GEORGE MURPHY MOUNTED ON “LAZYBONES”

 

Crickets as Thermometers
NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

ID you know that tree crickets are good and true ther-

mometers? Those who have noted their chirping care-
fully have found it to be an excellent guide as to tempera—
ture. When this is high they chirp fast; as it falls the
chirping gets slower and slower. When the temperature gage
is fifty degrees Fahrenheit the crickets make no sound at
all.

The effect of the temperature on the singing propensities
of these little pale green creatures with the gauze—like wings
is so definite that even the degree of temperature they regis—
ter can be found by following this formula which is vouched
for by scientists: Let N represent the number of chirps per
second. Add forty to this number, and the result will be the
Fahrenheit temperature, within a degree or two invariably.

When the crickets sing again in summer and early fall be
sure to make this test for yourself—you who have the fine
privilege of having crickets for near companions.

Answers to missing “Hidden Animals” puzzle last month:
Caribou, panther, elephant, rabbit, horse, bison, beaver, ante-
lope, baboon.

 

 

 




 

 

Jan. 1936

I

§\

\\

/
IN
1%
t:

":3 . i

\E‘: .

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-—-MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. T'Hos. H.
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, T‘reas.

CAS-

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—

MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers. . 11,670

Cases investigated ............... 443
Animals examined ............... 8,210
Animals placed in homes .......... 126
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 47
Number of prosecutions ........... 2
Number of convictions ........... 2
Horses taken from work .......... 17
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 37

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,389
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 68,885
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 18

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the Wills of Florence B. Pet-
tee of Newton and Editha C. Bagnall of
Springfield.

December 10, 1935.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

PEPEFF
rowsmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 909 Cases 2,532
Dogs 660 Dogs 2,047
Cats 240 Cats 452
Birds 5 Birds 22
Monkeys 2 Horses 6
Horse 1 Squirrels 2
Rabbit 1 Rabbit 1
Monkey 1
Mouse 1

Operations 991

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 .................... 134,392
Dispensary Cases .............. 322,263
TOtal ................. ' 456,655

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 136
Cases entered in Dispensary ,,,,,,,, 399
Operations .................... 191

American Film Institute

HE American Council on Education,

744 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C.,
has in View the establishment of the Ameri-
can Film Institute. To this end an exhaus—
tive study of the situation has been made,
conferences have been held, and elaborate
questionnaires sent out. A survey of all
educational motion pictures is being made
jointly by the U. S. Office of Education.
and the Council. More than 10,000 film
catalogue cards have been mailed to 1,800
sources of films in this country. It is ar-
dently hoped that all who are producing or
distributing educational films will co—oper—
ate to the fullest extent. This applies to
all Humane Societies which have films that
are available and suitable for general ex-
hibition. All interested in additional par-
ticulars should write to the Council at the
address in Washington given above.

A Boston psychologist says man is the
only creature that makes plans for the fu—
ture. On the other hand, beavers, squirl
rels and honey-bees may not use much im—
agination, but their plans work out a lot
better than most of ours do.

—Kansas City Star

Please remember the Massachusetts Soci-
ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
of Boston, when making your will.

 

Page 9

Another Animal Shelter

SHELTER for small animals was es-

tablished by the Massachusetts Socie-
ty for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in Attleboro, November 14. The formal
opening marked the presence of over a hun-
dred guests, including officials of the So-
ciety at Boston, local patronesses and other
interested Visitors. Following an inSpection
of the spacious residence in which modern
facilities and accommodations for the care
of stray and unwanted animals have been
provided, a tea and luncheon were served.

The new shelter will be in charge of
Charles E. Brown, recently appointed Hu—
mane Officer of the Society for Bristol
County. In a brief address to the gather-
ing President Rowley expressed his grati-
tude to the Bristol County public and press
for their co—operation and his gratiﬁcation
at securing the services of Mr. Brown as 10-
cal representative and officer. He said the
purpose of the Attleboro headquarters was
twofold; first, to have a place to which all
complaints as to any form of Cruelty or neg-
lect might come for investigation, and,
secondly, to provide a place to care for all
unwanted and abandoned animals, finding
homes for such whenever possible, or merci-
fully disposing of the others.

Similar shelters are now maintained by
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals at Pittsfield,
Springfield, Methuen, Hyannis and the
Taunton Branch of the Society.

His Infinite Variety

The cat is said to have more sounds and
tonal variations in his language than any
other animal. With these twenty or more
inflections he can express welcome, inquiry,
impatience, threat, anger, cajolery, and a
dozen additional emotions and moods. He
has a sense of humor. His independence is
sublime. He will not obey unless he wants
to. He will pretend to be stupid and to
have no idea in the world what you desire
of him. He can be haughty and cool. But
make a friend of him and he will give you
warmth and affection. Take him away from
his home and his loved ones, and he will
suffer a misery more acute than that of a
dog similarly deprived of his customary
surroundings. He may die of homesickness.

So beautifully and distinctly his own are
the characteristics of the cat that it is as-
tonishing to learn of one feline who is trail-
ing through the woods and fields under the
impression that he is a dog.

“Hap” was born nine months ago on an
isolated farm in Connecticut. Never in his
life has he looked upon a cat, for his moth-
er disappeared before he opened his eyes.
There were only two dogs, a terrier and a
spaniel, in his household, and they have
been his constant companions ever since.

Hap’s mistress swears that he tries earn-
estly to bark instead of to mew and is taken
aback and vaguely alarmed to hear himself
purring. He comes running at a whistle,
like a dog, and climbing trees is his only
catlike habit. Conscious that this is a feat
which neither of his cronies, the dogs, can
perform, he basks in a glow of superiority.

—Living Tissue

 




 

1;)2,

 

 

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AN ARIZONA GIRL AND HER PET

 

Missing “Bird” Words
ALFRED I. TOOKE

H AVE you ever noticed that the names of several birds
are used as ordinary words in regular conversation
quite often? In the following twelve sentences the “bird”
words have been left out and dashes put in their places - - - -
one dash for each letter in the missing word, which may help

you to guess them.

1. There was not enough wind to fly a - - - - so we played
ball.

2. When I went to - - - I made a home run.

3 Near our ball field great ------ hoisted girders onto

railway cars. .
4. A hobo tried to light a fire but I saw h1s match -------

and go out.

5. He scooped himself a ------ of water from a barrel on
the tracks. .

6. It was so bitter he could not ------- 1t.. .

7. He boasted he could - - - - his wares w1thout buylng a
license. .

8. You should have seen him ----- when the policeman

caught him at it.

9. He told the policeman he did it just for a - — - -.
10. Some of the railroad men gathered for a - - - - about old
times.
11. But one of them did nothing but grumble and ------
about hard times.
12. Whlel-n we got back up town Main Street was decorated
wit -------

Correct answers will be given on Children’s Page next month.

The Pretzel Man

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

PRETZEL man comes through a town I know. He drives

a nice pony in a small covered wagon. The boys and

girls like his pretzels, big soft ones, and especially so because

most of the pretzels made are hard ones and much smaller,
too.

One day after a long round of hauling the pretzel wagon
some of the boys and girls saw their pretzel man making the
pony run up a hill on the road to the man’s home.

The next time he came round they patted the pony and
then they said to his master, “We don’t want any pretzels
today.”

“And why not?” he quickly asked.
ever.”

“Yes, we believe that. But we saw you making the pony
run up a hill when you drove him home last week. We were
on a hike and saw this from across a meadow. We won’t buy
any pretzels from you any more unless you promise us to be
good to the pony all the time, and we’ll tell all our friends
not to buy any. Will you promise?” .

The pretzel man then made a very poor excuse as to why it
was necessary to get home as fast as he could that day, but
he made the promise for he knew that all those boys and girls
meant just what they said.

Ever since the pony looks as if he is getting better care and
more kindness.

These boys and girls taught this man a good' lesson and
helped to make this pony’s life easier.

At Dusk

RUTH STIRLING BAUER

“They’re better than

How lovely is a tree at dusk
Rocking a cradle-nest,

How gentle are the winds that sing
The tiny birds to rest!

How beautiful are little lambs

Within a peaceful fold, .
How kind the sky that spreads for them

Its canopy of gold!

H ow peaceful are the herds that lie .
Among the grasses deep;

How wonderful that dusk should bring
This miracle of sleep!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 
     

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH.
Kmoness, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
   
   

7
$ .
m
2';

  
     

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR NOVEMBER, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 969
Number of addresses made, 573
Number of persons in audiences, 72,515

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-
eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free

folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)

The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..................................

Age

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

a o
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Flight of Bees

N unladen honey—bee can fly about 25

miles per hour, according to reliable
authorities, but seldom makes over 15 miles
when heavily loaded. When carrying a
wad of nectar and pollen it often flies as
fast as when it has no load, but at times
it stops to rest when on a long trip. I have
Often observed bees doing this when coming
in well loaded Where they fly over rivers,
lakes or larger bodies of water, they some-
times become exhausted and are forced to
alight in the water only to be overcome and
drowned.

A heavy—laden bee often makes an awk-
ward landing in reaching its home. It may
bump into its hive from being tired or fall
to the ground near it and rest awhile be—
fore completing the journey. The amount
of nectar each bee brings to the hive may
vary in weight but has been computed at
different times to be very nearly one-half
of the bee’s weight when without its load.
Of course, the age of the bee has a great
deal to do with its ability to accomplish
these tasks. The old and badly worn bees
are usually lost on their last trip for sup-
plies, never reaching their home again after
their last flight.

An honest to goodness beekeeper never
injures or kills a bee needlessly. We all
should appreciate this wonderful, marvel—
ous gift of the Creator; care for it, and aid
it in its labors in all ways possible.

WILLIAM E. OREM, in Beekeepers Item

Death of Miss Olney

Miss Elizabeth W. Olney, executive di-
rector of the Rhode Island Humane Educa-
tion Society, Providence, died in that city
November 12 last. Miss Olney was an Out-
standing humane education worker, having
been connnected with the Rhode Island SO-
ciety since its founding by Miss Sarah J.
Eddy in 1904. Thousands of school chil-
dren in that state have listened to Miss 01-
ney’s inspiring talks on kindness to ani-
mals. She organized the Rhode Island
branch of the Band of Mercy, and increased
the scope of the work by forming Junior
Humane Leagues and conducting confer-
ences of delegates from the various units
which were held in her office. She will
be recalled as the efficient hostess of the
1917 National Humane Convention which
was held in Providence. Not only did Miss
Olney attend to the office work of her or-
ganization, and speak frequently in the
schools, but she was responsible for raising
much of the money required to carry on
the work. She will be greatly missed both
in the Society with which she was so close-
1y identified and in the wider counsels of
humane workers throughout the country.

Mrs. Edwin D. Lewis

Just as we go to press word comes of the
death, in Philadelphia, of Mrs. Edwin 0.
Lewis, late president of the Women’s Penn-
sylvania S. P. C. A. The funeral was held
December 10 last. Our sincere sympathy
is extended to the Society in the loss of
their leader.

Jan. 1936

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for October, 1935 — 31 Days

Daily average large animals 42.1
Forage for same $ 69.55
Daily average dogs 7.4
Forage for same 7.58
Put to sleep 45 20.31
Transportation 20.83
Wage-s, grooms, etc. 56.03
Resident secretary’s salary 131.84
Superintendent’s salary 82.40
Veterinary’s salary 29 66
Sundries 33.87
Building upkeep 45.29
$497.36

Entries: 9 horses, 11 mules, 88 donkeys.

Exits: 4 horses, 8 mules, 48 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 51 horses, 64 mules, 91 don-
keys, 2 cows, 9 dogs, 2 cats.

Report of one or two days’ work:

October 16th: From 8 A. M. to 9:30 inspected Fes
Jedid and Bou Khesissat (Mellah) and straw market
of Bab Jiaf. Inspected 7 fondouks, 210 animals,
treated 51. At Fondouk usual work of treating ani-
mals. (Hard work, as “outpatients” are numerous.)
P. M. Inspected 17 fondouks, 350 animals, treated 76,
hospitalized one donkey and one mule.

October 17th: From 7:30 A. M. to 10. Inspected
Souk el Khemis. Stayed one quarter hour at Bab
Mahrouk. Inspected 580 animals, treated 62, hospi-
talized three donkeys. Returning to the Fondouk
through Place Baghdadi, Boujeloud Garden and Bou
Touil. The Policeman of Bab Guissa sent in a donkey
to be hospitalized.

P. M. From 2:30 to 5, visited the Talaa, and the
souks Attarine. Inspected 2 stables, one of Bel Haj
and one at E1 Aioin. Returned through the new
quarter of Bou Hajjara and stayed half an hour at
Bab Jedid. Inspected some animals. Hospitalized
two lame donkeys.

SUPERINTENDENT”S NOTES: Kilometres travel-
ed, 177; Cases investigated, 386; Animals seen, 8,315;
Animals treated, 1,841; Animals transferred to Fon-
douk American, 43; Pack-saddles—infected—destroyed.
11.

SECRETARY GENERAL’S NOTES:

I send you enclosed a clipping of Courrier du
Maroc of October 22nd, with translation:

“Scandalous Brutalities.

“An inquiry has been made and sent to the Court
against a Frenchman Maumejean Jacques, living Rue

du Ravin, for having ill-treated and wounded a do-
mestic animal.”

I am happy to inform you that we have at Fes a
Magistrate of the Tribunal de lere Instance, a great
lover of animals, who—I have been told at the Com-
mlssariat—is particularly severe for the men accused
of having ill-treated their animals.

The Steel Trap Barbarity

Few people need to be told that the steel
trap is an instrument of torture—much less
those persons who, with a dog beside them,
roam the woods in the crisp Autumn days.
As if it were not enough that fur-bearers
should be caught between the cruel jaws
and left to die of hunger, thirst, or gan—
grened paws, there is the sad chapter of
pets being caught in them. We remem-
ber the case of the beautiful collie belong—
ing to Mr. C. W. Wakeman of Westport,
Conn., which actually survived after over
eight weeks of agony in a steel trap.
Weighing sixty pounds at first, Goldie
weighed fifteen pounds after fifty-five days
of suffering. And there was the hound of
Dr. M. Casper, Louisville, Ky., which got
into a steel trap twice, eventually, after
lying in it eight days, breaking the chain
and dragging herself and the trap home.
“She was nothing but skin and bones, and
ﬁnally lost the second foot.”

Unprejudiced persons will agree that the
use of the steel t1 ap is the most brutal bar-
barity in history; that it is not at all nec-
essary; that it is still condoned over a large
part of the world—a world which wishes to
do away with the war, and yet has not the
moral courage to abolish what in its es-
sence is the seed of war, i.e., cruelty.

—The Atlantic Monthly




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5!;
The Red-Shouldered Hawk

WM. F. GINGRICH

T has been a well-known fact for the
11 past ﬁfty years that the red—shouldered
hawk, instead of being a menace is a real
benefactor of mankind. Just why anyone
should have the idea that the species should
be exterminated is difﬁcult to understand.
Away back in 1893 Dr. Fisher, in Bulletin
No. 3, Division of Ornithology and Mam—
malogy, United States Department of Agri—
culture, reports that of 220 stomachs of the
red—shouldered hawk examined, only 3 con—
tained remains of poultry. Of the others,
142 contained remains of mice and other
mammals, 108 contained insects and spi—
ders, and many contained reptiles and ba-
trachians. Instead of being a marauding
pest, therefore, preying mainly upon barn«
yard fowls, it has'been shown that these
hawks are a real friend to the farmer in
preventing the undue increase of small ro—
dents and insects that are destructive to
crops.

The ﬁne bird shown in the illustration
was brought down by a shot from a Wiscon—
sin farmer’s gun. Uninjured except fora
crippled wing, the hawk was shut up in the
corn-crib and fed scraps from the table.
After several weeks the injured wing was
healed to the extent of permitting the bird
to slip out of the crib occasionally to the
barnyard where it was able to ﬂy a hun—
dred yards or so. Being quickly exhausted,
however, it was again captured without
much difﬁculty and returned to its prison.

The farmer, a well-meaning person and
kindly at heart, is at a loss to know what
to do with his captive. His good wife
would have it released forthwith. But this
might mean disaster. Unless the hawk’s
physical condition is such that the bird can
successfully compete in the struggle for ex-
istence, to turn it loose would be to invite
certain misfortune, for sudden and tragic
death is the fate of wild creatures which by
reason of injury or old age become in-
capacitated.

 

“A REAL BENEFACTOR OF MANKIND”

OUR DUMB ANIllIALS

It is to be hoped that all states which do
not already have laws protecting the red-
shouldered hawk, will enact such legislation
in the near future, and that the habits of
this magniﬁcent bird will be so universally
understood that it will be permitted to con-
tinue its existence unmolested.

Animals Aided in Flood

Heavy rainfall throughout California in
February resulted in many flooded areas in
the state’s interior valleys. Many animals
which were imperiled by the ﬂood waters in
the valley country surrounding Sacramento
were to receive immediate aid, according to
Matthew McCurrie, secretary-manager of
the San Francisco Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. Hearing of the
plight of many animals which were
mar-ooned on small islands with no chance
of escaping, McCurrie got in immediate
telephonic communication with H. J. Win-
ters, executive humane ofﬁcer of the Sacra-
mento County S. P. C. A., offering full co-
operation and ﬁnancial aid.

Winters reported that investigation
would start immediately, and that boats and
other equipment would be prepared to make
the rescues that were needed.

Leonardo’s Tenderness

In his essay on Leonardo da Vinci, the
great Italian artist, Walter Pater writes:
“In his youth fascinating all men by his
beauty, improvising music and songs, buy-
ing the caged birds and setting them free,
as he walked the streets of Florence, fond
of odd bright dresses and spirited horses.”

Jenny Wren
NETTIE RAMSEY

What a happy song you sing,
Jenny Wren
What a joyous jargoning!
Tunes so quaint and sweet and clear
Falling softly on the ear,
Fill my heart with rapture, dear
Jenny Wren!

Such a cheery, jolly air,
Jenny Wren!

Melody beyond compare,

Echoing so blithe and gay

All the bright and sunny day,

Charming every care away,
Jenny Wren.

Little, flitting, fairy thing,
Jenny Wren!

How a bird so small can bring

Such a wealth of happiness

Is beyond my power to guess!

Sing, sing on, our hearts to bless,
Jenny Wren!

Would that I might sing like you,
Jenny Wren,

Precious songs so rare and true;

Would that I the joy might spread,

All the cheer and gladness shed,

That call blessings on your head,
Jenny Wren!

Apr. 1936

Little Brown Bat

WALTER A. DYER

AST fall, when I was raking leaves, I

came upon the dead body of a little
bat. His legs and wings were wrapped so
tightly about him that at first I failed to
recognize what sort of creature he was. 1
found no sign of injury, so I assumed that
he had died from natural causes, as of
course must be the case with many animals.
Bats, I fancy, are not much sought for food
even by owls. Rather too spiney a morsel,
I should say.

I examined him as well as I could, but
his legs had become stiffened and his rub-
bery wings had lost their elasticity. His
night—seeing eyes were closed.

“Poor little chap,” I said, “nobody loves
you.”

I recalled an incident that had happened
in my house a few months before. A ter—
rified lady guest came running. to tell me
that there was a bat flying about inside.
She refused to re-enter the house until as—
sured that the intruder had been killed or
ejected. When I asked her what harm she
thought a bat could do she was unable to
tell me, except that she was sure they had
a horrid taste for entangling themselves in
ladies’ hair. I believe, too, that she thought
they must be venomous.

Why is it, I asked myself, that people
are afraid of bats? Why do they wish to
kill bats, as so many of them wish to kill
snakes? There must be some reason.

In the first place, bats bear some slight
resemblance to rats, and nobody loves a rat.
Their appearance at twilight is so unher—
alded and their flight is so eerie. From
childhood we have been accustomed to as—
sociate them with goblins and witches. Sa-
tan has been depicted with bat—like wings.
They are night creatures, like the banshees,
and they haunt us in the dark 0’ the moon.
And, finally, I suppose we somehow asso—
ciate them with horrible tales of vampires
who suck the blood of babies in their sleep.

Of course that is all folk—lore, the sort
of thing the old—fashioned nurse used to
tell to children to frighten them into obedi-
ence. We ought to know better in this en-
lightened age. The bat is as harmless as
the whip—poor—will and far less disturbing.

The one in my house that terrified our
guest was at last cornered in the front hall.
He clung, to the wall high up toward the
ceiling, his webbed legs spread wide. I
wanted to catch him for reasons of my own,
but he was too wary for me. I could see
his little curved claws and his bright,
watchful eyes, his impish head, big ears,
and wide mouth. I had left the front door
wide open and at last he darted through
and was gone.

If people would take the trouble to learn
more about bats I am sure their fears and
their desire to kill would vanish. Bats are
among the most interesting of our small
mammals, in both their habits and their
anatomy. Their fore—legs are much elon-
gated, especially the fingers, and a thin,
elastic membrane is stretched over the
slender framework of the limbs and is
joined to the sides of the body, forming the
wings. They are peculiar also in having
their hind legs twisted about in such a way

 




 

Apr. 1936

that the knees bend backward. This makes
it difficult for them to walk, but on the
wing they are sure and graceful.

Bats are insectivorous and are closely re-
lated to the moles and shrews. Because
of the large numbers of mosquitoes and
other insects that they devour, they are,
like the toad, good friends to man. They are
nocturnal in their habits and spend most
of the daylight hours in sleep, hanging head
downward in some darkened recess. In
winter they hibernate. Their voices are
high pitched and squeaking and are not
often heard unless they are frightened or
annoyed. The young of our common species
are born in July, two in each litter, and
they are often carried about by their moth-
er, clinging to her neck as she flies. The
commonest variety in the United States is
the little brown bat, which is about three
and one-half inches long, with glossy brown
fur on the back, paler underneath.

In seeking a few scientific facts about
this little bat which had interested me so
much, I consulted “American Animals,” by
Witmer Stone and William Everett Cram,
and there I found one of the most charm—
ing little stories of animal observation that
I have ever read. It is ﬁlled with the ten-
derness of the true animal lover for what
is small and helpless and alive. I wish
everyone might read it.

“Bats,” say these writers, “are the most
gentle and friendly of living things. Not
only do they seek out the shelter of our
buildings and pass much the longer portion
of their lives there, but on hot summer
nights, when they are all flying abroad,
they actually seem fond of our society and
flutter unafraid around us, just as swal—
lows do in the sunshine.”

No, milady, bats are not trying to en-
tangle themselves in your hair. They do
not bite; they are not venomous. They do
not suck blood. They do not accompany
witches on broomsticks bent on evil deeds.
Forget all that foolishness and never ask

me to kill one of the harmless, helpless lit-
tle things.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application,

F.

   

FOREST FIRE RACING IN WESTERN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Helping the Birds to Build

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

F you want birds around the home, trees
and shrubbery must be provided; and
the more there are of these, the more birds
you will have. If there are projecting win—
dow caps upon which the robins insist on
building, a sheltered shelf in a near—by tree
should be oﬁered, which will probably suit
the birds better. Nest building of any kind
directly upon the house is to be discouraged
as it not only disfigures the paint but is a
source of parasites, some of which may
work inside.

When a nest is started in the rose-bush
or honeysuckle, avoid as much as possible
anything which will interrupt or discourage
the builders. There are several ways in which
material may be offered. Hair combings on
an adjoining bush are acceptable. Cotton,
down, and feathers make nice linings. Bits
of string not over one foot long will not en—
tangle the bird yet will help in weaving the
nest. The oriole especially will appreciate
them. We have caught the cedar bird, one of
the latest nest builders, tugging hard at the
tow strings used in fastening bean poles
together. One year we hung strips of gray,
white, and blue cloth on a clothesline, and
were surprised at how soon the birds found
them. They carried away first the gray,
then the white, and lastly the bright blue
ones.

Straw, the silk wrapping of insect co—
coons—whatever is nearest that is soft
and pliable seems acceptable. We have seen
the blue jay weave scraps of old news—
paper into its nest, evidently because they
were picked up near, though doubtless there
are plenty of other things which would
have proved more acceptable.

Then there is the clay lining upon which
the robin and others of the thrush family
insist. Sometimes there is no moist earth
to be obtained near the site of the nest. It
is a simple matter to furnish dirt and
moisture—a mud hole, if you choose to
call it this, not too far from the nest-build—
ing site. The pleasure in seeing the birds
speedily locate this and transfer it to the
nearly completed home repays the work.
Note how the female carefully shapes the
adobe lining, turning first one way and
then the other, to make it just the right
shape.

Page 55

Exile in Heaven
JUDY VAN DER VEER

I would still be sorrowing
For silent helpless things;
Has heaven any room for birds
With broken wings?

Pity little earth—bound beasts
That hide and run and fall;

Heaven. can’t be large enough
To hold them all.

Save Wild Life in Forests

HENRY H. GRAHAM

LL lovers of wild life have an especial

reason for guarding the world’s for-
ests. Timber fires not only raze valuable
tracts of woodland with the loss of millions
of dollars, but they burn out animal dens,
forcing the inhabitants of a region to go
elsewhere to live. They also destroy thou—
sands of the beloved creatures of the hills
every year by trapping slow-moving ani—
mals like the porcupine. The ﬂames sweep
into dens, burning newly-born animals to
death.

Birds, too, fall victims to the sweeping
red demon, licking at the Vitals of the for-
est. Fires occurring during the nesting sea—
son are especially destructive to feathered
life as the young fledglings cannot fly and
have no chance to escape. The parent birds
may scream terror to the world, but are
helpless to save their little ones against
the ﬂames that march steadily on. Hundreds
of our most beautiful and useful birds live
in the evergreen timber. Among these are
the ﬂicker and the Chickadee.

Fish, too, suffer from wilderness fires.
Lye from the leached wood ashes washes in—
to streams during the rainstorms, killing
the piscatorial inhabitants. The discolora-
tion of numerous clear brooks after heavy
rains is often attributable to the deposit of
these wood ashes.

By exercising eternal vigilance when in
the woods, by extinguishing budding fires
and by reporting to the ranger the ones
that have grown beyond one-man control,
we can all play a part in the drama of
timber conservation, which includes the
protection of wild life.

.‘4

TIMBER NEAR FORK OF FLATHEAD RIVER, GLACIER PARK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

July, 1936

“Richmond”

ELIZABETH B. THOMAS

ICHMOND” was a truckman’s horse
R back in the days when trucking
freight from the freight yards to stores and
houses was done with ponderous horses
hitched to low, four-wheeled carts locally
known as “j iggers.” Nobody knew his exact
age, but he had done the same job for three
different owners and knew the routine bet—
ter than his drivers.

The old horse probably weighed about six-
teen hundred pounds, and he was short leg-
ged, deep chested and powerful. Once he
must have been a fine looking chap but, as I
remember him, he was showing signs of
great age. A seal brown in color, with black
points, a white star and one white hind foot,
and a flowing black mane and tail. He was
very low headed, and moved his head with
a peculiar, nodding motion when he walked,
and was given to dozing when standing still
waiting for the cart to be loaded. To see him
standing drowsily in the sun, resting one
hind foot, you wouldn’t think he was much
of a horse, but it was said of him that “He
could pull his weight in wild cats.” And it
was worth seeing when he leaned those
massive shoulders into the collar, gave a
mighty heave and started a load that less-
er horses would have trembled to see.

Richmond was singularly fortunate in
having an extremely thoughtful and kindly
owner, and he was always kept sleek and
shining, protected from storms when on the
street and warmly housed at home. Also
I suspect that he was allowed to have his
own way rather more than was good for
him. Horses tend to grow self-willed and
stubborn as they grow older, and this one
was no exception.

It was never necessary to touch the reins
to back Richmond up to the landing stage,
or to a store door. His owner could stand
across the street and call to him and he
would cramp the wheels and back the cart
as smoothly as a person, more so, in fact.
I don’t think he would have broken an egg
if one had been lying on the bottom of the
cart, he went so carefully. He was very
proud of this accomplishment, so much so
that he resented being guided by the reins
and registered his disapproval by backing
so fast and furiously that the cart would
strike the platform with such force that the
unlucky driver would be thrown sprawling
on the floor of it.

For those who think a horse has no in-
telligence, it would have been enlightening
to watch this dumb looking old cart horse
go about his daily duties. His owner talk-
ed to him exactly as he would to a person
and would say something like this, “I want
to unload this steel over to Frank’s store
first, Richmond. You go along and I’ll be
over in a minute.” The horse would toss
his head a few times, and plod off. To get
to the hardware store he had to cross the
railroad twice, and he never failed to stop
and listen first. Then he would proceed,
go around to the back door of the store and
back up to it, and settle for a cat nap while
waiting for his owner.

Of course this was in the days before
cars were plentiful and there was no dan-
ger. Now, I suppose some moron would

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

run into the outﬁt
with a truck and kill
the old chap before he
could reach his destin—
ation.

Many amusing an-
ecdotes could be told
about this wise, faith-
ful old fellow, but the
one that always amus—
ed me the most was
the one about his be-
ing afraid of newspa—
pers blowing in the
street. It seems that
he had always had a
great fear of them
and would shy and
dance when he saw
one. One day when he
was standing in the
station yard a paper
blew right up under
his nose and he went
tearing off down the
street at the best
speed of which he was
capable, with the cart
bouncing and rattling
wildly behind him. His
owner was dumfound-
ed, having supposed
that Richmond was
too reliable ever to
run away, no matter
what the provocation.

SONS OF THE SOIL, LANCASTER COUNTY, PA.

 

 

 

But he got a friend

with a team and they set off after
the culprit.
bounding along, still in headlong flight, but
about a half a mile from where he started
he slowed down and stopped. To the aston-
ishment of the watchers he turned the cart
carefully around in the road and started
back at a walk. The men did not speak to
him but after he passed them they also
turned and followed him. Leisurely, and
with no slightest sign of perturbation
Richmond plodded back to the station,
backed up to the exact spot from which the
blowing paper had frightened him, and set—

Far ahead they saw him

tled back calmly for the cart to be loaded.
It would be hard to prove whether he was
actually frightened and his sense of respon-

sibility overcame his terror, or whether the

performance was his idea of a joke. Know-
ing the nature of old horses I am inclined

to think it was a sense of humor that drove
him, particularly since no harm was done
to wagon or harness.

Trucks gradually took over the freight

business, and Richmond was retired, except
for daily trips around the familiar streets
for exercise. Finally his teeth gave out and
his owner had him mercifully destroyed. I

sometimes wonder if his wise old ghost

walks the familiar streets and scorns the
noisy trucks which have supplanted him.

An Associated Press dispatch from Sing-
apore states that the gates of the last bull-

ring in the British Empire, at Alor Star,

have been closed by the Sultan of Kedar.
Cock-fighting also is banned by the order.

Wild Animals as Pets

W. STAPF

F YOU are thinking of making pets of
young wild animals, the ﬁrst piece of
advice is—don’t! Most certainly these little
creatures are much better off in their native
surroundings, but in case you have already
acquired some, here are a few suggestions
which will make their lives and yours easier.
Generally the children bring in some baby
animal or bird which they have found in
the woods or ﬁelds. This is all wrong, be-
cause, as a rule, these foundlings were not
deserted by their mothers who were only
frightened away and would return of their
own accord. But once the little things
have been brought into the house they
have to be kept until grown and then
turned loose, because the mother animal
will probably refuse to accept her offspring
which has been handled by humans, and
might leave it to starve.

Baby fawns are best raised on the bottle
with lukewarm goat’s milk, which resem—
bles doe’s milk more than does that of a
cow. Fresh grass and plenty of it as pas—
ture should be available at once. Later on,
turnips and carrots may be fed. A fawn
is a delightful and playful pet when there
are facilities for turning it out into a large
grassy enclosure, but when mature it
should be given its liberty. It must be
protected from large dogs who would chase
and kill it, although we have seen a fawn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 12

To a Returned Tabby Cat

CLARA E. PUTNAM

Tabby, with the tranquil eyes,
All—perceiving, wholly wise,

Will you tell me why you stay,

Why you will not “give away?”

We have only crusts to share;

Often is our cupboard bare;

There is never food for you

And your hungry infants, too.
Farmer Brown is kind to cats;
Gives them gentle, loving pats,
Bowls of milk that foam with cream,
All the goodies you could dream,
And he asks for board and housing
Just a little earnest mousing.

Tell me, tell me, Tabby Gray,

Why you will not “give away,”

Why you left your babies there

Just as if you didn’t care,

Tramping miles, an unknown track,
Foolish kitty, to come back?

Why you purr against our feet

As if home were sweet—so sweet!

I can see in future days

Through your soft, seductive ways,
Little kittens by the score—

More and more and more and more——
Every one a Tabby cat

Multiplying just like that,

While our pocket books grow lighter
And we pull our belts the tighter!
Kitty, Kitty, tell me, pray,

Why you will not “give away.”

Adopted—One Traveling Cat

JEANETTE NOURLAND

ROM the first day of his arrival, “Old-

Timer” seemed to know that I under-
stand and speak cat—language. From the
back-yard fence he proceeded to put up a
fine argument as to just why I should
adopt him, but lest I love him and lose him,
I resisted all his alluring wiles.

After several weeks of this one—sided af—
fair, Old Timer won. And all over a ripe
tomato! Through the kitchen screen he
watched the preparation of a salad. All
went well until I began to peel the tomato—
then the yowling started— “Meow! I like
tomatoes! I insist that you share that to-
mato with me! Meow!”

Laughingly, I offered a dainty slice—
when 10! it disappeared. Another followed,
then another until the entire tomato had
been consumed. Then a great sigh of sat—
isfaction and a big face-washing.

All my resolutions not to adopt another
cat had suddenly melted away. Old-Timer
had won! He now shares all my salads
and has taken possession of the easiest
chair. He is a silver Maltese with a stream-
line body, long, lithe and lanky but solid
and heavy. It is quite obvious that he is
“getting along in years.” His hearing is
none too good and his teeth are not what
they once were, but he’s a grand old wag!
A wonderful disposition, is never destruc-
tive, never annoys except by his incessant
loving and rubbing against me so hard he
almost upsets me at times. Yesterday, he
chased a stray mongrel out of the flower-
bed, so evidently I have also adopted a
watchdog in disguise!

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Jan. 1936

 

“CHIRPS” AND “BLUE,” PETS OF PRISON CONVICTS

 

A True Shepherd

L. P. SPENCER

S the shepherds of old watched over

their flocks with loving care, so a
German shepherd dog is watching over his
charge.

Under a pile of lumber in the yards of
the American Walnut Co., Kansas City,
Kansas, the shepherd dog has dug a hole
for his home. Into this he has brought a
mongrel blind dog. But he did not stop
when he had provided his afflicted friend
with a shelter and protection.

Many trips are made daily to furnish
enough food for this strange household, but
the shepherd does not shirk, nor does he eat
without sharing his find. He places the
bones, or whatever he has to offer, in front
of his companion. Any surplus is buried for

a “rainy day.”

Frequently the two dogs wander away
from the home, of course always together,
with the shepherd just a little in the lead
so that the other can follow his scent. The
shepherd carefully shoulders the other
away from any danger and seemingly
stands guard when strangers are about.

If water is not available at the lumber
yard the two make their way to the near-
by Kaw river, where the shepherd stands
by until the blind dog has had his fill. Then
home again to safety.

One almost feels that the shepherd dog
with his consideration of another’s troubles
has been able to understand the human
plea of today: “Help the less fortunate”

Trapped Bear Trapper

A dispatch from Seattle, Washington,
states that Jasper Bunch knows now how
the bear feels. He stepped into his own
bear trap and spent the frosty night in its
steel jaws. Next morning his yells attract-
ed ranch hands a mile and a half away.

Be ashamed to die until you have achiev-
ed some victory for humanity.
HORACE MANN

Unusual Prison Pets
J. L. CONSIDINE

MOST unusual friendship is that exist-

ing between “Chirps,” a wild linnet
hatched at Folsom State Prison, California,
and “Blue,” the pet cat of the convicts.

Unusual too is the fact that Blue is a
pet. Convicts as a rule, prefer other pets.
This prejudice has become a tradition at
Folsom Prison during the eighty years of
its existence. It has been alleged that con-
victs have an instinctive antipathy to cats.
Witnesses to that effect instance the use
of the term “cat”—sometimes “gay cat”—
to characterize police informers and other
criminals anathema to their class. And the
Folsom convicts are a hardened lot, that
prison being reserved for second-termers
who have shown signs of incorrigibility.

Blue, who has charmed the felons of F0]-
som out of their hostility to his kind, was
born in a corner of the Folsom Prison pho-
tography and print shop. One biographer
hints that his name is due to the fact that
his sponsors were feeling depressed at the
time it was conferred.

Chirps was hatched in a rude nest among
the rocks of the prison quarry. His moth-
er absconded, leaving the egg which con-
tained him behind her. This abandonment
aroused the sympathy of the prisoners.
They christened the baby “Chirps” and
raised him tenderly.

Between baby bird and baby cat, it was
a case of love at sight. The friendship
then formed has never been broken. They
live together, eat and sleep together. Chirps
now takes its daily nap perched on Blue’s
head. Frequently it rests on Blue’s claws.

Warden Court Smith takes charge of the
pair and their food comes from his table.

Blue’s popularity with the convicts is the
more remarkable, considering that he is a
descendant of “Rusty,” a veteran eat, em—
ployed as a detective by the guards to catch
convicts who purloin tidbits from the kitch—
ens. When Rusty takes up a position in
front of a convict’s cell and begins to mew,
the guards know there is contraband inside.

 




 

 

 

 

Page 80

For “Johnny,” Growing Old

JUDY VAN DER VEER

If he cannot run as he used to run,
Nor hold his head as high;

His step is still an eager step,
And light is in his eye.

The pasture’s his with all the grass
Across a sloping hill;

I turned him loose and said that he
Could rest and eat his fill.

And he’s remembered certain things,
Though he has grown older——

He likes to come and lay his head
Softly on my shoulder.

And when he trots across the grass
In answer to my call,

I think that there are other things
That matter not at all.

For other horses can be swift,
And there are colts a—plenty;

But where am I to find a horse
As faithful when he’s twenty?

Monkeys in South Africa

OST people seem to be interested in

watching monkeys whenever they
have the chance. If you go to any zoo you
will always find crowds round the monkey
cages. Sometimes you see them huddled
up in corners, looking very miserable, and
at other places where they are better cared
for you will see them racing about after
each other and running to the bars to
snatch a visitor’s offering of fruit, and
sometimes they take French leave and carry
off a pair of spectacles or a glove. They
are full of mischief and life.

But in England we rarely see monkeys
living their own lives, which would be much
more interesting, and I have just been read—
ing an article about monkeys at Durban,
which a lady who lives in South Africa has
sent me. I would like you to know how
very different these little fellows must find
life compared with that of some of their
brothers who are caught and caged and
shipped and condemned for the rest of their
lives to be captives in a foreign land.

Before Man went exploring in Durban
it was the country of the wild animals, and
when the first Europeans arrived, they
found valleys and forests‘and hills full of
elephants, lions, antelopes and monkeys.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Gradually all these animals were killed
or driven into the bush away from the big
city we now call Durban. But the “blue”
monkey has been allowed to remain so far,
though gradually more trees are cleared
away and these monkeys are being driven
further back.

I am very glad to tell you, however, that
the Corporation of Durban will not permit
anyone to interfere with or hurt these ani—
mals in any way.

These monkeys are equally interested in
our ways. They love to invade the houses
and delight in looking—glasses and hand—
mirrors, in investigating ladies’ powder
puffs and other human belongings. Very
inquisitive and, of course, intelligent, are
monkeys.

They find their own food in the fruits
of the place and their beds in the forest
branches. And when there is a plague of
locusts—as lately happened—these monkeys
do good service by devouring the harmful
insects. They also find occasional feasts
from “flying ants,” another unwelcome vis—
itor to men and women. ‘

About the baby mOnkeys we read this:

“If the adult monkeys are interesting
to watch, their babies are doubly so. .' When
they are first born, they are practically
helpless, and cling with feet and hands like
grim death to the fur of their mothers. A
proud mother will pass her offspring round
to the other dames, who subject it to a
close scrutiny. When they have satisfied
their curiosity the baby is passed back to
the mother and the party breaks up. ‘ ‘

“Like our own children, the young of
monkeys have to go through a period" of
schooling. When he is a few weeks”. old,
mother decides that it is high time that
Jack should be learning to walk. She frees
herself from his embrace and, holding his
hand gently in her own, she slowly leads
him along, looking closely the while to see
that he is putting his best foot foremost.
The poor little chap cuts a pitiful figure
as he sways and lurches along, but mother
thinks he is too cute for words, and she
catches him up into her arms again and
he parks himself in his old position. If
Jack should fall from the branch of a tree
there is always some aunt or cousin to
rush forward, pick him up, dust him down,
and hand him back to mother.”

——Cape Times Supplement

Here are the dates for our annual celebra-
tion next year—Humane Sunday, April 11;
Be Kind to Animals Week, April 12-17, 1937.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
mcorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. i=7?“ 7‘ "4;";

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hespital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

. pi.

 

 

May, 1936

The Forgotten Dog
LOIS MANOR MARMON

E have heard much in the past few
years about the forgotten man but I
would call attention to the forgotten dog.
No—not just a forgotten dog but any forgot-
ten animal that might be someone’s pet.

Recently I saw a cartoon that will do
more good (to those who paid attention to
it) than anything one might write on this
subject. The picture was in two parts. The
upper section showed a man and his wife
stretched out on the warm sands basking
in the sunshine of a southern resort. They
were complimenting themselves that they
had forgotten none of the things necessary
to closing their home in the North before
going South to enjoy two months’ vacation.
They remarked to each other that the win-
dows had all been tightly latched; they had-
n’t forgotten to turn off the water or drain
the pipes. The husband had remembered
to have the electricity and gas shut off. The
wife had notified the mail carrier, the paper
boy and the milkman of their departure.
No, they hadn’t forgotten a single thing
necessary to closing the house.

The lower picture showed a snow-covered
cottage. The ground was covered with
snow and to every window and door there
was not just one track in the snow but
several where their little dog had gone
again and again trying in vain to get in.
There he sat on the porch—a wistful, ne-
glected and forlorn object.

The cartoon made me feel sad for I knew
it was all too true. I knew I couldn’t gath-
er up all the dogs, or cats, whose owners
had gone away and left them stranded, but
I could do something for the animals who
came my way. And so I have tried to be-
friend them whenever I could by keeping
food and water available at all times, and
a refuge for them, if they will accept it.

If you are going away on a vacation, win-
ter or summer—one is as important as the
other—and cannot take your pet with you,
I urge you to make some provision for him
at home. Don’t forget your pet and leave
him to the uncertain mercies of anyone
who chances along. Make definite arrange—
ments for his welfare and you will be re-
paid many times over for your thoughtful-
ness.

 

 

Our Dumb Animal—s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
ruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
lXIassachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
venue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS Feb.1936

 

Page 32

“International Journal”
(Continued from page 19)

annual celebration of “Animal Day.”
It is noted that increasing numbers of
societies are selecting 4th October, be-
ing St. Francis Day, and the 18th In—
ternational Congress unanimously ap-
proved this selection. It is appropriate,
therefore, that the illustration of the
cover of this Journal should portray
the Saint delivering his sermon to the
birds.

(3) The importance of closer co—opera—
tion of P. C. A. Societies within each
country to promote efficiency, special-
ization and economy.

(4) The need for uniformity and im-
provement of the regulations affect-
ing the transport of animals within
each country and from one country
to another. .

(5) The promotion of humane reform in
countries as yet backward in the mat—
ter of animal protection, and especial—
ly the institution in every country of
some measure of legal regulation of
experiments on animals.

(6) The stimulation of interest in the
proposed Convention initiated at the
84th Session of the League of Nations
in January, 1935, on the subject of oil
pollution (brought before the League
through the instrumentality of the
British Government).

The Journal is to be issued twice annu-
ally, in May and in December. The pres—
ent issue has several pages devoted to news
from Societies from AIrica, Canada, the
United States, Asia, Belgium, Esthonia,
France, Germany, England, Scotland,
Greece, Holland, Ireland, Italy, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Swit—
zerland. Then Iollow articles on Trapping,
Reasons for the Slow Progress of Preven-
tion of Cruelty Societies, The Idea of An—
imal Protection During the Course of Time
up to the Present Day, Notes on Animal
Welfare in Africa, Humane Education in
Spain, and several shorter articles dealing
with such problems as oil pollution of
coastal waters, docking of horses’ tails, and
the electric stunning of animals.

There are more than 1,000 societies in the
world organized for the protection of ani—
mals. Some 800 of these have been noti-
fied, through correspondence, of the Jour—
nal. The hope is that the greater part of
these may be induced to become its sub-
scribers. That this attractive Journal with
its beautiful title page in color and its
many illustrations can be issued twice a
year for the small price of 1s 6d, including
postage, puts it in reach of practically ev-
ery humane society. Having carefully read
it, we cannot refrain from urging all who
are interested in this great cause for which
it stands, both societies and individuals,
not only to subscribe for it but, where pos-
sible, contribute toward the expense of its
publication. Through its pages one can
keep himself familiar with the progress of
the humane movement throughout the
world. The address is Hon. Editor: Mr.
Lyndesay G. Langwill, 19 Melville Street,
Edinburgh, 3, Scotland.

The Robin’s Song

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

OETS and musicians have honored

“the pious bird with the scarlet
breast” ever since the robin’s cheery song
first heralded the coming of spring.

Indeed, the robin has found a place in
the literature of the world that few of
his feathered comrades can equal. Per—
haps the robin’s popularity may be due, in
part, to the fact that he outnumbers all
other bird species save the sparrow, but
such an assumption would not be fair to
this cheery little fellow of the forest and
field.

More likely the robin has been thus fa-
vored in the world’s poetry and song be-
cause he is actually associated with more
seasons of the year than are the most of
our birds. He is not only the traditional
harbinger of spring, and a constant sum—
mer companion, but the robin is also one of
the last birds to fly southward after sum—
mer has mellowed into autumn.

In September, when the first breath of
autumn is in the air, the robin greets us
with a merry tune. He is at that time,
when the songs of other birds have been
stilled, “the bird of September and of hope.”
His song may be “merry and bright, pensive
and sad,” but little robin red—breast ful—
fills the poet’s thought:

“The robin pensive autumn cheers

In her looks of yellow.”

The robin has long been remembered in
the songs of the world. Reginald de Koven,
the American composer of light operas,
wrote the ever—popular “Robin Red Breast,”
while Allen paid a musical tribute with his
“Arrival of the Robins” and Fisher contri-
buted the “Robin’s Return.”

Nor can we forget that Joyce Kilmer, in
that most beloved of all his poems, turned
to the little red-breasted bird when he
wrote:

“A tree that may in summer wear

A nest of robins in her hair.”

It is little wonder that the robin has
long been affectionately remembered by
poets and singers. This merry little fellow
with his ruddy and joyful notes makes a
worthy companion of all the months from
early spring to mellow autumn.

Seattle’s proposal to license dog owners as
well as dogs, submitting applicants to exam—
ination as to their patience and kindness,
aims at establishing social security for ca-
nines. —Philadelphia Evening Bulletin

 

[N THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

DOG HEROES, Peter Shaw Baker.

Not long since the Daily Mirror (Lon—
don) instituted a “Brave Dog’s Roll of
Honor” by which it was decided to award
the V. C. Collar to all dogs who had risked
their lives for human beings. The list is
indeed a long and illustrious one, thirty—
six awards “For Bravery” having thus far
been made.

All the stories related in this volume are
authentic beyond doubt and present a re—
markable record of heroic deeds performed
by members of the canine race.

In addition to the many rescues of human
lives from fire and drowning of which the
facts are given in detail, a most interesting
chapter is entitled, “The Guide Dogs for the
Blind.” Says the author, “No one except a
blind person can possibly realize what a
heaven-sent blessing a guide dog is.” (We
in this country know them as “Seeing-Eye”
dogs.) With what infinite pains they are
selected, trained and educated for their
great work, the reader will be amazed.

Another chapter records the sad story of
“Captain Scott’s Brave Dogs,” all of whom
came to their tragic end in the heroic but
vain effort to reach Shackleton and Wilson
at the South Pole. All these well-told ac-
counts bear eloquent testimony of canine
bravery. Every reader, we believe, will
heartily indorse the Daily Mirror’s plan of
recognition to “Dog Heroes” on its “Roll of
Honor.” Eight full color plates and six—
teen plates in photogravure are highly at-
tractive.

256 pp. 5s. net., Ward, Lock & Co., Sal—
isbury Square, London.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animal's—

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood;
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood

venue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two

Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
1g. POLL‘ARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180'
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that'the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Somety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ,

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt to Anim 1
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............. y. ........ 3i .S. if”
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property). .

 

 

 




Jan. 1936

Humane Lumberjacks

EDWARD J. TUCKER

HE following account of the humane-

ness of a camp of Northern Ontario
lumberjacks is a realistic and touching
story of rough simple men in open hostility
to the efforts of a wealthy and inﬂuential
tourist to capture a young buck deer.

While “hunters” are busy buying shoot—
ing licenses and cleaning their guns in
readiness for the “sport” which entails the
cruel and ruthless extermination of harm—
less and defenseless deer and birds, the
timbermen of W. H. Milne’s lumber camp,
Mileage 50, on the Temiskaming and North-
ern Ontario Railway are seeking to protect
a wild stag against them.

Some months ago a timid three-year-old
buck deer was seen around Mileage 50
Camp. Perphaps he sought to escape the
ravages of the wolves. In any case, though
very frightened at first, the deer found
sympathy in the hearts of the rough lumber-
men. They fed the timid animal. Gradually,
through kindness, the deer became more
and more friendly. Soon he was a regular
visitor at Mileage 50, allowing the men to
stroke and lead him about. The lumbermen
named the buck deer “Bum,” because he is
a confirmed beggar and sponger, with a
particular failing for the cook-house.

Obviously Bum has learned to trust the
humans who have fed him and taught him
not to be afraid. And now, with the hunt-
ing season coming on, the lumbermen of
Mileage 50 are anxious for the safety of
their pet, for Bum has come to believe that
all men are his friends. He hasn’t learned
to distinguish between friend and enemy.
He’s lost that quick nervousness and no
longer paws the ground and shakes his
antlers when he scents man. Thus Bum
has, in a sense, been robbed of his defense
against the ruthless hunter.
friendly and innocent of the smallest of-
fense as Bum is—the law is on the side of
the hunter. It is legal for the licensed
hunter to kill Bum—for a hunting license
covers a multitude of sins.

Herein lies the heart of this story of Burn
and the lumberjacks. The lumbermen of
Mileage 50 now realize they must protect
Bum against his own trusting friendliness.
Their sense of responsibility towards the
young buck was severely tried a few weeks
ago.

Campers and tourists about the district
have come to know about the young buck
and the lumberjacks of Mileage 50. One
tourist in particular had an idea—and se-
cured permission to carry out his plan.

One day Overseer Bill St. Pierre, of the
Ontario Department of Game and Fisheries,
paid a surprise visit to Mileage 50. He
said he came with authority. He asked
disturbing questions. They were about Bum.
What Bill St. Pierre had to say spread like
wildfire around the little community of
men. The Overseer told of a millionaire in
Toronto who’d heard about the three-year-
old pet deer. The millionaire wanted the
animal to exhibit in his private zoo. He
had secured the necessary permission and
Bill St. Pierre had been detailed to get in
touch with Bum’s friends, the lumberjacks.
It would save the millionaire much trouble

And—as -

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

if the lumbermen would help tie and crate
Bum for shipment. The millionaire thought
they would be glad to do it———for a consid—
eration. He was counting on the co—opera—
tion of the lumbermen. He didn’t know
these men. The lumberjacks listened stolid—
ly to what Bill St. Pierre had to say. Not

. a word could he get out of them. Taking
their silence for acquiescence, the Overseer
forthwith sought Bum about the camp. But
Bum was nowhere to be found—and the
men disclaimed any knowledge as to his
whereabouts. Then, in answer to a straight
question as to whether or not they would
help the millionaire locate Bum for his
small private prison, the camp foreman,
speaking for his men gave a loud and stern,
“N01,,

Bill St. Pierre, being a lover of animals
and kindly enough at heart, understood. He
understood that the rough jacks had become
attached to their woodland friend. They
didn’t want to see him taken away in a
freight car to Toronto, there to be placed
on display, confined in close, unhealthy and
unnatural quarters; to be tormented by
thoughtless spectators. In short, they re—
fused to part with Bum.

Knowing all this, Bill St. Pierre didn’t
press his case. Bum to all intents and pur—
poses wasn’t there; the lumberjacks em-
phatically refused to aid in finding him;
Bill had done his duty—and that was that.

Perhaps Bum was in good hands behind
the cook—house during these negotiations. In.
any case, he wasn’t far from camp—and
the lumbermen of Mileage 50 are more de-
termined than ever to protect him from the
licensed murderers from the city.

Thirty-eight Years Old

H. A. WIEDEMEIER

“The old gray mare ain’t what she used
to be.” But she still gets around at the ripe
old age of 38 years. “Daisy” was born and
raised on a farm and has had the care of
an ordinary farm horse with five or six
ears of corn a day. She never had her
teeth dressed until she was past 30. She
worked around the farm until she was 85
years old. Daisy has never had any medi~
cine nor ringbone nor spavin nor curb. She
is sound and able to get about, her eyes
and hearing being good. She was an iron
gray but is now snow white. She is hap-
pily retired and will spend the balance of
her days in comfort.

 

“DAISY” AT THIRTY—EIGHT

Page 11
Don’t Pull a Horse

L. E. EUBANKS

T a recent county fair in Michigan, a

world’s record for horses’ pulling
power was established by “Tom” and
“Rock,” a team of Belgian geldings owned
by Russel Sandro of Ohio.

If you see the picture of this perform-
ance, be sure to observe how the driver is
holding the lines; a line is in each hand and
slack. No whip nor other evidence of force
is present.

I well remember when teamsters used to
believe that horses always pulled more ef-
fectively when the driver pulled back on
them, and applied the lash. Doubless many
still think so, but they are wrong. Just two
things made Tom and Rock do their best
on that test—proper training up to that
time, and, in the specific effort, kind, en-
couraging talk.

When a dumb animal, or a person, is do—
ing his supreme best, it does not take much
to confuse him. We pull on the lines a lit—
tle to back a horse, and there is no logic
in doing the same thing to make him go
forward. If the bit is severe, or the ani-
mal very tender—mouthed, there is bound
to be restraint.

With all animals, the horse pre-eminent-
1y, words constitute the great control—en-
couragement in kindly tones. I saw an em-
ployee jerk and pull at the head of a balk-
ing horse for nearly half an hour, in vain.
Then the owner, who had raised the ani-
mal from a colt, arrived. After dismissing
the driver, he talked in low, kind tones to
the horse, patted him affectionately on the
neck, then took the lines. Very quietly, he
said, “Get up, ‘Spruce.’” And the horse
obeyed perfectly. No physical force is
equal to the strength of gentleness.

Horse Sense

The old story that horses are unmanage—
able in a fire and when led from a burning
stable will race back into it in an insane
panic, has had at least one notable excep-
tion—that of a California mare only a few
weeks ago. It happened at the historical
old interior town of Sonora. A barn pack-
ed with dry hay at the packing—house of
Wolfing Company caught fire and in a few
minutes was a raging inferno. Inside was.
a mare and her colt. She gave shrill a-
larm and then backed up to the door and
kicked it into splinters. When
fire fighters arrived she was
standing at a safe distance
with her colt, watching the-
fire and still panting with
excitement.

FRANK H. CROSS

Little Margaret was
watching the elephant at the
zoo. “What’s the long, shaky
thing he swings around in
front of him?” she wanted to
know.

“That’s the trunk,”
plained her father.

“Then I suppose that little
one behind him is his suit-
casef’

8X-

 




 

 

Page 56

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Stree‘t, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor ,
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Six Billion Pounds

F what? Of meat sold to the people of

the United States which for the most
part has no proper inspection. That is, that
one pound of meat in every three bought
by the consumer in this country bears no
stamp guaranteeing it absolutely ﬁt for
human food. What about the other two-
thirds? That is under Federal Inspection
which, it is said, is “recognized throughout
the world as second to none.”

But why is it possible for the six billion
pounds to be sold without such inspection?
Because the meat from any animal killed in
any state and shipped outside that state
must be inspected by the United States
Government inspectors. But meat from
animals slaughtered in any town or city of
a state and to be sold within the state is
supposed to be inspected by local inspectors.
While there are local inspectors here and
there who are competent and conscientious,
for the most part local inspection is largely
a farce. Over and over again for the last
twenty—six years we have told the public of
Massachusetts of the mere apology for in—
spection which characterizes the majority
of the small local slaughtering-pens in the
state. One does not need to know anything
about what meat is ﬁt for human food at
such places. We have found painters, plum—
bers and boys under twenty-one acting as
inspectors and putting the stamp on the
carcass. The sanitary condition of many of
these places is appalling. We have seen
with our own eyes carcasses stamped as
ready for market so diseased with tuber-
culosis that the plural cavity had to be cut
out and thrown away. There is no question
that food animals are slaughtered in many
of these miserable shambles, and their ﬂesh
sold to the poor, whose owners know well
would never be passed by Federal inspectors
but condemned and used for fertilizer.

We can only live in hope that the day will
come when the public will demand state
inspection equal to that the Government in-
sists shall be given to meat that is subject
to interstate trafﬁc. It is said that one or
two states like California have adopted
laws based on the Federal statute which are
being enforced.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Misinformation

Aparagraph from Dr. Axel Munthe
quoted in The Reader’s Digest for Feb—
ruary in which he warned all lovers of dogs
against putting them to sleep, if it became
necessary, by any lethal method, urging the
bullet as the only satisfactory way to secure
a painless death, we are sure has disturbed
and distressed a multitude of the readers
of that excellent periodical.

Any number of humane organizations in
this and other lands know from practical
experience that a properly devised lethal
chamber where illuminating gas is used
causes animals to go to sleep without any
consciousness of suffering. We quote from
one of our leaﬂets the following, back of
which we and our staff of veterinarians
stand in complete agreement:

The gas used is the ordinary coal or house
gas, with which everyone is familiar, and
against the careless use of which all con—
sumers are warned.

That no distress comes to men or women
who unwontingly or intentionally become
gassed has been abundantly proved. The
victims show no sign of any physical irrita—
tion or suﬁering. There is absolute placidity
of face and an accompanying repose of
body.

How does the gas operate? The process
is that in the inhalation of coal gas the
deadening or devitalizing principal is that
of carbon monoxide. The effect is to deaden
the red corpuscles in the blood stream. The
more gas inhaled, the greater the devitaliza—
tion, till this is complete. On March 18th
the writer conducted a test of a lethalizing
box at the Dogs’ Home.

A dog had to be “put to sleep.” It entered
the box without any resistance and stood
up. The gas was turned on. There was ab-
solute silence in the box. Then exactly one
minute afterwards the dog rolled over in
utter unconsciousness.

When in the latter state it emitted a few
whines. These ceased in half a minute. That
is, 1 and 1/2 minutes in all, and without any
pain, the unfortunate animal ceased to live,
and this without any suffering. It is per—
fectly true that some dogs and cats emit
cries or whinings whilst under the gas; but
this is during unconsciousness. Likewise,
many men and women when under anaes-
thetics to allow of operations being con-
ducted, also emit sounds, quite a lot of them.
These take the form of singing, laughter,
swearing, personal conﬁdences, etc. But the
patient is unconscious.

We wrote The Reader’s Digest calling
attention to the real facts in the case. A
very courteous reply comes to us saying
that a number of other readers also had
written protesting against Dr. Munthe’s
suggestion, and that they were hoping to
incorporate some of the information we sent
them in a future note in the magazine. We
certainly hOpe this will be done.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

Apr. 1936

Royal S. P. C. A. Gives
hdedal

HE silver meritorious service medal of

the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals has been awarded to Mr.
Charles Rowland Johns, secretary of the
National Canine Defence League, London,
in recognition of his twenty-six years of
work for the cause of animal 'welfare. The
presentation was made by Sir Robert
Gower, K.C.V.O., M.P., the chairman, at the
Council meeting of the R. S. P. C. A.

The award was instituted by Queen
Victoria to mark conspicuous services to
animal welfare and is known as the
“Queen’s Medal.” Mr. Johns is the ﬁrst of-
ﬁcer of any separate organization to receive
it. An address on vellum accompanied the
award. Mr. Johns was recently chosen an
honorary member of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A.

The Electrified Fence

The Prime Manufacturing Co. of Mil—
waukee, Wisconsin, is making a much
needed fence for farm purposes, the top
wire of which is slightly charged with elec—
tricity. Touching this top wire, which is so
often barbed, cattle and horses quickly start
back from it and so are saved many serious
injuries due to the use of barb wire. A
friend wrote us to know if birds lighting
on this wire could be hurt or killed. The
Company, in answer to our inquiry, says:

With reference to your question about
Electric Fence injuring or killing birds that
might light on the one wire fence, it is
necessary, not only to touch the fence but
to contact the ground at the same time as
this completes the circuit and delivers the
shock. In other words, if a bird sits on the
one wire fence it would be necessary for it
to have one foot on the ground and one foot
on the wire. It is just like a bird on a high
tension line carrying 200,000 or 300,000
volts out in the country, or the street car
trolley wires in the city. If a. bird is not
grounded the wires are absolutely harmless.
No animal or human being can be injured
however small the animal or child may be.

A Word of Wisdom

From the pen of Dr. Wm. T. Hornaday,
widely known as animal lover and authority
in matters pertaining to American wild life,
we quote this telling paragraph:

You and I, my dear Watson, have vested
property rights in every duck, goose, swan,
pelican, shorebird, snowy owl and dove from
the time it enters the United States until it
takes leave thereof, or is legally killed and
possessed by fair hunting. We have a right
to insist that our wild life properties shall
not be shot, trapped nor poisoned. The right
of the hunter to kill a bird for food to
satisfy a hungry family is a recognition of
the legitimate needs of hardy pioneers amid
wild surroundings, but the right to
slaughter wild birds for pastime “sport,”
without the urge of hunger or necessity, is
a relic of savagery—or of barbarism, as the
case may be.

 




 

MARCH 1936 PRICE 10 CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 102

that made friends with a dog. The baby
deer and the dog romped together, and
played rubbing noses through the wire en-
closure within which the fawn was kept.
But this was exceptional, and caution in this
respect is generally indicated.

Field rabbits are the most usual found—
lings. They are wild and timid and would
only fall into human hands when they are
very small, particularly after some violent
storm which deprived them of shelter. These
wild bunnies are not easily managed be-
cause they are very ﬂeet even when they
are quite tiny, for their well—developed hind
quarters endow them with great speed in
running and jumping. Such foster babies
thrive well on milk from a nursing bottle,
but it is advisable to try and ﬁnd a tame
rabbit to act as foster mother and supple-
ment the artiﬁcial nourishment. It is cruel
to keep a full-grown hare in captivity, and
it should, therefore, be returned to its orig-
inal home in woods and ﬁelds.

'Yvoung birds are even more difﬁcult to
rear in captivity than are wild animals. As
their diet consists of worms and insects,
feeding presents a problem requiring much
time and skill for its solution. And it is
really amazing how much ﬂedglings will
eat! Of course, if you are able to raise
these wild birds, you will be rewarded, for
they are easily tamed when caught young,
are affectionate and can be taught tricks.
This is especially true of crows who are
really intelligent and may even learn to
talk. But it also holds good of hawks which
don’t always live up to their reputation as
. expressed in the proverb, “Wild as a hawk.”

In conclusion, it must be emphasized that
if you are not able and willing to give much
time and patience and a loving care to these
wild creatures, don’t even attempt it. It is
then much better to hand them over right
at the very beginning to some 200 or hu—
mane society, where they will be intelli-
gently provide-d for, and perhaps ultimately
given their liberty.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Parents and Helpless Pets

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

ONE are the downy Easter chicks and

ducks, emblems of a new life, which
Baby so loves to cuddle and which in his
hands become symbolic of an early death.
Yet, throughout the entire year, there are
illustrations in plenty which call for caution
when little fingers come in contact with any
live thing.

The painted turtle is too inactive to hold
interest for long. The goldfish in the bowl
may pant for life unobserved. The rabbits,
so dear at first, are soon forgotten unless
mother takes pity on them and ministers to
their needs or makes life almost as miser-
able to Tommy as to herself and the abused
pets by insisting upon his performing the
duties he has assumed.

The puppy may resent too rough treat-
ment and learn to return like for like; but
the kitten, never; it is one of the meekest
of living things, despite the fact that it has
ample means of defense buried in that soft
furry paw. But it literally turns the other
cheek when the one has been spat upon, and
even when kindly released from its youth—
ful tormentor by a third party, it at once
returns to the abusive hand.

The bird in the cage may be doomed to
scant care and a dearth of proper food and
drink. Neglect of cleanliness invites ver-
min. Yet the owner wonders why the bird
guaranteed as an excellent singer should
prove a voiceless mope. True, it is Mar—
ion’s job to care for Dicky-bird. It is equal-
ly true that her memory must be jogged
several times daily before it gets any atten—
tion.

For the baby who unwittingly loves
everything to death, restraint is the remedy.
For the child old enough to appreciate the
obligation he has promised, there should
never come another living creature until
this has been completely met. It is a ques-
tion which should admit of no compromise.

 

July, 1936

A Wonder Acrobat

EWEN K. PATTERSON

LTHOUGH real monkeys are not

found in Australia, that continent is
the natural habitat of a remarkable mon-
key-like marsupial, which is far more in-
teresting and more attractive than any
monkey. This is the ring—tailed opossum,
which is one of the most fascinating of the
world’s arboreal animals.

Found only in Australia and in parts of
New Guinea, the ring—tailed opossum is noc-
turnal in its habits. It is rarely seen dur-
ing the daylight hours, which it spends
sleeping, curled up in a forked branch of
a tall tree, or hidden inside a hollow tree.
The animal feeds upon the ﬂowers and fo—
liage of many kinds of shrubs and trees. It
is solely a vegetarian.

The ring—tailed opossum is frequently de-
scribed as a “monkey-opossum,” but there is
nothing very monkey-like in its appearance.
It has a slender body, covered with a soft
and thick woolly fur of a slatish-gray and
coppery—brown color on top of the body, the
under—surface being white. The only re-
spect in which the opossum resembles a
monkey is the remarkable manner in which
it uses its long prehensile tail.

This opossum is one of the finest acro—
bats among all animals. It uses its tail to
swing about the trees when feeding, and
one of the most wonderful sights to be seen
in the Australian bush on a moonlight
night is a ring—tailed opossum swinging
from one tree to another by means of its
tail.

When preparing to leave a tree, the an-
imal moves to the very end of the longest
branch in the tree, and, hanging by its tail
from this point of vantage, it carefully ex-
amines a neighboring tree to select a
branch on which to alight. Then it swings
itself faster and faster, and finally releases
its tail—hold to shoot across the space be—
tween the trees, grabbing with its fore—
paws the selected branch on the other tree.
The opossum has never been known to fail
in this remarkable acrobatic feat, and its
actions are graceful and wonderful to see.
When alarmed the animal negotiates tree
after tree in this manner, traveling at a
great speed.

The ring-tailed opossum is one of the few
real nest—building animals. It builds a very
elaborate nest, which is usually a large,
oval—shaped structure, formed of twigs,
small branches, leaves, bark, etc., in the
middle of a tangle of Vines and creepers.

The breeding months are June and July,
and two is the usual number of young, al—
though occasionally one only may be born.
The babies are carried in the mother’s
pouch until they are about six months old.
They then leave the pouch and, until they
are able to look after themselves, spend
most of their time riding about on their
mother’s back, as shown in the accompany-
ing photograph. Even with a baby or ba—
bies on her back, the mother makes her re—
markable leaps from tree to tree.

Although millions of the wonderful ring—
tailed opossums were slaughtered for their
fur in Australia in the early days, the an—
imals are now closely protected by law.

Please provide for your pets in vacation.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 1 6

Annual Auxiliary Fair

NOTHER bazaar of the Women’s Aux-
A iliary of the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
for the benefit of the Angell Memorial An-
imal Hospital, was held at Hotel Vendome,
Boston, all day Wednesday, December 11
last, when this enthusiastic and hard work-
ing group staged one of the best exhibi-
tions they have yet attemped.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president,
was general chairman of the Fair. Presid-
ing at the sales tables were: White Ele-
phant: Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher, chairman,
Miss Effie Lynch and Mrs. Sarah Baker;
Candy: Mrs. Charles Rowley, chairman,
Miss Alice Rowley and Mrs. Esmond Row-
ley; Flower: Mrs. Frances G. Carreiro,
chairman, Mrs. G. Hillman, Mrs. Edward
K. Bennett and Mrs. Albert T. Galpin;
Miscellaneous: Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt,
chairman, Miss Wealthie Strauss and Mrs.
Christine N. Walker; Food: ,Mrs. H. E.
Prescott, chairman, Mrs. George Heller,
Mrs. W. W. Haswell and Mrs. Laura A.
Fisher. The luncheon was served under the
direction of Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, chair-
man, Mrs. Mitchell Allen and Mrs. Willard
C. Bliss.

The afternoon bridge was in charge of
Mrs. Edward C. Brown, chairman, assisted
by Mrs. John A. Jennings, Mrs. Ethel H.
Fayerweather, Mrs. John A. Dykeman,
Mrs. S. S. Sutcliffe, Mrs. Francis G. Car-
reiro, Mrs. L. J. Carter and Mrs. Edwin P.
Rich. Mrs. Milton Grossman, Miss Sylvia
Vigneau and Mrs. George Benton conducted
the grabs.

The Fashion Show, an afternoon feature,
was held under the direction of Mrs.
Mrs. George A. Ramlose, chairman, Mrs.
John Jennings, Mrs. Frank Towne, Mrs. F.
Hilliard Young, Mrs. Fred B. Griffith, Mrs.
Edward K. Bennett and Mrs. S. E. Hillman.

Several Boston firms participated in the
exhibitiOn, the models including the follow-
ing from this season’s debutantes: Misses
Sally Scudder, Betty Ware, Louise English,
Helen Lang, Mary Tyler and Maryanna
Morrill; also Mrs. Franklin Tulloch, Mrs.
Fred B. Griffith, Miss Sylvia Raffe, Miss
Barbara Stetson and Miss Jane Greene.
Miss Annice Frink, style editor of the Bos-
ton American assisted in the presentations.
The music was by the Nina Spaulding Trio.

The Auxiliary wishes to extend, through
the columns of Our Dumb Animals, its
grateful appreciation to all who contributed
to the success of the Fair, either by gifts or
by services.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Number of Things

Extracts from an article by CHARLES HANSON
TOWNE

F there is one thing I despise, detest,
Habominate and abhor it is an exhibition
of trained animals. When elephants, in all
their strange dignity, are brought out and
forced to move about a stage to the snap—
ping of a whip, each holding the tail of the
one in front of him with his trunk, some-
thing happens to me. . .

Lions and tigers, forming a pyramid,
Only fill mewith dismay. . .

Sea-lions, flapping their way to seesaws,
balanCing balloons on their noses, twirling
in rhythmical circles, uttering nervous
cries, fail to move me with anything but
pity for their slavish antics. The reward
of a fish for their trouble only seems an
insult to their vast intelligence. . .

I have seen baboons that knew more than
their trainers. Dressed up in human at-
tire, in a dc m'gnenr suit, leaping through
hoops of fire and flimsy paper, they have
seemed ashamed of the travesty. They have
been taught the most unneCessary tricks.
They do everything but talk and smile. . .

A monkey wasn’t meant to jump rope, to
put a napkin under his chin, to drink some-
thing that looks like a bottle of beer and
pretend that he is intoxicated. . .

I think too much of all animals to see
them made the lackeys of mankind in such
a ridiculous way. . .

A lonely eagle in a cage is not an inspir-
ing sight. Zoos, it is contended, are educa-
tive places; but couldn’t as much be learn-
ed of wild animals through picture books

7 and encyclOpedias?

Old Farmer’s Almanac

We are indebted to the publishers, Little
Brown & Company, successors to the late
Carroll J. Swan, for a copy of the one hun-
dred and forty-fourth edition of the fa-
mous Farmer’s Almanac, a book of 120
pages. It contains a mass of information,
with two pages devoted to the calendar of
each month, and a great variety of general
matter from a personal letter of good
wishes from President Roosevelt and an in-
forming article on “The Presidential Out-
look—1936” by Robert Lincoln O’Brien,
down to selections of light verse and jokes.
In addition to game and fish laws of all the
New England states, it includes two poems,
“Muskrat” and “Ode to a Cow,” that
should be of interest to our readers. The
price is 15 cents everywhere.

 

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second

incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the

 

property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt to A '
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............. y . . . . . annals (or
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property), _ ------

 

 

Jan. 1936

A Forest Picture

FLORENCE FAZIO

URELY “A thing of beauty is a joy

forever,” but in the case of the little
doe I saw drinking water at Sunset Lake
its beauty and loveliness did not have a
chance to “increase with age,” for some-
thing happened which stopped the grace-
ful swiftness of the young animal’s leap.

But, first, to get a picture of the scene
as I saw it: It was that time of day when
the sun’s heat and the evening’s breezes
meet; a soft shadow was hanging over the
autumn trees nodding towards the shim—
mering waters of the lake. Around the
edges of the water stood a little company
of does refreshing themselves, with drink-
ing. They were all lithe and lovely, but
there was one which stood out apart from
the rest of the group. Perhaps it was be-
cause she was standing quite alone that
her beauty and grace seemed more discern-
ible. Whatever the reason, however, that
lone creature was like a perfect thing of
God come down to the water’s edge to mir-
ror her loveliness. With her head poised
gently over the water, she drank deeply.
Raising her head, she looked up at the set-
ting sun as if she, too, were aware of the
enchanting moment.

And then, before the child—like express-
ion on the sweet face disappeared, a shot
drilled through the stillness and lodged it—
self in the doe’s head. The sound and re-
action was so almost simultaneous that for
a moment my senses failed to make me real—
ize what had happened. The other does
had leaped swiftly away at the sound of
the hunter’s weapon. Self-preservation.
Not desertion.

The sun settled behind the clouds, leav-
ing a gray veil, and the evening breezes
whipped a chill damp song through the
the trees. It was beautiful, but this beauty
had a sadness in it which could be felt even
above the gay ejaculations of the hunters
who came to gather their spoils.

Perhaps they did not notice. If they
could only have seen that human expression
and sensitivity on the doe’s face, they could
not have fire-d their guns any more than
they could have fired at a child looking up
at its mother’s face.

 

 

 

._._.___

Our—Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention 0
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

 

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two

Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

          

 

//.
////
[fl/VIMJWUW/twwﬂ

.//H., H/ / ,
¢/ ”ﬂy/h.

            

SOCIETY ~

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

          

              

///////

//M/

S
M
V
N
N
3
H
A
V
L
V
8
8
O
L
S
8
n
H
.A

,

      

        

/,/
///

454 .
//

                     

  

DORSET

,

        

.Jﬂ
./,n/.%////m /././
//. .c/a
/ﬂ%/,
/ x #0ng
OﬁWiW%%///
/..,/,/./////.// ,/
%m%%%%%%
/ ﬂ, /,

     

                                           

   

ENGLAND

      

%
ﬁzz. ,
.//”,././
/. .7 ..// /

//.
3,

  

  
 

    
       

   

/
4”,.
7,.» 69/.

                           

W.”

r , ,7 ,

dun/M 0/4

, 4.
/.//
/<// /.
/ £7”?

/

ﬁnal/n x

 

(See page 87)

        

7
4/4/////,
/7/% ,u,//MH.,M%«W//.Ma/W
, i
/2
// 2/”

ﬁﬂﬂ

//,/

                

          

4 I'll/Ir/
w/ , //.// ,6,
.dV %%%W%ﬂ.
/ ”ﬂy/4%
//////,,///
7/. 2%,”
@W/

. // J. . // //./

,/wV iMWWfﬂ

7.¢%%ZW%,,
/

./
/

                         

 

,///.//., /.

/
//////,, .. /

                     

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS “SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION‘ OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

/.

,/ 4m / A . .ﬂ/y/
/// ///// /
////// . _ é/Mw/w;
. I « ///. ”74/7 /" .w/ Ma MAL.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

July, 1936

Welcome
ELLIS ATKISSON MCDONALD

Dear Lord, I know I shall be shy
In H eaven’s shining land—
So send no radiant angel, Lord
To take me by the hand
And make me dumb with awe, and fear
And blind my eyes with light
And lead me to my Home at last
Across the starry night.

But I would feel a welcome, Lord,
If, at the gate, I meet

The little dog I loved on earth,
With merry, scampering feet;

Oh I would surely lay my hand
Upon his head, and 'roam

All of Thy golden, glorious streets
And I’d feel quite at home.

Two Dogs—One Eye
RUNA M. RUHLE

Possessing only one eye, a young bulldog
carefully guided his sightless mother up the
long drive to the California Country Club,
Los Angeles. As a car approached he would
jostle her off the road until it was again
safe to proceed. With a good nose for
business, he steered her around to the
kitchen door where both set up a plaintive
whining. The manager had seen their pe—
culiar approach and went to the back door
with food for the interesting wanderers.
Realizing that they were somebody’s pets,
he arranged to keep them until they could
be claimed.

A few days later they were back home,
being tenderly cared for by their mistress
who stated that both dogs had been. blinded
by boys with air riﬂes.

Through that strain of cruelty many
children seem to have, the possession of an
air-gun results in suffering of innocent
creatures. If parents will put such weapons
in the hands of their children, they should
be held liable in court.

It is interesting to know there are 8,500-
000 dog owners in. America, who represent
a canine investment of $500,000,000.

wﬂ-m. . ..

:iELiﬁiza

2'~'e_:_<;:;:::{:- :::::

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 103

Our Gold and White Lady

A. D. R. BEEDON

UR ﬁrst meeting; with our gold and
©white lady was in the late fall. Cold

winds and chilling rains had already
set in. As we walked through a little wood
she rushed out at us. She put up such a
half—hearted threat as she strove to drive us
away that we hunted out her nest to see
what she was protecting.

Under a low bush were six live puppies
and one dead one. All were sleek and fat
so we concluded the little one had perished
from cold. The mother had the beautiful
eyes of a collie but she was very small and
thin. Her coat was shabby and far from
thick. The poor creature was starving and
yet bravely feeding those fat puppies; tak-
ing care of them the best she could. We
gave her food and later went back to take
the little family to our home.

Our intention was to ﬁnd homes for the
young ones and have the mother put out
of her misery as soon as possible. We
didn’t want a female dog. When later we
found she had been a tramp for years that
strengthened our decision.

She was so grateful for food and care
that we grew fond of her against our own
judgment and will. Later when we found
a good home, which she quite deﬁnitely re-
fused, she became ours. The name “Slip-
pery,” “Slip,” for short, was given her.

For two years she had a grand life. I
think we both had the feeling that we
wanted to make up for the suffering and
privation which had been her lot. Her
teeth were ground down to her gums in
front, probably from tearing at roots as
she looked for game, trying to keep life in
her body. How she had managed to live at
all during the hard winters was beyond our
comprehension. She carefully ate every
scrap, no matter how well we fed her. She
was desperately afraid of a stick or broom
at ﬁrst. She never became any thing but
terror—stricken at a shot or thunder. Then,
if she couldn’t reach one of us, she ﬂed to
the woods where we were certain she had a
cave.

Slip developed into an interesting char—
acter and was very beautiful. She always

   

-'-?:1:=:-:-:~::::I;.;\-;;;:;.;

-. »:-.~:,<¢:;

NO MOTHER TO GUIDE THEM

kept the timidity of a wild creature, never
coming directly to us but circling the house
and coming up behind. If she wanted to ﬁnd
either of us she would scent the air. When
her pups were about to be born, although
she had stayed near the house for weeks,
she would go to the little woods where we
had found her. One time her master had
to dig the pups out of a badger hole. we
never decided whether she had a strain of
fox or coyote in her blood or whether she
was a throw-back.

However, she was the gentlest, most
appreciative, watchful friend that one Could
have. How :she loved to be told she was
a good girl!

The last part of last November real fall
had set in with frosty air and chilly rains.
Slip left her pups to go on a hunting ex—
pedition. She must have gone Thursday
night for when I went to feed her Friday
morning she didn’t answer to my whistle.
We searched everywhere we could think of,
Friday and Saturday; sure that she had
been injured on the highway and crawled
away and was suffering. Still searching,
but beginning by Sunday to hope that she
had been killed instantly, we jumped every
time we heard a noise. Monday we could
see her in our imagination in all the places
we were accustomed to find her. It was a
relief when in the middle of the forenoon
we heard her sharp little bark. The pups
“yapped” in answer.

But when we saw her we were thankful
indeed that the door was fastened so that
she couldn’t reach her babies. Her poor
little leg was covered with blood and when
her master examined it he found the bone
protruding through the skin. Indeed half
of her leg was only hanging by the skin.

Some cruelly ignorant person had set a
large steel trap and, not caring about the
suffering of his victims, had failed to take
the trouble to put the wretched creature out
of its misery, or, indeed, to 'visit his traps
daﬂy.

My poor little gold and white lady had
been held there Friday, Saturday and Sun—
day, suffering, cold, hungry, and worried
about her puppies, then but five weeks old.
She had struggled home as soon as she was
released for her master to help her, as she
always had done. Well, the only kind thing
was to put her out of her misery with a
merciful shot as she sat trying to ease the
pain in that mangled leg. Her beautiful
eyes were glazed with pain as she looked
into my face for the last time.

I see red when any one says steel trap to
me. How a civilized country will allow steel
traps to be set when it isn’t compulsory to
visit them daily is incomprehensible. Why
any one gets permission to set them at all,
where there is no game, is something else
again. We are a community of farms where
cats and dogs are a part, and a large part,
of our rural existence.

It is fairly accurate to say that there are
approximately 13,000,000 dogs in the U. S.,
of which about 2,000,000 are pedigreed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Aug. 1936

Wﬁﬁvr~ .. - - ~

gnaw

 

 
      

 

L/\//),—- 4‘0

Z/‘\‘
1/ /

.-n... I R955. “a .;.. a w...
Sharing with Winter Birds

MYRTLE G. BURGER

I watched a redbird eat his fill

Of crumbs from off the window—sill.
I saw his scarlet feathers glow
Against the whiteness of the snow.
His mate, in dress 0 f duller hue,
Saw him there and down she flew.
It was indeed a charming sight

To watch them feasting with delight!
How glad I am that I may share

My plenty with these sprites of air!
Perhaps to save the useful life

0f pretty Redbird and his wife!

A Bulldog Goes to College

A True Incident

FRANK M. HEASTER

     

Y brother and I were both in college and our Boston

bull was becoming somewhat of a worry to Mother.
She was unable to exercise him and, being a real dog, he
loved the outdoors. A neighboring family was moving at
that time to a farm a hundred miles distant and since they
had always cared as much for the dog as we had, they want—
ed to take “Lindy” along. This was agreed and Lindy went
peaceably with them.

A few weeks later a letter came home from our past
neighbors saying that the dog had disappeared and that they
could find no trace of him. This hurt all of us for we were
positive he would be killed or cruelly treated or starve.

That spring one of my friends attended a sorority dance
.at Wesleyan College in Buckhannon, a town near the farm
where Lindy had originally gone to live. He came back and
reported that he was certain that our dog was being cared
'for at the girls’ dormitory there.

There was no hesitating about it. We drove to Buckhan—
non at once. Arriving there we made for the college first.
As we idled slowly up the campus there came a brown streak
flying across the grass. He bounded on the running board
and all but went crazy on finding us. Later information we
heard told us that Lindy had been there for several months.
He had been fed by the girls who would carry scraps from
the dining-hall each meal. At night they would either secure
him in the furnace room or sneak him to their rooms to
.sleep under the bed. They hated to give him up as much as
we were glad to have him back.

But the whole incident showed my prior cynical mind that
somewhere there is always someone eager and willing to
care for animals.

The tail of the cat is part of the backbone, or spine, which
is made up of a number of little knots of bones joined togeth-
er, just like our spines; and pussy’s spine also is joined to
her brain. You will understand now why puss cannot bear
to have her tail pulled, and why she growls and scratches

when the baby drags at it. No wonder, for it affects her
‘brain and half maddens her for a minute.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

l. REWS “NIP/(31

F——

.. ,, f“ . mu .m. '. . 4% _ w,
( ------ E“ u. \ .3. u'lﬂ 1”, I... g 3 ?HI .. ‘ “1“ n “1 ‘ .
. ~ _. . - ,, u. h- v u . “x

 
 
 

 

     

i
o
'I
'I
d '-, .
-_ \u
_‘.I\\ . .
.
.1)
" “i? 0
~\
.

mm) . «l i”: .\V\ I a ‘ "

 

Photo By H. Armstrong Roberts
SUMMER COMPANIONS

 

Massachusetts Dog Receives Diploma

At the graduation exercises of the Riggs School, Glouces—
ter, Massachusetts, last June, “Nipper,” ten-year old collie,
received a special diploma for his attendance at the school
for eight years. He is owned by Gordon W. Lowe, thirteen,
whom he accompanied to the school, taking his place by the
desk of the boy daily. Gordon graduated this year. The di-
ploma, signed by all the pupils, several teachers and the
principal, Miss Catherine Winn, reads: “This is to certify
that ‘Nipper’ Lowe has been a faithful visitor to the Riggs
School for eight years. We, the class of 1936, with the love
of the children, present him with this diploma.”

Answer to “Double Acrostic” last month:

0 k l a h o m A

UnicorN
Ra b bI
D r u M
UmbrellA
MusicaL
B i r d S

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 728

Motion Picture Cruelty

(Continued from page 116)

were badly injured, when the dust cleared
away. Two ambulances picked up the 1n—
jured men. A horse was lying half over
the pit and half out, its back broken. An
employee destroyed it; horse in N0. 2 pit
was taken away very lame but pronounced
O. K. by the company’s veterinary surgeon.
Horse in No. 3 pit, broken front leg and
other injuries. An employee fired at s1de
of horse’s head, horse still standing, an-
other employee fired a shot Without killiing
it and Officer Girolo killed it to end its
suffering.

Other injured horses were taken up over
the hills, followed by a veterinary surgeon
to a pit which had already been dug for
injured and dead horses. The injured ones
were killed and buried. After an all day
rehearsal the actual taking of the picture
and clearing the field was over in fifteen
minutes. Officer Gir-olo obtained warrants
for the business manager for causing the
cruelty and defendant riders for injuring
their horses. They were convicted and fin—
ed $25 and 10 days in jail, but sentence was
reduced to a $15 fine.

In connection with this diabolical spec—
tacle Matthew McCurrie, secretary—mana—
ger of the San Francisco S. P. C. A., states
that the high prices paid the riders, some
reported getting from $75 to $300 a fall,
induces men to take desperate chances
without regard to what will happen to the
horses. If the limit of a jail sentence, six
months’ imprisonment, would be imposed
and the use of such devices as the “Running
W” prohibited, it would help to check this
commercial cruelty. Legislation is abso—
lutely necessary to prohibit the showing of
any part of a picture in which cruelty to
animals has occurred.

Vigorous protests from thousands
throughout the country should be sent to
Warner Brothers for the cruelty they are
responsible for in the filming of this pic-
ture, “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Jack LOndon Club

HIS Club was formed to put an end
to one of the worst forms of existing
cruelty—the training of trick animals. Jack
London’s “Michael Brother of Jerry” is an
exposition of cruelty connected with this
business. He said: “No normal healthy hu-
man would tolerate such performances did
he or she know the terrible cruelty that lies
behind them and makes them possible.”
He said there is one way to stop it. When
humane men and women and children. will
get up and leave the theater during one of
these animal turns, returning to their seats
when it is over, the Management will know
these performances are not wanted and will
cease catering them to the public.

All you have to do to join the Club is to
send your name to Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Ave., Boston, Massachusetts.
That means you will make this silent yet
powerful protest.

We wish each reader to secure as many
members as possible and send us the num—
ber of those signifying their willingness to
join this Club. Now is your chance if you
really desire to do something for animals.

We will supply copies of “Michael Broth-
er of Jerry” at 75 cents each, postpaid. We
will send the “Foreword” free to any ask-
ing for it.

A few of the distinguished people who
have joined the club are Mr. and Mrs.
George Arliss, Hollywood; Mrs. Margaret
Deland of Boston; Former Governor Perci-
val P. Baxter of Maine, and Mrs. Irene
Castle McLaughlin of Chicago. The total
membership of the Club to date is 673,132.

The artist who is painting a portrait of
President Roosevelt has been in the habit
of entering the White House by the front
door of the executive ofﬁces where the
guards know him. One day recently he
decided on a short cut through the side
entrance. A guard halted him. “What’s
in that package you’ve got?” he asked.

“Just an easel,” said the artist.

“We-ll, we don’t allow animals in the
White House,” snapped the guard.

—News, Greenville, S. C.

Would—be Advertiser: “Are you certain
that advertisements in your paper bring
results?”

Country Editor: “Absolutely. Why, the
last time a man advertised a lost dog the
dog walked in while the man was writing
out the advertisement.” —Gm’t

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
mcorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

wish it the greatest possible success.

 

 

    

  

Aug. 1936

The Shanghai S. P. C. A.

UT of war-torn China there comes to

our desk a very attractive forty—
page magazine, The Blue Cross, ofﬁcial or-
gan of the Shanghai Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals. It is the ﬁrst
number of a quarterly “dedicated to justice
to animals.” We welcome it most cordially
to the fraternity of humane periodicals and
This
number for May is of unusual interest as
1t contains the special annual general re-
port of the Society. Everything is in Eng-
llSl’l and the names of the officers indicate

that the .entire organization is in the hands
of English-speaking persons.

His Honor
Judge A. G. Mossop, president of the Socie—
ty, contributes a brief foreword telling of
the object of the magazine and the value
of humane education and legislation.

At the end of last year the Society had
812 members, of whom 190 were life mem-
bers. It maintains a uniformed inspector
whose activities included many visits to dog
pounds, cattle-yards, and wharves where
ponles attached to carriages are used for
hire. Certain members of the Society as-
81813 by attending pony auctions and inves-

tigating public livery stables, slaughter-

houses and chicken markets. During 1935
there were 185 dogs and 424 cats humanely
destroyed by local veterinarians at an ex—
pense of $1,457. Salaries of secretary and
of Inspector and incidentals brought the
total expenditures to $8,383. Subscription
to The Blue Cross is $1 per year. Contri—
butlons should be sent to the Secretary,

Shanghai S. P. C. A., 184 Mohawk Road,
Shanghai, China.

Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci—
eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. Send the
coupon for a free folder giving full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.
Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ............................

Age .......... Address ....................

 

 

Our Dumb Animal—s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesda f
y 0 each month b
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention 03f,
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Oﬂice: 180 Longwood
venue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Soc1eti-es.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION 5
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C.OA:.IETY

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Assoc1ate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.7 5

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
1153;. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

Jan.1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bedtime

GWENNIE JAMES

It’s bedtime for the sleepy Year
After a busy day;

By tw'os and threes, his feathered guests
Hare fluttered on their way.

He puts the little flower-lights out,
And then, without a sound,

He lights a shining winter’s moon
And makes his evening round.

When all is peaceful for the night
He climbs the stair to bed,
And pulls the snowy blankets up
About his drowsy éhead.

- And now the year is fast asleep;
His house is white and dim;
Let wintry winds blow loud and cold,
For there’s no waking him!

But when the time says March-o-’clock
With wild geese chiming shrill,

The year will spring awake, and don
A rope of daffodil!

“Bessie,” the Valiant

LAURA RAYMOND STRICKLAND

friend of mine, returning from her summer’s vacation,
A said to me, “You would love my sister’s dog; she is the
mosr. intelligent animal I ever saw.” This is her story:

“Bessie,” a two-year-old Scotch shepherd, lives on the farm
of Frank Oulton, Cumberland Center, Maine. Not far from
her home lies a deep and dangerous gravel-pit.

Browning, four—year-old youngster of the family, had been
warned many times to keep away from the pit, but one morn-
ing, men working at the farther end were alarmed at the sud-
den attack, as they thought, of a black and white dog who
jumped at them in frantic fury, barking excitedly. However,
as soon as the dog saw she had their attention she darted back
to the other end. Now the men began to put two and two to-
gether. They remembered seeing a little boy standing there,
some time before, and calling to him to go away.

Hurrying after the dog as fast as trembling knees would per-
mit, they discovered the sliding gravel had carried Browning
down the steep incline and was rapidly covering him. Bessie
was already there —- she was quiet now —— digging desperately.

The sight of the plucky dog, working so efficiently to keep
the gravel from the boy’s face, spurred the men into action.
Soon Browning, minus a lot of buttons and plus a lot of grav—
el, was on his way home to mother!

At first, Browning, knowing that he had disobeyed, had
nothing to say, but some time later, when being put to bed, he
suddenly burst out, “Muvver, Bessie barked awful and scratch-
ed gravel like anything!”

Perhaps, sub-consciously, he realized that in fairness to his
faithful friend, her part, at least, deserved telling.

My friend concluded by saying, “The folks have always lov-
ed Bessie but you can imagine how they feel toward her now.”

,4_ .
§v /' / 4 .
"‘ . In J ‘34 ' '
n " V \5/ A { ’,I I .‘

  

“ﬁlm. ‘ 2ST?)

 

 

MURIEL LA VON GOODSPEED, SALT LAKE CITY,
UTAH, AND HER PET LAMB

 

Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

In each of the following sentences an animal is hidden.
if you can find them all.

1. We went for a picnic in a car I bought.

2. When Jim upset the pan the roast fell in the fire.

3. He had just returned from Africa, and told us a legend
about some Matabele phantoms.

4. In North Africa a dog owned by an Arab bit a hole in
Jim’s bag, and ate all his bacon.

5. The Arab apologized and offered to pay Jim cash or send
him more bacon.

6. Jim says that Arab is one of the most honest persons he

See

has met.

7. He gave Jim a trick box that must be a very cleverly
made one.

8. We could not open it, but a tap on the mantel opened it
for Jim.

9. In that strange country, Jim found the friendly Arab a
boon and a blessing.
Answers to missing “Animal Words” puzzle last month: Pig,
turtle, steer, donkey, frogs, wolf, bear, cow, goat, ferret, dog,
monkey, hog.

 




 

Apr. 1936

 
        
  
 
  

 

1. l .

I {b
H r),

  
 
   
     

 

      
 
  

'..

    

to“:

   
    
  
 

  

[WWW

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWE’LL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis ..
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H.
WELL, Sec.

CAS-

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS.
TAYLOR, Pres.;
Thursday.

RICHARD S.
MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬁcers. . 12,672

Cases investigated . .............. 346
Animals examined ............... 8,026
Animals placed in homes ....... . . . 97
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 45
Horses taken from work .......... 11
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . . 21
Small animals humanely put to sleep 952
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ................ 60,194
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
puttosleep ............ 32

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the will of Sarah M. Cottrell
Of Bennington, Vermont.

March 10, 1936.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬂ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oanmwm
bowwms

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY

Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 663 Cases 1,804
Dogs 481 Dogs 1,455
Cats 165 Cats 322
Horses 9 Birds 22
Birds 6 Coats 2
Goat 1 Monkey 1
Lamb 1 Horse 1
Alligator 1
Operations 757
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 .......................... 136,712
Dispensary Cases .................. 328,895
Total .................... 465,607
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 125
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 355
Operations ........................ 181

Annual Hospitality Day

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. announces that its annual
Open house for members and guests will
take place at the Angell Memorial Hospital
building, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Wednesday, April 22. There will be a pro—
gram Of musical selections and afternoon
tea.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE THREE OF US HOME FROM THE
ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL
WELL AND HAPPY

Owned by Mrs. Alice M. Kennedy, Cam-
den, Me.

Page 57

Mrs. Jennie B. Powers

0RD has come to us just as this
W issue Of Our Dumb Animals goes to
press, of the death Of Mrs. Jennie B. Powers
the humane agent of the Cheshire County
Humane Society, Keene, New Hampshire.
For many years we have followed the work
Of this rarely noble and devoted woman.
Her interest in the welfare of animals and
of children was so Sincere, unselﬁsh and
compelling that it mattered little how tem-
pestuous the weather, how almost impass—
able the roads, She found no rest until she
had discovered how she might relieve the
suffering and see that justice was done.
Her sacriﬁces of time, vitality and health
were unceasing. On the earthly rolls, where
may stand the names of many humane
workers widely known, her name may not
appear, but if any record is kept on high of
those entitled to say, “I have kept the faith,
I have fought a good ﬁght, I have ﬁnished
my course,” her name will be among those
that head the list. New Hampshire w111
search far and wide before one is found to

take her place.

Howard A. Crossman

Word from Honolulu received just as the
presses were about printing this .issue of
our magazine brought us the sad tidings of
the death Of one of our generous and most
loyal friends, Mr. Howard A. Crossman.
Mr. Crossman came into our ofﬁces to say
good—bye only a day or two before he and
Mrs. Crossman started on their journey,
their home being in Hampton Falls, N. H.
We have learned nothing of the particulars
of his illness, though we knew he had not
been free for some years from a rather
serious heart trouble. .

Our new Small Animal Ambulance 18
known, from a chromium plate on either Side
Of the front doors, as the “Crossman Am-
bulance,” as it was the generous gift of Mr.
and Mrs. Crossman, both of whom have long
been deeply interested in animals and con—
stant and generous givers to humane or-
ganizations. Mr. Crossman’s death comes to
us as a distinct personal loss. Both he and
Mrs. Crossman were honorary Vice—presi—
dents Of our two Societies.

The Birthday Of a Cat

The chief interest in a newspaper clip—
ping which tells Of a dinner being given 1n
honor Of a cat owned by a New York State
veterinarian on the twenty-ﬁrst birthday
Of the cat is in the fact that the cat lived
to be twenty-one years Old, the average life
being somewhere from eight to ten years.
The story is that the cat appeared at the
table in a proper enclosure and in front of
him was the cake bearing twenty-one
candles. It is rather amusing to read that
the salad served at the dinner was catnip
salad.

Because of vacation in the Boston public
schools during Be Kind to Animals Week,
Superintendent Campbell has announced
that Humane Day in schools will be
Observed on Friday, April 17.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 152

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

OCTOBER, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Anima’s are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Inviting the Birds

11 T is not too early to begin to prepare for
attracting the birds about our homes this
winter. Almost any form of feeding-table
placed high enough from the ground will
answer. Even a place in the yard where
food is regularly scattered will bring them.
Sometimes this feeding place may be on a
piazza where the birds can be seen through
a window. Hang a piece of suet in a tree
near the house. Tie a meat bone where it
can be reached. To many it is a constant
delight, day after day, to watch these little
visitors come and go. If you have never
given yourself this pleasure now is the very
time to begin.

For Foreign Work

For years a devoted member of our So—
ciety gave us several hundred dollars annu-
ally for humane work in foreign lands
where need seemed the greatest. With her
death these gifts stopped. Yet calls come
constantly from other lands where animal
suffering is beyond belief and where even
a little help to a few self-sacrificing work—
ers to lessen cruelty would mean much. We
shall gladly establish a fund for this pur-
pose if money is sent us to meet such needs.

The Queen Mary

This is the new Cunard—White Star Eng—
lish liner. Oil from her great engines will
destroy no sea birds on her own or other
shores. The Royal S. P. C. A. tells us that,
as a result of enquiring, it has learned that
this latest queen of the sea is equipped with
011 separators by means of which the oil is
recovered and the waste so fatal to sea fowl
not emptied into the sea.

A Clever Comment

The July issue of Outdoor Indiana proud-
ly reports that feet from 146,000 crows have
been turned in by competing “conservation”
clubs in three campaigns against the birds
in the Hoosier State. Bird lovers, game
bird shooters and farmers are reported to
be deeply appreciative of the reduced popu—
lation. So are the grasshoppers that have
been eating up the farm crops.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Vanishing Birds and
Abandoned Farms

Millicent and Irene Finley in the Septem—
ber issue of Nature Magazine find What
seems abundant reason for the disappear-
ance of a part of our wild fowl and also
for the abandonment of hundreds of farms
that were never meant for farms. They
say:

Years ago it was the plume and market
hunters that we thought meant the end of
the birds. This was like a mere visitation
of the measles, soon cured. With the com-
ing of the land promoter, a more insidious
disease fell upon the feathered residents of
the lake. It was a canker in Nature’s bal—
anced system, a schemer who persuaded
state and county governments that vacant
desert lands could be turned into prosperous
farms, that ponds and marshes could be
drained and would add agricultural wealth
to the communities.

In this period, civic organizations, cham-
bers of commerce and even the railroads
fell in with the idea of inducing settlers
from the Middle West and the East to come
out and locate on remaining public lands
throughout the dry sagebrush country and
especially in the submarginal areas. Com—
mon sense would have told even a casual
observer that these were not fit to support
families.

So this promotion fever swept through
the western country, eating away the feed-
ing and nesting-places of the migratory

flocks. Water birds could not live without
homes. This false land promotion was an
epidemic.

The picture that followed this land pro—
motion flurry was one of desolation; desert—
ed shacks with a few starving cattle stand-
ing expectantly at the back door; deserted
schoolhouses with owls roosting in the bel-
fries; wind-blown sand sweeping across the
bleak spaces—lonely, lonely. It was a pa—
thetic ending of the efforts of misguided
men to make homes.

Funchal S. P. C. A., Madeira

A letter from Mrs. Marie C. S. Houghton
tells of the death of Dr. Alexandre da
Cunha Telles, late president of the Funchal
S. P. C. A., who was noted for his great
public and charitable work. The organiza-
tion is fortunate in securing as its new
president Viscount Cacongo, a prominent
member of Funchal society. A “Be Kind to
Animals” day will be observed this fall,
while the Society’s hospital and other prac-
tical work is being kept up. The head of
the police in Funchal is especially helpful.
In commenting on current conditions, Mrs.
Houghton observes:

“The deteriorating effects of the system—
atic culture of cruelty upon a whole nation
are being demonstrated in Spain today.
Will this realization not give stimulus to
earnest universal efforts upon the lines of
your splendid humane work? The need for
humane instruction stands out more and
more clearly. When will humanity as a
whole realize this, and put its hand to the
plough? Introducing this teaching into our
small sphere of action is an ideal I have
set myself. May this dream some day be
accomplished!”

Oct. 1936

A Variant of Aesop

NDER the above heading The London
U Times prints a message from its Dar-
es Salaam correspondent stating that a eu-
rious tale has come from Tabora, in the cen—
ter of Tanganyika. “Raids by lions upon
the herds of cattle have been frequent and
the natives have been setting traps. An
aged native has just been fined 30s. by the
Native Council for releasing a lion from one
of the traps. It appears that the lion used
to hunt regularly near the native’s hut, and
a friendly arrangement, it was said in court,
had been evolved between the two. The lion
would always leave sufficient meat for the
man; and the man, in his turn, coming
across the lion in the trap, had—like the
mouse in the fable—shown that he was not
ungrateful. It was not clear in the evidence
whether the hyenas and jackals had also
been brought into the working arrangement,
for they normally eat up in a night What—
ever meat a lion leaves.”

Even to the Least

Victor Hugo says of that bishop whom
all readers of “Les Miserables” will never
forget, “He sprained his ankle once trying
to avoid stepping on an ant.” He belonged
to the order of those who would not “need—
lessly set foot upon a worm.” This attitude
toward life, even when we meet it in its
lowliest forms, can be cultivated in children
if parents start early enough. If there are
harmful creatures whose meaning we can-
not understand and which must be destroy—
ed, let the destruction be without unneces-
sary suffering and never in the spirit of
cruelty.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for July, 1936—31 Days

Daily average, large animals 48.1

Forage for same $100.38
Daily average, dogs
Forage for same 7.40
Put to sleep 48 24.90
Transportation 20.24
Wages, grooms and stable boys 66.35
Superintendent’s salary 116.12
Veterinary’s salary 29.86
Motor bicycle (insurance and expense) 18.14
Sundries 41.08
Building upkeep (repair water-tubes) 331.56
(*)$756.03

Entries: 21 horses, 7 mules, 75 donkeys.

Exits: 7 horses, 4 mules, 43 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 87 horses, 62 mules, 91 donk-
eys, 2 dogs, 6 cats.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 494 cases inves-
tigated, 7,743 animals seen, 1,705 animals treated, 70
animals transferred to American Fondouk, 11 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

(*)Actual operating expenses, $424.47.

Mr. Charles A. Williams, Honorary Sec—
retary, writes us from Fez, August 8, “The
new motor ambulance, the gift of Mrs.
Henry Ravenscroft, will arrive here Mon-
day next by train. We had to pay duty at
Casablanca, as the new head of the Custom
House is in France on his holiday. We feel
quite assured that the money will be re—
funded to us. As the number plates can
only be arranged for in Fez, and only deal-
ers are allowed ‘en route’ number plates,
it had to be sent by train. This costs us,
however, scarcely more than to hire a chauf—
feur and an official to bring it over the
road.”

 




 

 

Ellie Thanh nf merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel. usage. t -11 nd
American Humane Educatlon Socie y w1 s3. ,,
toTeriry person who forms a Banil1 of MES-:ytg: tlggrid
d sends the name c osen '
:ifdnkthles’nznme and post-office address of the pres1f-
dent who has been duly elected, speC1al Band, ot
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1den .

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Four hundred and forty—one new bands
of Mercy were reported during January. Of
these 227 were in Georgia, 122 in Massachu—
setts, 54 in Florida, 25 in Illinois, seven in
Pennsylvania, three in Palestine, and one
each in New Jersey, New York and West
Virginia.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society, 214,606.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS OF THE AMERICAN HU—
MANE EDUCATION SOCIETY FOR
JANUARY, 1936

(See list of officers and field workers on page 46)

Number 'of Bands of Mercy formed, 392
Number of addresses made, 314
Number of persons in audiences, 44,678

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20-25
and Humane Sunday, April 19, 1936

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1936 ............ each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1935. bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes, 1933 and 1934 .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x33/8 ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents ; paper, 20 cts.

What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50
The Care of Mules .................... .50 ‘

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50 “ “

......

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

.1llus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. .....................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ...................
An .Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.
each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ........................... 35 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants

.. . . each, 25 cts.
Be Kind to Animals” placards

each, 3 cts.

......

T1}: {-Iumane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
. ow ey ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. .................. cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00
The B——K—~T——A——Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts.each;six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp.
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

cloth, 9'6 cts.

(‘ ‘6

  
  
     

1 FREE The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “ H for boys find girls, by Dr- Jefferson, 4eme- ~50 “
‘ umane E ucation, What to Teach and

‘ BOOK L E¥RIIHIOE $05,; About the Cat 0 HIOW to fTeacg It .................... .50 “
. . - _ _ u ines o Stu y in Humane Education. 1.50 “
13 on thepracrmal removal ghe gatEIts Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100 Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 ..
1: of worms 1n Dogs of all urp us ats .......................... .5 A Talk with the Teacher ____________ .50 ‘~

The Cat in Literature

breeds and ages. .
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50

Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

r
it

; i . m" ””5 Mom. wnnennn vane... .......... . .50 . th‘ereéinne tanner. .............. 2.35.1???" 1:33
l “The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. '50 A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 ‘
r l > N E g M 7 - Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ---------------- 1'00 ‘ Need of Humane Education Societies and
3: TETRAOHLORETHYLENE c_-r_) Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ ‘

About Other Animals

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

WORM CAPSULES

ca-rz—zr —s:;ﬂ:__.-fr urges: ——

e ﬁectively remove

Large Roundworms and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!

 

 

 

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards. 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper,5cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

 

 

 

 

i!1 - H ’ R H1 T v1 25 t -
3:, For Free Booklet wrzte to Desk N-58-C' eaven 5 age’ 8 en re e yan """ c 8' gilt letters and border one cent each 1.00 “ “
Animal Industry Dept., The Great Cruelty, Dr. ROWIey . """"""" Free Badges gold finish large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
, PARKE, DAVIS & co., Detroit, Mich Flrst Aid to Ammals, Dr- Schnelder, 8 egg-00 pe 100 “Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
I Drug Stores Sell Parke-Dams Products What is the Jack London Club? ...... ~30 “ “ SangsEdoify Happy Life, With muSI‘c, S. 50 cts
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “ ' """" - """"""""""" '
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 -- -‘ sags)“ Happy Llfe (56 pages, words $3 00 per 100
{ﬂu—nu :33: :53: :::: :::‘ :3} How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 , , y '. ................ . ............. . u ..
.. , Leaﬂets No 6 A . 1 ‘ Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50
Shampoo Regularly With ’ ° ’ nima S ". """""" '50 H .. How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Leaflets, No. 7 Farm Anlmals ...... .50 . , “ “
- ’ Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30
CUTICURA SOAP Ways of Kindness .................... .50
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 ‘ No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Precede by Applications of

CUTICURA OINTMENT

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
Address : "Culicura,” Dept. 13K, Malden, Mass.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

an—n—ll—l
gu—u—u—u

--.. .... .. ,Ir -. --.. ---

.
u -v-v U... —- ‘4‘va v... ovo-

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for
Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.
State whether 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

mnhertakets

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 58

       

 
  

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusnce- 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

.7
g .
m
2';

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS I-I. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANC‘ROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira.

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton. Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll. Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR FEBRUARY, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 528
Number of addresses made, 361

66,007

Hudson County S. P. C. A.

ﬁne report was submitted for last

year’s activities by Miss J. D. Jaccard,
president of the Hudson County District
S.P.C.A. of Jersey City, N. J., at the annual
meeting. Altogether 20,027 animals were
involved. Nearly 10,000 cats and almost as
many dogs were received at the Shelter, of
which 960 dogs and eight cats were placed
1n homes. More than 7,000 ambulance calls
were made for sick and unwanted animals.
A successful poster contest was conducted
in the schools and more than 125,000 pages
of humane literature distributed. The S0-
c1ety makes a feature of enrolling junior
members, 1,307 having been added during
the year making the present total 21,925.

Number of persons in audiences,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1936

Better Poultry Inspection Needed

HE production of poultry for human

consumption has been carried on for
many years with little supervision and scant
regulation. Federal meat inspection laws,
hitherto, have not been concerned with
poultry, and state and city health depart-
ments have paid little heed to the condi—
tions under which poultry has been raised,
transported, slaughtered and sold. Were
these conditions better known to the general
public, bearing as they do so directly upon
the public health, radical changes, it is be—
lieved, would quickly ensue to safeguard
one of our staple foods.

One who has been engaged in public
health educational work and has investigat-
ed all stages of the poultry business from
farm to market, avers that the raising
and slaughter of poultry “violates every
precept of sanitation and humanity.”

In relation to sanitation it has been found
that chickens commonly scratch and feed
upon the fecal wastes of animals and hu—
mans which are recognized as a particular
malignant factor in disease transmission.

Pick—up trucks scour the countryside for
chickens. Chickens have a long list of di—
seases—many poultry raisers cull out their
sick chickens and sell them to these dealers.
These chickens stand on shipping crate
floors which become littered with fecal
wastes. They may be shipped alive 2,000
miles, or, the very next day, one of them
may be delivered at your own kitchen door.

Semi-scalding of poultry, which is wide—
spread and increasing in the slaughtering
process, multiplies the sanitary horrors.
By this inhumane method fowls are thrust
bleeding into hot water. The temperature
is 125 degrees, just hot enough to start
a chicken’s feathers, but not hot enough
to destroy disease germs. This water soon
becomes a foul smelling solution of blood,
chicken ordure and the powdered filth of
dusting places. Not infrequently there are
lice and the wastes of lice. The carcasses,
after being defeathered, are dipped into a
vat in which a lot of other filthy carcasses
have been rinsed, then to the poultry mar-
ket or direct to kitchens.

In the light of these facts it behooves
the housewife and all other users of poul-
try to “check up” on this product and to
reject the semi—scalded fowl. In one way
at least they can do this by insisting on
dry—picked fowls which have a light fuzz
and ﬁne hairs that easily can be singed off.
Semi-scalded carcasses are smooth, bare
and obviously have been wet.

A vast amount of hideous cruelty goes
on behind the closed doors of unregulated,
uninspected, poultry-slaughtering rooms.
Many dealers believe that fowls are most
easily defeathered if plucked or semi—scald-
ed alive—also that the carcasses will retain
more blood, thereby holding up the weights.
It is extremely difficult, if not impossible,
for a humane officer to get a conviction
for such cruelty. Because evidence is very
hard to get and a police court or jury,
persuaded by an able defense, are very
hard to convince.

The recent federal act to regulate in—
terstate commerce in livestock, which in-

cludes poultry, went into effect in Mass—
achusetts last month. It purposes to pre-
vent deceptive and fraudulent practices
among live poultry dealers and handlers
in the large centers of population. With ad-
equate enforcement it should be able to
prevent some of the long—standing abuses
in the poultry industry.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for January, 1936 —— 31 Days

Daily average large animals 43
Forage for same 8 67.60
Daily average dogs 10
Forage for same 10.32
Put to sleep 35 8.58
Transportation 16.95
Wages, grooms, etc. 67.94
Superintendent’s salary 11 5.43
Veterinary’s salary 29.68
Sundries 78.34
$394.84

Entries: 18 horses, 3 mules, 64 donkeys.

Exits: 3 horses, 7 mules, 38 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 43 horses, 58 mules, 77 don-
keys, 7 dogs.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometres trav-
eled, 122; cases investigated, 328; animals seen,
3.346; animals treated, 691; animals transferred to-
Fondouk American, 38; infected pack-saddles des-
troyed, 14.

A SAMPLE OF THE 31 DAYS’ WORK

Wednesday, 29th: Cloudy weather and rain. 8 A. M.
Usual work of treating animals. Today in the Ward
for contagious cases one horse sick with lymphangite
and the one sick with abcesses on left thigh — and
one donkey sick with mange. At 10 o’clock went to
Fes Jedid inspection. Visited 7 Fondouks, saw 108
animals, treated 13, hospitalized 1 lame donkey. Re-
turned Fondouk at 11 o’clock. At 3 P. M. in spite of
the rain, went to Bou Jeloud-Talaa-Kasba de Nouar
inspection of 17 Fondouks, saw 112 animals, treated
16, hospitalized 3 donkeys taken at Bab Mahrouk
Where I stayed half an hour. Destroyed 2 bad pack-
saddles. Returned Fondouk through Place Baghdadi,
Bou Jeloud gardens and Bou Touil at 5 o’clock. Two
of the donkeys hospitalized today belong to natives
from Kandar against whom I made a complaint last
year. Wrote again to the Head of Controle Civil of
Sefrou about these natives.

SECRETARY GENEIRAL’S NOTES: I feel it safe
to allow our daily average rise to 50, until anyway
April 1, and from then on if we are still well with-
in the budget to go a little higher,—55 to 60 per-
haps, but always guided after end of April by the
amount of contributions.

Financial Report for 1935

RECEIPTS
Contributions ...................... $4,526.75
Income from investments ................ 637.00
Total Income ................... $5,163.75
EXPENDITURES
Operating Expenses at Fez ............ $5 448 33
Deficit .......................... 284 58

Ofﬁcers of the newly organized McKinley
County S.P.C.A. of Gallup, New Mexico,
thought to be the only active society of the
kind in that state, are Mrs. A. W. Hanson,
president; Mrs. Gretchen Lyons, vice-presi-
dent; and Miss Anna Canavan, secretary-
treasurer. It is hoped that other cities in
New Mexico will be encouraged to organize.

The Humane Society of Bangor, Maine,
reports great interest at its annual meet-
ing, the agent’s report for the year includ—
ing 1,301 investigations, 268 dogs and 128
cats taken to the Shelter of which owners or
homes were found for nearly all, 21 horses
and many small animals put to sleep. Miss
Gladys Taggett, humane education secre-
tary, distributed 3,000 pledge cards and
other humane material in the schools, put
on three radio programs, and awarded 36
medals in poster and story-writing contests.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

B 0 0 K L E T N 0.6 52

on the practical removal

of worms in Dogs of all

. breeds and ages.
FOR DOGS

  
  
       

WORM CAPSULES

e ﬁectwely remove

lLarge Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to- -give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk N- 58- B
121'de Industry Dept”
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
    
 

 

For Baby’s Tender Skin
Cutieura Taleum

Medicated and pure, it prevents chaf-
ing and assures Baby’s comfort.

Price 250. Sample free.
Address: "Cuticura,” Dept. 11K ,Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR. 1936

Colored picture,.“Green Pastures,” showing
cows in field. Humane hints on leaves of pad.

Price, 20 cents per single copy, two
for 35 cents; $1.80 per dozen, post—
paid to any address. AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

mnhettakets

BOSTON—BROOKLINIii—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

._..__.._..__.,_..___._._ __._._ “MAMM#_. _.__....._..._......_.__._.....

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1936 ............ each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1935. bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes, 1933 and 1934 .75

Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61Agx33/8 ..$O.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 ‘cents; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. 60

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... , Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , - Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- cardi. $1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp. illus. ...... cloth, $0. 45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... 5.0

The Air— —gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,’ ’,post—card 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............ 1.00 “ “
. About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. ., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .p,aper 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 7;5 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley .............. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1. 00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? ...... 30

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 .“ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
leaﬂets, No. 6. Animals . ........ .50 “ ‘
Leaflets, No. 7, Farm Animals ...... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ "

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. . . ............. 12 cents each, ten for $1. 00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp, paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and ‘

Teachers, 20 pp. ................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
P1cture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ...... _ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. .................. cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “

The B——K—T—-—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
prOJect, 8 pp. ....................... 2.00 “ “

Humane-Education the Vital Need, Dr

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr'. Jefferson, 4‘ pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. . .50 “ ‘
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each, 1. 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... , 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy .......... 50 cts.
Songs of yHappy Life (56 pages, words

only) .......................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

.30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1 l

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angel] Animal Hospital at the
Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses
of the Society’ s Animal Shelters. Two Reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s Poem
Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great dcmand.

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

Can you afford One Dollar for a
Complete Humane Library? If so,
mail it today to Our Dumb Animals,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass,
and receive the handsome Bound V01—
ume for 1935. It contains 192 pages
of the best humane reading available
today—essays, editorials, anecdotes,
poetry, written by experts in all parts
'of the world. There are 150 striking
illustrations. Bound in cloth of blue
with gold lettering. A most accepta—
ble gift for a friend. Postage free,
anywhere.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

July, 1936

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter.
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRs.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-

WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue. Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHRURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch. Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers. . 16,821

Cases investigated ............... 436
Animals examined ............... 4,995
Animals placed in homes .......... 163
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 41
Number of prosecutions ........ . 4
Number of convictions ............ 2
Horses taken from work .......... 28
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 34

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,063
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 53,703
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .............. , ...... 2 8

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Edward H. El-
dredge of Boston, and Martha L. Loomis of
California.

June 9, 1936.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
R. EVANS, v.M.D.
L. SMEAD. D.v.M.

oaomwm
bownmn

F?

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 818 Cases 2,356
Dogs 614 Dogs 1,949
Cats 188 Cats 345
Birds 9 Birds 55
Horses 4 Goats 2
Sheep 2 Rabbits 2
Monkey 1 Seal 1
Raccoon 1

Chipmunk 1

Operations 7 90
Hospital cases Since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 139,250
Dispensary cases .................. 335,764
Total .............. 475,014

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 155
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 389
Operations ........................ 182

Hillside Acre

HIS is the name of the beautiful Small

Animal Cemetery which our Society has
at its Rest Farm for Horses and its Small
Animal Shelter at Methuen. Already nearly
800 little white marble slabs stand as Silent
witness to the love of those who have cher-
ished the memory, devotion and companion-
ship of their household pets. Deep and last-
ing as is the love with which in our human
cemeteries the bodies of our dead are laid
to rest, one knows that over some of the
graves there no tears were ever shed. But
every one of these little graves at Hillside
Acre tells of a sorrow so keenly felt, a love
so real, that only such a resting place could
satisfy the heart’s sense of loss.

Boarding Small Animals

While we cannot say to anyone, “If you
want the best place to board your dog or
cat, take him to this special place whose
name we give you,” we are glad to tell you
of such a place as we would send our own
dog or cat to if necessary. But one must
go out to the place and decide for himself.
We have found that when we have desig—
nated a. given place and anything has hap—
pened to cause dissatisfaction the blame has
come back upon us.

Again we wish to remind all who own an-
mals to remember their great need for
water in hot weather.

Page JO5

“June Day” at Springfield

Annual Affair of Women’s Auxiliary At-
tracts 1,000 Guests to Beautiful Estate

THROUGH the courtesy of Mrs. Charles
N. Denault of Longmeadow her estate
at 734 Longmeadow Street was the scene of
a very colorful affair on Wednesday, June
3, when the Springfield Branch Auxiliary of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. held its an-
nual “June day” festivities there. More
than 1,000 guests are reported to have been
in. attendance.

Luncheon was served to about 500 under
the direction of Mrs. Walter J. DuBon, as-
sisted by Mrs. J. Clarence Allen, Mrs. Ro-
bert S. Hart, Mrs. Harold G. Duckworth,
Mrs. Frank Winslow, Mrs. Howard C. New-
house, Mrs. Julius Wild, Mrs. A. N. Heald
and Mrs. Robert J. Haley.

There were 120 tables of bridge in play,
the arrangements being in charge of Mrs.
George A. Bacon, assisted by Mrs. Stuart M.
Robson, co—chairman, Mrs. Frank S. Burt,
Mrs. Merrill S. Homer, Mrs. James E. Red-
man, Mrs. Edward Stoughton, Mrs. R. M.
Waterhouse, Mrs. Edward Affhauser, Mrs.
Gertrude Heywood, Mrs. Charles Lynch,
Miss Alice Perry, Mrs. May B. Regan, Mrs.
Frank Schlesinger, Mrs. Harold D. Stick-
ney, Mrs. Harold Wheat, Mrs. Kirby Atter—
bury of Enfield, and Mrs. William Hubbard
and Mrs. Rufus Blount of Holyoke.

Table and chair arrangements were di—
rected by Mrs. Morton B. Miner, assisted by
Mrs. Charles S. Vining, Mrs. J. E. Overlan-
der, Mrs. Charles R. Seltzer, Mrs. A. J. Guf-
fanti, and Mrs. James P. Moriarty. Mrs.
H. Stanley Alstrom was in charge of the
punch table, assisted by Mrs. Howard
Brown, Mrs. R. Nelson Hatt, Mrs. Carlton
H. Garinger and Miss Ruth Oldfield. The
pop stand was in charge of Mrs. R. E. Law-
rence, assisted by Mrs. Richard A. Booth
and Mrs. John V. Boyle. Mrs. Katherine
Bush gave crystal and palm readings, and
Mrs. Dean Jackson and Mrs. Paul L’Amor-
eaux were in charge of the fortune telling
tent. Mrs. Edward S. Decker assisted with
arrangements for dancing.

An especially pleasing feature was the Six
dances given by pupils of Anatole Bourman.

At the largest pet Show ever held by the
Auxiliary many beautiful dogs and cats
were exhibited. Many excellent horses were
shown in the exhibition riding classes, in‘
cluding a tandem owned and driven by Mrs.
Denault. The pet show was directed by Mrs.
Donald McAllister, with Mrs. Jennie M.
Bordeaux as co-chairman, together with Mrs.
Joseph Redden and Mrs. Edward S. Oppen-
heimer. Richard Streeter and Robert Ani-
ger were in charge of the exhibition riding.
Mrs. James P. Blunt, Miss Marjorie Tait
and Mrs. Samuel Winbush were in charge
of the sale of cigarettes.

The cake table was under a large awning,
and in charge of Mrs. J. Frederick Carmen,
J r., assisted by Mrs. Leon Maglathlin, Mrs.
Victor Hansen, Mrs. E. H. Broadwell, Mrs.
Ethel S. Johnson, Mrs. Frank R. Holmes,
J r., Mrs. Irving Shaw, Mrs. Lawrence
Davis, Mrs. Grace S. Whitney and Mrs.
John W. Harris. Mrs. Herbert F. Payne,

(Continued on page 112)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS Feb.]936

 

 

 

 

P age 90

Wild Animal Life in South
Africa

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

RAVELERS in South Africa have

brought back some interesting obser-
vations regarding wild animal life in that
far-off region of the globe. Two of these
adventurers, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Johnson,
naturalists, have had many exciting ex-
periences in making moving pictures of
wild animals in their native haunts. They
have brought to the civilized world much
information concerning the habits and chara-
acteristics of the outstanding wild beasts.
Picturization of wild animals in their na—
tive habitats means the supplying of most
unusual and rare material for the study of
natural history.

The attitude of the J ohnsons is commend—
able and contrasts widely with that of sev-
eral so-called big game hunters. The
Johnsons never kill unless necessary for
self—defense or for food purposes. They
speak of their friends of the forest and
jungle in the most sympathetic way. Fre—
quently they have incurred great personal
risks to avoid shooting wild beasts during
their attempts at photography.

Not all animals are dangerous in the
wild state. The Johnsons and Carl Ake—
ley, another naturalist, once came upon
fifteen lions in the jungle. For several
hours photographs, both movies and stills,
were -made with no resentment on the part
of the lions. They played like kittens, evi-
dently having never been attacked by men
with guns or spears. This tended to con~
firm Akeley’s theory that a lion is not the
aggressor and will not attack men if left
undisturbed. Elephants are also disposed
to be harmless in their native environment.
Monkeys are friendly after they have had
a good opportunity to look over human in~
vaders of their realm. But the wild buf-
falo and the rhinoceros are not so gentle.

The conservation of wild animal life is
a national policy in South Africa. The
government is seeing the importance of
this. The people believe that the establish-
ing of unusual game reserves where ani—
mals, whether large or small, may demon—
strate in their own natural way the sur—
vival of the fittest is a policy much pre—
ferred to that of indiscriminate exploitation
of wild life. To this end heavy licenses
are imposed for shooting certain animals.
As a result careful observers state that
certain animals, like the giraffe, are in-
creasing and that, in large areas, the go-
rilla is protected.

One traveler in pointing out reserved
areas said: “Back from Victoria Falls
thirty or forty miles is a big game reserve
with many animals save elephants. It is
not a wilderness in the sense of no green,
but simply absence of wild life until one
comes upon the protected area. The ani—
mals are accustomed to the motor car and
give no heed to visitors so long as they re—
main in the car. These animals seem to
understand that they are safe.”

Another voiced the opinion of experi-
enced animal hunters “that the great na-
tural wild-life reservations in the Trans-
vaal and elsewhere will eventually so fa-

 

International News Photo

BEING TRAINED TO STAND ON THEIR HIND LEGS

This is a View in the winter quarters of Bertram Mills Circus at Ascot, England, where
Miss Patricia Bourne, “one of the foremost woman lion tamers in England,” is teaching
her “class.” Of course she says it is all done by kindness, but note the expressions on the
faces of some of these animals as they undergo their involuntary training.

 

miliarize the animals with human contact
that these will lose all fear of the human
intruder, especially if he remains in his
automobile or motor truck in passing
through their domain. In certain districts
passengers on railroad trains may see from
car windows giraffes, wildebeests, antelope,
zebras and all sorts of other wild animals,
now so accustomed to the trains, as with
automobiles, that they remain grazing near
the track. All of which seems to prove
that man’s interruption of their feeding
habits will not for long disturb nature’s
wild inhabitants.”

A final sidelight on animal care and
treatment is revealed by the J ohnsons. On
one occasion a sick baby gorilla was found
in the hands of a native. Mrs. Johnson
bought the suffering creature and nursed
it back to health. It became an affectionate
pet, as one might expect. The Johnsons
brought several gorillas and other animals
back to the United States but after doing
so declared they never would again take
any of the wild animals away from their
natural environment.

Meditation of a Bull

CLARENCE EDWIN FLYNN

Well, there they are—the rabble, wild and
gay.

With heaving breasts, and eyes and faces
tense—

Gathered to have a joyous holiday,

A bit of pleasure, at a bull’s expense.

It’s not the red cloak irritates me so.

It’s something more than that I am
abused.

It is the thought that all these humans
know

No better way than this to be amused.

Suppose our places were reversed today,

And I were in the seats where they are
now.

Would they possess the courage, do you say,

To die for the amusement of a cow?

Oh well, I know they haven’t thought it
through.

They’re human. I would not expect them to.

 

officers, no dues.
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

The Jack London Club, an organized protest against the cruelty con-
nected with trained animal performances on stage and screen, has already
enlisted two-thirds of a million members who have pledged themselves 1:0
boycott theaters presenting such unnatural acts.
resents all sections of the United States and many foreign countries. No
For full information address, Jack London Club, 180

This membership rep—

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove

Large Roundworms

and Hookworms.

Dependable, safe, easy-to- '

give worm treatment.

Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

R

WRITE F0
BOOKLET NO. 65321.
on the practicDaI 2:??2 11
'n O , .
Of 1.31ng 1 ADDRESS DESK N—es—I
bre Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS & 00., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell 'Parke- Davis Products

 
 
  
  
    

 

 
  
 
 
 
   

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALL ANIMAL LOVERS

should read and circulate copies of

HEAVEN’S RAGE

By HELEN TREVELYAN
25 cents, net
Written in the cause of performing animals with
Foreword by Frank Swinnerton, it is a strong in-
dictment of the idea that circus animals are trained
by kindness. Three photographic illustrations are
included. Order of

American Humane Education Society, Boston

 

 

 

 

  

 

.
Cut: ura
Soap and 0 0intment

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN 82 SONS, INC.

mnbertakets

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%,x3% ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, ...... $1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . . .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play .............. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... , .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ................ 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ....... Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30

Foreword from “Michael Brother of J erry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals .............. .50 “ “
Leaflets, No. 7, Farm Animals ...... .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 per 100
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ "

Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. . . Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. . . , .............. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

.111us. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100

Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1936 .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ 50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Humane Sunday, 1936 ............ . . . . 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground With
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
on y .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Special Low Rates will be made for the Summer Months for Rentals

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s famous poem of that name

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing the work of the Angell Memorial HOSpital, Boston, and that of the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses at Methuen.
State whether regular 35 mm, or 16 mm. is required

Terms of rental or sale on application to Secretary, Massachusetts 8. P.C.A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

of our Two Films

and

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1936

Animals in Traffic

ROM a former supervisor in the public
schools of Plattsmouth, Nebraska,
comes this interesting anecdote:

For a number of years I have been an
interested reader of Our Dumb Animals and
am sending you an incident I noted recent-
1y.

Dog intelligence in an unusual and re-
markable degree was witnessed the other
day as I was driving to the city.

Nearing cross streets where traffic is al-
ways heavy, my companion and I noticed
two dogs, one large and one small, on the
sidewalk, presumably watching for a chance
to cross the street. We slowed up our car
to await the outcome. Three to four min-
utes passed until the way was clear and
the two dogs, side by side, perhaps the
smaller one a little ahead of the larger,
made a safe crossing. As quick as a flash
the larger dog returned to the other side
again and, turning to see that his little
comrade was proceeding in safety, went
proudly on his way.

Very truly yours,
MARIE E. KAUFMANN

And from a correspondent in Franklin,
Massachusetts, comes this display of feline
intelligence :

One Sunday night, recently, as my hus-
band and I were returning from our usual
afternoon’s ride, we were stopped in front
of a safety zone in North Attleboro by a
red light.

As the car glided to a stop, my eyes were
attracted to a cat whose manner plainly
showed that she had been waiting for the
signal, just like any human pedestrian.
Traffic was heavy—a long line of waiting
cars on either side—but pussy walked
through that safety zone with all the con-
fidence and poise of an experienced travel-
er.

When the cat reached the spot where the
light fell fully upon her, I saw, to my sur-
prise, that she was followed by a tiny kit-
ten, marked exactly like her mother. I
thought, “What a fortunate little animal
to be able to cross a busy city street at
night, secure and serene in her mother’s de-
votion and wisdom.”

As the light changed to green and the
car gained momentum, I glanced back to see
them standing in front of a “diner,” with
an admiring group of people looking down
upon them. I remarked that the cat prob-
ably lived there, to which my husband re-
plied, “Either that, or she is taking her
kitten out to Sunday night supper.” He
said it in all seriousness, out of respect to
her intelligence, but I couldn’t help being
a little amused at the thought.

So many times the pleasure of motor-
trips is spoiled by the sight of dead animals
in the streets; and the number seems ever
increasing. For once, I found it very com-
forting to fall asleep, pleasantly pondering
on the mental picture of wise mother—cat
and her youthful progeny.

LAURA RAYMOND STRICKLAND

Remember the American Humane Edu-
cation Society in vour will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sunrise
JUDY VAN DER VEER

In the early dawn I drive

My cattle out to graze;
Veils float on the valley,

On mountain hangs a haze.

As unreal as a dream they go
Up the misty lane,

“Rose” and “Buttercup” and “Sal,”
“Daisy,” “Star” and “Jane.”

“Gypsy” who will always stray,
“Bossy” who is old . . .
When the sudden sun comes out

They are painted gold.

Golden cattle bend their heads
To crop the golden grass;

(Sunlight on the pasture pond
Shines like burnished brass.)

“Rose” and “Buttercup” and “Sal” . . .
I lose them one by one,

They are not my patient cows
But creatures of the sun!

The telegraph—editor of a Denver news-
paper complained to a country correspond—
ent who omitted names in his stories. He
wrote the man that if he neglected this es-
sential detail in his next yarn he would be
discharged.

A few days later the editor got this dis-
patch:

“Como, Colorado, September 8—A severe
storm passed over this section this after-
noon and lightning struck a barbed-wire
fence on the ranch of Henry Wilson, killing
three cows—their names being Jessie, Bos-
sie, and Buttercup.”—Kansas City Star

There is one good thing about a dog—
he always acts like a dog. He is not a hyp-
ocrite and does not make a lot of pretenses
that he is better than he really is.

—Los Angeles Times

I am ﬂattered by my dog’s loyalty, but
kept humble by his intelligence.
C. W. BOND

Page 13
A Great New England Cow

ALFRED ELDEN

A Maine State humane agent, Charles H.
Green, living at Durham, has a splen-
did piece of property, nearly 100 acres,
where his livestock fairly revel in the ver-
dant fields and fragrant forests. A clear
spring-fed brook that teems with trout in
summer winds through the broad acres.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Green love animals of
all kinds. They have cows, pigs, hens,
ducks, cats and dogs.

But the pet of them all is “Darling Cow,”
and that is actually the little Jersey’s
name. This cow is 28 years old, the oldest,
Mr. Green believes, in all New England if
not in a wider territory. He bought her for
$45 back in 1916 when she was eight years
old. She has been a wonderful milker and
for several summers, when she was m6ved
to Orrs Island, furnished milk for 25
boarders at a small summer hotel as well
as for the family. Besides that, twelve
quarts a day were sold. This sounds like
a big story, but Mr. Green vouches for it.

Several times offers of $150 were re-
fused. The cow had one calf a year every
year up to last spring. Now Mr. Green;
is trying to dry her up and let her spend:
the remainder of her days in comfort-
Speaking of “Darling Cow” he says: “She-
has indeed been a blessing to us and she-
loves us all, even all my other livestock-
She is indeed one of the family and she was.
a great help during the time we were learn--
ing to wrest a living from the land. She-
has greatly enriched us with milk, cream.
butter and cheese, and when she does leave
us she will take a lot of love with her.

The true appreciation of cows is withheld?
from babes and reserved for our maturity.
As we grow to ripeness and reflectiveness
it also grows . . . We cease regarding
cows as mere objects of use or furniture.
One sees them grazing wide in open pas-
tures, motionless except for their flickering-
tails; in pools, under the chequering shade
and sunlight; crawling back in the evening
down the lane—and who would do without
them? ARTHUR MCDOWALL

 

CHARLES H. GREEN AND “DARLING COW,” BELIEVED TO
BE THE OLDEST COW IN NEW ENGLAND

 




 

Oct. 1936

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Oﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
3.; Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
Ronmggg‘rg; DYSON, Worcester orcester
CHARBESE BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROI‘?R..Qv ANDREWS, Hyannis
' Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING-HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P C. A.—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. rI‘HOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY

AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Oﬂicers. . 16,777

Cases investigated ............... 377
Animals examined ............... 4,699
Animals placed in homes .......... 63
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 46
Number of prosecutions ........ . 2
Number of convictions ............ 2
Horses taken from work .......... 17
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 33

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,196
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 48,264
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 15

The Massachusetts. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills Of Ella R. Burt of
Taunton, Margaret S. Journeay of Wal-
tham, and Ralph P. Cheever of Dedham.

September 8, 1936.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D. ‘

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

oenmwm
bowwmw

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
Including Springﬁeld Branch

 

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 944 Cases 2,651
Dogs 716 Dogs 2,190
Cats 216 Cats 415
Birds 6 Birds 36
Horses 2 Coats 5
Goats 2 Squirrels 3
Fox 1 Rabbit 1
Rat 1 Horse 1

Operations 812
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 141,942
Dispensary cases ................ 343,752

Total .............. 485,694

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 154
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 465
Operations . . ...................... 163

11,448 Horses Watered

At the four summer watering stations on
the streets of Boston, provided by the Mass-
achusetts S. P. C. A., 11,448 horses were
given water. The season. covered nine
weeks closing September 5.

Mr. Carroll in Boston

Mr. Seymour Carroll, field worker of the
American Humane Education Society, of
Columbia, S. C., called at the Boston office
in September. Mrs. Carroll and a friend
accompanied him. They also visited in
Rhode Island and .New York.

Page 153
Dog Track Destroyed

OG racing, which has invaded many

localities to their detriment, and the
sundry and secret practices connected with
it call for the closest scrutiny on the part
of Officials of the Humane Societies.

Not long since an agent of the American
S. P. C. A. prosecuted a trainer of whippets
in Rockland County, New York, for cruelty
to live rabbits, in using them to school the
dogs for the race track. The agent—inves—
tigator learned from the racing clique that
not only were live rabbits employed in the
training course but also cats and chickens
as well.

The Offender was convicted and given a
sentence of twenty-five days in jail and a
fine of $50. The court, however, suspended
the jail sentence and remitted part Of the
fine with a warning to defendant that if
he violated any law of the state Of New
York within a year the sentence would be
revoked and balance of fine must be paid.

More recently a humane Officer Of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Charles E.
Brown, whose district embraces Bristol
County, discovered that a miniature track
was being used to practise the greyhounds
for racing at the Taunton resort. Having
also discovered the carcasses of rabbits bur-
ied in the vicinity, which were too decom-
posed to determine the cause Of death, Mr.
Brown then took up the matter with track
Officials and dog owners. The former as-
sured him that a track rule existed that
any dog owner using live rabbits to train
or school their dogs would be expelled from
the track. The outcome of this investiga-
tion and exposure was the demolition Of the
track and its equipment by order of the
S. P. C. A. agent.

About the Horned Toad

We greatly regret that in the article on
“The Horned Toad of Texas,” which ap-
peared in our last number, that part of the
article was used which suggested that peo-
ple take these little creatures out Of Texas
as pets. We now learn that many thought-
less people are doing this; that many of
these little animals are painted and sold;
also shipped in suffocating boxes in which
many die. We have always discouraged such
traffic.

New Short-Wave Radio Signal Brings Ambu-
lance tO Rescue Of Cats and Dogs

signal going out these days over the

Brookline police short wave radio
broadcast. It contacts the ambulance Of
the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, as pictured on the
front cover Of this number.

This arrangement was recently made
through the Brookline police department,
and is used only in emergencies to prevent
needless delay. The Society is careful never
tO ask, however, that the police use wave
lengths when they are needed for human
problems of crime or illness.

C ALLING M. S. P. C. A.” is the new

A typical example of the efficacy of the
radio system occurred during the Schot'ﬂ
vacation in Dorchester, where a group of
boys found a very sick cat, and carried it
to a drug—store whose proprietor called the
animal hospital which, in turn, called the
Brookline police.

Charles Brooks, a veteran driver, had
taken out the ambulance. He had many
calls to make, but the radio flash reached
him, and in less than 30 minutes he had
the stricken kitten in the hands of a veter-
inarian. The cat was found to have been
poisoned, but after treatment was resting
comfortably.

 

 

 

 

 




 

Mar. 1936

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS FOR

1936

President
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency James M. Curley, Governor
of Massachusetts
His Honor Frederick W. Mansﬁeld, Mayor
of Boston
EX-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston
Adams, Edward 8., Fall River
Appleton, Francis Henry, Boston
Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke
Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn
Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham
Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.
Bolton, Charles K., Shirley
Booth, George F., Worcester
Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld
Burns, Bishop Charles Wesley, Boston
Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester
Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Williamstown
Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld
Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston
Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity
Converse, Mrs. Costello C., Boston
Cousens, John A., Pres. Tufts College
Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.
Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.
Cummins, Thomas K., Milton
Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld
Endicott, William, Boston
Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston
Forbes, J. Murray, Boston
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City
Gallagher, Rev. Louis J., Pres. Boston Col-
lege
Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg
Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld
Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston
Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College
Parker, Hon. Herbert, Lancaster
Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston
Pendleton, Ellen F., Pres. Wellesley College
Sears, Miss E. R., Boston
Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston
Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester
Webster, H. S., Brookline
Woolley, Mary E., Pres. Mt. Holyoke Col-
lege
Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON
Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ex-officio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
HON. CHANNING H. COX
WALTER M. KENDALL
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

OUR DUAIB ANIMALS

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,

First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice—President, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
William Dana Orcutt John R. Macomber
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan W. J. McDonald
Miss Dorothy Forbes Walter M. Kendall
Winthrop Packard Stanwood K. Bolton
Charles G. Bancroft Hon. Channing H. Cox
John R. Forgie Frank M. Hotchkin
William E. Putnam Philip Stockton
Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.
Miss Hattie. C. Bartley, Waltham
Mrs. Margaret P. Behrend, Boston
W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England
Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, 111. ‘
Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld
Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.
Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland
Charles N. Morgan, Boston

Mrs. Walter B. Pope, Boston

Mrs. Jennie. B. Powers, Keene, N. H.
Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, Fitchburg
M. Franco Riccabone, Turin, Italy

Active Life Members

Abercrombie, William H. Crane, Mrs. Francis V.
Adams, Mrs. Nancy M. Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.
Allen, Mrs. Linda W. Crocker, Mrs. Emmons
Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Crocker, Emmons
Ames, John S. Crocker, Miss Katherine
Anderson, Johan M. Crompton & Knowles
Andrews, Miss Frances Loom Works

Virginia Crossman, Howard A.
Appleton, Miss Maude E. Crossman, Mrs. Howard A.
Aronson, Harry Crowninshield, B. B.
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D. Cummings, Miss Florence
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C. L.
Baker, Mrs. Charles M. Cummins, Miss Anne M.
Baldwin, Mrs. Anita Cummins, Miss Elizabeth
Balincourt, Comtesse

Lilian de
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H.
Bandry, George, M.D. Curran, Mrs. Maurice
Barnard, Henry F. Curtis, Miss Amy
Barnard, Miss Mary Alice Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich
Bartholomew, J. C. Curtis, Miss Clara
Bartlett, Miss Bess B. Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic

Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-
ence C.

Bartley, Miss Hattie C. Haines
Bates, Ruth B. Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.
Beals, Mabel E. Dane, E. B.

Beardwood, James Dane, Mrs. E. B.
Beardwood, Mrs. James Davis, Mrs. Kate K.
Behrend, Mrs. Margaret P.Davol, Miss Florence W.

Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent Day, A. L.

Bemis, Frank B. Day, Cordelia P. “Mem-

BOHES, Mrs. Mary K. orial Life Membership”

Boston Plate & Window DeGogorza, Mme. Emma
Glass Co. Eames

Bray, Miss Ella W. DeWolf, Charles E.
Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick Douglas, Elizabeth

Burke, Mrs. Florence E. Dresser, Miss Celina L.
Burr, Mrs. Herman M. Drooker, Mrs. Minnie
Burr, I. Tucker Dudley, Miss Sarah A.
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.
Chase, Miss Alice P. Ellison, Eben H.

Cheever, Mrs. Grace J. Emerson, Charles H.
Churchill, W. W. Endicott, Miss Katherine
Clark, Miss Elizabeth Endicott, William

Cochran, Mrs. Edwin Paul
Codrington, Mrs. Ethel M.
Converse, Mrs. Costello C.
Corliss, Miss Clara K.
Couch, Franklin Lindley
Craigin, Mrs. Louise

Ernst, Mrs. Harold G.
Evans, Owen N.

Ewing, Miss Amanda W.
Farley, Dr. Wm. C.

Fay, Miss Sarah B.
Fearing, Mrs. George R.

Fish, Miss Margaret A.
Fisher, H.
Fiske, Miss Gertrude
Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.
Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.
Ford, Willis A.
Foss, Mrs'. James 0.
Foster, G. Herbert
Fottler, Mrs. Jacob
Fowler, G. W.
Fowler, H. P.
Frothingham, Mrs. Louis
A

Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M.
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S.
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr.
Gifford, Josiah H.
Godbeer, George H.
Goddard, Miss M. L.
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F.
Gray, Miss Ellen

Gray, Roland

Greenough, Mrs. Henry V.
Grinnel, Mrs. Susan B.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R.
Grozier, Mrs. E. A.
Hale, Francis W.
Hammond, Samuel
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. B.
Hathaway, Mrs. C. P.
Hemenway, Augustus

Page 45

Paine, Richard C.
Paine, Mrs. Richard C.
Parker, Miss Eleanor S.
Parker, William A.
Paul, Frank
Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Peirce, J. Gadget
Pfaﬁ‘, Mrs. Charles
Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Phillips, Mrs. Charles
E. H.
Pike, Mrs. Frank B.
Pope, Mrs. Walter B.
Porter, Miss Frances R.
Powers, Thomas R.
Powers, Mrs. Thomas R.
Pratt, Mrs. Edmund T.
Pratt, L. Tyler
Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Quincy, Mrs. H. P.
Rea, Charles S.
Richards, Mrs. Sarah
Richardson, Mrs. Charles
F.

Riley, Charles E.
Riley, Miss Mabel Louise

Rivette, Mrs. Josephine P.
Roberts, Paul B.

Robertson, Mrs. M. W.
Robinson, Forrest

Hemenway, Mrs, Augustus Robinson, William A., Jr.

Hemenway, Mrs. Myles
Henderson, Mrs. H. P.
Hickey, Mrs. J. G.
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore
Higginson, Francis L.
Higginson, Mrs. Francis

Hill, Miss Ella A.
Hill, Haven G.
Hitchcock, John
Holmes, Mrs. Margaret
A. Ramsay
Hooper, Mrs. James R.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, F. M.
Hotchkin, William C.
Houston, Ada Bell
Howard, Frank A.
Howes, Mrs. Ernest
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Huntington, Mrs. Amy
Low
Hutchinson, Mrs. Mabel
Ingersoll, W. Fitch
Innes, Charles H.
Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt
Jacobs, Mrs. F. W.
James, Ellerton
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F.
Kidder, Nathaniel T.
King, Miss Caroline W.
Kinzle, Mrs. Japsey
Lockett
Kittredge, Mrs. John
Krook, Mrs. Amanda J.
Lahey, Mrs. Frank H.
Langshaw, Walter H.
Lawrence, John S.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza
Leonard, Mrs. Charles H.
Loring, Miss Helen
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Lyman, Miss Mabel
Lynch, Efﬁe M.
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.
MacNevin, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mason, A. P., M.D.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.
Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N.
Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Munsell, Alex. E. 0.
Murray, Mrs. T. Morris
Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris
Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate

Rockwell, Mrs. C. P.

Rogers, Bradlee

Rountree, Mrs. H. H.

Rowe, E. J.

Rowe, Mrs. E. J.

Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.

Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.

Schwarz, Richard

Sears, Miss Eleanora Ran-
dolph

Sedgwick, Mrs. Lydia C.

Shapleigh, Amelia

Shaw, Samuel

Shepard, Harvey N.

Sias, Mrs. Alice E.

Silsbee, Miss Alice M.

Silsbee, Mrs. George S.

Simonds, Otis

Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.

Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.

Sloan, Mrs. E. S.

Smith, Mrs. Ida A.

Snow, Miss Louise

Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.

Spring, John C.

Stewart, Miss Gertrude M.

Storrow, Mrs. James J.
Jr.

Symmes, Mrs. Henry W.

Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps

Thayer, Mrs. E. R.

Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.

Thompson, Miss Mary
Helen

Thorn, Mrs. Mary

Thurber, Mrs. C. H.

Tolfree, Edw. R.

Tower, Miss Florence E.

Travelli, Mrs. Charles I.

Twombly, John Fogg

Underwood, Miss Mary R.

Underwood, Miss Sophia

Upham, Miss E. Annie
Valentine, Mrs. Grace E.
Walker, John B.

Ward, Miss M. DeC.
Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.
Webster, Ruth E.

West, Miss Edith E.
Whitman, Hendrick H.
Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Wilkinson, Edw. S.
Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Winkley, H. W.

Wood, Cornelius A.
Wood, Miss Rosalind
Wood, Mrs. William M.
Woodman, Miss Mary
Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, Mrs. B. L.
Young, Percy L.
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.
Younglove, William K.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

FEBRUARY 1936

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELK IN BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK, ALBERTA

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION OCIETY

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1936

Stray Dog

HARRY ELMORE HURD

Foolish dog, you ought to be at home

Instead of dodging high-geared death

Within the canyon of this city street—

That truck came closer than a breath—

Beware, my careless friend, you cannot beat

The wheels of time forever! Who let you
roam?

Whoever turned you loose to race with
fate

Where life is cheap as wind—blown dust

Should be informed, in no uncertain tones,

That he is undeserving of your trust.

You should be gnawing meaty bones

Behind the shelter of a bolted gate.

Pity the Dogs of Mexico

ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

HE true dog lover has his heart wrung

with pity, or disgust, a hundred times
a day whenever he visits Mexico. The
term, “leading a dog’s life,” takes on a new
and dreadful significance after one has seen
what a miserable existence is that of the
vast number of canines which overrun that
strange and yet incredibly beautiful and
fascinating country.

Why Mexicans harbor so many dogs,
when so large a proportion of their own—
ers or protectors are barely one meal ahead
of starvation themselves, it is difficult to
understand on any other grounds than love
of animals and the desire of companionship
in misery. But there the dogs are in over-
whelming numbers: amazingly lean, mangy,
hungry and mean spirited, with most of the
lovable qualities of our household pets
missing or hidden.

The Mexican does not abuse his dog, how-
ever. In reality the animal is not much
worse fed and housed than his master. That
means the dog is almost always half starved
and has inadequate shelter in unpleasant
weather. In consequence the dog has but
two occupations in life. The first is snoop-
ing and prowling and slinking about under—
foot in a perpetual and never ending and
never wholly satisfied search for food.
When he is not thus engaged he is sleeping
and he has an amazing capacity for sleep
even under the most adverse conditions. He
rarely has spirit or energy enough to bark,
and very rarely does he even take the
trouble to growl. He does not resent being
stepped on or walked on or over. In fact,
he invites these indignities for he has the
disconcerting habit of lying down in the
path of traffic or wherever the crowds are
the densest or he is most in the way. No
wonder he is forever getting damaged. Does
he snap or protest when he gets hurt? No,
never—that is, hardly ever. He just slinks
away. He does not find it necessary to
tuck his tail between his legs very often for
he carries it there habitually as though he
expected a kick or other punishment any
minute and so is forever prepared for the
worst.

The dogs prove the greatest nuisances in
the crowded open-air public markets. These
places are alive with them. They slink about
underfoot, sniff around in all the corners

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and filth, or else lie down and fall asleep
wherever the crowds are the thickest, their
lean, caved-in sides and sharp muzzles
looking infinitely pathetic. The unhappy
creatures even make themselves at home on
the steps and in the doorways of the
churches and cathedrals and the most sa-
cred and important ediﬁces. Humans do
not disturb them and they rest in peace ex-
cept for the fleas which they harbor. The
poor animals seem to want little but human
companionship and persist in being where
they get the most of that.

Everybody who has ever been toMexico
City, that splendid capital, or to‘the other
large cities of the Republic, will remem-
ber with either a shudder or a rueful smile
the hordes of mongrel canines which clutter
the landscape.

The Seeing-Eye
MINNIE LEONA UPTON

“The Seeing-Eye”! Along the street—

Loud maze of wheels and hurrying feet—
He guides his sightless charge—his child!
With look alert, and wise, and mild,

He sees advance, he knows retreat.

Crossing? With judgment calm to meet
Each sudden chance or change; complete
Technique; he threads the mart, wide-
aisled—
Shrewd Seeing—Eye!

High above shirking or deceit,

In Winter’s cold, in Summer’s heat,
Never from steadfast duty wiled—
To that staid pacing reconciled?

Ah, longing deep to race; gay, fleet!

Brave Seeing—Eye!

OWNED BY MRS.

GARET DELAND, NOTED NOVELIST

AND DIRECTOR OF AMERICAN HU—
MANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

“ROGER,” MAR-

 

Page 61

Dog Characters

HUGH KING HARRIS

WHAT breed Rover? Who can say? A
lumbering, kindly—dispositioned old
scout, lop-eared, shuffling along, muzzling
any friendly hand, brown eyes pathetic, yet
with humorous gleam. Hither and thither,
scouring distant lands of adventure. In the
human world We would have called him a
tramp, and he looked the part.

In the passing parade of dogdom I have
seen ministers, clowns, students, sheiks and
prize fighters; haven’t you? The faces of
friends and of intimates. Wistful, gay,
sober or pathetic.

One evening friends called and with them
came their newly acquired dog, they had
named him “Dominie.” N 0 need to ask the
reason, for if ever there existed a solemn
faced, serious minded, well-behaved minis-
ter, Dominie was just that. He brought in—
stantly to my mind a pastor I knew. And
I do not believe that the good man of God
would take any offense at the comparison.
Dominie looked and played the part.

Human faces are cast in varying moulds,
no two identical among the millions and
millions upon this earth. Thoughtless, un-
observing folk shrug, to say, “all dogs look
alike. Breed for breed.” How utterly be—
side the truth!

Among my dog friends there are those
who greet you with a genuine smile, a real
smile. The big collie named “Smiles” lives
in the next block, and “Cheerio” is a black
and tan who is a jolly good fellow who can
play many a joke about the yard and house.
There are those who live in an atmosphere
of canine optimism, and certain dogs going
through life as though it were just so much
weary routine. Sad dogs, these.

Late one August afternoon I sought a
camp site near a Michigan farmhouse.
Seeking water, I was greeted not only by the
farmer, a lean, cadaverous sort, but by a
beagle hound, superannuated, sombre as his
grizzled master. Here was one who might
well commune with nature. This calm, se—
date philosopher of the pine scented north—
land. At midnight my judgment was vin-
dicated by the mellow baying of a distant
hound, lifting his ode to the new moon.

Certain breeds do seem to possess certain
characters, akin to the breed, this is the
temperamental attribute in the blood, so to
speak. To me it is a continuity of new
thrills to study character in dogs. The
scotty with perked eyes, wide apart eyes as
brilliant as diamonds, mind as keen as a
razor. The sober, often mournful mastiff,
or bloodhound. The contour of skull, the
set of ears, the markings about muzzles and
eyes. Up and down the line faces which
portray mischief, happiness, studiousness,
sorrow, joy, and is it not so with humans?

I know that dogs think, and they express
their thoughts, their moods, every waking
hour of the day, and I know they dream.
What dreams no mortal can say. Study
dogs, your dog, all dogs. Study them with
a serious consideration of their human at-
tributes, and in this human analysis will be
discovered the humane slant. For human-
ity depends so much upon understanding, in
so far as we can penetrate the mystery of
canine existence.

- ‘1'!!!

l
.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

(TETRACHORETHYLEN c. T.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms,
and Hookworms-
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.
' ‘ ' ' ran
' "KTEEI- No. 652 ,
B 00 - 1 movaI
on theptaCtIC-a re 1' II
of worms in D035 0 a M

breeds and ages- ADDRESS DESK N ~58
- ' ' Animal Industry Dept,
PARKE, DAVIS & 60., Detront, Mlch.

Drug Stores Sell ~Parke- Davis Products

     

.s'Z

   
 
 
    
 

      
 
    
     
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

.27 67177292772523 5172‘

Give this beautiful and wonderful
book to every friend who has a dog

V A L l A N T D 0 G S
Great Dog Stories of Our Day

Compiled by
FRANCES E. CLARKE

The lVIacmillan Company $2.50

(Order your copies through your book store )

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Calendar

1937
BIRDS or NORTH AMERICA

Containing twelve beautiful pictures of
the birds of North America, painted from
life in their natural colours and surround-
ings by three famous artists, Allan Brooks,
R. Bruce Horsfall and Louis Fuertes

A charming and lasting Christmas gift
for young and old, beautiful and in-
structive.

Each .picture has beneath it a short de—
Si‘I‘lpthIl of the bird, its habits, etc. - ,
Mailed to any part of the world, postage
prepaid. '
Gift card bearing your name will be en—
closed if desired.

PRICE 50 Cents

The Toronto Humane Societv
11 St. Albans St. .

TORONTO ONTARIO

CANADA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 . .70
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, _w1tl_1

attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%, x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,.....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Franc1s H.

Rowley $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. 60 ‘: :‘
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ ‘
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. 50 ﬂ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. .$1.00per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................ $2.00per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60per 100

Surplus Cats ........................ .50 “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts.. ...paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .

About Other Animals

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ........................ .50 per 100
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley... Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seVen for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 p . ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades .......................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight . ......................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use). Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play...

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1936 ........ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It . ............. .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher: ............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, 3. short radio ad-

dress . .............. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A.. .............. $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

S‘ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

These two outstanding Humane Films have been in great demand:

THE BELL OF ATRI
IN BEHALF OFANIMALS

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required
Write to Secretary, Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, for terms and dates

 

 

 

)mRed-lsouqh Hands
utlcura

OIN'I'MEN'I'
J: J , ‘

  

Sample free :- Cuticura, Dept. R2, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Glandular}:

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Mar. 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20—25
Humane Sunday, April 19, 1936

Be Kind to Animals Week
in Massachusetts

HE Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has for

many years designated one day, usu-
ally the Friday of Be Kind to Animals
Week, or the Friday just preceding the
April vacation, as Humane Day in Schools.
Our experience has been that masters and
principals are willing to give time to a
special program on that last Friday of the
term that they would not give on any other
day.

To meet this opportunity the Massachu—
setts Society for many years has issued a
special program of Humane Exercises, usu—
ally of eight pages, sometimes as many as
thirty-two pages, and offered these to the
schools Without cost, one copy to each teach-
er in elementary grades above the second.
In Boston, with its eighty-ﬁve school dis—
tricts, the pamphlets are sent through the
regular supply room of the school depart-
ment, following an official letter from the
Superintendent of Schools to each of the
eighty—ﬁve district heads. The school super—
intendents in the other cities and towns of
the state are circularized, with a sample of
the Humane Exercises for the year, and
are sent, post-free, whatever number of
pamphlets their reply card calls for. In
addition to the special leaﬂet thus offered,
the Society calls attention to its other hu—
mane education literature and to its ﬁlms,
offering such additional supplies free if
wanted.

To meet the demand for the annual Hu-
mane Exercises an edition of 10,000 copies
is printed. Extra editions have been avail-
able for other humane societies whenever
they have cared to make use of this special
literature.

Annually the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
receives five to six thousand posters, being
the best of ten to fifteen times as many
that have been made by pupils, which come
from 400 to 500 schools representing usu-
ally about half of the cities and towns in
the state.

We began by giving general cash prizes,
but found that the Commissioner of Educa—
tion felt that there was too much disap-
pointment among the unsuccessful contest—
ants, so for several years we have been
giving special medals, of two grades, and
honorary mentions in the form of subscrip—
tions to Our Dumb Animals, so that we
distribute something like 700 ﬁrst medals,
about an equal number of second medals,
and more than 1,000 subscriptions. Every
school, indeed every schoolroom, thus wins
something in the way of a prize.

The contest closes in time for an annual
exhibition in the Boston Public Library dur-
ing Be Kind to Animals Week. When we
think of some 50,000 to 75,000 growing
children developing their ideas of what a
humane poster should be, the imagination
fails utterly in attempting to measure that
mighty inﬂuence for kindness.

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

The 1936 Humane Poster

S pictured above, the new national

humane poster, designed by Morgan
Dennis, combines the idea of kindness to
animals with that of safe driving. Hence
it will make a double appeal, and should
prove to be very acceptable to schools and
other institutions for display not only in
connection with Be Kind to Animals Week
but also at any time.

It is finely printed in colors, size 17 by
22 inches. Orders should be placed at once
to avoid possible disappointment.

Copies bearing the imprint of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, are for sale at these
prices, postpaid: Single, 10 cts., three for
25 cts., eight for 50 cts., twenty for $1, sev—
enty for $3, 125 for $5, and may be ordered
from the Society. Orders for larger quan—
tities, however, and all orders requiring
special imprints, should be sent to the
American Humane Association, 80 Howard
Street, Albany, N. Y.

For Humane Day in School

The Humane Exercises for 1986 include
eight pages of carefully selected material
for the use of teachers in making up pro-
grams for Humane Day in Schools (Fri—
day, April 24, or the nearest convenient
date). There are recitations, in prose and
verse; brief mottoes to be written on the
blackboard; suggested helps for teaching
humane education; and other useful fea—
tures.

Every superintendent of schools in the
state will be sent a copy of these Exercises
with an offer from the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. to furnish free copies to his teach-
ers.

Others may order copies at two cents
each. Samples free upon application to the
Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Fifty Dollars for Humane
Plays

In connection with the coming Be Kind
to Animals Week cash prizes aggregating
$50 will be awarded by the American Hu-
mane Education Society of Boston for the
three best plays for children on the subject
of kindness to animals. The ﬁrst prize will
be $25; the second, $15; and the third, $10.
The conditions, simple but imperative,
are:

1. The plays must be adapted for presen-
tation by pupils in grammar schools, so
must be simple in theme, treatment, and
stage and costume requirements.

2. The word limit to be not less than
1,500, nor more than 2,000, counting every
word to be printed, including all stage
directions and explanations.

3. The number of speaking characters
to be not less than ﬁve, nor more than
twelve.

4. No MSS. considered that are not
typewritten, on one side of the page only,
with full name and address at top of ﬁrst
page of text. Do not include extra sheets
of paper nor any notes or explanations
other than those incorporated in the text
of the play.

5. No manuscript will be returned un-
less accompanied by suitable fully addressed
return envelope with full postage attached.

6. All manuscripts to be received by the
Editor, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Mass., not later than April 30, 1936.

7. If, in the opinion of the judges
selected, no manuscripts are worthy of
the prizes offered, no awards will be made.
The Society will, however, make cash
offers for any manuscripts not winning a
prize that may be acceptable for publica-
tion. The prize—winning plays will be
published in leaﬂet form by the American
Humane Education Society and sold at
cost to meet the demand for such literature
from humane organizations and schools
everywhere.

Sample plays which meet the above
conditions, now published by the Society,
will be mailed on request of intending
contestants, by the Secretary, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

For Humane Sunday

A new two—page leaflet, specially adapted
to help those interested in observing Hu-
mane Sunday, has been compiled for the
American Humane Education Society and
is now available. It contains an interest-
ing reply to the question, “Why Are You In-
terested in Humane Sunday?” put to a Bos-
ton pastor by the Editor of Our Dumb An-
imals, and other material bearing directly
on this subject.

This is a concise and helpful piece of lit-
erature to send to ministers of all denomin-
ations, and to officers of Sunday-schools
and young people’s societies. Copies will
be mailed for one cent each, in any quan-
tity; sample free.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Preventio

Entered as second-class matter,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Vhﬂ.69

Hope for better days for the song—birds of
Italy seems fast fading. The picture re-
produced elsewhere in this issue shows the
heartless slaughter of them as still going
on, though reported forbidden. Resting
there for a little in their migrations, death
ends both life and song. Killed, song and
all, for less than amouthful of food!

Our American Humane Education So-
ciety had three delegates in attendance at
the Parent-Teacher Annual Congress at
Milwaukee, May 11 to 15—Mrs. Jennie R.
Nichols, national chairman of Humane Ed-
ucation, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
state chairman. of Humane Education Com—
mittee for Massachusetts, and Mrs. W. F.
Krahl, state chairman of Humane Educa-
tion for Illinois.

The radio played a remarkable role this
year in the celebration of Be Kind to Ani—
mals Week. We thought last year the broad-
casting stations gave a generous amount of
time to the occasion, but this year from the
Atlantic to the Pacific the story of the
Week and its meaning was sent out over
the air, and often by coast to coast broad-
casts, scores of times. Many prominent
speakers who are listened to daily by mill—
ions of people cheerfully responded to re-
quests to call attention to it.

In face of the misery, agony, the unre-
quited, patient toil, that make up so much
of the lives of our lowlier fellow—creatures,
unless somehow, somewhere, we believed
there was for these, our humble brethren in
the universal kinship of life, an evening of
the scales that deal with the great realities
of right and wrong, our moral nature could
never be at peace. We work and hope and
trust in the faith of him who says:

“That nothing walks with aimless feet;
That not one life shall be destroy’d
07' cast as rubbish to the void,

When God hath made the pile complete.”

9

01. AN

u U. S_Trade Mark,Registered ‘

CELL lN 1868.AND FOR FoRTY‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

-—COWPER

«9

Pace on EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE
AND Mancv 70*
Even lema
Cnexruaa.

 

n of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
of postage prov1ded for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Junc,l936
Another War—Is it Coming?

HE following, from Progress Today,
tells the story of the hideous savagery
being prepared for war should it come.

“Those of us who have a little inside know—
ledge of what it is likely to be like, through
having studied the subject «of poison gas ex-
periments on animals, do not need to won-
der. For surely there can be no doubt that
poison gas attacks will form a large part
of the offensive in any war of the future,
unless, of course, it be outlawed, and so
completely controlled in advance of a war
that preparations for it cannot be carried
on.

“Assuming, then, a poison gas warfare,
there will be no question of men going to
war. War will come to us. It will come to
all of us, men, women, and children; young,
middle-aged, and old; rich and poor; civil-
ian and belligerent. It will devastate all
who come within its path. Lewisite, in its
liquid form (and, though called gas, it was
used mainly in its liquid form towards the
end of the last war) will, with even a few
drops of it, burn out the whole inside of a
rat in a few minutes. It will penetrate
through the strongest armor plating. Chlo-
rine leaves the victim struggling for life,
his face blue and bloated with suffocation,
and blood-specked foam issuing from his
mouth and nose. Green Cross gas literally
fills the lungs with blood, so that the vic-
tim dies a gradual and painful death by
drowning in his own blood.”

If all the schools of the nations during
the last two-thirds of a century had been
faithfully taught the principles of humane
education, justice, kindness, reverence for
life, good will, the kinship of all men ir-
respective of color, race or creed—the prin—
ciples of both Christianity and Judaism——
there would have been no World War, no
cruelly unjust Versailles Treaty with its af-
termath of hatred, suspicion and fear, and
no Europe today witnessing the scenes in

Mass. ‘

lﬁo.6

Ethiopia and trembling on the brink of such
another cataclysm as twenty years ago
doomed millions to death, drove kings and
princes from their thrones, shattered the
chanceries of every warring nation and
wrecked their exchequers.

Mussolini

G NE who had an interview with Italy’s
supreme Dictator says, “All kinds of
comments on Mussolini’s love for animals
have been made. It is said that tyrants
though ruthless and destroyers of the hum-
an peace are often—strange anomaly—in-
domitably fond of cats or other animals.”
Whatever our opinion of Mussolini, however
merciless and barbaric his invasion and de—
struction of the Ethiopians may seem to us,
the writer above quoted has this to say!
“Yet, he has carried out enormous changes
in Italian law and practice in regard to the
treatment of birds and other animals. He
has placed restrictions on vivisection. He
has raised organized animal protection to a
new level of recognition, order and objec-
tiveness. Historical biography might be
written on the point of inconsistency. Great
love combined with great hatred, great ten-
derness in one direction combined with com-
plete callousness in another.”

The last time we were in Italy, when we
were studying the methods used in the
slaughter of food animals, we found in the
chief slaughter-house in Rome the destruc-
tion of the animal was done in as painless
a way as seemed possible and that the same
governmental regulations prevailed in all
the principal cities. What an inexplicable
creature is man!

Two little fellows were gazing at a zebra
at the zoo.

“What a funny animal!” said one. “What
is it?”

“I —— don’t —— know,” replied the other.
“It’s a sports-model donkey, I think.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




u I 1 k .
U_S.Trade Mark,Registered I] I

1 ANGELL 1N 1868.AND FOR FORTY‘

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

   
  

The American Band of Mercy

   
 

GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'r'o~
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense
Yet wanting sensibility, the man ,
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

—COWPER

 
   
       
 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as.second—class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for malllng at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

 

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 69

March, 1936

No. 3

 

Elizabeth Harrison has discovered that as
far back as the time of George III, when the
ears as well as tails of horses were muti-
lated, he denounced the practice as “unbe-
coming the ignorance of savages.”

Any person who has been convicted of
possession or use of narcotics shall be de—
nied a license, or ruled off the track, or both,
as the commission may decide. Such has
been the action taken by the Racing Com—
missions from 17 states of the Union.

The North American Wild Life Confer-
ence met in Washington, February 3 to 7, at
the call of the President of the United
States. Its purpose was to bring together
both individuals and organizations inter-
ested in the restoration and conservation of
wild life resources. The need of such a con—
ference all must know who see the danger
of the extinction of many forms of wild life
as the result of conscienceless hunters and
lack of proper legislation for conservation.

Many of our readers are contributors to
the splendid work being done by the Ameri-
can Fondouk Maintenance Committee in
Fez, Morocco. We hope they will read the
report of just one day’s work published else-
where in this issue of Our Dumb Animals.
Nothing has been more encouraging in con—
nection with the work in Fez than recogni-
tion by all the authorities in Fez and their
co—operation with the Superintendent. This
is true from the Pasha himself clear down
through the list of ofﬁcials.

The Scottish S. P. C. A. of Edinburgh is
co-operating with the Royal S. P. C. A. of
London in the efforts to equip, send out and
maintain a Veterinary Unit to establish a
field Veterinary Hospital in or about Addis
Ababa. The immediate object of the Unit
will be to act in conjunction with the recent-
ly formed Addis Ababa S. P. C. A. Contri-
butions are being solicited for this purpose.
Gifts from any of our readers desiring to
further this good work we shall be glad to
forward to the Scottish Society.

Destruction of Our Wild
Fowl by Oil

HOSE who have read in this magazine

the pitiful story of the destruction of
wild fowl by the discharge of oil from oil—
burning ships in the coastal waters of the
world will read with interest the following
paragraphs from a recent letter sent us.
Though written, in part at least, from the
point of view of a sportsman, it confirms
our plea for international action:

“I have read with interest your pamphlet
on oil pollution of waters. At the January
meeting I hope to have passed resolutions
commending and endorsing your activities.

“Nearly fifty years I have been an active

student and observer of the things you are ~

addressing.

“In Virginia you’ll find about ten or
twelve years ago at Goodwin Islands at the
mouth of the York River there were picked
up over four thousand ducks killed by oil
discharged mainly by the Navy at York-
town. This was quickly stopped. Several
years ago the Army testing station near
Sparrow’s Point played havoc with ducks,
geese and swans by discharging phosphor-
ous waste. All along the Chesapeake Bay
and Atlantic Coast of Virginia, North Car-
olina, New Jersey and Long Island are
found cases of birds killed by oil on their
feathers. These isolated cases are conspic—
uous. But they do not show any of the
much wider damage done to the feed of all
these birds by the wide spread of the thin
skin of oil that kills the crustaces, mollusks
and animalculi and vegetation on the shores
and flats.

“Would it not be possible for you to fol-
low up your pamphlet by a well prepared
report of a wide survey by observers and
make the Bureau of Biological Survey send
it to every $1 duck stamp tax purchaser of
last year with a call to them to observe and
report and co-operate?”

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20--25; Hu-
mane Sunday, April 19, 1936.

Influence of the Band of
Adercy

S INCE the parent Band of Mercy was

organized by Mr. Angell in Boston in
1882 there have been gathered into these
small groups more than five million mem—
bers, largely children in the public schools
of this country.

Nothing more rapidly refines, uplifts, ex-
alts both mind and heart than generous,
gracious, unselfish ministrations to others,
whether those others be our own fellowmen
or the creatures below us. So made are we
that back upon us with the touch of a re—
deeming, regenerating hand comes every
holy deed of righteousness and love done for
another’s sake. An act that, even in the
slightest degree, blesses the life of some
horse or dog or friendless sentient being,
stirs within our own souls an emotion, a
something, that verifies the divine reality
of the truth, “It is more blessed to give
than to receive.”

It is primarily the child in whom humane
education is directly interested. The culti-
vation of the spirit of kindness to animals
is but the starting point toward that larger
humanity which includes one’s fellows of
every race and clime. It is the reaction
upon character finding expression in life of
the principles of justice and compassion
that is the fundamental thing in humane
education, and this humane education raises
no question of sect or creed, but furnishes
a common standing ground for such moral
teaching as all good citizens hold vital to a
people’s welfare.

The celebrated De Sailly said once, “I am
convinced that kindness to animals is not
only a powerful cause of material prosper-
ity but also of moral prosperity.”

No one will ever know the influence for
their whole future upon the children that
have been organized into these Bands of
Mercy, and no teacher, 1 think, can ever
quite estimate the influence that he or she
exercises over a pupil.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

0,1. M30

u U. S,Trade Mark, Registered k

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and, ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
-——COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Msncv To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 69

December, 1936

No. 12

 

Remember the birds during the winter.
They will repay you a hundredfold for the
suet and grain and crumbs you place for
them about your home.

The Archbishop of Canterbury has recom-
mended to the clergy of the Diocese that on
one particular Sunday they should speak to
their people on the subject of our obliga—
tions to the world of animal life. Alas, that
so generally the pulpit has deemed this
theme unworthy of its attention!

From Cruel Sport, London, England, we
learn that renewed efforts are being made
to re-introduce into Great Britain as a na-
tional sport the rodeo. The backers of this
long discredited so—called “sport” are seek—
ing, through certain modiﬁed forms of it,
to win for it popular favor. We hope they
utterly fail.

If many of the charitable organizations
that sponsor such exhibitions as are known
as rodeos knew the cruelty that almost al—
ways characterizes these shows, and what
it means to the animals of discomfort and
suffering, they would refuse to be associated
in any way with these traveling cowboy
performances.

The celebrated English author, H. G.
Wells, in a ﬁlm entitled “Things To Come,”
shows a scene in which at Christmas-time
children are seen playing with military toys
which they have received from their par—
ents and relatives as presents. We wonder
how many fathers and mothers who see the
ﬁlm will see the signiﬁcance of this feature
of it.

A new effort is being made, especially by
foreign humane societies, to have included
in the revision of the Covenant of the Lea—
gue of Nations some clause relating to the
welfare of animals. That the League should
recognize the claims of animals as well as
those of women and children, whose inter-
ests it has sought to further, is greatly to
be hoped.

Christmas

INETEEN hundred years and more

since the story was told of that song
over the fields of Bethlehem. More cen-
turies since it was said the nations should
learn war no more. We still believe the
dream of that first Christmas Day some—
time, “in His good time,” will come true.
“Clouds and darkness are round about him,
righteousness and judgment are the habita-
tion of his throne.” In that faith we wish
every reader of these words a Christmas
brightened and gladdened by the confidence
that the promise of the world’s first Christ—
mas was not made in vain.

Czechoslovakia

It is almost incredible that in that pro-
gressive country there is no law for the
protection of animals outside a. few vague
and valueless survivals of Austrian pre-
scriptions. A movement, however, is on foot
to secure such legislation as will rank
Czechoslovakia with other nations in this
respect. The friends of this movement are
having a hard struggle to attain this end
and are impatiently awaiting Government
decision on a Bill that has long been be—
fore the Parliament to institute a statute for
the protection of animals. We hope they
may be rewarded for their long and per-
sistent efforts.

A Promised Medal

The New England Veterinary Medical As—
sociation, at its meeting in Providence last
month, did a ﬁne thing in voting to award
a medal each year to a boy or girl under
15 years of age who performs some out—
standing humane act during the year. This
will apply to all the boys and girls through—
out New England of the age mentioned.
Publicity of this offer will be made through
the schools and through the press. The win—
ner of the medal will be brought, at no
expense to him or her, to the annual meet—
ing when the medal will be presented.

Why We DO Not Publish
Them

E are thinking of the deeds of revolt-

ing cruelty with which we have to
deal. Quite often someone says to us, “Is
there really any need longer for your So—
ciety’s work? People are not cruel to ani-
mals now as they used to be. Don’t you
ﬁnd this true?” That fewer people in many
sections of our land are cruel to animals
than 50 years ago is true, but every active
S. P. C. A. is still being compelled to investi—
gate cases of almost unbelievable cruelty to
helpless and defenseless domestic animals.
We do not ﬁll the pages of our magazine
with reports of these cases. First, because
many of our readers object to see-ing these
harrowing stories recorded, and, second, be—
cause we do not think they make’ good read—
ing for the multitudes of children and young
people who read Our Dumb Animals.

When Henry Bergh and George T. Angell
began their work in this country, the former
founding the New York Society and the
second the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., it was
primarily the larger animals, the horses, the
cattle, sheep and swine that seemed to need
protection from man’s inhumanity. Today
millions of our domestic and household pets
are coming fast to be recognized as worthy
to share in the spirit of a humanity wide
enough to include in its ministry the least
of life’s children with capacity for suffer-
ing. Who would have thought in those
early days of Bergh and Angell of hospitals,
particularly for the dog and the cat? Lit-
erally millions of these smaller creatures
are gathered up yearly by humane societies
and saved from disease, starvation and lin—
gering death, many painlessly put to sleep,
many provided with homes and kindly care.

The day is far distant when the beasts
of the ﬁeld, the birds of the air and all the
other creatures of land and sea will no
longer need the organizations founded to
protect and defend them, to heal them of
their diseases, and to win for them ever
new friends and helpers.

 




 

Feb. 1936

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Abraham Lincoln and Horses
FRANK FARRINGTON

BRAHAM Lincoln was accustomed to
riding a horse. In coming from Ken-
tucky he had ridden behind his father on
one horse, while his sister rode behind her
mother on the other horse.

As a boy he had suffered ill-treatment
from the old flea—bitten gray mare he rode
to mill to get some grain ground. While
at the mill the animal had kicked him and
he had been put unconscious into a wagon
and taken home and it was the next morn—
ing when he regained his senses. His last
words, before being kicked, were, “Git ap!”
and his first words, as he regained consci-
ousness, were to finish what he had started
to say, “you old hussy!”

But Lincoln was always kind to his horse
and would save it at the cost of his own
comfort. He bought a horse in 1835, when
appointed deputy surveyor and he lost it
when it was sold because he was unable to
pay a judgment against him. His friend,
James Short, however, bought the horse
and returned it to him, allowing him to take
his time in paying the debt.

As a practising lawyer he had a home-
made buggy and a rawboned horse and this
horse is described in an advertisement he
published in a Springfield newspaper when
it once disappeared from its stable.

“Strayed or stolen: From a stable in
Springfield, on Wednesday, 18th inst., a
large bay horse, star in his forehead, plain-
ly marked with harness; supposed to be
eight years old; had been shod all around
but is believed to have lost some of his
shoes, and trots or paces. Any person who
will take up said horse and leave informa-
tion at the JOURNAL office or with the
subscriber, shall be liberally paid for their
trouble. A. Lincoln.”

It is told that on one occasion Lincoln
and a certain judge fell to joking one an-
other about horse trading and it was agreed
that the next morning each was to bring
a horse and they were to trade without
either seeing the other’s horse in advance.
There was to be no backing out, under pen—

     

2;.

alty of having to pay a $25 fine.

The Judge brought the worst looking
horse anyone could imagine and the crowd
began to laugh at the joke he would have
on Lincoln. Lincoln was not long in arriv-
ing and on his shoulder was a wooden saw—
horse. The crowd shouted with laughter.
Lincoln looked at the judge’s horse and ex-
claimed, “Well, Judge, this is the first time
I ever got the worst of it in a horse trade.”

On one occasion there was to be a grand
review of General McClellan’s troops and
the General and his staff thought the trial
of riding down the lines and inspecting the
whole army would be too much for the
President. McClellan thought this would be
a time when he would bring the President,
whom he did not like, into ridicule. He
planned to ride hard and fast, hoping Lin-
coln would have to fall behind.

A big, black, spirited charger was
brought out for the President. He took the
bridle confidently and mounted easily and
the horsemen who watched saw that he
knew horses. The animal pranced and
danced and whirled, but his rider sat as un—
concerned as a cowboy on his pony, as if
he and the animal were one.

McClellan led the way and they went
down the field at a gallop. The artillery
thundered, the drums beat and the bands
struck up, “Hail to the Chief!” and the men
cheered. It was a moment to excite the war
horse to all his antics and tricks.

Lincoln continued to hold the bridle rein
with one hand, while, undisturbed, he lift—
ed his tall hat with the other, easily guid-
ing the animal under him. Unconcernedly
he rode over the rough ground, hurdl’ing
the ditches and keeping up with the general
and his escort. The cheers greeting him
were not less because of his fine appear—
ance in the saddle, where his extreme height
was not noticeable.

U
0

Remember the dates of Humane Sun-
day, April 19, and Be Kind to Animals

Week, April 20—25, 1936.

THE BARN IS FILLED WITH GENTLE SOUNDS AND SWEET SMELLS

Page 21

On Pepper Tree Hill

JUDY VAN DER VEER

had been working at my desk until I was
tired; I walked out to the kitchen and

selected a good red apple and went out-
doors and sat under a pepper tree where
I could rest and enjoy my apple. A beau-
tiful day, though a desert wind was blow-
ing hotly; the pepper tree’s red berries
were tumbling in the wind. So nice and
peaceful and quiet in the country, I was
thinking. . .

Peaceful! I hadn’t enjoyed two bites of
my apple before I was surrounded by seven
dogs, a white duck (who was scolding vio—
lently) two sheep, four cats, three geese,
four horses and two heifers. Had the three
other horses and the rest of the cattle not
been out in the big pasture, they would have
been crowding around, too. The apple was
delicious and every creature except the cats
and the heifers were eying it hungrily.
How to divide one apple among such a con-
gregation! One was reminded of the story
of the loaves and the fishes. I didn’t get
any more of that apple. The horses nick—
ered, the dogs thumped their tails, the
geese screamed, the duck scolded, the sheep
nibbled at my ears. I cut up the apple
with my pocket knife and everyone got a

tiny bite.
No more food, but the crowd would not
disperse. One of the horses (the colt

whom we call “Pepper Tree” because he
was born under this same tree) began
licking my face and neck, and blowing
warm breaths at my hair. The sheep
wanted their ears rubbed, and one of the
dogs began picking imaginary fleas off the
duck—a performance which greatly amuses
all visitors at our ranch. The big dog
plants her paw on “Wucky’s” neck, and the
poor duck has to submit to a very thorough
flea examination. (Whoever heard of a
duck having dog fleas!) It is very trying
to her temper, she scolds until she is all
but speechless but there seems nothing else
she can do about it. The dog likes to flea
the cats too, but they, realizing her good
intentions, submit with more grace.
Visitors sometimes ask us why we own
so many dogs. In reality we don’t own the
dogs, the dogs own us. Every one of them
needs us, and somehow they have just col—
lected until now there are seven, and most
of them mongrels. But such marvelous
mutts, faithful and intelligent! I used to
think I owned the animals, I almost felt
sorry for my devoted slaves, the horses and
cows. Gradually it dawned on me that (in
their opinion) they are not slaves, but slave
owners. I am the slave! If you doubt it,
just visit our big barn some evening at
feeding time. The big, kindly cow, “Bossy,”
forgets her manners completely, she has
such a queer low that it sounds like a growl
in her throat—she growls and pounds the
door of her stall with hard horns until I
get the hay ready and let her in. The J er-
sey cow keeps telling me in her way to
hurry and get her hay ready, the black cow,
“Sally Anne,” looks ready to eat me up, the
young bull is impatiently pawing the earth,
and the calves are trying to out—bawl one
another. The horses are nickering with

 




AMWmﬁF‘Eﬁw-Iwaw .7 . A a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 101;

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by

e Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

JULY, 1936

I FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

. EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

Brown University and
Its Bear

T a much advertised dinner of the Bos-

ton Brown Club an unfortunate little
bear was presented to the University. This
child of the wilds of Maine was taken from
the home where [Nature had placed him and,
with no little ceremony and several speeches,
consigned to a life of captivity and doomed
to the career of a mascot to this celebrated
school of learning at Providence, R. I.

The Hon. Percival P. Baxter, former Gov-
ernor of Maine, a man of outstanding cul—
ture and social prominence and deeply inter—
ested in the welfare of animals, received a
long letter from the chairman of the Com-
mittee, answering one of his, endeavoring to
explain the incident of the bear. In reply
Mr. Baxter sent to the chairman of the Club
the following telegram:

Portland, Maine, April 22, 1936
Mr. W. H. Shupert
Chairman Dinner Committee Boston Brown

Club
No. 50 Congress Street, Boston, Mass.
Your letter received. Let us hope the day

soon may come when college men young and
old will find some entertainment more wor-
thy of their background then the moronic
fun of observing the antics of a poor little
Maine bear in the unnatural surroundings
of college banquets and athletic contests. I
suggest that you turn him loose in the great
wild animal sanctuary about Mt. Katahdin
and allow him to live and take his chances
as the Almighty planned. You may read
this at your banquet.

(Signed) PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

 

THE BATTERY SYSTEM

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An Egg Laying Machine

HIS is what the hen appears to be to

many in the poultry business and to
the sellers of poultry food. It has not been
enough to put the hen in a small wire en—
closure, even the ﬂoor of the container made
of wire on which she must stand and which
provides no perch, but the latest scheme is
to put the young chicken in a bottle and
let it grow up in that.

With other humane organizations we have
criticized this whole method of dealing with
the world’s willing producer of one of its
most enjoyable foods. To the bottle busi-
ness particularly we have objected and,
when found in Massachusetts, have threat-
ened, unless the chicken were released by
breaking the bottle, to take the matter into
court. The Purina Mills, of St. Louis, Mis-
souri, leading advertisers of these methods,
in their criticism of us wrote us:

“Aside from your comment on the chick in
the bottle, which we ourselves know to be
humane, and which you vigorously oppose,
we have the report that you have comment-
ed severely on the starting of chicks in chick
starting batteries, growing them in growing
batteries and keeping them in the laying
cages. Frankly, we are amazed at your
position in this matter. If you were aware
of modern poultry conditions, especially in
the State of Massachusetts, you would
know that chick starting batteries and hen
laying cages are quite standard equipment
today.”

“Also, for your consideration, we are at-
taching our instructions which are sent out
with the chick bottle which explain care-
fully that ventilation, sanitation, nutrition
as well as room are well taken care of for
a chick grown in the bottle. While the sub-
ject of whether or not this was humane has
been brought to court test in several other
states, after the facts were known, the
judge in every case has allowed the bottle
demonstration to continue. If the bird were
suffering, it would not thrive in the bottle.”

This is our reply.

“Though I have never run a poultry farm,
I have had poultry off and on for quite a
large part of my life.

“It isn’t a question with me or with the
humane societies in this country who, so
far as I know, all feel as I do about it and
as all our humane societies would naturally
feel—it isn’t a question of the evidence of
physical suffering to be found in the chick-
ens or fowl. I have personally taken out of
these small cages fowl that have been in
there for a long while and have found them
apparently healthy.

“I think it is quite true that
some of the diseases and other
troubles from which poultry
suffer are doubtless eliminated
by the battery system, but the
whole thing to me is inhumane
in that it is absolutely an un—
natural life for the fowl to lead.
If the only significance of a hen
is to make her an egg-producing
machine, then shut her up and
get all the eggs you can without
any consideration for her 61: for
her living under natural condi—
tions. If the only purpose of a

July, 1936

 

 

 

THE BOTTLE PLAN

cow is to make her a milking machine, shut
her up in stables and keep her there months
and months at a time without allowing her
to go out of doors. Of course if one be—
lieves that these animals were created pure-
ly for our beneﬁt and not to have any of
the enjoyments that in the natural state the
Creator provided for them, then I can see
the point of the man who believes that the
only thing to do is to shut them up under
any conditions and make them produce the
most eggs or, in the case of cows, the most
milk. That is where probably you and the
people who are in this business and the
humane societies of this country would
differ.

“The bottle business I think is even worse
and so far as this state is concerned, where
we know of chickens being kept here in
bottles. we shall certainly take the case into
the court, and whether we win or lose, our
magazine, which is read by probably a good
many more than 100,000 in this state every
month, will continue to tell our readers
what we think of the methods employed by
so many people in the handling of their
poultry. I feel very sure that the other
humane papers of this country will follow
the same example, and we urge them to do
everything in their power to oppose it.

“So far as the battery business is con-
cerned, there is probably nothing that we
could do to stop it, but I do believe we can
stop this bottle business if we can create a
public opinion to make it an unproﬁtable
undertaking.”

Since writing the above we have just
learned that the Women’s Pennsylvania S.
P. C. A. secured the arrest of the manager
of a Sears-Roebuck store in the city of Lan-
caster, Pa., and the man who had brought
a chicken in one of these bottles to the
store. A ﬁne was imposed upon the man-
ager of the store, who assumed full respon-
sibility. Appeal was heard before the Com-
mon Pleas Court which sustained the for-
mer decision, and the store manager was
found guilty of cruelty to animals.

The expenses of the defense, it is quite
likely, are being paid by the Purina Mills,
of St. Louis, leading advertisers of this in-
humane method of dealing with young
chickens. The advertisement on the bot-
tle reads, “Raised on Purina Startina.”
We wish we had room to give the details
sent us by the Women’s Pa. S. P. C. A.
They have done a splendid piece of work
and we congratulate them heartily.

It is possible that this case may be taken
to the Supreme Court in Pennsylvania, but
whatever the result, we believe the humane
societies of this country will make this
wretched business so discreditable to those
who are trying to popularize it, that it will
have to be abandoned.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 11;
Eh» limb of merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

' n Humane Education Society will send
The America ho forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the prem-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pre51dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

More Than One Thousand
New Bands

One thousand and twenty new Bands of
Mercy were reported during November. Of
these 262 were in Georgia; 249 in Texas;
186 in Massachusetts; 189 in New York;
51 in Virginia; 47 in Florida; 29 in Penn-
sylvania; 24 in Illinois; 11 in Lebanon; 9
in Tennessee; 4 in Syria; 3 each in Pales-
tine and Transjordan; two in District of
Columbia; and one in North Dakota.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 212,740

The New Year

CARROLL VAN COURT

A Suggested Good Resolution for all Owners of Pets
to Adopt

Let the New Year
Be a true year,
With your slate all bright and clean;
Let your mission
And ambition
Be to practise nothing mean.

In the daytime
Keep your playtime
Full of healthful, honest fun;
Let the night time
Be the right time,
With no harsh injustice done

Be a brother
To each other,
When some fellow’s in distress;
Then your record
Won’t be checkered
With the stain of selfishness.

Proud

The Rev. P. L. Spooner, B. D., kindly
sends me the tale of the two parsons who
were having lunch at a farm during the
progress of certain anniversary celebra-
tions connected with the local Nonconform-
ist church. The farmer’s wife cooked a
couple of chickens, saying that the family
could dine on the remains after the visitors
had gone. But the hungry parsons wolfed
the chickens bare.

Later the farmer was conducting his
guests round the farm, when an old rooster
commenced to crow ad lib. “Seems mighty
proud of himself,” said one of the guests.

“No wonder,” growled the farmer, “he’s
got two sons in the ministry.”

—Sporting and Dramatic News

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Home Life of the Waxwings

JULIA K. BYINGTON

YEAR ago it would have seemed in—
credible that we could find more en-
joyment than we derived from watching
cedar waxwings build their nest. But this
last summer we had even more fun, because
the nest was so located that we watched
their daily life. Let me tell you about it.
The waxwings are beautiful birds, gown-
ed in harmonizing shades of brown, made

BABY WAXWING LOOKING FOR
FOOD

vivid by bright, wax-like spots on the
wings. Just to have them in our yard was
a pleasure. As soon as it became apparent
that a pair of these amiable lovers was set-
ting up housekeeping, we played the part
of the Good Samaritan by providing long
lengths of string to aid in the building. Im-
mediately the waxwings precluded our in-
tention of retiring to a discreet distance to
watch the ensuing activity, by seizing the
desirable booty almost from our very hands,
and flying away with it triumphantly to the
spot chosen for the new home. After a
time, just as we did last year, we offered
colored strings in shades of red, yellow, and
green. But wise that they were, the wax-
wings had no desire to attract attention to
their little home by furnishing it in a riot
of color. Stubbornly they refused to take
the bright—colored building material.

To our delight the nest was built in a
small lilac bush, just outside our neighbor’s
bedroom window. From our reserved seats
in her room, we could look directly into the
nest, see the eggs first of all, and eventually
watch the four homely, naked waxwing
children develop into four very pretty small
birds. While they could lay no claim to a
beauty commensurate with that of their
solicitous parents, there were signs of a fu-
ture loveliness; on the tips of the secondary
wing feathers were the tiny, wax-like drops
of red, and the stub of a tail boasted a yel-
low edge.

Parent birds with which we were fa-

 

Jan. 1936

miliar, approached the nestful of young
with food readily visible in their bills. Not
so with the cedar waxwings. The food was
carried in their distended throats, a gener-r
ous portion for each small bird. Naturally
a nest which seemed too small for even four
newly—hatched birds, appeared entirely in-
adequate when four hungry, half-grown
babies simultaneously stretched to their full
height with greedy mouths agape for the
expected dinner. Fortunately Mother Na-
ture had provided them with a firm hold
to prevent accidental falling in the height
of their enthusiasm.

When the babies left the nest, one under—
sized weakling could not fly. He fluttered
to the ground, where we heard him lisping
plaintively. He made no objection to pos-
ing for his picture, perched on my market
basket or on the hand of our young daugh-
ter. In fact his one interest was in food.
A hand extended in his direction caused him
to open his bill its widest, in the hopes of
a choice morsel. On the limb of a tree,
where we guarded him zealously from possi-
ble marauders, the parent waxwings fed
him until he was strong enough to fly. Al—
though one chief source of food was our
raspberry patch, with its luscious red ber—
ries, we did not begrudge the fruit. We
had spied on the domestic life of the wax—
Wings for our own enjoyment!

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu—
mane Education Trust Fund.

Sing a Song of Sunshine

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

Sing a song of sunshine,
Sing a song of cheer,
For all the friends together
Who welcome the New Year!

Boys and girls at study,
Boys and girls at play,
Are each a whole year older
Than on last New Year’s Day.

Each a glad year older,
Each more strong and wise
To help the friends in feathers,
The friends in furry guise.

How they welcome kindness!
How they need our care!

Oh, what a rich repayment——
Their love and trust to share!

So sing a song of sunshine
Made by hearts of gold,

All pledged to scatter sunshine
Until the Year is old.

 

 




 

Apr. 1936

Nixon Waterman Says:

Y little desk dictionary is quite to the

point when it defines catnip or cat-
mint as “a strongly scented, perennial herb,
much liked by cats.” I doubt if there is any
other specific vegetable growth so fondly
and universally craved by any one partic-
ular family of the animal kingdom.

Once on a time my home was in a section
where catnip did not grow wild and did not
appear to be cultivated. I felt I must grow
some. I soon discovered it was much easier
said than done. I planted growing plants
and sowed seed. The growing plants, al-
though reasonably protected, disappeared
during the first twenty-four hours that
elapsed after they were started in my gar—
den. I planted more with more secure pro—
tection which I felt sure would stand up
against any assaults made upon them. They
disappeared quite as promptly.

From then on I tried to match my wits a—
gainst the cunning of the cats. I found I
was playing a losing game. By all sorts of
clever methods the cats from near and far,
by night and day, would contrive to capture
every sprig of my catnip. As for the plants
that came from seeds in the garden, as
soon as they could be identified as catnip
their young lives were snuffed out. I found
that the cheaper and only practical way to
have catnip was to buy it. From that time
on I was a customer of the green catnip
merchant located at the side of the city
street leading to my place of business. 1
almost used to marvel that he did not have
to employ an armed company of body—
guards to protect his wares.

It was at this time that the members of
my household secured a half—grown cat of
the Angora breed. It was a meek, kindly
little creature and we were concerned lest
the older cats of the neighborhood would
impose upon and injure it. Naturally it
appeared to be afraid of the large cats of
the neighborhood. One especially big, stal-
wart fellow who came to visit the new feline
addition to the neighborhood, seemed to
fill the newcomer with a sense of fear,
possibly because the monstrous neighbor
showed a disposition to lord it over the
helpless half-grown kitten.

But it happened one day that the kitten
had received his first feast of catnip just
before the arrival of the big boy. The whirl—
wind manner in which the catnip intoxi—
cated youngster pounced upon, clawed, bit,
harangued, overwhelmed, and utterly flab—
bergasted the visitor cannot be described in
words. From that day on the big cat, to put

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

it in graphic terms, never “monkied with
the buzz—saw” again, while the young cat,
becoming innoculated with the effect of the
catnip, learned to partake of it without un-
seemly carryings on.

Brotherly Love

AUGUSTA LEINARD

little squirrel being tenderly groomed

by a cat! The unusual sight stops
the San Francisco evening crowds before
Pennington’s Pet Shop window. It’s a gray
eat of the type many people slightingly
term “alley cat,” but the love it manifests
toward its small companion is heart—warm-
ing and inspiring.

The cat was brought in about a year ago,
the dealer said when questioned, by a wo-
man who was leaving t'own. Her cat was
expecting kittens and she was unable to
find a home for it. . . .

“After the cat had weaned its kittens,”
the dealer related, “she was given a litter
of Persians. She was nursing these when
someone brought in two ground squirrels
just old enough to have their eyes opened. I
fed them milk with an eye dropper, but one
died and in trying to save the other I took
a chance and put it in with the Persians.
The cat took the squirrel and nursed it
with the litter. When the Persians were old
enough for weaning she threw them out,
as cats do, but the squirrel she kept with
her.”

Kitty and her charge, which is now five
months old and a beautiful, sleek specimen,
have become fast friends. In the day time
they snooze contentedly together in a cage
in the shop, but at night they have the run
of the window. Then the fun begins, as
they scamper and frolic. Sometimes the
squirrel skims gracefully over the wire net—
ting wall dividing the window from shop
interior. Kitty awkwardly tries to follow.
Two rougish bright eyes watch from the
topmost perch of the wooden frame sup«
porting the wall. She manages to clamber
high enough to nip playfully at the bushy
tail hanging down, then laboriously descends
and waits. Master squirrel nimbly returns
to earth and the performance continues,
both “actors” thoroughly enjoying the at—
tention of their amused audience.

Meanwhile the kind-hearted dealer who
took in two homeless animals is reaping an
unlooked for reward, for people come from
all parts of town to see the friendship be-
tween a cat and a ground squirrel, which
are traditionally supposed to be “deadly
enemies.”

 

Page 59

Animals Down the Ages

LOUISE H. GUYOL

ROM the days of creation down the

ages love and law are the essential ele—
ments of progress. Love binds the commun—
ity and law controls it harmoniously. EX-
ploration, discovery, settlement and growth
make the history of mankind. Into this his-
tory is woven the service of the animals.
So they have always been included in the
love and in the law of all peoples.

Cattle were created before man. Wher—
ever he wanders there are animals for his
use, or he takes with him those to which
he has become accustomed. Into man’s
hands were delivered every beast and every
fowl and every ﬁsh. To the giants of those
days this meant protection as well as use,
for the animals were counted among their
riches. “And Abram was very rich, in cat-
tle, in silver and in gold.”

Cattle head the list of valuable proper-
ties. It was the herdsmen of Abram and
Lot who strove for possession of more land.

When Abram’s servant set forth to ﬁnd
a wife for Isaac ten of the camels of his
master accompanied him.

Cattle are included in the Command~
ments, for the same consideration that a
man’s family shall have. Cattle must be
protected from man’s covetousness, even as
his wife. On these Commandments all laws
are based.

In the law of every community the ani-
mals are considered. Their liberties are
regarded and granted and their masters
held responsible for them. The ﬁrst laws
passed by the Pilgrims to America con—
tained protective clauses for the cattle, as
they did in the days of that ﬁrst Exodus.
A Code of Liberties it was called, when
framed in Massachusetts in 1640. Men were
allowed “Libertie” to do thus and so. As
were the cattle. Cattle shall have liberty to
graze in such and such places; cattle shall
have liberty to be rested and watered en
route. Men realized the value of property
and the value of kindness.

Cattle in those ﬁrst days of our settle-
ment in this new country were scarce. Only
goats and chickens and pigs had been
brought over on the Mayﬂower. But, “a
few cattle would be a very comfortable help
and stay to ye colonie,” wrote Governor
Bradford to the English company that was
ﬁnancing them. Cattle were sent, and some
few horses. They came over ﬁrst on the
“Charitie.”

If goats were like men, how those of the
Mayﬂower would boast over the cows who
came years later!

One was the “Grate White Backt Cowe,”
and she was divided, as were all of them,
into parts—not with a knife, but by law.
The colonists had been divided into groups.
Each group shared one cow in common.
When Miles Standish wanted to own a
whole cow he had to buy the shares from
twelve different groups of people. Payment
was made in corn, in goats and perhaps in
sheep. Sheep came later and were so valu-
able that a man might take his family and
move from Plymouth, but he could not take
his sheep without having ﬁrst offered them

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

itor

Mon

zstian Science
BOSTON

.

Courtesy of The 0hr

SUMMER WATERING STATION

’

PCA

AT MASSACHUSETTS S

 

PREVENTION “ OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
. and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

THE MASSACHUSETTS “SOCIETY FOR THE

 

 

SOCIETY ~

 

 




U, S.Trade Mark, Registered 1) 1
1 ANGELL (N 1868.AND FOR‘FORTY~ONE YEARS
GEO . . EDIT

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

  

  

The American Humane Education Society

   

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmonass, JUSTICE
AND Msncv 'r'o-
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

The American Band of Mercy

    
 
  

I would not enter on. my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
+COW‘PER

 
   
       

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂiceat Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rateof postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

 

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

‘VOL 69

We are grateful for the generous contri-
butions sent us for our Horses’ Christmas.
They have all been gladly acknowledged ex-
cept those that came with neither name nor
address. To those who sent the latter we
also are sincerely grateful.

Half a million horses, mules and camels
were bought by the Ethiopian Government
for the army, according to the Journal de
Geneve. Alas for the poor beasts for whom
war means, as well as for men, suffering
beyond description, and death!

How many of our readers, We wonder,
have noticed how largely the old time train-
ed animal acts have disappeared from the
vaudeville stages of the country. To be
sure, the moving picture has had much to do
with their disappearing, but public opinion
has been the chief factor.

Last year in England the only copy of the
first edition of “Black Beauty” known was
put up at auction. What it brought we are
not told, but it is estimated that more then
ten million copies have been published. Our
own Society in this country has distri—
buted by gift and sale between two and
three million copies.

Rather amusing. A complaint came a
little while ago to the San Francisco Society
of a showman who stepped over to a large
glass bowl in which several goldﬁsh were
swimming, grabbed one and swallowed it
alive. Investigation revealed that it was a
carrot cut into the shape of a ﬁsh that he
“swallowed alive.”

Vanished species, lost from our wild life
forever—the heath hen, the Labrador duck,
the passenger pigeon, the Carolina para-
keet, the Pallas cormorant, the Great Auk.
Shot out of existence. Unless the restraints
placed upon gunners are rigorously increas—
ed and enforced many another species of
our bird and mammal life will be only a

memory.

February,l936

Abraham Lincoln

Born February 12, 1809
From Henry Watterson's Famous Tribute

ORN as lowly as the Son of God, in

a hovel; reared in penury, squalor,
with no gleam of light or fair surrounding;
without graces, actual or acquired; without
name or fame or ofﬁcial training; it was
reserved for this strange being, late in life,
to be snatched from obscurity, raised to
supreme command at a supreme moment,
and intrusted with the destiny of a nation.

>2: * >1:

Where did Shakespeare get his genius?
Where did Mozart get his music? Whose
hand smote the lyre of the Scottish plough-
man, and stayed the life of the German
priest? God, God, and God alone; and as
surely as these were raised up by God, in-
spired by God, was Abraham Lincoln; and
a thousand years hence, no drama, no
tragedy, no epic poem will be ﬁlled with
greater wonder, or be followed by mankind
with deeper feeling than that which tells
the story of his life and death.

On the Life-mask of

Abraham Lincoln

“This bronze doth keep the very form and
mold

Of our great martyr’s face. Yes, this is he:

That brow all wisdom, all benignity;

That human, humorous mouth; those cheeks
that hold

Like some harsh landscape all the summer’s
gold;

That spirit fit for sorrow, as the sea

For storms to beat on; the lone agony

Those silent, patient lips too well foretold.

Yes, this is he who ruled a world of men

As might some prophet of the elder day,—

Brooding above the tempest and the fray

With deep—eyed thought and more than mor-
tal ken.

A power was his beyond the touch of art

Or armied strength—his pure and mighty
heart.” RICHARD WATSON GILDER

 

PQo.2
“International Journal of

Animal Protection”

T HE first issue of this new, attractive
and much needed adventure into the
field of international journalism reached us
just as the old year closed. To the Scot-
tish S. P. C. A. of Edinburgh the humane
world owes this valuable contribution to the
humane cause. Its editor, Mr. L. G. Lang—
will, secretary of the Scottish Society, and
his colleagues, in this publication have
realized the fulfilment of a long cherished
desire. The thought, the labor, the cor-
respondence involved extending over a pe—
riod of several years deserves the widest
commendation and support of every hu-
mane organization of this and other coun-
tries.

A paper setting forth the need of such a
journal was presented by Mr. Langwill at
the International Congress of Animal Pro-
tection held last year t Brussels and by
a unanimous vote of the Congress the plan
was approved and authorized. It is pub-
lished in three languages, English, French
and German, but articles in other lan-
guages will appear as occasion demands. Its
purpose is “to provide authoritative infor—
mation on the local conditions prevailing in
the different countries; their peculiar diffi—
culties, special aims and individual suc—
cesses; their laws, methods, and appara-
tus.”

“Many difficult problems,” says the edi-
tor, “call for concentrated investigation,
and, as they affect many countries, what
better medium could be employed for their
elucidation than an International J ournal?”
Here are some of the problems briefly out-
lined.

(1) The need for impressing upon the
churches of all denominations the
great importance of giving humane in—
struction to adults and children.

(2) The desirability of sister societies
agreeing upon a uniform date for the

(Continued on page 32)

 




 

 

The Hunt

JOHN RITCHEY

I saw the hunt go by,
I saw the dogs

Running in full cry;
I saw the for!

I saw the for go by
Bright as a flame,

And though I called and called
No answer came.

I saw him in. the end
Caught between two walls,
I saw the dogs come up
And heard the hunting calls.

saw him in the end—

N

saw him turn about
Death in his face,

saw the dogs close in——
I left the place!

N

P'q

Big Prizes for Humane Traps

Five hundred dollars for humane traps is
again offered by The American Humane
Association in its ninth annual humane
trap contest. Prizes of $150 and $75 will
be given for the best traps for taking ani-
mals alive and unhurt; $100 and $50 for
traps that hold without injury; two prizes
of $85 and $40 for traps that kill humanely.
The judges will consider the traps from
four points of view: humaneness, practical—
ity, efficiency and reasonableness of cost in
production.

As a result of these contests thirteen
prize-winning traps are now on the mar—
ket. However, the perfect trap is still being
sought. A fortune awaits the inventor
whose trap meets all requirements. Every-
one is eligible and entry blanks and further
information may be had free by writing
to the association, 80 Howard Street,
Albany, N. Y.

Join the Jack London Club with its more

than 658,000 members, and help stop the
cruelty of trained animal acts.

OUR [HUME ANIMALS

Their Number is Up

CHRIS SEWELL

N England the national conscience is, on

the subject of “blood” games, far more
sensitive than a perusal of the newspapers
would seem to suggest. This applies espe—
cially to the years which have followed the
Great War.

The preventable suffering of animals
looms nowadays quite noticeably in political
propaganda, as well as in a widespread but
less scenic sphere.

We have our League for the Prohibition
of Cruel Sports with its own magazine and
a big and ever—growing roll of membership.
That membership includes names famous
all over the country.

At its inauguration the hunting frater—
nity laughed it to scorn. They gave its
meetings a wide berth. Now they come in
large numbers to heckle its speakers—an
exceedingly healthy sign.

Moreover, they have brought into being
a brand new society of their own known
as the Association for the Preservation of
Field Sports. This is an extremely wel-
come move to those of us who hate the
killing of animals for play, because we real-
ize that whereas we were originally a
negligible quantity, we have now become a
power.

The last meeting of our own League
which I attended was a large one. The
speakers included a Commodore of the
Air Force (himself a former follower of
hounds) and a Naval Commander, whilst
two Canons of the Church of England were
present on the platform. It is signiﬁcant
that both the Lord Mayor of the City and
the Bishop of the Diocese sent expressions
of support and sympathy.

This League organizes and carries out
perfectly orderly protests at the famous
staghound meets in Devonshire, and I had
it from a completely reliable source that
one very highly placed in English aﬁairs
who had made arrangements to take part
in a hunt of this kind, was obliged to aban—
don .his intention as a concession to public
opinion.

And further, there has lately been a

AT GOOSE LAKE, BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK, WAINWRIGHT, ALBERTA

ﬁlar.1936

strong and spontaneous outcry against hare
coursing! The inhabitants of a certain
neighborhood where it is much practised
have declaimed against it in no uncertain
voice. It was spoken of as a disgrace to
the place. The press has been forced to
take notice of the protest and, in conse-
quence, there will be, please God, yet an—
other nail knocked ﬁrmly in the cofﬁn of
calculated cruelty.

Nixon Waterman Says:

T is a mistake to believe that the sound
H creations which the members of the bird
family produce, and which we have reason
to believe are agreeable, at least to their
own sense of hearing, are wholly music of
the vocal class.

The drumming sound which the partridge
produces by beating its wings against a
hollow log or some other object that will
serve as a sounding—board is as truly in-
strumental music as are the notes of the
castanet or tambourine. The tattoo which
the woodpecker produces on the resounding
tree—trunk is, doubtless, in many instances,
made for the sound effect only rather than
the noise produced in the securing of food.

Certainly it was its fondness of making
instrumental music that caused a ﬂicker to
perform as I once knew one to do. Near my
home was an electric light pole to which was
attached a downward-looking light bulb
over which was a round, metal reflector.
This reﬂector was very resonant, a fact
which the bird must have discovered much
to its own satisfaction. It frequently
perched on this metal disk and played a
tattoo that was broadcast throughout the
neighborhood. Obviously the bird whose
vocal notes are not at all melodious to the
human ear, loved to produce this instru—
mental music which it must have fancied
the whole world wished to hear.

The so-called “song” of the cricket and of
the katydid, concerning which the poets and
the song—writers love to sentimentalize, is,
as is well understood, a purely instrumental
production since it is made by the rasping
of the insect’s wings, one against the other,
and wholly without the employment of the
insect’s vocal organs.

 

 




 

 

July, 1936

Riding the Trail

PEARL MCCAUSLAND

Riding my horse on a wild rose trail
Where the whispering wind stirs the pet-
als pink,
Pausing awhile by the grapevine swing
That’s swaying yet by the river’s brink,

Thinking of music of birds and song

That once were Present and now are Past,
Dreaming of trails in a day long gone

My horse and I on the trail at last.

My horse and I on that trail that leads

From days long past to To-morrows that
come,

Two that are true and of faith that’s fast
Until the sands of our lives are run.

Then let it be when that day comes
I’m asked to report at the pearly gate,
Feel no surprise that you see me come
Leading my horse that we know our fate.

Feel no surprise that I bring my friend
Whom time has tested for merit true,

Feel no surprise, if he’s turned away,
That where he goes there I go, too.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for April, 1936 —— 30 Days

Daily average large animals 52
Forage for same $ 82.57
Daily average dogs 6 6
Forage for same 6.56
Put to sleep 12 6.57
Transportation 4.75
Wages, grooms, etc. 59.33
Superintendent’s salary 115.36
Veterinary’s salary 29.67
Sundries 38.11
$342.92

Entries: 7 horses, 9 mules, 56 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 7 mules, 42 donkeys

Outpatients treated: 60 horses, 30 mules, 90 donkeys,
1 cow, and 5 dogs.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometers trav-
eled, 220; cases investigated, 427; animals seen, 4,380;
animals treated, 1,138; animals transferred to Fon-

douk American, 54; pack-saddles (infected) destroyed,
14.

April, 1935, daily average large animals, 34, cost $478.36
April, 1936, daily average large animals, 52, cost $342.92

Overhead for four months, 1935 $1,908.89
Overhead for four months, 1936 1,429.55
Economy effected $ 479.34

Once more we want all interested in this ﬁne work
at Fez to know that no ofﬁcer or member of the Com-
mittee receives a penny for his services. Those only
are paid who work at the Fondouk. No formal ap-
peals are made for funds to the citizens of France,
though many residents of France of various nationali—
ties are faithful and voluntary subscribers towards
the Fondouk’s support.

We wish we had room for more detailed reports at
Fez. Here is just one day’s work:

Monday, the 6th, at 11:30 a.m., in front of the
Fondouk on Taza road, stopped a mule belonging to
a Spanish contractor, Mr. Bounia, drawing a cart of
stones. Ordered driver to unharness the mule and
took it into hospital for inspection. This animal being
wounded under the pack-saddle, sent it with one of
our men to the Commissariat de Police of Ville
Nouvele. Owner will be ﬁned. Animal hospitalized.

P. M.—Found that managers of all native fondouks
visited have whitewashed their fondouks as I ordered
done last week. Visited 27 fondouks, inspected 180
animals, treated 68, hospitalized 2 donkeys. Inspected
some donkeys in potters’ quarter. Stayed half an hour
at the gate. Ordered owners of 2 animals to bring
them for “outpatients” visit—Returned to Fondouk
at 6 p.m. (Animals in hospital, 57).

Annual meeting, American Humane As-
sociation, Hotel Rice, Houston, Texas, Sept.
30, Oct. 1 and 2, 1936.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 107

A Distinguished Visitor from Australia

An Interview with Mrs. Charles Lort—Smith

RS. CHARLES LORT—SMITH of

Melbourne, founder and president of

the Animal Welfare League of Aus-
tralia, visited Boston in May, in company
with her sister, Miss Marion Montgomery,
to inspect the Angell Memorial Hospital of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., on Longwood
avenue. They are on a tour around the
world to visit similar institutions elsewhere.
Mrs. Lort-Smith is devoting her life to the
humane cause. In an interview she said:

“I wish we had relatively as few horses
as you have in this country. There the auto-
mobile has not taken the place of the horse
to the extent it has in America. The horse
is a wonderful animal, but when it becomes
too old to work it becomes a problem from
the humane viewpoint. At present we have
no law to prevent old, broken—down horses
from being unmercifully worked. But we
have a law pending in Victoria to do away
with the sale of such horses, by permitting
agents of our society to pass upon the ﬁt-
ness of a horse to work. In general, our
laws relating to the humane treatment of
animals are very much behind those of
Massachusetts.”

“I should say you have the ﬁnest laws for
animal protection in the world, and certainly
I have never anywhere seen anything to
compare with the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital here in Boston. Only last month,
we opened a similar hospital in Melbourne,
and while it is the latest word in equipment,
it is much smaller. We were operating in
temporary quarters for six years, treating
about 13,000 animals a year. Our new build-
ing was made possible through the gener-
osity of Lady Lyle, the wife of Sir Thomas
Lyle, who is a professor at the University
of Australia, in Melbourne. She gave us
5,000 pounds and another 5,000 is to come
to us later. Another of our ardent support-
ers and workers is Lady Fairbairn, wife of
Sir George (Senator) Fairbairn, who is one
of our leading pastoralists."

A “pastoralist,” Mrs. Lort-Smith ex—
plained, is Australian for sheep—rancher,
and it is an accurate name when you come
to think of it. Mrs. Lort—Smith’s father,
William Montgomery, who emigrated from
the north of Ireland to Australia, made a
fortune raising sheep. Her husband, who
died some years ago, was a prominent Mel—
bourne barrister. She is a woman of wealth
and has arranged that her entire fortune
shall ultimately be created into a trust fund
for the beneﬁt of the animal welfare society
she founded.

“One interesting thing about our organ—
ization is that it is entirely composed of
women,” she said. “The hospital staff is
made up mostly of men, but even there we
have a corps of 24 women who work as vol-
unteers. They do quite a bit of the hospital
work. They clip and wash dogs, help out in
the ambulance work and generally make
themselves useful. They are of all ages and
all classes and are dominated by a ﬁne en-
thusiasm for the cause.

“Please don’t think the Australian people

 

MRS. CHARLES LORT-SMITH

are cruel. They are not. But they are in-
clined to be careless and thoughtless about
such matters. The great humanitarian gos-
pel of kindness toward animals has not been
preached there with the persistency and
eﬂiciency it has here, and it is our mission
to spread it.”

Report of Chicago Society

CTIVITIES of the Chicago Humane
Education Society, for the first five
months of the year were many and varied,
according to a report received from Mrs. E.
C. Dow, president. We can mention only a
few of them here. Horses, dogs and cats
were rescued from exposure to zero weather
and cruel drivers were reprimanded and dis-
missed. The president of the Wagon Driv-
ers’ Union posted 150 copies of the humane
laws, all barns being included. Pleas to feed
the birds were broadcast during the winter
by the W. G. N. and U. S. Marine Bands.
The director of the Institute of American
Meat Packers reported that the Institute
had an investigator studying humane meth—
ods of killing in many European countries
and that electric stunning is being used both
in the Swift and Armour plants.

Several radio stations co-operated with
the Society during Be Kind to Animals
Week and arrangements are being made for
a regular broadcast by Mr. Will Judy, editor
of Dog World. The Society participated in
the program of the Cook County Federation
of Women’s Organizations, the speaker be
ing Mr. Smith, president of the National
Live Stock Loss Prevention. Board.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 60

for sale in the market place.

One Englishman sent over a heifer or so,
and a bull, to start the poor on their way
with necessary cattle.

Horses came, in due time. They were
very scarce. They could not stand the long
sea journey so well as cows, and died en
route.

They increased, and those that ate in-
creased, so that people began to speculate.
Nothing that has been said about the evil
of the speculations of a few years ago was
stronger than the things that Governor
Bradford wrote about the way his people
were speculating in stock. Not stock of
banks or businesses; not stock of naught
but paper—but real stock—live stock——
horses, cattle, sheep and goats.

Out of those early “Liberties,” in the
Massachusetts Code, have sprung most of
our present day laws. Out of the laws
laid down in Exodus have grown laws that
extend to the uttermost part of the earth.
Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals are part of every civilized com-
munity. Every man and woman and boy
and girl, looking back through history, from
creation to the present time, should be ac-
tive in the support of such societies, for

“The righteous man regardeth the life of
his beast.”

The Strange Manatee
LUKE WARREN

One of the oddest of all animals, the
manatee or sea cow, is the world’s only
mammal that lives entirely in fresh water
and may be found in the southern part of
the United States.

These strange creatures grow to a length
of ten feet, and to a weight of eight hundred
pounds, and clumsily propel themselves
with a round, flat tail that is attached hor—
1zontally to a cigar—shaped, grayish brown
body. The head is like that of a walrus and
has small button-like eyes.

The manatee is strictly a vegetarian and
while feeding on water growth in the canals,
lakes and lagoons, drags himself along the
bottom with two stubby ﬂippers which are
also used to grasp the food. Although he
feeds almost entirely on under-water
growth, he has been observed browsing
along the water’s edge with his foreparts
sometimes out of water, reaching for grass
or weeds.

The young are born alive, usually one in
number, and immediately after one’s birth
the male parent patrols the vicinity to
keep off enemies until the youngster can
fend for himself. However, the manatee is
defenseless and if encountered by alligators
or the vicious crocodiles he is usually routed
or slain. The calf at birth weighs 50 or
60 pounds and is colored like its parents.
During the calf’s infancy the mother spends
most of her time carrying it clasped in her
ﬂippers while she moves about feeding.

Membership in the Jack London Club,
our organized protest against the cruelty
in training and exhibiting trick animals on
the stage, has reached 659,509. Write today
to 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for part-
iculars about this reform. It costs nothing
to join the,~Club. ‘

5:1.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1936

 

“NIG,” OWNED BY FRED H. SNOW, PINE POINT, MAIN

 

 

A Fine Newfoundland Dog

ALFRED ELDEN

NE of the ﬁnest specimens of New—

foundland dog in New England is the
property of Fred H. Snow of Pine Point,
Maine. “Nig” has a pedigree and a good
one. He came from a litter bred at Sebago
Lake Station and is four years old.

Everybody at Pine Point, old and young,
knows Nig and loves him. His benignity and
unquestioned gentleness have made him a
very desirable guard and companion for
children, while his deep voice, rather than
his actual attack, is a sufficient alarm
against intrusions. He never picks a ﬁght
and is thoroughly peaceable, but if a dog
attacks him—ewell, it is too bad for the at—
tacker as Nig packs about 120 pounds of
bone and muscle.

When Mr. Snow ﬁrst brought the New-
foundland to Pine Point his children took
the dog for a stroll along the beach. Two
small children were bathing. It was a calm
day without any undertow and they waded
out nearly to their necks. The parents were
watching from the beach. Suddenly Nig
spied them and instantly the Newfoundland
life—saving instinct came to the fore.

Rushing into the water, he swam to one
child, seized it by the back of its bathing
suit, careful not to nip it, and landed it on
the beach. Then he rushed in again and
brought the other youngster to shore in the
same manner. The children were frightened
and their parents were mad over what they
termed an “attack.” When it was explained
that Nig was only a great, good-natured
pup and that saving life was born in him,
they saw the joke. Now, whenever the Snow
children or others go for a swim, Nig ac—
companies them and if they get out a bit
farther than the Newfoundland thinks
proper, he immediately seizes them by their
bathing suits and brings them in. Pine Point
beaches need no life—guards when Nig is
around.

It is difﬁcult to understand why the New-
foundlands have lost popularity to such an
extent that they are almost extinct in this
country. Poet and painter have recorded
their noble deeds and their simple fidelity.
Moreover this dog has the unique distinc-
tion of being ﬁgured on a postage stamp of
his native land. The Newfoundland was

formerly quite common on New England
farms, having the intelligence needed for a
herding dog and the weight and willingness
to churn.

Why the World Likes Dogs

HE most unselfish living thing in the

world is your dog. If you are in dan-
ger, your dog needs only to hear your cry
of distress to rush to your aid, without
thought of his own life, fearless of guns
and enemies.

The most patient thing in the world is
your dog, waiting for hours at the top of
the stairs to hear the sound of your foot-
steps, never complaining however late you
may be.

The most grateful thing in the world is
your dog. Whatever you give him, what—
ever you do for him, he never is guilty of
ingratitude. To him you are the most pow-
erful personage in the world and beyond
censure; you are your dog’s god; you can
do no wrong.

The most friendly thing in the world is
your dog. Of all the animal kingdom, he
alone serves man without whip, without
compulsion, glad to be by the side of his
master wherever he may be, whatever he
may do, and sad in heart when his master
is away.

The most forgiving thing in the world is
your dog. The one virtue most humans lack
is that of forgiveness. But your dog car-
ries no grudge and no spite. Punish him,
even undeservedly, and he comes to you,
nudges his moist nose into your hand, looks
up at you with pleading eyes, and wags his
tail hesitatingly as though to say, “Oh,
come on, let’s be pals again.”

The most loyal thing in the world is your
dog. Whether you come home from Con—
gress or from jail, whether you have lost
your fortune or made a million, whether
you return dressed in fashion’s height or
in rags, whether you have been hailed hero
or condemned as criminal, your dog is wait-
ing for you with a welcoming bark of de-
light, a wagging tail and a heart that
knows no guile.

The world likes dogs because dogs are
nearest to moral perfection of all living
things.

Copyright, 1935, by WILL JUDY

"

 




 

 

 

 

Page 22

great. urgency in their voices, and I must
hurry, hurry, hurry!

But when the rush is over, what a com-
fortable feeling one has! The barn is
filled with gentle sounds and sweet smells.
It is good to stop and caress old Bossy,
she ceases munching long enough to turn
her luscious eyes my way and heave a fra—
grant sigh of contentment. Little calves
are drowsily nestling in a bed of straw,
they turn their milky faces up to mine and
I am very apt to drop a kiss on each soft
nose. I talk to the horses a minute and
run my hand along a smooth neck or flank,
and say good night to every one. By the
time the first star shines above Black
Mountain, and coyotes begin chanting on
the hills, the evening chores are done. The
sheep are in their pen, the dogs and cats
are fed, Wucky the duck is drowsing in her
own small house, and the geese have ceased
their wanderings. Whatever horses happen
to be staying in the big pasture have been
brought in and watered and turned out
again to graze under the stars. And there
isn’t a thing left for me to ‘do but eat sup—
per and go to bed. Lovely feeling!

I find it very amusing when young city
people my age ask me what‘in the world I
do for excitement way off here in the coun-
try. When a city girl gets bored I’ve heard
she might buy a new hat; it is supposed to
do wonders for a woman to go hat shopping.
I remember once, in the summer, days be-
gan to seem a little dreary, the summer was
so long and hot and it seemed an endless
time before there would be winter rains
and green grass again. 'I didn’t go hat
shopping. I went out in the pasture and
brought a colt in and started gentling him
to ride, and life immediately became almost
too exciting!

When you are owned by all these ani-
mals something interesting is always bound
to happen.

TIRED OUT FROM A LONG SWIM, THIS LYNX
CLIMBED ABOARD A HUNTER’S CANOE
IN A WESTERN CANADIAN LAKE

 

OUR' DUMB ANIMALS

To the Hunters
JOHN RITCHEY

These are the ones you hunt,
You men with guns,

And dogs with hanging tongues
And bitter breath;

These are the frightened people,
The hunted ones

Living in terror

With the thoughts of death.

These are a helpless people
Whom you kill,

Having scant weapons
That they can employ,
What is the quarrel?
Where do they offend?
Whose is the word

That bids you to destroy?

What comfort have they
Who are so bereft?

It is their woods

You desecrate with death!

Characters in the Bird World

WILLIS MEHANNA

HE three most common species of the

blackbird in the midwest are the red—
wing, large or crow blackbird, and cow—
bird.

The redwing is very beautiful and has
interesting habits. It frequents ponds and
streams and nests in the tall weeds at the
water’s edge. It lives on the insect life
that abounds in such places and it is desir-
able as well as useful and beautiful. Be-
cause of its courageous disposition and
great activity it very readily takes care of
itself. Redwings seldom travel in flocks.

The cowbird is the black sheep of the
family. However, it does some good for
often quite a number of these birds can be
seen keeping company with a
grazing horse or cow in the pas-
ture. They are after the bugs and
insects the big animal scares up
as it feeds along in the pasture.
But the cowbird is said to lay its
eggs in the nests of other birds to
be reared by foster parents. So
it seems that while some crea-
tures of the lower creation have
almost human intelligence some
have human frailties.

The large, purple or Crow
blackbird is more numerous, more
interesting and more useful than
the others. It has unjustly been
accused of scratching up newly
planted corn, but I have been ob-
serving it for fifty years and
have never seen it do such a
thing.

The big blackbird nests high up
in trees near a stream or pond.
In the spring these birds come
in flocks from the South and go
back the same way late in the
fall. They often travel in flocks
of several hundreds and the up-
and-down motion of individual
birds suggests the rhythm of a
cotillion. They are recognized in
song and literature.

Feb. 1936

Nixon Waterman Says:

OME years ago a friend of mine was

made the recipient of visits, in her
home, from a sociable red squirrel who
dwelt in the woods not too far away. She
found he was very fond of filberts which
she provided in plenty for him. But not-
withstanding his growing familiarity with
the surroundings, he never seemed to feel
disposed to devour the filberts in the room
where he found them. It may be he was
timid about displaying his table manners
before other members of his family. So
with a, considerable loss of time and more
than a little trouble he conveyed the fil-
berts, one by one, to his nest at some dis-
tance.

Did he finally grow tired of making these
journeys forth and back? Somebody has
said, “Necessity is the mother of invention.”
Some one else has sought to improve upon
the original by saying, “Laziness is the
mother of invention.” And doubtless it is
true that the tiresome iteration of doing
some prosaic task over and over has stirred
the weary worker to thinking up some me-
chanical gadget that would do the work for
him or at least make it easier. Be that as
it may, reason or instinct, or whatever the
disciples of the Messrs. Trowbridge or Bur—
roughs may choose to call it, the squirrel,
seemingly tired of carrying the filberts, one
by one, to his own store—house, set about
trying to devise a way to lessen his tasks.

One day he was observed trying to get
two of the filberts, which were of various
sizes, into his jaws at once. Had he rea-
soned or “instincted” that by doubling his
load he would get on twice as fast? It
had previously been observed that the squir—
rel had always shown a disposition to choose
the largest of the nuts to carry away.

The thought, if we can so call it, seemed
to dominate his movements when he was
first discovered trying to get two of the
nuts into his jaws at one time. If the crea—
ture had possessed a deep fund of reasoning
power he would have known that with one
large nut in his jaws it would be very dif—
ficult for him to encompass another large
nut, and next to impossible for him to se-
cure another smaller nut with his necessa—
rily already wide open jaws.

There was only one way in which to a-
chieve his purpose; that was to lay hold of
a small nut first, store it well back in his
mouth and then with a large nut firmly
held in the front of his jaws, make off with
his double load. That was precisely what
the squirrel taught himself to do. There-
after there was no more wasting time scur-
rying with half a load. He had learned
the clever trick of how to carry two fil—
berts at a time.

I have never known another instance of
squirrel intelligence just like the foregoing,
though such incidents may be familiar to
others. In this connection I may add that
while I have fed very many chickadees at
my bird restaurant, I have never observed
but one of the many who preferred to carry
their food away to devour it, clever enough
tocarry two sunflower seeds at a time.

Attention is called to the humane ﬁlms,
“In Behalf of Animals” and "‘The Bell of

Atri ” described on the inside cover page.

 




 

Mar. 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 41

Sixty-eighth Annual Report of the President

For the Year Ending December 31, 1935

I

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention

GAIN we must be permitted to say

that an annual report of our two
Societies is little more than a summary of
what our members and readers have been
told month after month during the year in
Our Dumb Animals.

New Occasions Teach New Duties

When the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. was
founded by Mr. Angell sixty-eight years
ago, it naturally faced the task of securing
the necessary legislation which would em—
power it to prosecute those guilty of cruel—
ty to animals. So prevalent then were acts
of cruelty from which all domestic animals
so commonly suffered, and so general the
refusal to recognize that animals had any
rights that should be respected, that no
small part of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A.’s activities were spent in dealing with
violators of anti—cruelty laws which the So-
ciety in its early days was able to secure—
laws which became the models of the legisla-
tion now written into the statute books of
nearly all the states of the Union. It is true,
however, that, from the ﬁrst, Mr. Angell
saw the need of what is now so widely known
as Humane Education. Through innumer-
able lectures and through the printed page,
Mr. Angell sought to awaken and foster in
the hearts of all the principles of justice
and compassion toward all living creatures.

Twenty-one years later Mr. Angell found—
ed the American Humane Education Soc—
iety, the ﬁrst of its kind in the history of
the humane movement. Steadily, year by
year ever since that day, this educational
work has been carried on with increasing
vigor, chiefly by the organizing of Bands
of Mercy in the schools of Massachusetts
and of the other states of the Union,
through the literature that has gone out to
these Bands, and through theipages of Our
Dumb Animals sent into many thousands
of the homes of this country and to humane
societies across the sea. Particularly has
the effort been to reach the children. Who
shall measure the influence upon the char-
acter of the citizenship of today with re-
gard to animal rights of the 214,165 Bands
of Mercy organized and the five million pu—
pils in the schools of the land gathered into
these small humane groups?

A Witness to This Inﬂuence

Everywhere, not only here in America,
but throughout every other country where
this Humane Education has been given a
chance to do its work, prosecutions for vio—
lation of humane laws have dropped with
increasing rapidity. True it is that years
ago the majority of instances where offend—
ers were brought into court grew out of
the ill-treatment of the horse. His dis-
placement to so large an extent by the mo-

tor vehicle will account for much of the re-
duction in the number of court cases, but
only in part. To the credit of Humane Ed-
ucation must be placed a large measure of
what has brought about the change. Twen-
ty—six years ago our Society made 340 pro-
secutions with 306 convictions, last year
there were only 48 prosecutions and 37 con—
victions.

The New Work of 1935

Three fine extensions of the Society’s ser—
vice were made during the past twelve
months. First, in Berkshire County, at
Pittsfield, we have long had a representa—
tive, an efficient officer with police power
to see to the enforcement of anti-cruelty
laws, to answer all complaints and investi-
gate them, to gather up lost, unwanted or
diseased animals, putting to sleep those for
whom no homes could be found and dispos—
ing of their bodies. Much work of this
kind, so far as the small homeless, unwant-
ed and sick animals were concerned, had
been done also by the Berkshire Animal
Rescue League. This meant a duplication
of service in the same field. But early last
spring a most satisfactory arrangement
was made whereby the two organizations
have since been co—operating, the Berkshire
County League furnishing the quarters for
the temporary care of the small animals
gathered up, feeding them and providing

 

of Cruelty to Animals

a place for the burial of such as had to be
put to sleep, and our officer, with head—
quarters at Pittsfield, answering, in addi-
tion to his regular work of investigating
complaints, all such calls and taking the
animals to the League’s home in Dalton.
This has been working out most advantage—
ously both to the Berkshire League and the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and has saved
no little expense to both organizations.

Second, At Hyannis, on Cape Cod, where
we also have had an active and enthusias—
tic officer doing similar work, we rented
early in the year an attractive place for the
agent’s headquarters with the understand—
ing that the landlord should build a shelter
where small animals, such as are Spoken of
in the above paragraph, could be cared for.
The opening of this new center of our work
on the Cape occurred in June. A large
gathering of interested people were present,
and the Society now has there a place of
which it can justly be proud and which has
proved itself more than worth the venture.

Third, The same thing has been done at
Attleboro, in Bristol County. A fine old
home, excellently well situated, has been
leased for five years, and there also the
landlord has built a commodious shelter,
which was opened November 14. Many cit—
izens of the city and the surrounding coun-
try visited the new Attleboro branch, after-
noon tea was served, a brief address was
made by the President of the Society, and
the work there is rapidly widening and
proving a wise and gratifying undertaking.
The new officer, Mr. Charles E. Brown,
succeeding the late Mr. Dunham, our repre—
sentative for Bristol County, is making a
praiseworthy record for himself.

The report of the work of the Springfield
Hospital, which has had the best year in its
history, will appear with that of the Hos—
pital at our headquarters here in Boston in
another column. Nearly $8,000 have been
spent in adding to its equipment and in en—
larging its facilities. A new agent, Mr. F.
F. Hall, was appointed early in the summer
for Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
Counties, with his office in Springfield at
the Hospital, to replace the former occupant
of the position.

New Equipment

Three new small animal ambulances were
added to the Society’s group of ambulances
and cars during 1985; one a generous gift
from two deeply interested friends, in use
here in greater Boston, the other two were
purchased to replace two worn out, one for
Springfield and one for Hyannis. For the
field men five new cars also were bought,
so that we began 1936 with six ambulances,
three of which were new, and ten field

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Mar. 1936

Winter Haven
ALAN DEVOE

LL night the snow has been falling,
and it is falling still. A gale blows
now from the north, and roars and whistles
in the valley. Looking from our farmhouse
window as I write this, I can see the snow-
laden tamaracks bend before the wind; the
snow drifts deep against the old stone wall
and clings to the rough bark of the apple
trees.

But on this bitter day there is one place
where there is shelter from the wind, and
in the bleakness of this scene there is one
spot where there is gaiety and color. It is
simply a small roofed-over tray, nailed to
the cherry tree outside our door. It con—
tains no very elaborate provisions—a lump
of suet, a crumbled crust of bread, a hand—
ful of cracked corn—but these simple things
have brought there a whole small army of
famished and storm—buffeted refugees.

The chickadees came ﬁrst today, as they
always do. Since daybreak they have chat—
tered and frolicked in the cherry tree, hud-

dling in the feed-tray when the wind be— ..

came too violent, hammering at the frozen
suet with their stout little adze-like beaks,
squabbling excitedly over corn—kernels.
Chickadees, I think, are very nearly the
cheeriest birds I know, and certainly the
friendliest. This morning when I went out
with a fresh supply of crumbs for them,
they displayed no alarm at my coming. One
would require no very fanciful mind, in—
deed, to believe that they made a conscien—
tious effort to show appreciation. Certainly
they shouted their “Chickadee-dee-dee!”
more boisterously than ever, and, when I
held forth a handful of food before putting

it in the tray, two of them lighted on my
ﬁngers.

Sometimes, in a world that has its share
of violence and of mistrust, even a very
small adventure in friendship can be extra-
ordinarily warming to a man’s heart. Even
so small an adventure, for example, as the
trustfulness and gratitude of a hungry little
black—capped bird on a bitter winter’s day.

Jays too have come to the feeding-tray
today, and two lean starlings and a fat
gray squirrel. The squirrel is fat, we have
discovered, because of stealthy Visits made
to the tray at night; in the mornings al—
ways the tray is bare, and day by day the
squirrel grows paunchier. We caught him
at his work by moonlight, not many nights
ago. It was bitterly cold and very still.
The moonlight gleamed on the frozen sur—
face of our little brook, and on the bare
branches of our ancient willows; and in the
feed-tray this sleek and solemn squirrel, his
bushy tail silvered by moonlight, munched

frozen corn—kernels and blinked up at the
stars.

I suppose that some might call it lonely
here in winter. The vehicles that pass along
the lane are not many, and a whiteness and
a silence lie on all the countryside. But
always and in whatever weather the cov-
ered tray in the cherry tree is thronged
from daybreak until night. We never think
the winters lonely.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

King of the Night Birds

W. J.

BANKS

HAT “Wise Old Man” of the lofty

trees, the great horned owl, indeed
rates kingship among the feathered ﬁyers
of the American night. By day the eagle
may rule the skyways, but when the sun
sets the biggest of the common owls reigns
supreme. This eagle of the shadows, dis-
tinguished by his size, prominent horn—
like tufts and white-fronted collar, regards
all climates as one. He ranges from Hud-
son Bay to Florida, and westward beyond
the mountains.

Man has made the owl a symbol of wis-
dom, one who sees all, and hears all, but
says little. Yet this wild huntsman of the
night knows how to use his voice to good ef-
fect. His hooting cry is one of nature’s
weirdest sounds, and has established his
reputation of eerie power. Mocking laugh-
ter, despair, all the dark emotions are sug-
gested in his “waugh ho, waugh ho,” or his
“hoo, hoo, hoo.” The native tribes dreaded
his call as boding evil, and forbade its
mockery.

The great owl’s gloom-piercing eyes are
by no means blind in sunlight, as popular
fallacy once surmised. But by choice he
slumbers by day in the tops of the tall
trees, near his home; for he likes to nest
in woods of large growth. The female’s
eggs, white and nearly spherical, usually
two or three in number, are deposited in a
lofty nest, tucked in a fork or perhaps a
hollow in the wood. The bird’s plumage
varies, from mottled black to brown, buff
and tawny. Farther north the owls favor
whiter coats, to blend better with the snow.

To the smaller folk of birddom, the owl
is the Pluto of the wilderness—a swift mes-
senger of death. His fluffy plumage makes
no noise in ﬂight, and by night it is easy
for him to take victims unawares. Young
rabbits, squirrels, rats, mice, quails and
even larger game birds are unwilling con—
tributors to his diet. As a rule he does not
rob the chicken yard unless short of other
food, since he is wise enough to shun the
haunts of men. And if sometimes costly to
the small farmer, his slaughter of vermin
helps the grain grower.

Page 39

Carol

RUTH STIRLING BAUER

Oh it was magic music
That gave me joy today—
The whirring of the wings
Of birds upon their way,
The chanting of the crickets,
The voice of meadow rills,
A vested robin calling
Across the distant hills,
The chiming of the bluebells,
The humming of the bees,
The silver sound of raindrops
Upon the willow trees,
A distant sea—gull crying,
The lowing of the herds——
Oh it was magic music,
A carol without words!

The Robin’s Welcome

When James Whitcomb Riley once VIS-
ited Toronto he was called upon by many
local celebrities. But there was Just one
person he was anxious to meet, “The
Khan,” Canada’s fireside poet, for many
years a celebrated writer on the staff of
the Toronto Daily Star. But the modesty
of that quiet and retiring genius forbade

him supposing himself of interest to ce—

lebrities, so he did not call, and Mr. Riley
was disappointed. The “Khan” of course
was only a nom de plume, and its possessor
though a prominent contrlbutor to c1ty
periodicals, lived in a country. home near
the city of Guelph. An acquaintance who
visited him during his lifetlme told me
that the Khan had a robin nesting by the
door on the verandah of his very humble
home. But, as hatching progressed, every
time he went out of the door the. b1rd was
startled and ﬂew off the nest. Tl’llS worried
the Khan, so he ﬁnally hit upon a unique
way out of the difﬁculty. Thereafter he
climbed back and forth through the Window
which opened out of his front room at the
side of the house. And for days and days
he laboriously crawled in and out in awk—
ward fashion. It was the only way he could
avoid the front door. And to him it was
very essential that the little spring song—

ld b ndisturbed.
Ster Shou e u F. B. M. COLLIER

Progress in Washington

Miss Virginia W. Sargent was re—elected
president for a term of ﬁve years, and D.
L. Grantham, Esq, was elected treasurer
for the same period, at the annual meeting
of the Animal Protective Association in
Washington, D. C., held January 29. The
growing work of this live society is shown
by the number of animals rescued and col—
lected during the past three years: 1,143 in
1983; 1,537 in 1934; and 3,400 in 1935.
More than 1,000 of the animals reported
last year came from states outside of the
District of Columbia. Delegates to the an—
nual humane convention in Washington last
October were surprised, in visiting the mod-
ern ofﬁce building and newly—acquired shel—
ter of this Association, to see the extent of
the work for small animials which Miss Sar—
gent has inaugurated in our Capital city.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 15.4

    

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
~ EVERY LIVING
CREATURE. ,

  
    
   
   
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Oﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POL‘LARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER., Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation.
CHARLES G.; BANOROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers _of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California.
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
'WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1936
Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 63
Number of addresses made, 66

Number of persons in audiences, 11,226

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene-
fit of field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come

to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund. '

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1936

Humane Education in Its Relation to
Education for Parenthood

From a Radio Address by

Justice and Compassion. It implants

in consciousness the precepts of Love,
Charity, Tenderness, Sympathy, Unselfish—
ness, Honesty, Loyalty, Patriotism, Cour—
age, all attributes charged with grace for
distinguished living.

It is the child in whom Humane Educa—
tion is basically interested, and such teach-
ing is of Vital concern to parents because
it goes with them to the very roots of char-
acter growth and parents hold within their
hearts the mighty power that can guide in-
to maturity gracious men and women of
staunch integrity.

Allowing for all factors of heredity, en-
vironment and children’s own individuality,
parents’ inﬂuence is the first and greatest
force that moulds, shapes and sets the
trend of a child’s character.

Lookingzback. to our own conscious be—
ginnings, wholis first remembered? Prob—
ably mother, father, nurse, or some person
who stood in parental relation to us.

This may be a sweet, hallowed memory,
or, there may be scars on the soul—bitter
and hurting—according to the kind of par—
ent-care one had. And, though kindness
teaching is given through schools, organiza—
tions, and every available channel, in the
ultimate home inﬂuences are deepest be-
cause they are the first written upon child—
ren’s facile minds and unmarked hearts.

Yes, Humane Education is supremely im—
portant in its relation to parenthood —it
is character building.

Humanitarian teaching is not sentiment-
al theory nor Utopian dreams of emotional
people. On the contrary, it is a very prac-
tical utilitarian force in the serious conduct
of daily life. Humane Education has great
economic value. It conserves natural re—
sources, concerns itself with all projects for
betterment of living conditions, it teaches
reverence and help for all forms of life.

A concrete example of Humane Educa-
tional work is the constant battling for pro-
per care of food animals, not only for their
God—given right for the comfort of well
being, but also for decent sanitary condi-
tions and humane methods of slaughter.

Humaneness is civilization,
barbarism. The spirit of cruelty is the dead—
liest enemy of highly organized society. Hu-
mane Education is a challenge to all crim-
inal activities. It changes public sentiment,
it makes for shame to doers of darkness,

HUMANE Education means Universal

- and it glorifies righteous effort.

Humane Education is responsible for
many reforms and beneficent laws for the
protection of humankind, animals, plants,
ﬂowers and trees. When the powerful voice
of organized humanitarianism speaks, it can
carry to the furthermost outreaches of
civilization with compelling urge.

We need more education of hearts to bal-
ance education of heads. The world is now
in a chaos of despair because heads, with—
out the help of' hearts, rule. Overseas, the
strong are warring against the weak; sor-
d1d, materialistic might is slaying helpless
human beings. Godless, fearsome brain-con—

cruelty is .

MRS. JOHN RATHOM

ceived cruelty governs.

For it is not ignorant men,—the unlearn—
ed—who plan and plot savage barbarism;
no, this terror is the product of cold, cal-
culating intellect, brains brilliantly educat—
ed while neglected hearts have been drained
dry of every humane impulse.

There is so much unnecessary cruelty,
cruelty, too, that is not prompted by vi—
ciousness; often it is from lack of thought.
Children must be taught to think; to un-
derstand living creatures in terms of them-
selves. The child who knows that his play—
mates, his pets, and all animals feel pain,
discomfort, hunger, thirst, cold, and neglect
just as he suffers such distresses, will not
intentionally hurt another child or helpless
animal.

As in all education, parents have great
responsibility in this teaching and it cannot
be begun too early. The little child needs
to be shown the difference between a kitten
and a woolly toy and to learn that he must
not maul and squeeze the living pet.

In all life contacts we can find the cause
and corrective of ill—functioning by looking
patiently with the searching light of sym—
pathy, for underlying reasons, knowing that
there is only good at the base, glory at the
goal.

If one could always see deep into the
human soul, such clear vision would make
for understanding forgiveness, one would
then encourage and cheer on hard pressed
fellow beings who are painfully struggling
upward.

In some way or other every heart is bur—
dened with just about all the aches it can
carry, and only compassion helps ease the
weight. It is the sunlight that penetrates
to the very center of life, stimulating be—
nign growth.

There lies in the center of each man’s heart
A longing and love for the good and the
pure;
And if but an atom, or larger part,
I tell you this shall endure, endure,
After the body has gone to decay,
Yes, after the world has passed away.

Inhuman Trapper

Editorial in Boston Traveler

A collie owned by a Salem, N. H., woman
had been missing eight days. The owner
searched the countryside.

Finally a man found the dog, whining.
The animal’s hind paw was nearly severed
by the teeth of a trap. Search is being made
for the person who set the trap.

Undoubtedly the trapper had no desire
to catch a dog. Whatever he hoped to trap,
he was a low person for not going to his
trap daily. Any animal caught in it would
have suffered needlessly during eight days,
and there is no knowing how much longer
the trap might have gone unvisited had not
the rescuer heard the dog’s whimper.

Eight long days and nights this poor
animal was in torture. Meanwhile the cause
of it roamed about among human beings.

 




 

Dec. 1936

Woodland Paths

MINA M.TITUS

I stroll through woodland paths’ warm haze
When Autumn tints the leaves;

And think of dying wings that droop
And feathered breast that grieves.

I go down woodland paths that lure
With frost and ﬁrst snowfall;

And see the track of staggering deer
And hear the sportsmen (I) call.

I mush through woodland paths like down
When trees are bent with snow;

And shudder at a rabbit’s cries
Where clotted bloodstains show.

I travel woodland paths of ice
When sleet storms deck the trees;

And pray for struggling, wounded things
That thirst and moan. and freeze.

I face the woodland paths’ bleak stretch
When northeast blizzards blow;

And long to free all pain—wracked things
From traps in drifting snow.

I seek out woodland paths’ calm peace
When pink sky glows at dawn;

And ﬁnd there lonely, little tracks
Of hungry, searching fawn.

I follow woodland paths so hushed
When twilight dims the sky;

And pity orphaned, baby things
That cry and cry and die.

There are woodland paths through the world
That wind and wind and wind;

0 trappers, spare these tragedies.
O hunters, please be kind!

Vanishing Wild Life

H. F. ABBOTT

OU.NTAIN lions are gradually disap—

pearing from the haunts of wild life
in Los Angeles County, California, reports
Spence D. Turner, chief county forester and
fish and game warden. Last year a bounty
was paid by the county on only one male
lion pelt.

On the other hand coyotes have so in—
creased as to become a menace to cattle and
deer, and the game warden suggests that a
bounty be paid for their pelts. “During the
year many deer were found in a condition
indicating that they were killed by coyotes,”
the report says.

Another vanishing animal is the antelope,
only four having been seen in the county
during the year. Coyotes are blamed for
the diminishing number.

There were 799 deer killed legally by hun—
ters during the season. Of this number
there were 533 two—point bucks, 194 three-
pointers and 72 with four points or more.

Chief Turner’s report adds that a sur-
vey was made by his department to deter—
mine the number of condors, birds which
have become almost extinct in this country.
Fifteen of them were seen in the vicinity
of the Antelope Valley and the Liebre
Mountains between May 19, 1935, and June
13, 1936.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 183

Feeding the Deer in Winter

HENRY H. GRAHAM

EW sights in the world seem more

tragic to lovers of wild life than that

of animals groWing thin in the dead of
winter from lack of proper food. It tears
at the heart of. everybody who loves the
great out—of—doors.

During the warm summer months deer,
elk and other four-footed denizens of the
great open spaces browse on the luxuriant
grasses of the higher slopes of the moun—
tains. Around icy springs vegetation fur—
nishes food in abundance for these animals
and they live lives of ease and happiness.
But when the deep snows come it is a dif-
ferent story. So heavy is the blanket of
snow that even bushes are cove-red and food
becomes a serious problem. Deer and elk
do not mind frigid blasts of near timberline,
but they must eat regularly just like human
beings. And often the food shortage be—
comes so acute that they cast caution to
the winds and light out for the more tem-
perate valleys, even going so far as to loot
haystacks located close to dwellings. In sev—
eral Idaho towns deer have been seen in the
streets during the severest winter weather.
They were driven out of their natural habi—
tat by hunger.

Because of winter’s menace to wild life
the government in recent years has adopted
the policy of feeding the creatures. Trucks
carrying hay are driven as far as the snow
will permit, and in the more isolated sections
airplanes are employed to drop the forage.
Thousands of deer have been saved from
starvation in this manner.

Great herds of deer or elk do not indicate
growing numbers. On the contrary they

indicate a shortage for only when hunger—
pressed do the animals congregate.

The

 

YOUNG ELK IN RIDING MOUNTAIN NATIONAL

PARK, MANITOBA

same applies to timber wolves. As long as
food is plentiful these lobos seldom if ever
menace human beings. But self—preserva—
tion is the ﬁrst law of life and they become
ugly when starving. This is only natural.

One December day a rancher of my
acquaintance stumbled upon a young deer
that was so weak it could not walk. He
fed the animal and treated it so kindly in
other respects that it stayed around his
cabin all winter, disappearing only with the
approach of the mating season. That sea—
son he fed many other deer out of his pri—
vate supply; ﬁnally the situation became so
desperate he could not handle it. The gov-
ernment was notiﬁed and prompt relief
afforded in the form of truck loads of hay.

Mountain sheep and goats do not feel the
ravages of storms and deep snow to the
same degree that deer and elk do because
they are hardier and because they live in the
region around the timberline where the
country is more open. They seldom visit
the lower reaches of the hills, preferring
the blizzard—swept high elevations, winter
and summer.

Not only are the intense cold, heavy snow
and terriﬁc storms of winter hard on wild
life but in the animals’ and birds’ weak—
ened condition they become easy prey for
roaming coyotes, mink, wolverines and other
furry marauders. Unable to ﬁght well at
their best they furnish scarcely any opposi-
tion whatever when their strength is de—
pleted. In fact, some of them perhaps long
for death as an end to their suffering.

Drought plays havoc with wild life in an
indirect way. During good weather the ani-
mals, of course, think nothing of traveling
miles to water holes, and vegetation lasts
pretty well through the hot
months. But when the first
frosts of autumn turn the
aspens into gaudy reds and
browns, plant life withers un—
less the summer’s moisture has
been heavy. Even before the
snow grows deep there is not
enough plant life to meet the
needs of deer, elk, moose and
other lovely creatures. The
grazing of domestic sheep over
forest areas reduces plant life,
too, leaving an inadequate sup-
ply for the native inhabitants.

All in all, wild life has a
stern struggle for existence
but, thanks to game and
sportsmen’s associations, it is
finding upland winters easier
each year. It is regretable,
however, that every deserving
four-footed creature cannot
have proper food and protec—
tion when the cold winds blow.

Teacher: “Make a sentence
using the words ‘defeat,’ ‘de—
fense and ‘detail.’ ”

Smart Boy: “De feat of de
cat went over de fence before
de tail.”—Muskogee (Okla)
Daily Phoenix

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page I 80

Bitter Winter

ELLA C. FORBES

Bitter Winter comes again,

When little creatures suffer pain;
When on the white and fleecy ground
Such tragic happenings are found

Which swell the profits that accrue
When man has sold the furs to you.

He does not see the beauty slain,

His eyes are only on the gain

That comes to him through trap and bait
While he need only sit and wait.

The woods are full of things so sad

At Christmastide, when we are glad.

Out in the snow the hidden trap,
And then the sudden, vicious snap
That closes down and brings to be
Hours of brutal agony;

Hours of frenzied, futile fight
Against the teeth that grip too tight.

Not one but many die this way

That we may have our furs today.
Out in the wonderland of white,

In agony by day or night,

In ebbing strength, in sobbing breath
God’s little: creatures done to death.

The Jack London Club

HE Jack London Club is a humane so-

ciety with no ofﬁcers and no dues. It was
started in the offices of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
primarily, because of Jack London’s dis—
closure-s of the cruelties behind the trick an-
imal performances in our theaters and other
places. It has grown rapidly in numbers
and influence. More than 676,000 persons
have become members of it. They consti-
tute a force which the animal training
clique now regard with apprehension. Walk—
ing out from animal performances or re—
fraining from patronizing such shows has
meant a great reduction of cruelty to ani-
mals.

To join this Club all you have to do is to
agree to do the one thing that London says
will finally banish these
performances f r o m t h e
stage, viz., get up and go
out of the theater during
that part of the program.
Will you do it?

Salinas Rodeo

The prolonged revelry
Saturday climaxin-g the Cal—
ifornia Rodeo Week at Sa—
linas was termed a “dis—
graceful orgy” and a “men-
ace to lives” by Mayor E. J.
Leach in ordering an inves-
tigation. Calling for more
order and less orgy at next
year’s rodeo, the mayor de-
clared, “We can’t continue
to turn thousands of per-
sons loose on the streets to
throw bottles, break win-
dows and menace lives.”
The mayor instructed the
city manager to conduct an
investigation to prevent a
repetition next year.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Remarkable Cus-Cus

EWEN K. PATTERSON

USTRALIA and New Guinea are

noted for opossums; scores of species
of these interesting furred animals are
found throughout the whole of the Austral-
ian continent and on the neighboring island
of .New Guinea. The rarest of these opos—
sums is also one of the rarest animals in the
world; this is a remarkable creature called
the cus-cus.

Found only in the dense jungle country in
the unsettled north of Australia and in New
Guinea, the cus—cus is one of the least known
animals in the world today; this is because
the animal is rarely seen and is almost im—
possible to capture. The cus—cus is nocturnal
in its habits; it is never seen during the
daylight hours, which it spends sleeping;
curled up and well hidden among the thick—
est branches of the tallest trees. As soon
as darkness falls it leaves its sleeping place
and commences to feed. Its food consists
chieﬂy of berries, ﬂowers, and young leaves
of many kinds of shrubs and trees, but the
animal is carnivorous as well as vegetarian,
and is provided with long, sharp teeth,
which serve as weapons of defense as well
as for securing prey, such as small bush
rats, lizards, etc.

The cus—cus is frequently described as a
“monkey-opossum,” but there is nothing
very monkey-like either in its appearance or
habits. Its head and body measure about
twenty—six inches in length, while it has a
tail about nineteen inches long. Its body
is thickset, and is cove-red with a remarkably
thick fur; in fact, its fur is probably thicker
than that of any other animal in the world.
This is rather astonishing, because the cus-
cus lives only in localities of ﬁerce tropical
heat, where fur is not needed for keeping
out the cold. The general color of the fur
is either a mottled black, gray, or white,
but the under-surface of the body is always
white or yellowish—white. The animal has a
round head and unusually large round

eyes of a bright orange-yellow color. The
most beautiful cus—cus is the pure white-

 

WHITE CUS-CUS OF NEW GUINEA

 

Dec. 1936

animal, such as that shown in the accom—
panying photograph. A white cus-cus pre—
sents a very striking picture when seen
against the dark-green foliage of the jungle.

A feature of the cus—cus is that it has no
fur on its face or on the tip of its tail.

The animal is very sluggish in its move—
ments and is a poor climber despite the fact
that it has a prehensile tail and strong
curved claws. Although harmless, the ani—
mal becomes very vicious when disturbed
and can inﬂict nasty wounds with its teeth
and claws. Many jungle natives have been
severely wounded when attempting to cap-
ture a cus-cus alive.

Ordinarily, however, this rare and strik—
ing animal is of a lovable disposition, and
there have been cases in which a cus—cus
has chummed up with white men working
in the jungle.

Washington’s Favorite
Horse
BLANCHE BUTLER

EORGE WASHINGTON was a great

lover of horses and had many of them,
but, while all the animals that the great
general rode during the war of Indepen—
dence were superb, none was as beloved as
“Nelson.” One naturally associates the Fa—
ther of his Country with a white horse, be—
cause in his best—known equestrian portrait
he stands beside one, and also because dur-
ing his years as General and President he
rode several white thoroughbreds.

Nelson was a light sorrel with a white
face and legs, and stood sixteen hands high.
His nerves were calm and steady and Wash—
ington knew that he could be depended on in
battle, where he remained unmoved and
tranquil during heavy firing.

On May 3, 1775, Washington, who was
then a Colonel, set forth on Nelson to at-
tend the second Continental Congress at
Philadelphia, to which he was a delegate.
At that time he little realized the impor-
tance of this journey which was to lead him
through years of cruel warfare into the
presidential chair of a new nation.

In the battle of Monmouth, which took
place June 28, 1778, the figure of Washing-
ton mounted upon his favorite, Nelson, has
often been described. During this battle
Washington continually exposed himself
to every danger, but both he and his horse
seemed to lead a charmed life, and came
through every encounter safely.

Nelson was named for Thomas Nelson,
Governor of Virginia, a signer of the Dec-
laration of Independence, who was a much—
loved friend of Washington. The Presi-
dent’s last days were spent mostly in the
saddle. While riding about his plantation
on a bleak, cold day, when snow and rain
were falling alternately, he took a severe
cold from which he failed to recover.

As in the case of other great soldiers,
Washington’s horse played an important
part in his funeral procession. Caparisoned
with saddle, holsters, and pistols, he pre—
ceded his master’s body to the family tomb,
while all the nation mourned.

In making your will , please remember the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 40

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

 

MARCH, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are 80110—
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Tulsa’s Christmas Party

HE S. P. C. A. of Tulsa, Oklahoma, is

making a brave struggle to awaken
enough public interest to enable it to do the
work so greatly needed in and about the
city. Its Christmas Party was a striking
illustration of what other such societies can
do in this direction. The plan of the “Party”
was that the S. P. C. A. should act as an
adoption agency for dogs in the pound; then
if all the dogs were not adopted by Christ-
mas Day give all those remaini'g in the
pound a royal Christmas dinner. Good
homes were found for ﬁfty-two dogs. Those
left in the pound were given a generous
supply of food. The publicity given the
affair called the attention of many readers
to the Society and won it much needed
friends.

An Answered Prayer

A friend writes us telling in the words
of another the story of an answered prayer
that had to do with animals. Here it is:

A little girl’s brother set a
trap to catch birds. The little
girl knew that it was wrong,
cruel, against the law of kind-
ness, and altogether inexcus—
able. She wept at first. Then
her mother noticed that she
became cheerful again, and
asked her the cause. “I pray-
ed for my brother to be a bet—
ter boy.” “\Vhat else?” inquir-
ed the mother. “I prayed that
the trap would not catch any
little birds.” “What else?”
“Then I went out and kicked
the old trap all to pieces.”

More friends are needed to
endow stalls and new kennels
in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty—
ﬁve dollars for a kennel or sev—
enty—ﬁve dollars for a stall will
ensure a suitable marker in-
scribed with the donor’s name.
Terms of permanent endow-
ment of free stalls and kennels
will be given upon application
to the Massachusetts 5. P. C.
A., Boston, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Children and Guns

HE Illinois Congress of Parents and
Teachers has distributed two pledges,
one to the pupils in the schools and one to
the parents of the children. The one to the
children reads as follows:
Dear Pupils of ............................ School:

Do you know that in a certain institution
for the blind there are 800 children who
must go through life sightless, because their
eyes were put out by play guns? Do you
think it safe or wise to play with a toy that
might make you responsible for somebody’s
going through life sightless? Such things
happen so easily and quickly when the weap—
on is in your hand. Toy guns in your
hands are like thoughts pulling you the
wrong way and you cannot tell how far
they may pull you and how many creatures’
or persons’ happiness they may take away
forever. Thousands of boys and girls are
promising not to play with guns and other
toy weapons. Won’t you help by signing
below?

The response has been surprising. Nine
thousand pledges were received in a short
time.

We reproduce again the words of Angelo

Patri whose good common sense and wisdom
few will question.
“It is not funny to see a little boy of four
stride up to a stranger walking along the
sidewalk, snap a toy pistol in his face and
say: ‘Hands up!’ Every experience leaves
its mark on the mind of the child and this
one is no exception. Surely we do not want
our little boys to learn the technique of the
hold—up. Bows and arrows, swords and
whips, sling shots and pistols, as toys for
children are out.”

The President of the Iowa Division, Isaak
Walton League of America, himself a duck
hunter of thirty years, says in Nature
Magazine, “If our wild ducks are not given
a closed season for at least two years, the
sport of duck hunting will be a thing of the
past by 1940, as Dr. Hornaday predicts.”

 

ON THE ROAD TO RECOVERY AT THE ANGELL
ANIMAL HOSPITAL

Mar. 1936

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868
See page 45 for complete list of ofﬁcers

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES
See page 43 for complete list of prosecuting officers.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 15,194

Cases investigated ............... 454
Animals examined ............... 8,904
Animals placed in homes .......... 138
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 49
Number of prosecutions ........... 1
Number of convictions ........... 1
Horses taken from work .......... 7
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 36

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,282
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 44,775
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 13

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Adelaide Carman
Talmadge of Hartford, Connecticut; Ed—
ward Glines of Somerville; and Lillian E.
Eddy of Boston.

February 11, 1986.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 746 Cases 2,275
Dogs 549 Dogs 1,864
Cats 191 Cats 855
Horses 4 Birds 40
Bird 1 Rabbits 7
Monkey 1 Monkeys 8
Guinea Pigs 2

Goat . 1

Fox 1

Calf 1

Mouse 1

Operations 980
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 186,049
Dispensary Cases .................. 827,091
Total .................... 468,140

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 125
Cases entered in Dlspensary .......... 409
Operations .......................... 206

Women’s Penn. S. P. C. A.

At the annual meeting of the Women’s
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, held January 80, the
following officers were elected for the en-
suing year: president, Mrs. T. Harry West;
vice—president, Mrs. Charles W. Wharton;
secretary, Mrs. W. Wyclif Walton; treas-
urer, Mrs. Harold P. Faris.

Mrs. Harris Eustis of The Seeing Eye,
Morristown, N. J ., gave a very interesting
talk on the work being done at the school,
also showed some very wonderful pictures of
the dogs and how they are trained for the
guidance of the blind through the city
streets.

 




i
r

 

 

 

 

 

A TRIBUTE TO YOUR DOG

OR those interested in pre-

serving the memory of their
living dogs . . . or of those faith-
ful friends who have already
passed on . . . what finer trib-
ute could we offer than to have
them portrayed for future years
in a colorful lifelike handpaint-
ing?

HE undersigned . . . . . a

student of animal life and
painter of dog portraits .
brings this opportunity within
easy reach of all animal lovers.
. . . . For full information write,

GEORGE BROWER Contoocook,
Maple Hill Kennels .New Hampshire

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEMA

4:
(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms.
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE FUR

' 1
h tactical remova
2?;03515 in Dogs of all
breeds and ages . ADDRESS DESK N-58.F

Animal Industry Dept,
PARKE, DAVIS 8: CO., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell 'Parke - Davis Products

 
  
  
 
    
   
    
    

  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Daily Care

of your Hands \
It war do much to 5.;
keep them soft and smoothg

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Mnbcrtakcrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpai-d.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/gx3% ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, ...... $1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play .............. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... _ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ................ 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ....... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 pe 100
What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6. Animals ....... .50 “ “
Leaflets, No. 7, Farm Animals ...... .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 per 10)
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 " ”

Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. . . Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care. and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

.tllus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
An .Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gllbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ...... , each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 9-6 cts.
Address to Boston Public School-s ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts.each;six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1936 .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ ‘
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness o-r Cruelty .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ -50 “ ‘
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Humane Sunday, 1936 ................ 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

‘6 (6

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words '

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

“ (I

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30
No order by mail for less than 5'cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

With incomplete returns in, we estimate that during March and April
not less than FIFTY different showings were given in schools, churches,
clubs, etc., throughout the country, of our two ﬁlms

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s famous poem of that name

IN BEHALFMOF ANIMALS

Showing the work of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, Boston,
and that of the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses at Methuen.

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms of rental or sale on application to Secretary, Massachusetts 8. P.C.A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 706

 
 
  
   
  
  

 
 
  

  
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY T0
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

. ‘Y
a
m
3'1

   
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Oﬂicers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANGROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksl-ey ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1936
Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 762
Number of addresses made, 340
Number of persons in audiences, 61,878

Safe Annuity Bonds

T HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-
eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age .................................
Address ................................

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

J uly, 1936

Prizes Awarded in Children’s Play Contest

$25, $15 and $10, Cash, Respectively, Given for Best
lVIanuscr-ipts—More than 100 Received

More than 100 manuscripts were received
in the contest for best plays for children on
the subject of kindness to animals, conduct—
ed by the American Humane Education So—
ciety, Boston, in Connection with the 1936
Be Kind to Animals Week. They came
from thirty-three states, four provinces of
Canada and the British West Indies. It was
not an easy matter to pass judgment upon
the merits of the various manuscripts. Fi-

 

Citizen or Ward?

N the last day of the 73rd Congress in

1934 there was rushed through the
so—called Wheeler—Howard-Collier Act, af-
fecting the lives and property of the Ameri-
can Indian. It provides for (1) tribal
elections to approve the law and (2) tribal
elections to accept a set of Indian Bureau
regulations for the tribe to hold its pro—
perty in common and to create a segregated
Indian community—the Indian’s personal
life and his property by consent to be sub-
ject to Indian Bureau control.

The creation of these segregated Indian
communities with controlling rule by the
Indian Bureau creates a government of
these Indians by centralized power.

A Mr. Shepard, a Bureau official, is
quoted as saying:

“The Government has given up trying to
make the red-man into a white—man and has
decided that his best future lies in being
allowed to be himself . . . and to allow him
to live his own life in his own way, at the
same time giving him modern sanitation
and other beneﬁcial features of white civil-
ization.”

This drastic law completely reverses the
established purpose of our Government for
the past ﬁfty years, namely: “To make
citizens of our Indians” and so emphatically
shown in our grant of citizenship to our
Indians in 1924.

And now instead of what was ﬁfteen and
ﬁnally twenty-ﬁve million dollars per year
to support this Indian Bureau—our tax—
payers last year were levied upon for some
ﬁfty-ﬁve million dollars for this Bureau and
to establish these segregated Communistic
experiments they will probably be forced to
pay many millions more for years to come
unless we citizen taxpayers awake to this
question of our American Indian Affairs.

( Contributed)

“It’s all right to talk about hitching your
wagon to a star.”

“Well?”

“But the question now is—where can a
fellow park an automobile.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

nally, seventeen of them were submitted to
an expert who picked the winners, and the
prizes were awarded as follows: First, $25
cash, to Miss Eva Brinker, 5759 Dorchester
Avenue, Chicago, Ill., for the play entitled,
“Boots’ Day”; second, $15 cash, to Miss
Marjorie E. Cropp, Fenwick, Ontario, for
“Happy Pets Broadcasting”; and third, $10
cash, to Sadie S. Budman, 1720 Collingwood
Avenue, Detroit, Mich., for “Your Duty.”

 

The Women’s Auxiliary
—Springfield

HE President of our Societies attended

in May the annual meeting of the “’0-
men’s Auxiliary of Springfield. The meeting
was held at the Country Club in Long-
meadow. At the luncheon there were present
a group of 75 enthusiastic women whose in—
terest in our Animal Hospital at Springfield
and whose service in its behalf are worthy
of all praise. They have done much to make
the Hospital a success, they have helped to
equip it with the best and latest facilities
for carrying on its work. Its president,
Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, has been most effi-
cient as organizer and leader. After the
various reports for the year had been pre—
sented and plans for the new year discus-
sed, Dr. Rowley had the genuine pleasure of
addressing this exceedingly interesting au-
dience.

What One Woman Can Do

The little Turks Islands, B. W. I., are not
without their witness to a great cause. For
years Mrs. G. Edward Frith has stood prac-
tically alone as champion of the animals of
the Islands. Here’s how she has done it,
taken from a letter she wrote us:

Trusting that you have not forgotten me,
and our small humane effort in these tiny
Islands, I am writing to tell you that we
again tried to do our bit during Humane
Week.

Posters, announcements, and literature
were distributed amongst the Sunday and
day schools, stores, etc. As usual I deco-
rated our garage doors with pictures and
other printed matter, and as the doors face
on the street they became quite a center of
interest. The Methodist minister preached
a humane sermon on the Sunday morning,
and it was mentioned at the evening service.
Also mention was made during other church
services, and there were addresses in the
Sunday schools. We know that we are mak-
ing some impression on the children,——in
fact we are even hoping to start a Band of
Mercy, with 100 children as members. If
we do I will be sure to send you a “snap”
of the group. Even now I have an order
made out for some literature, but my funds
are low, as I get no ﬁnancial help, so it
will have to wait till next mail.

CONSTANCE FRITH

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 81;
Sheep

JUDY VAN DER VEER

It was a dark and cloudy day,
I rode up the canyon way;
Suddenly I heard a cry-—

I saw sheep against the sky.

In a line from east to west,

They moved along the canyon’s crest;
Bells were swinging at their throats,
Making sweet unearthly notes.

They were colored like the sky;
Had I never heard a cry,

Had there been no bell to ring,
I would see no other thing

But the gray cloud hanging low,
Sheep-like clouds that slowly go
Marching on the meadowed sky,
Like the flocks that wander by . . .

Pets of the Wilderness

CLARENCE L. VOSE

Y life in the British Columbia forest

has been enriched by my association
with wild animal pets. Their comical antics,
their friendship and their trust in me have
always repaid me for the patience and time
spent with them.

Among my pets, foremost in my memory
live “Fairy” and “Jimmy.”

Fairy was a fawn. My brother found her
hiding after some wanton hunters had shot
her mother. He brought her home in his
arms, a beautiful little spotted creature,
trembling with fear. We fed her on cow’s
milk, and she thrived like a weed.

From the beginning Fairy was tame—
and mischievous. Every morning she came

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

to the door and mewed like a kitten. When
she was let in, she would rush into my bed—
room, bound upon the bed and dance up
and down until my brother and I sat up
and petted her. Of course when she grew
larger, this had to stop.

It was amusing to watch Fairy play with
our other pets. We had a huge cat named
“Mowser” and two fox terrier dogs, “Snip”
and “Snap.” They would take turns at
chasing each other across the ﬁeld and back.
First the cat chased the deer and dogs;
then the deer chased the cat and dogs; then
each of the dogs took his turn. What a wild
time they had!

But it was more fun to watch MowSer
and Fairy frolicking together. The cat
would wrap his forelegs around Fairy’s
neck and the two would struggle back and
forth for minutes at a time, each enjoying
the play immensely. The bout usually
ended in the two lying down and sleeping
together.

Fairy’s lack of fear of men and dogs
proved to be her undoing. Each winter our
family had to leave the forest so that the
younger children could get a schooling.
When it came time for us to go, we did
not know what to do with Fairy. We could
not take her with us. We had always let
her run loose, so we decided she could prob—
ably care for herself. We tied a red ribbon
around her neck to protect her from hunters
and asked a neighbor to keep an eye on her.
He promised, but his dog did not under—
stand. That winter we received a letter
from the neighbor, saying that his dog had
injured Fairy so badly that he had to de-
stroy her. Fairy had met the dog, and
thinking it would not hurt her, had refused
to run.

Then there was “Jimmy,” the raccoon.
At this time I was cooking in a survey

June, 1936

camp, miles in the forest. For some time we
had been hearing ferocious growling and
squalling noises around the camp at night.
Some of the men thought it was bears ﬁght-
ing. But I thought it was the quarreling of
smaller animals. Then one day, as I stepped
out of the cook tent, I found a big fat
raccoon eating the pudding from off the
edge of a dish that I had put out to soak.
I called the other men, and for a long
time we stood laughing at his comical
antics. Remembering a certain bedtime
story character, we named him Jimmy.

From that day on Jimmy became tamer
and tamer. Although he never allowed me
to touch him, he began to follow me about
the camp all day long, investigating every
dish I set down, poking his nose and hands
into everything. He even followed me when
I strolled into the woods for a bit of fresh
air. At last he became bold enough to come
into the cook tent, where he proved himself
a nuisance. Many a night I awoke to ﬁnd
Jimmy noisily hunting mice under my bunk.

One day Jimmy brought guests with him.
He was accompanied by three other rac-
coons. This explained the rows we heard
at night. The other raccoons never did he—
come tame like Jimmy. Whenever they did
come close to any_of us, Jimmy resented it
and drove them away.

Like Fairy, Jimmy suffered from his as—
sociation with humans. That winter, after
the surveyors moved out, an old trapper-
told me that he caught three raccoons at the
camp site. One of them got into the trap
almost before the trapper could turn his
back. Of course I knew it was Jimmy!

These and other wild animal pets I have
had, and they have all left me with a great-
er love for nature, and with a greater ha-
tred for traps and guns.

How Can We Help the Donkey in Northern Africa?

.HE donkey shown at the left is carry-
ing cotton and is heavily overloaded.
.The donkey at the right has a more
pleasmg task, just giving two Moroccan
children a ride through the streets. But
from these two pictures we can see that the
life of a donkey in northern Africa is surely

 

Swift News rm;

not an easy one. Now in Morocco, at Fez,
exists the American Fondouk whose splen—
did activities are reported each month in
these columns. Here is an institution that
stands between the cruel driver or owner of
donkeys and the animals themselves, that
stands for just treatment, that serves as

  
     

w!

Swift News Photo

the good Samaritan by binding up the
wounds of the injured. If you are inter—
ested in helping these poor, overworked ani—
mals of Morocco, just write for information
or send your contribution to the office of
Our Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FUR

BOOKLET NO. 652
on the practical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

   
    
   

WORM CAPSULES

eﬂectz’vely remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy- -to- -give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk N- 58- E
mal Industry Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS & 60., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parhe- Davis Products

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

N IRRITATIONS

Quickly Relieved and
Healing Promotedbg

uticura

SOAP~OINTMENT

      
     

  

 

 

 

Best Humane F ilms!

In Behalf of Animals '~

Showing activities of the Angel]

Animal HOSpital of the Massachu- ‘
setts S. P. C. A. Two reels, 30 min—

utes.

The Bell of Atri

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem

State whether regular 35 mm., or
16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

mnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

Send for Price List

For a complete price list of all humane
literature and Band of Mercy supplies sold
by the American Humane Education So-
ciety, send your name and address to 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., and it
will be forwarded promptly.

An Epitaph

ALAN DEVOE

He did not have the time to hear
The silver of a veery’s song.

And now his life-wnsensing ear
Is deaf for long.

He did not mark the swallows’ flight,
Or bloodroots blossoming in May.
And now the miracle of sight
Is fled away.

He never knew a love expressed
Within the eyes of any beast.

Now the beating of his breast
Forever ceased.

The wild geese fly against the sun,
In tamarachs the veeries call.

And he is gone, his life is done;
Almost he never lived at all.

Bird Paradise

EMORY WARD

EN miles west of the coast of Mexico

rise ﬁve small islands making up the
Coronado group and which include the most
exclusive bird sanctuary in the world. In
this rugged bit of paradise rising sharply
from the sea, no mammals are tolerated,
and with the exception of a few scientific
parties, even man has not trespassed upon
this bird empire.
Because of their strategical position for
smuggling, the islands are protected by the
Mexican government and guarded by the

»United States, thereby making it difﬁcult

for visitors to examine the islands. Nat—
uralists who have explored the region have
estimated that the residents number more
than 100,000 winged dwellers.

One of the most remarkable features of
the bird paradise is the manner in which it
is automatically divided into zones or dis-
tricts, each inhabited exclusively by one
variety of bird. The only exceptions to this
“zoning” feature are the gulls who prey on
the other birds and live on any section of
the islands. Otherwise, the various breeds
stay consistently in their own restricted
zones.

Nature’s method of preserving her wild
life is evident in the cone-shaped eggs of
the island gulls. Laid on the rocky ridges
that characterize the group of islands, the
eggs frequently roll from their lodging, but
being of a conical contour they roll in cir-
cles and eventually come back to their
original position.

The several ﬂocks of California quail who
likewise inhabit the island paradise have
long puzzled the scientists. If the quail mi-
grated to the island from their home on the
Californian mainland, then they must have
ﬂown at least ten miles over the open sea.
If they were a part of the island when it
broke away from the mainland as the
geologists suggest, then the California birds
have resided on the island for more than
10,000 years. For that, according to the
geologists, is the time when the supposed
separation took place.

Byron and Animals

AMELIA WOFFORD

E took the dogs with him on a pleas-

ure trip to Harrogate. And the bear
went with him to Trinity College, Cam—
bridge. “A new friend; the finest in the
world, ” he said in a letter.

On his return from his ﬁrst travels
abroad, pictured in “Childe Harold,” he
brought back with him a Dutch mastiff, a
roebuck, three land tortoises from Greece,
a monkey, and a civet cat. With these for—
eign guests, he had some hedgehogs and a
goat. His secretary gave the goat away.
When his lordship learned of this unli-
censed liberty, he set immediately about re-
covering the animal.

On his second visit abroad, which follow—
ed his wife’s separation from him, his pal-
ace i'n Venice was alive and noisy with song—
birds, a hawk, a tamed crow, and a motley
collection of animals. The animals were
two bull—terriers, the “very ugly dog”
bought in Switzerland, several monkeys, a
caged wolf, two cats, and a fox.

Later, when Shelley visited Byron, he
saw on the grand staircase five peacocks,
three guinea fowls, an Egyptian crane,
“witnesses of the ‘unarbitrated’ quarrels
of the monkeys, the cats, the crow, and the
falcon.”

“My lord may be very odd, but he has
a good heart,” once said Fletcher, Lord
Byron’s English valet.

A good heart he had for his pets. He
was always heedful of their welfare. The
monkeys must be kept in their'warm quar-
ters when the weather was cold. He was
concerned about the lame leg of the crow;
“wonder how it happened—some fool must
have stepped on his toe, “he wrote in his
journal. He could forgive injuries to him-
self while remembering them, but always
he remembered a Colonel Carr’s breaking
a rib of one of his dogs, and never forgave
him.

Among Lord Byron’s few pleasant mem-
ories of the England he left “without re-
gret” was the roast goose of the Michaelmas
dinner. Though in a foreign land he must
have one on that day. Of the desired
plumpness the goose must be, and so with
his own hands he fed it. Fortunately for
the goose, he became very fond of it, and
he had another take its place on the din-
ner table. He took it with him on his
travels, in a basket hung under his carriage.
Feeling it should not be deprived of the
companionship of its kind, he carried with
it several geese. At Missolonghi, on his
fatal expedition to aid the Greeks in their
war against the Turks, he spent a stormy
night in the hold of the vessel, trying to
quiet the terrified horses. When Boatswain
was seized with the rabies, he cared for
him; wiping off the foam on his lips, re-
gardless of the danger or ignorant of it.

Of all animals, dogs had the strongest
claim on Lord Byron’s affection, they pos—
sessing “all the Virtues of Man without
his Vices” for so said the epitaph he had
carved on the monument he erected in New-
stead garden to Boatswain’s memory.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 88

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Stree't, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

JUNE, 1936

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

. EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
llcatlon this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

Imagine It!

HAT, however, is just what multitudes

cannot, or will not, or do not, do. In
this is to be found the explanation of no
small part of the suffering of the animal
world. Once the picture rises clearly be-
fore the inner eye, of the neglected horse,
the unfed dog, the abandoned cat, the starv—
ing nestlings ; once we put ourselves, by this
exercise of the imagination, in the animal’s
place, and the suffering hurts us and we
refuse to cause it or hasten to relieve it.
Could the lad whose “sling-shot” killed the
mother robin see the slowly dying children
for whose death he is responsible, and then
think of himself left alone in the world be-
cause some one mightier than he had killed
his mother or father—one vivid flash in his
soul that showed him, himself, so forsaken,
would probably prevent his ever destroying
another bird.

To some it comes natural, this quick, re-
sistless imagination that paints a scene in
an instant, makes another’s pain or misfor-
tune as real as the sun at noonday, and by
it stirs the emotions. Alas, that in so many
instances the emotion is followed by no re—
solve of the will to lessen the pain or save
others from it. Better the tear had not
fallen because our sympathies were aroused,
than that the sympathy should evaporate
in sentiment. When kindled emotions move
the enginery of the will then they are worth
something.

That this imaginative faculty can be cul-
tivated, we believe. If parents and teachers,
where they find it lacking, seek to awaken
and foster it they will be rendering a ser-
vice of inestimable value both to the child
and to all those fellow-creatures with
whom, in the future, it must have to do.

Fourteen Feet of Caterpillars

The Massachusetts State ornithologist
said once in our presence that each young
fledgling in a robin’s nest consumed every
day in bugs, worms and other food, the equi-
valent of fourteen feet of caterpillars. This
means, for a man, about the same thing as
eating sixty-seven feet of bologna sausage
every twenty-four hours. One sees by this
something of what it means to kill a robin.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS
To WEEI and WBZ

0 these two broadcasting stations, with

headquarters here in Boston, we owe a
debt of gratitude for the valuable time
granted our two Societies during Be Kind to
Animals Week. One afternoon WEEI wired
our offices and Hospital so that we could
broadcast directly from them. The announc—
er, Mr. Ray Girardin, after a very telling
introductory regarding our organizations,
carried on an interesting and spirited con—
versation with Dr. Rowley, the President,
by questions and answers concerning the
origin of Be Kind to Animals Week and the
progress of the humane cause, and then call-
ing Dr. Schneider, the assistant chief veter~
inarian, talked with him from one of the
operating rooms regarding the work of the
Hospital. To Mr. Girardin we extend warm-
est praise for the splendid way he ar-
ranged the whole broadcast.

Then WBZ cheerfully gave us time for an
evening broadcast during which Dr. Rowley
spoke, followed by the widely known natur—
alist and animal lover, Mr. Thornton Bur—
gess, of Springfield, Mass. To these two
prominent stations we extend our most
grateful thanks.

Duplicate Copies

Occasionally a letter comes to our office
saying, “I am receiving two copies of Our
Dumb Animals, please discontinue one.”
That such a mistake occurs is much to our
discredit. We have no money to throw away.
Our effort is to see that the strictest bus-
iness regulations prevail in our several of—
fices. Still with a mailing list of approx-
imately thirty—five thousand it is inevitable
that occasionally an error will be made.
Unceasing attention is given the thoroughly
classified card index of subscribers, yet evi—
dently infallibility has not been reached up
to the present. Meanwhile we shall appre-
ciate a postal calling our attention to any
case where a duplicate copy is being sent.

Help Us Save the Birds

We will send to any of our Massachu-
setts readers who will post them in their
neighborhood our bird cards offering re-
wards for evidence of the destruction of
any of our song or insectivorous birds.
They can be tacked up on trees or on the
sides of buildings when permission is ob—
tained, or put in store windows. Here’s a
chance for teachers and pupils to do a great
service.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the
American Humane Education Society ask
that particular attention be paid in our
schools this week to the great lessons of
kindness to our animals which come within
our reach. The doctrine that animals
should be treated kindly is part of real civ-
ilization. The purpose of “Be Kind to An-
imals Week” is noble. The week serves to
emphasize the great object of these humane
and anti-cruelty organizations. The week
will pass, but its lessons must endure
through every week of every year.

—Bost0n Daily Record

June, 1936
Scottish S. P. C. A.

T HERE may be more active Societies
than the Scottish S. P. C. A. of Edin—
burgh but we know of none that issues so
ﬁne and large a report, 224 pages of text,
with 16 additional pages of half—tone illus—
trations, and a colored cover! This is the
96th annual, and its perusal is like studying
a series of lessons in animal protection
and humane education. We congratulate
Mr. Lyndesay G. Langwill, secretary and
treasurer of the Society, not only on the
appearance of the report but 0n the vast
amount of work which it shows that his
organization accomplished last year.

There were 7,641 cases of cruelty through-
out Scotland reported and investigated. The
Society stresses humane education as is
shown by the excellent report of the lec-
turer, who reached many schools, and the
prize essay contest in which 26,000 essays
were written and 621 prizes awarded. Pic-
torial blotters, pencils and animal pins
are all effectively used, while cinema ﬁlms
about horses, cats, dogs and birds are shown
liberally. The Society maintains a horses’
rest farm and dog boarding kennels at
Mansﬁeld which prove a great attraction to
visitors. [The Society constantly seeks to
supplement the Performing Animals (Reg-
ulation) Act of 1925 and is sponsoring new

- legislation with eight other bills aimed to

give further protection to various animals.
In addition to many other phases of its
own work, the report covers the interna-
tional situation with brief references to out—
standing humane accomplishments in every
corner of the civilized world.

The grosser forms of abuse are now hap-
pily rare. But there are abuses which die
hard. Domestic animals are not always
properly housed and fed. Draft animals are
sometimes overworked. Pets are too often
abandoned. But where conscious cruelty was
once the pressing problem, today it is more
often thoughtlessness and neglect.

Today stress is laid, and properly so, on
the benefits that people, and especially chil-
dren, derive from having the lesson of kind-
ness to animals kept constantly before them.
All in all, it is a valuable work that the hu-
mane societies and the rescue leagues are
performing, and while every week should be
a Be Kind to Animals Week, it is well to set
aside a period once every year in which the
virtue of kindness is emphasized.

—St(mdard, New Bedford, Mass.

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci—

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name ................................
Age ................................
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 

 

{ab—as

 




 

 

Page 38
The Herd

JEAN E. GARTH

In bright relief, those cattle seemed to cling,
All red and white, upon the verdant side
Of the Sierra’s thousand hills in spring.
The herds of kine, while grazing, scattered
wide.
A zealous few went ranging up the slope
To fresher pastures, and a wider ’view;
The others, with bent necks, content to mope
And chew the cud of ease, the whole day
through.

Like men, a certain few that gain the
height,

Leave others silhouetted on a screen

0f every-dag inertia, loath to fight

Their way along the ridge that tops routine.

It takes a hero to break through the mass,

To climb the hills and find the greening
grass.

A Mother Mink’s Bravery

T. W. MCNEIL

EVERAL years ago while ﬁghting a

brush ﬁre along the Eagle river on
the western slope of Colorado, I witnessed
an example of mother love among animals
that inscribed an indelible picture in my
mind.

The ﬁre, fanned by a brisk wind, had
burned a strip of timber perhaps 500 yards
long down the mountain side and almost to
the edge of the turbulent river. Seeing that
the ﬁre would soon burn itself out anyway,
I sat down on a rock where the searing
and stiﬂing heat was not so unbearable.

Presently, I noticed a dark brown mink,

dart out of a hole beneath a pile of twigs '

and bits of driftwood. My curiosity was
more aroused when I saw that the mink
was carrying something in its mouth.
Swiftly it ran down to the waters’ edge and
dropped its burden on the wet sand.
Through the dense veil of smoke I could
see that it was a baby mink. The mother
nosed him over almost into the water and
like a ﬂash darted back up the bank and
into the rubbish pile again.

By this time, the ﬂames were eating on
the pile of driftwood, while towering over
the mink’s home, an old dead pine tree was
burning furiously, almost ready to topple
over. A second later, the mink emerged into
the open again with another baby in her
mouth. Laying this one in the rippling edge
of the water she ﬂashed back up the bank
and into the hole again. An instant later
she came out again with another in her
mouth.

The heat and smoke must have been al—
most unbearable to the brave little mother,
but she didn’t hesitate an instant to dash
back up the bank and into the hole after
she had dumped the third baby in the edge
of the water beside the others.

That last trip was her undoing though.
No sooner had she entered the hole than the
blazing tree crashed on the pile of drift-
wood, showering sparks over a wide area
and completely covering up the entrance to
the mink’s home.

I rushed over and tried to push the log

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

off the blazing pile of driftwood but armed
with only a shovel I was unable to move it
in the face of the searing heat. I was
forced to stand back and watch the pile of
driftwood be consumed by the ﬂames, de-
stroying the brave little mink and at least
one of her babies. A ﬁner example of
mother love I have never witnessed.

I went down to the edge of the water
and captured the wee little minks, so small
they could barely squirm about, and took
them up the river and left them in another
pile of driftwood, similar to their former
home. Another mink family lived nearby,
I knew. The orphans, I hoped, would be
adopted.

If they survived or perished I have no
way of determining. I never see an account
of a forest ﬁre but what I recall that brave,
though futile attempt of that mother mink
to save her family from a horrible death.
After all, her efforts were not wholly in
vain. Perhaps today there is a full grown
mink roaming up and down Eagle river who
owes his existence to a mother who had the
courage to rescue him from a pile of burn-
ing driftwood.

A Timely Admonition to
Parents
DELLA BOWERS ROSSWURM

Parents, teach your children to be kind
to our dumb animals. In gratitude to God,
who created them for our beneﬁt and
pleasure, treat them kindly. If your child
has pets of any sort, teach him to know
that even though these creatures cannot
speak, they have a sense of feeling and
suffer the pangs of hunger and thirst, the
pains of sickness and injury as we our-
selves, when we are subjected to them.

Teach your child that being kind to our
dumb animals is caring for them properly,
giving them food, water, clean living quar—
ters, protection from the boiling sun in
summer and shelter from bitter cold in win-
ter. This, with a kind word and a gentle
stroke of the hand, shall not go unrewarded,
as these creatures in their own way will
show their appreciation.

 

YOUNG BLUEJAY

Mar. 1936

“Irish” Animals

MORRY TANENBAUM

REEN is the national color of the Irish

people and of Ireland, their homeland.
Green is also the color of nature, for there
is more green among the plants of the
world than anywhere else. Green is so much
a characteristic of plants, that it is likely
you can think of hardly one green animal.
How many birds, mammals or insects do
you know of a green color?

There are a few and they are not very
common. They are green for different rea—
sons. Some of the lowest forms of life are
green because they contain chlorophyll.
This is the substance which usually indi-
cates plants but in these very low forms of
life, the lines between plants and animals
are not sharply drawn.

Some animals are in partnership with
plants having a green color due to their
own chlorophyll. This makes the animals
appear green. This is a phenomenon of the
ocean or the pond and is found only there.

Snails and certain marine worms are of
a green color due to a peculiar pigment in
their bodies, a ﬁrst cousin of the haemo-
globin which gives our blood its rich red
iron color.

Many insects are green. There are green
grasshoppers, katydids, cockroaches and
beetles. Exactly why they are green we do
not know. In some cases, the green is not
due to any coloring matter at all, but to the
way the light shines on them. You may have
noticed the greenish sheen on the back of
a pigeon’s neck, where several colors seem
to play back and forth. This is not due to
any real color but to the way in which the
light shines on it.

Surprising as it may seem, the tail of a
peacock and the feathers of the parrot con—
tain no green or blue coloring matter. In
fact they are not green or blue at all. It
seems that the light plays back and forth
across the delicate feathers and somehow
produces greens and blues. Actually they
do not exist. It is very puzzling, but per-
haps we can understand better if we com—
pare it to a rainbow. The colors of the
rainbow are not really in the sky during
the rain—they are just produced by the
rays of the sun as they pass through the
water drops at certain angles!

Societies’Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name ..............................
Age .................................

 




 

 

J ane, 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 85

Twenty-second Annual Be Kind to Animals Week

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Awards 3,550 Prizes in State-wide School Poster Contest
Brief Accounts of Celebrations from Maine to California

 

 

'NSNDL:?E?er

. $4 " :i ' ; ‘1
g, M i :5 w. 2‘. .-

 

, DLa FMTHF'UL

 

 

 

 

 

A FEW OF THE 7,172 POSTERS RECEIVED IN ANNUAL SCHOOL CONTEST BY MASS. S. P. C. A.

ASSACHUSETTS, f o r e m o s t for
many years in the celebration of Be
Kind to Animals Week, lived up to its
reputation in connection with the twenty-
second annual national observance, Sunday,
April 19, to Saturday, April 25. Governor
Curley’s proclamation of the Week was
published in full in our May issue. Com—
missioner E. M. McSweeney of the Boston
police department directed the police safe-
ty car to visit different sections and warn
motorists to be especially careful about an-
imals in the roadways. Commissioner of
Conservation Ernest J. Dean also appealed
to the motoring public to refrain from need—
less killing of wild life on the highways.
The Society’s two special broadcasts, in
which President Rowley participated, over
Stations WEEI and WBZ, are described
elsewhere in this issue.

World’s Record for Prizes

Probably the largest number of prizes
ever awarded anywhere in the world for a
humane project were given by the Mass-
achusetts S. P. C. A. in its annual school
poster contest—the total number being
3,550. In the competition, open to all
public and parochial schools of elementary
grade above the third in Massachusetts,
7,172 posters were received from 520
schools in 176 different cities and towns.
First prizes, blue ribbon medals, numbered
1,040; second prizes, red ribbon medals,
1,142; and third prizes, or honorable men-
tions, including a year’s subscription to
Our Dumb Animals, 1,368. As many of
the best of these posters as the room would
hold were displayed in the Fine Arts De-
partment of the Boston Public Library,

Copley Square, from April 18 to April 26,
inclusive, where they attracted much fav—
orable attention. Some of them were re-
produced in the Christian Science Monitor,
the Evening Transcript, and the Boston
Sunday Advertiser. Eighteen are shown
above.

The Society issued an original pamphlet
of eight pages, “Humane Exercises,” with
suggestions, recitations, etc. for programs,
for Humane Day in Schools, April 24.
These were available free to every teacher
in Massachusetts above the second grade in
elementary schools. Altogether 20,000
copies were published, of which 4,000 were
taken by the Illinois Humane Society for
use in the schools of Chicago. Because of
vacation during Be Kind to Animals Week,
the Boston schools, at the suggestion of
Superintendent Campbell, observed Friday,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

Animals and Conscience

SCHLICHTER
D Certainly not, you may say. They obey
the law of the jungle. If they avoid doing
things that are taboo, it is because they
have learned to fear unpleasant consequen—
ces.

But are we sure? Who knows the mind
of bird or beast? Men used to aver that
they were guided only by instinct. Now the
wise nature student is sure that they have
intelligence at least sufficient for their own
needs. They make mistakes and get into
trouble. But then so do we.

A French writer of note once remarked,
“We have had no revelation in regard to
animals.” It is true that the writer of Ec—
clesiastes spoke of the soul of man going
upward and that of the beast going down-
ward. A very earnest Bible student once
interpreted this to mean that all the beasts
are foredoomed to destruction. But note
the frame of mind that the Preacher was
in when he wrote those words. “That which
befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts,”
he says, “so that a man hath no pre—emin—
ence above a beast.” But he was in a pes—
simistic mood when he wrote, weighing and
considering this and that till he concluded
that all was vanity. One must read on till
the end to find that he set aside many of
his gloomy conclusions as he was illumined
by an inner light. May not this have been
one that he set aside?

Rover, unless he was tied, always ran
away on washday because he had learned
that as soon as the washing was done, he’d
be given a bath. He never came back till
the tubs were emptied. Then he returned
with his tail between his legs, though he
had never been punished. He knew he’d
been a coward.

John Burroughs once told an interesting
story of two chipmunks. He had discovered
a chipmunk’s den in a stone wall in front
of his house and for a couple of years had
put out grain for her which she would carry
to her den and store. One day he saw her
leave the den and immediately afterward
a larger, stronger chipmunk scurried across
the road and entered the den. The little
owner returned before the robber could
make his exit and Mr. Burroughs looked for
trouble. It came. The thief came out of
the den with only one cheek pocket filled
with his ill—gotten gains and started down
the road, the victim of his depredations af-
ter him. It was a mad race and the robber
won. But in commenting on the episode,
Mr. Burroughs wrote: “It is curious that
on such occasions, among both birds and
animals, the thief, no matter if he is the
larger and stronger, will always flee. A
guilty conscience seems to make cowards of
all creatures, and a sense of right embold-
ens the weakest.”

ETTA W.

O animals have consciences?

  
 
  

Who better than John Burroughs kliew
the ways of bird and beast; who thus cn‘éﬂ:

its them with some knowledge of right and
wrong? To be sure they have noi‘decalogue.
But neither did man for thousands, perhaps
millions of years before it was finally given.
Yet man had some knowledge of right and
wrong without it or he couldn’t have under-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1936

 

Keystone

THE CHIPMUNK IS SOMETIMES A ROBBER

 

stood it when it came.

Who are we in our arrogance to set our-
selves so far above the other creatures God
has made? In the vast spaces of the uni-
verse may there not be room for them to
continue their development even as we hope
to continue ours? We do not know. “We
have had no revelation in regard to ani—
mals.”

“Czar,” the Wolfdog

ARTHUR EHRSAM

was way up in the wilds of the Broken

Paddle River country of Quebec when
I met “Czar.” He was a Labrador husky-
dog. The Labrador husky is fierce and
wild. They have more of the wolf—strain
than all other sledge-dogs in the Great
North Country, that land of tr‘ackless for-
ests, innumerable rivers and swamps, the
land of the Midnight Sun and the Aurora
Borealis, the land of chattering Eskimos
and laughing Indians, the one land where
a man is judged by what he is.

How Czar wandered so far from the
' great booming waters of Hudson Bay I do
not know. I was alone at the time, had
started cooking dinner when out of the
spruce came a grayish-yellow form about
the size of a wolf. He resembled a wolf. I
was frightened, thinking he was a wolf.
When he drew nearer I observed that he
was a dog. I suppose the smell of food
lured him, or he was hungry for human
companionship.

A dog cannot live without human fel-

lowship. I was glad to see him. I had not
met a human—kind in a fortnight. I called
to him. He hung back undecided. I set a

plate of mess—pork out for him and acted
indifferent toward him. He looked me over;
and decided I would not harm him. The
mess-pork soon vanished.

”From that day onward we became in-
:ir'separable friends. Czar would ride in the
canoe all day and at night would nestle
close to me as if he sensed I was lonely.
The next winter we were deep in the wilder-
ness. Food is hard to secure in that cold
hinterland. WMany times I had no food to
give‘ to him. He never complained, al—

though he was near starvation at times. At
night, when the wild, weird polar lights
shot up from the frozen zone and the in-
tense cold bit deep into one, Czar would lie
close and snug to me, keeping me from
freezing to death.

Czar saved my life twice.
time he lost his. The first time happened
on the Leaf river. It was in the summer
and I was paddling the canoe up the river.
I was unfamiliar with it. Czar was in the
bow. We ran into unknown rapids. The
canoe split and I was thrown out. The
swift waters swept me against a rock. I
hit my head and became unconscious. The
next thing I remember, I was lying on a
sandbar with Czar licking the wound on
my forehead and whimpering. He, the
old faithful fellow, had dragged me upon
the sandbar.

The second time happened on the East
Main river. It was in the winter, the river
was locked tighter than. a drum. Czar and
I were traveling on its hard surface, trying
to reach a Hudson Bay outpost. It became
dark in the middle of the afternoon. I had
to go carefully because of the treacherous
ice. I accidentally stepped on thin ice and
fell in the icy waters. I struggled fran—
ticly. Czar grabbed my arm and diligently
and indefatigably pulled. I became numb
with cold. But Czar pulled me out of the
hole only to slip in himself. He clambered
out—a. mass of ice from head to tail.

Four days later Czar succumbed to pneu—
monia. That was a. sombrous, rueful and
sorrowful day for me. I had lost the truest,
whitest pal a man ever had.

I buried him on the summit of a pretty
little hill, under an aged balsam. He slum—
bers there, in that glorious land of the
eternal spruce.

The second

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
far a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

,J
..; c. usurk ,

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 68

OUR DUMB ANIIIIALS

 

VICTIMS OF OIL POLLUTION FOUND ON A CAPE COD BEACH BY OFFI—
CER HAROLD G. ANDREWS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

 

The Moose Twins

W. J. BANKS

HE moose twins appear to consist

largely of noses, ears and soft bright
eyes as they peek out from the under—
brush of their favorite thicket in the wilds
of Manitoba. It seems hard to believe that
such gentle little babes as these could grow
up as huge bull moose, monarchs of the
North American forests and swampy bush—
lands. But, as a matter of fact, even adult
moose are really mild, inoffensive folk.

Of course the bulls and cows must be
treated at times with careful respect. But
generally speaking the moose are the most
tractable as well as the largest of the deer
people. Easily tamed, they have been broken
to harness often. Probably in parts of
America the moose would have been domes-
ticated but for the fact that they sicken
and die upon the diet available in close cap—
tivity, which is another argument to prove
nature’s intention that the wild folk should
be left in their natural freedom.

The moose babies, often twins and occa—
sionally triplets, are born in some sheltered
thicket late in May. Gaunt and ungainly,
long-legged and awkward, the infants lie
hidden at first while mother stays near and
visits them often. In a few days they are
ready for limited travel and what appears
to them as adventure. Mother moose wastes
no time in conducting them to the near-by
swamp, lake or river, for the moose is so
at home in water that he might almost be
called amphibious.

Soon the babes begin to supplement their
milk diet with the tenderest leaves and
water plants. A browsing animal, the
moose seldom feeds on grasses which indeed
he ﬁnds hard to reach without folding up
his long front legs. He nibbles upon trees
and bushes, but loves best the tender, juicy
plants which grow under water. The
moose twins watch their mother throw her
rump in the air like a duck, plunge her
head down and come up with a mouthful

of tasty food. Then they learn to do the
same.

Upon the approach of danger, real or
fancied, the twins, if near water, plunge in
and submerge themselves, except for the
tips of their noses. Then they feel much
safer, especially since mother is standing
guard on shore, ears back and hoofs paw—
ing the ground like an angry horse. It
would be a perverted human mind indeed
that could think of harming so charming a
little family.

John Galsworthy on Zoos

Take another question—that of zoos. We
of our generation were brought up to accept
zoos as pure delight. I would like to see our
children brought up to see them as they
are . . . To see those free—roaming beasts
going up and down, up and down; to look
at the big apes sitting dejected; to watch
the eagles and condors, to whom a mile of
air is as nothing, perched up moping and
motionless hour after hour—very statue-s
of winged grief—has become to me one of
the saddest and most disgusting sights in
the world. Isn’t there enough conﬁnement
and utter boredom on this earth, without
adding to it in this light—hearted way, for
our enjoyment, save the mark! I should
like our children brought up to feel and
understand that beasts have lives of their
own and natural instincts which demand
satisfaction, brought up to rebel, instead
of just gaping, and saying: “Oh! look at
the tiger!” “Look at the eagle!” when they
see untamable creatures of jungle and air
enclosed within a few yards of wire.

We shall never get conditions changed,
and a different way of regarding the brute
creation into the world’s head, till we teach
our children to think about things, and to

treat animals as they themselves would be
treated.

What does it mean that nearly two-
thirds of a million people have joined the
Jack London Club, sponsored by Our Dumb
Animals? It means just this: that there is
a rapidly growing sentiment in this country
against the cruelties connected with trained
animal acts on stage and screen.

May, 1936

“But the Expense!”
MINNE LEONA UPTON

They drift on the sighing waves,
They creep to the silent sand,

But either way lies death!

They yield their laboring breath—-
They cannot understand!

Down to their friendly sea

They came, to seek their meat——
What help? A hideous spell
Had made their home a hell,

In frightfulness complete!

Over their ancient ﬁelds
A clutching horror lay!
Oh, men who still refuse
The one right way to use,
Spew ﬁlth’k—arnd sail away!

“Mourn for the thousands slain!”
“Slaughter of innocents!”

How shall we tell, at the end,

Their Maker and their Friend:
“Help was too great expense!”

*Black waste oil is discharged from oil-burning ships.

The Horse Faces a
“New Day”

PETER REMMY

F we harbor in our mind the suspicion

that this is a “mechanized age” we
should disabuse ourselves of that thought.
For the horse is not only coming back, but
it faces a new day of superior development,
increased strength, vitality, beauty.

Recently I visited a county fair in ranch~
ing country. Instead of the motor trucks
I expected to see, I saw horse-drawn
vehicles, from carriage to truck. At the
fair there was a parade of such “old time”
wagons—but they were mostly new, and in
actual use. Some were drawn by four
horses, others by six, and one wagon of a
rancher was drawn by sixteen ﬁne horses,
shining and well-groomed. This undoubted-
ly was teamed up for the occasion, but it
certainly made a concrete impression!

For awhile the breeding of fine horses
seemed to falter as we watched the “ma—
chine age” enter our lives. But now it is
proved that the horse cannot be replaced for
many uses, and increased attention is being
given his perpetuation and his better breed—
ing. Such a place is the Arabian horse
ranch which is a part of the University of

. California, at Pomona, California. Here

have been gathered one—fourth of the horses
having Arabian blood in America, and
under the guidance of the University of
California the study and improvement of
horse breeding takes on academic standing.
Here there is a cordial welcome found for
visitors and thousands take advantage of
it. Drop in yourself, when you can!

The next annual meeting of the American
Humane Association will be held at the Rice
Hotel, Houston, Texas, from September 28
to October 1, inclusive, 1986. It seems es—
pecially fitting for the humane forces of the
country to convene in Texas during the cen-
tennial celebration.

 




 

Oct. 1936

“And the Cat Came Back”

IRWIN HAYDEN in Hayden’s

T was this way: About four years ago

Nan was given a. small Persian kitten,
too young to show its potentialities but cun~
ning Withal. It was given to fits, and one
day I was about to kill it, but refrained.
Proper food developed it into a peculiarly
beautiful animal possessed of lovable qual—
ities; and a character of its own. Nan
named it “Mike.”

Mike was never a forward cat. Always
shy, he would at times manifest great af-
fection, and of a. Sunday afternoon I en-
joyed having Mike leap to my lap, look up
into my face with his notably lovely eyes,
the while he purred, and now and then ut—
tered his “Mieow” of loving kindness. He
would purr, after the manner of his kind, in
a sort of ecstasy. -

On the morning of Friday, July 31, 1936,
Perez played for a moment with Mike in the
backyard. We did not see or hear Mike
again. We were all saddened because Mike
did not come home on Saturday, Sunday or
Monday.

At about 6 P. M. Monday, Mike pushed
the back screen door ajar and came into
the kitchen.

Such a sight! Left eye extruded from the
socket, horribly swollen; lower jaw broken,
and nose bloodied; dirty and bedraggled,—
but purring his gladness to see us all.

Where had he been? What had injured
him so?

Mike was thirsty but could not drink. He
was hungry but could not eat.

He made no sound, save his purr and
now and then his characteristic “Mieow,”
not loud, but soft. '

Shall we put him to sleep? Or shall we
take him to Dr. Walkerdine?

A kind neighbor took two of us and Mike
to Dr. Walkerdine, who skillfully cut out
the injured eye, tied up the broken jaw, and
sent us home again, for two weeks of pain—
ful getting well.

Mike showed no fear on the operating
table. Local anesthesia and the loving hands
that held him during the torture seemed
enough to tell him that no harm was meant.

Just a cat? Yes, just a eat; but to us as
much a member of the family as one of us.
His eyes were like jewels, now there will be
but one. His mouth was pink, and his nose
white and soft, and his ways affectionate
and not greedy. More valued than a picture
on. the wall, than a book, than a gem, Mike
is dear to us and we hope he may recover
though the way is hard.

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-
eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.
Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name

Age ..... ... ..
Address ............. . ...... .

(
ooooocoooo_.oo oooooooooooo o .....

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 155

Animal Pets as Wilderness Companions

HENRY H.

ionship of a dog or a cat in the wilder-

ness realize to the fullest extent what
such a pet means. Scattered throughout the
hinterlands of the world are prospectors,
loggers and hermits who live alone except
for an animal pet or two. Often for months
at a time they never hear the sound of a
human voice except their own. It is for this
reason as much as for any other that wil-
derness dwellers are known for their taci—
turnity.

QNLY men who have had the compan-

Several summers ago I got acquainted
with an old prospector who worked a mine
alone in the hills. His diggings were locat—
ed approximately one mile from his vine—
covered cabin where he had lived in seclu—
sion for twenty-odd years. During the inter-
val he had enjoyed the companionship of
numerous dogs and was never without a
faithful canine. He suffered many hard-
ships and had numerous experiences of
breath—taking interest.

One bitterly cold, stormy day he was
taken ill while at work in his mine. It
was about quitting time and the old man
started out for his cabin through a fierce
blizzard. Although he became steadily
sicker on the return journey he somehow
managed to crunch his way through the
deep snow to a point half—way to the build-
ing. There he fell in a heap from illness
and exhaustion. He was awakened by his
colliedog, “Sunrise,” pulling on his clothes.
Groggily the miner got to his feet and
stumbled forward. In the storm, however,
he had lost his sense of direction. In his
fever of delirium he yanked a piece of
stout string from his pocket. Sunrise
seized one end of this in his mouth and
started out, with the old miner holding the
other end of the cord firmly in his hand.
In this manner Sunrise led him unerringly
home.

“If it hadn’t been for that wonderful

GRAHAM

7

dog,’ the prospector told me, “I wouldn’t
be relating this story today. I would have
died right there. In the spring my skeleton
would have told another grim and tragic
story of the hills. After a week’s illness I
recovered and continued work.

“Sunrise was such a comfort in the long
winter evenings. He used to lie stretched
out before the fire while I read or cooked.
He was such an intelligent dog that he
seemed to understand everything I said to
him. It was a terrible blow to me when
he died. My best friend was gone forever.”

Upon another occasion an aged, bearded
hermit entertained me with stories of his
pet cat, “Snowflake,” a big Maltese.
“Snowflake, too, was a smart creature,” I
was informed. Often I used to grow hungry
for company, particularly at meal time. On
those occasions I used to fix a separate
table for Snowflake nearby, setting it with
a plate and knives and forks as I did my
own. And I taught Snowflake to eat his
meal without climbing aboard the table. He
would sort of squat on, his rear legs and eat
with his forepaws, licking the platter clean.
Like most cats he was a fastidious feeder.
Sometimes he would even turn up his nose
at the fare I served myself and demand
something different for his own stomach.
He liked fried potatoes and thick gravy best.
Each winter he grew fat; in the summer he
became thin in spite of the nourishing food
I gave him.

“Snowflake was a wonderful pal—better
company than some human beings I’ve
known. He even enjoyed radio music, par-
ticularly the instrumental type. When a
high soprano sang, however, he would arch
his back belligerently and wander to the
front door to be let out.”

I trust that I shall have a better excuse
for killing a moose than that I may hang
my hat on his horns. THOREAU

.

 

HELLO, AMERICA! MY HOME IS IN HOLLAND

I

 

 

 




 

Sept. 1936

The Covenant
JOHN COLVILLE

When things were planned in the far-off
past
And the laws of the wild began . . .
Three of God’s creatures a covenant made
The Dog . . . The Horse . . and The Man.
Other dwellers in jungle and wood
Made codes to govern their kind
Though the general law that the mighty
enforced
Was the mandate they all must mind:
“Unless by your breed you are one of us
Unless by your breed you belong . . .
You’re a foe and stranger throughout the
wild
And the prey of the swift and the strong.”
But Man pledged protection to Horse and
Dog
So the rule of the trio ran . . .
The Horse must serve him; the Dog must
guard
As part of their Covenant Plan.
And down through the years, they have
both been true
Through sunshine . . . and storm . . . and
fog . . .
It’s only The Man who sometimes forgets
His pact with The Horse . . . and The
Dog!

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application. Readers are reminded that
we are always ready to send free sample
copies to prospective subscribers.

COMPANY FOR DINNER

Old Dobbin welcomes his little feathered friend as
he turns his attention to his mid—day meal.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Greater Love Hath No Man

ELIZABETH B. THOMAS

EDITOR’S NOTE: Some of the statements in this ar-
ticle may be hard to believe, but the author has as-
sured us that the account is authentic as given to her
by a relative who witnessed the action of these two
remarkable horses.

RINCE” and “Pal” were big, black

Percheron geldings, weighing close to
a ton apiece. Noble looking animals, willing
and powerful. They were the special pride
of a neighbor of ours when I was a young-
ster. They were young then, with proudly
arched necks and coats like black satin. It
was a really thrilling sight to see them
bend their great shoulders to the collar
when they worked. It was a pleasure to
drive them. I drove them often as a. child.
They were so gentle and so well broken that
it was never necessary to exert strength on
the reins. They obeyed commands instantly
and willingly, even though they were so
frisky that they pranced and shook their
heads playfully until the metal parts of
the harness jingled gaily.

Their early years must have been happy.
Our neighbor bought them when they were
just green broken colts and he brought
them along slowly, taking great pains with
their training, never striking them or yell-
ing at them. In all the years he lived I do
not think they ever felt the whip, and their
affection for their owner was second only
to their love for each other.

I have seen but few such deep attach—
ments between horses. If you took one out
of sight of the other there was an imme—
diate outcry which ended only when the one
outside was back with hismate again. They
never nipped or laid back their ears at each
other, and if turned loose in a pas—
ture they always grazed side by
side and rested standing close to—
gether, often with one horse’s neck
across his friend’s, dozing and en—
joying the warm summer winds
and the freedom from work.

This peaceful existence went on
until the horses were probably about
12 years old, and then their owner
died suddenly. Like most farmers,
he had very little money and it was
necessary for his widow to sell the
farm and the stock. Finally all
was sold but the team. Knowing
how much her husband thought of
them, his widow kept them until the
last. They roamed the familiar
pasture, watching in vain for the
master they had served so long and
so well.

The two horses found homes on
adjoining farms, Prince with a
man who liked horses and was al-
ways good to them and, except for
his grief over being parted from
Pal, I think he was well content, so
he keep fat and sleek.

Pal, my favorite, was not so for-
tunate. He came upon evil days.
His owner was a rough and brutal
man who jerked and whipped his
horses, and often half starved
them. For the first time Pal’s
sleek sides felt the bite of a whip,
his velvet mouth was cruelly yank-
ed. He was often asked to pull be-

Page 133

yond his strength. The once plump sides
became sunken, his ribs showed, his neck
thinned down, the proud carriage of his
head was lost, and in a few years’ time
little remained of the beautiful horse but a
framework and the patient will to serve as
best he could, as he had been taught.

One of the things that seemed to make
Pal’s master more angry than usual was
the way the horse would throw his head up
and whinny eagerly when he saw Prince
working on the next farm or going along
the road. At such times he always beat
the old horse a little harder, yanked him
even more harshly.

In the fall both horses were turned out
to pasture, fortunately adjoining, and then
for a few weeks they renewed their friend-
ship, standing, with heads across the fence,
apparently talking over the good old days
when they were always together. Sometimes
Pal’s owner would come dashing out and
kick and beat the poor old chap and take
him back to the stable. Then Prince would
rear and strike viciously, ears laid back
and eyes suffused with hate of this creature
who abused his mate.

A stream ran through both pastures and
the ban-ks were slippery“ and treacherous,
the water deep. One day when Pal, now
old and stiff, went to get a drink he slipped
and fell into the water, uttering a piteous
and piercing whinny as he went under.

Prince heard and dashed toward the
sound in time to see his mate struggling in
the water. The fence was a stone wall,
made of ﬁeld stones piled on top of each
other, surmounted by a strand of barbed
wire. It was too high to jump, and with
utter disregard for his own safety, Prince
ran at it, striking with sufficient force to
break down the wall and snap the wire,
though his chest was cruelly cut and
bruised in the process. Without hesitation
he leaped into the water beside the now
feebly struggling Pal, trying frantically to
help him to climb out.

But Pal was too far gone, and Prince
must have strained his loyal heart when he
broke down the wall. When a watching
and horriﬁed neighbor got there with help
both horses were dead. I like to think that
at least “in death they were not divided.”

Startling Statistics

“Accident Facts,” issued by the National
Safety Council, states that 100,000 human
lives were heaped on the altar of careless-
ness during 1935. Automobile accident
deaths reached an all-time high of 37,000.
The economic cost of this disregard of the
rules of safety amounts to about twenty-
seven dollars for each of the nation’s 127,-
500,000 men, women and children. How
much more would be added to this cost, if
the destruction of animal life were known?

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C, A., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1936

The Disappearing Dugong
EWEN K. PATTERSON

NE hundred years ago it was almost

universally believed that there were
such things as mermaids and mermen—men
and women fish having human heads and
trunks, and tails like fishes. Sailors return-
ing from voyages in the Indian and South
Pacific Oceans were most emphatic in their
statements of having seen these creatures
—not one but hundreds! Today, of course,
we know that what they saw were curious
sea creatures which, in some respects and
when seen in certain positions, are remark-
ably like human beings. These are the
wonderful sea animals known as dugongs,
which today are among the rarest of all liv—
ing things.

The dugong is definitely dying out; ex—
tinction seems to be its doom. A member of
the small family of sea-cows, which includes
only one other species—the manatee of At—
lantic waters—the dugong at one time was
exceedingly plentiful in the Indian and
South Pacific Oceans. But, as a result of
the constant hunting these creatures have
suffered for the: sake of their meat and
their oil, they are/doomed and are now seen
very rarely. ‘

The dugong was classified once as a
whale. But although it is somewhat whale-
like in appearance, it is not a member of
the whale family. It grows to an average
length of about nine feet and weighs any-
where up to 2,000 pounds. Its body, which
is bluish—gray on top and whitish under-
neath, is somewhat cylindrical in shape,
gradually tapering toward a half—moon
shaped tail. It has a pair of large fore-
flippers, but no hind limbs or fins. Its
head, almost human in outline, is rather
small in comparison with the rest of the
body. It has dark and deep-set eyes, tiny
ears, and nostrils with valve-like flaps to
exclude the water when beneath the sur—
face.

The female dugong gives birth to a sin-
gle young one at a time, and breeds only
once a year. She suckles her baby, and
nurses and attends it with great care. When
feeding it she clasps the infant to her
breast with her flippers, and drifts along
with her head and the upper part of her
body showing above the water. In such a
position she looks remarkably human-like
from a distance, and from the sight it is
easy to understand how the creature gave
rise to the famous mermaid myth.

Hunting these wonderful animals is a
poor form of sport, because the dugong is
harmless and is entirely defenseless. It
forms an easy prey to those bent on slaugh-
ter, and unless something is soon done to
protect them the animals will be extinct,
and the world will have lost one of its most
amazing and delightful sea creatures.

Unique among all animals the dugong ac—
tually weeps when captured. When hauled
from the water tears pour from its dark
and deep-set eyes. In some parts of the
Pacific the natives collect these tears, be—
lieving that they act as a powerful love
charm.

The female dugong is a very devoted mo-
ther, being human—like in her actions. Her
worst enemies in the sea are sharks, which

OUR

...~\.I)‘UMB A N I MA LS

Page 157’

 

JAPAN’S LARGEST CEMETERY FOR DOGS AND CATS

Here is shown Japan’s largest ceme-
tery for dogs and cats exclusively. It is
situated in Western Tokyo. In this grave-
yard the remains of more than 40,000
of Japan’s most famous dogs and cats are
buried. On each memorial pole, placed at
the grave, there is writing, indicating the
name of the deceased dog or cat and also

the name of the owners.

On the anniversary of the death of these
animals the owners never fail to go to the
cemetery to offer ﬂowers to the souls of
their once beloved pets. The photograph,
which came to us direct from Japan,
shows one of them about to offer ﬂowers
before the grave of her lamented dogs.

 

delight in snatching babies from mother du-
gongs’ breasts. I once saw a most inspir—
ing example of the devotion of a mother
dugong for her child. When attacked by
a tiger shark the mother pushed her baby
behind her and sheltered it with her mas—
sive body. Thus balked of its choice prey,
the shark in its anger attacked the mother.
The monster’s teeth did terrible work, but
the dugong, beating her flippers and keep—
ing her baby behind her all the while, moved
toward the shallow water. It was a cunning
move, for soon she had the shark flounder—
ing helplessly in less than two feet of water.
Then we were able to act, and a bullet put
an end to the shark. As the mother dugong
reached the safety of the shallows she col—
lapsed in a torn, bloody mass and died. Her
baby nosed her lifeless body for a few min-
utes, and then, as if guided by some mighty
unseen hand, it clumsily made its way to
where a small group of dugongs were feed—
ing nearly a quarter of a mile away. Here
the orphan was immediately adopted by an-
other mother.

Reynard of Skull Island

EWART YOUNG

ABRADOR trappers say that though
they take fair numbers of wild foxes
in traps during the furring seasons, they!
very rarely see a live member of the cun-
ning tribe.

An interesting fox story is told by a par—
ty of surveyors who were camped on Skull
Island, Northern: Labrador, recently. A
young cross-breed fox, who seemed to be the
only one on the island, made his presence

known to them soon after their arrival by
pillaging the camp garbage pail at night.

The surveyors thought they would lay a.
trap to take Reynard alive. So one evening
they placed an odorous treat in the bottom
of the pail and attached a wire noose at the
top. Then they lay low to await develop—
ments. A stout line had been attached to
the noose and brought into the tent through
a hole in the end.

The men did not have to wait long for
their expected visitor. It was not a very
dark night and they could see the little an—
imal cautiously approaching the back of the
tent where the garbage pail had been plac—
ed. Sniffing all around it carefully, Reynard
seemed to be aware that something was.
amiss. And then he did just what they had-
n’t expected; he poked his nose under the
wire noose, on the outside, and tossed it.
aside with a quick jerk of his head. The

two men inside the tent, watching the pro-r

ceedings through the hole in the canvas,
nudged each other and had the grace to
remain perfectly still until the cunning ani—
mal had finished his meal and departed.

After that Reynard of Skull Island was
left entirely alone, and he had many a good
feast out of the refuse tin. Several times.
he showed himself in broad daylight, but
he always kept a safe distance.

If Governor Landon of Kansas should be—
come the next President, he will bring to.
the White House the westerner’s love for
horses, says a. writer in the Christian
Science Monitor. He likes to ride a good.
mount, and is ably seconded in that respect
by the other members of the family.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

July, 1936

The Hermit Thrush

W. LOMAX CHILDRESS

Hush, along the woods enchanted,
Sounds the golden musiced thrush,

So this sylvan glade is haunted,
Hush, Oh, Hush.

Is it dust of diamonds drifting,
Made articulate with sound,

Or a piccolo that’s lifting
Music crowned?

Is it bells of fairies ringing,
’Neath the leafy branches stirred,
Can it be the radiant singing
Of a bird?

Clear and pure with honeyed sweetness,
Limpid notes of music swell,

Only this I know, thy singing,
Who can tell?

Is it ecstasy of living,
From the grief and gloom apart,
That a bird in song is giving
From its heart?

Only this I know, thy singing,
In the woods embowered hush,
Came to me a vision bringing
Hermit thrush.

Do Birds Think and Reason

C.Nﬂ CROTSENBURG

F it is not by the exercise of intelligence,
how are we to account for the storing of
the acorns in the bark of pine trees by the
woodpeckers? It should be remembered that
these birds are insect—eaters. They do not
eat the acorns which they store. When the

A WOODPECKER’S STOREHOUSE

 

0 UR D UMB ANIMALS

acorns are placed in the bark they do not
contain insects of any appreciable size,
probably most of them only contain the eggs
of insects which later hatch and develop
into good—sized worms.

How do the birds know how long it will
take for the worms to grow to eatable size?
The-y undoubtedly do know this, for their
actions prove it. After the acorns have
been stored long enough for the worms to
grow to full size the birds return, take the
acorns out and crack them to get at the
worms within, discarding any part of the
kernels which may remain.

It is most interesting to watch the birds
at work. They usually bring the acorns to
the pine trees, one at a time, selecting a
crevice in the bark where they can store
them while they drill a hole in the bark
close by. Then, when the hole is finished,
they pick up the acorn and fix it firmly in
the receptacle which they have prepared.
Often the first trial is not satisfactory, and
the hole must be drilled larger or deeper.
It is often a case of “cut and try” and sev—
eral trials are necessary to get the hole
just right, for the acorn must fit snugly or
the bird knows it will fall or be blown out
by the wind. ‘

How does the bird know that some day
there will be a worm in the acorn, and how
long in the future this will be? Another in-
teresting thought for speculation is the fact
that the tree whose bark is shown in the
picture is practically filled with acorns,
while other trees of the same size and vari-
ety within arm’s reach of it have none at all.
All these trees are alive, and, to the human
eye appear to be exactly alike.

My Topsy-Turvy Visitor
V. WINIFRED CHIVENS

NE of my most unusual feathered vis—

itors is the white—breasted nuthatch,
variously called topsy-turvy bird, devil—
down-head. These names are really de-
scriptive of its queer method of traversing
a tree trunk in search of food. Reversing
the natural procedure of things, it scam-
pers rapidly, head first, down the tree, af—
ter the manner of the squirrel, very indus—
triously seeking insects and insect eggs
which may be hidden in crevices of the
bark. Feet wide apart and claws reversed
enable it to accomplish this feat, which few
other birds are known to attempt.

In looks, the white-breasted nuthatch is
nearly as odd as in actions. Its long head
and bill, long wings and short tail, give it
a peculiar broad, flattened appearance.
However, this queerness is balanced by the
well-groomed look given by its plumage of
light bluish-gray; top of head and neck
black; sides of head, throat and under part3
white; touches of black on wings and tail.

Its favorite delicacies, obtained from my
feeding station, are suet and sunflower
seeds. The latter instead of being held by
the foot, are tucked under a piece of bark,
in order to crack the covering and release
the kernel within. Or, perhaps the seed
may be hidden safely, apparently, for a
rainy day. This topsy-turvy visitor is rath-
er a friendly, approachable bird, and I

Page 109

 

WHITE-BREASTED NUTHATCH GET-
TING SUNFLOWER SEED FROM
FEEDING STATION

have seen one pause almost within arm’s
length to thank me with a quiet, nasal
“Ank, ank” for the offering of food so
thoroughly enjoyed. It also sings in soft
little twitterings which can be heard only
at a short distance.

Naturally a bird of the woods, this nut-
hatch usually builds its nest in a tree cav—
ity, either “ready made” or hollowed out
of decayed wood by the bird itself. The
female does most of the nest building, but
with material brought to her by her mate.

Both parents diligently attend the young
who are kept together for some time after
leaving the nest, then scatter, as families
will.

Good News for Bird Lovers

Readers of Our Dumb Animals who are
especially fond of birds will recall the very
interesting articles on this subject, written
by Mr. Alvin M. Peterson of Wisconsin,
which have appeared in these columns in
past years. It is now several months since
Mr. Peterson has appeared as a contribu~
tor, as he has been engaged in other literary
pursuits. We are happy to announce that
we have just arranged with him for a serles
of six articles, the most of them illustrated,
to appear in successive issues of Our Dumb
Animals, beginning with the August num-
ber. Mr. Peterson is one of the best in—
formed and most entertaining writers on
bird life today. He tells us what he him—
self has observed. His illustrations are all
from photographs taken with his own cam-
era.

Two hundred Woolworth department
stores in the Chicago district were ordered
by an official of their own company to. stop
selling toy cap pistols, says the Christian
Science Monitor.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 110
@112 Earth nf ﬂinrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the pre51-
dent who has been duly elected, spemal Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pre51dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and two new Bands of
Mercy were reported during May. Of these
298 were in New York, 234 in Illinois, 179
in Georgia, 45 in Virginia, 37 in. Massachu—
setts, eight in Oklahoma, and one in Penn—
sylvania.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 217,592.

A Tramp Dog

G. T. HARTSFIELD

RINCE” was a tramp dog who spent

most of his time riding freight trains
back and forth over a certain division of a
western railway. He was of rather inde—
terminate breed, but for all that he was
extremely intelligent, had a beautiful coat
of reddish brown, and a winning disposition.

Prince belonged to a conductor who had
vainly tried to break him of his roving
habits. Finally, giving it up as a bad job,
he allowed him to come and go as he
pleased. Prince was perfectly at home in
every caboose on the division. He was sleek
and well—fed, for there wasn’t a trainman
on the division that wouldn’t divide his
lunch with the dog. Prince liked to ride on
top of the caboose just back of the cupola,
and with a little help he could climb up in—
side and crawl through the window.

One day he came trotting into the tele—
graph office at a little desert station, where
I was operating, just after a freight train
had come to a stop outside, and laid his head
in my lap. I stopped my work to pat the
dog’s head and remarked to the conductor
who was leaning on the counter, “Gee, I
wish he was mine.”

“He’s yours,” said the conductor, with a
twinkle in his eye, “if you want him and
think you can keep him.”

“Just leave that to me,” I said, losing no
time in finding a rope and tying the dog
inside the office till the train left. That
was the last freight train for two weeks,
for the trainmen had just declared a strike.

Prince appeared perfectly satisfied with
me as his new master, and for the next two
weeks we had some great times together,
taking long rambles in the desert. Prince
would get uneasy at times and would cock
his ears toward the railroad tracks as if
wondering why no freight trains were com-
ing through.

After about two weeks the strike was set—
tled and trains started running again.
Much to my disappointment the first
freight train that stopped at the station

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1936

 

PLEASE DO NOT DESERT US WHEN Y OU LEAVE ON VACATION

 

had Prince for a passenger when it left.

The dog was away for about two months,
then one night, getting off duty at twelve
o’clock, I went home to find Prince sitting
on the front porch waiting to greet me with
boisterous barks. The dog appeared happy
to be home again and visited for that night
and all next day. Then, again getting rest—
less, he caught a train out of town.

Two weeks later as a freight train was
passing the station I heard a bark. I
glanced up and saw Prince sitting on top of
the caboose, looking down at me with a
happy grin on his face as much as to say,
“How ya comin’ old fellow? See you again
sometime.”

Only a Dog

You may talk of friendships you’ve had
and known.
Of your pals and your lovers, too;
Of men and women who’ve often shown
What friendship and love will do.
But as down the truanty track of life
My lonesome way I jog,
I know no lover or maid or wife
Who’ll stick by you like a dog.

For a pal’s a pal to you just so long
As there isn’t a cloud in the sky.
He’ll stick by you closely till things go
wrong,
When perchance he’s a trifle shy.

But a dog will give you his life, my friend,
And his love for a pat or a smack,

He’ll stick by you to the bitter end,
And he’ll never answer you back.

Your friend’s his friend, and your fight’s
i1‘f‘5’his fight,

’VrAnd he’ll Shatter the decalogue,

Nor worry whether you’re wrong or right,
And yet—he’s only a dog!

The child’s ﬁrst school is the family.
FROEBEL

Nixon Waterman Say 5:

NLY one of all the cats I have ever

known, was a shadow-chaser. This par-
ticular type of sport—for the animal seemed
to engage in it with a great sense of play-
fulness—was, so far as I know, never
shared with any other cats of the family
or the neighborhood. Other cats would
watch this shadow-chaser with a sense of
mild astonishment as though wondering
what there was in the carryings-on that was
worth while.

The street-side near this cat’s home, was
a foot or two higher than the walk beside it.
On the opposite side of the street, from the
cat’s home, was a street lamp. Persons
walking along the cat’s side of the street
would necessarily cast a shadow on the
slightly raised embankment as they moved
forward. It was these shadows that seemed
to interest this cat intensely.

It spent much time of an evening chasing
the shadows of passers—by. Not in an in—
different manner but with seeming delight.
It would attack every moving shadow with
a wild, far—reaching scramble as though
determined to catch and hold it, and though
it never succeeded in doing so it never ap-
peared to tire of trying. Just what the
other cats of the neighborhood thought of

, its futile attempts at shadow—catching no

one will ever know. But they did clearly
show by the indifferent manner in which
they viewed the strange procedure but re-
fused to have any part in it, that they had
too much feline intelligence to confuse mere
abstract shadow with palpable concrete
substance.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

 

 




 

    

 

Page 64
The Green-eyed Monster

ELIZABETH B. THOMAS

OWN a very old horse, a tricky, lovable,
11 small bay chap who has stood in my
barn for fourteen years. Together we have
worked and played, and between us there
exists that understanding which almost in-
variably comes from the combination of an
intelligent horse and an owner who knows
and loves horses.

During the years that I have owned this
horse I have owned many others and each
new one brings a period of sulkiness to the
old fellow, who seems to feel that his nose
is out of joint. He had become pretty well
accustomed to the two stable mates that he
had had for four years, and showed his
objection only by rolling his eyes and lay—
ing back his ears at the sight of them.

But a year and a half ago it became
evident that the old horse was not the
animal he used to be. He was slowing up,
while the spirit was just as indomitable as
ever, the ﬂesh was weak. The old legs
would not move as fast or as far as in the
old days and it was becoming difficult for
him to keep up with the younger horses on
long trips. Of course I did not think of
destroying the old chap, he had long since
earned the right to his feed and shelter for
as long as he lives and is comfortable. A
horse over thirty is living on borrowed time
and in most cases he has earned the right
to live out his days in comfort.

I did feel that I had better be looking
around for a successor to him, one that I
could be getting accustomed to, against
that inevitable day when the ﬂashing eyes
of my old comrade will close for the last
time. So I sent one of my other horses to
a friend to keep for me, and began to look
for a new one.

For many weeks the adjoining stall was
empty, and the bay was pleased. I suppose
he thought he had driven one horse away
and his prestige had increased.

I ﬁnally bought another bay gelding, a
half thoroughbred, and a rugged, smart
chap, with a love for all the world and an
eager spirit. A friendly soul without a
mean thought in his big heart, sound, and
only seven years old, with plenty of years
ahead of him—I hope.

I do not suppose it had ever entered the
old horse’s head that the empty stall might
some day be ﬁlled with a strange horse, but
that he expected some day the mare who
had gone away might come back to it. I
think he would have merely ignored her
return. But, when one day a truck backed
up to the door and unloaded a new horse,
jealousy immediately claimed the old geld-
ing for its own.

With a scream of rage he reared and
struck at the partition, to the utter be-
wilderment of the friendly newcomer, who
regarded all horses and men as his friends.

Apparently he thought there must be some
mistake, and he extended his soft nose until
the tip of it just showed above the partition,
giving an inquiring whinny as he did so.

If a bomb had exploded in the old horse’s
stall it would not have caused as much of a
commotion as the sight of that nose did.
I had never seen him in such a rage. He
kicked, squealed, reared, and his eyes rolled

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

until the whites showed all around them.
The slightest sound from the next stall set
him into another spasm. That night he
refused his supper and stood stamping and
squealing.

I was at a loss. If he had been younger
I should have punished him, but I pitied
him, as I thought that he probably realized
all too well that the new horse was to take
his place. He would not be comforted, and
received all my overtures coldly. This went
on for days, until he was actually making
himself sick.

The cure was accidental, and decidedly
tough on the newcomer. One day I had
just taken the harness off the old horse and
left him loose on the barn ﬂoor while I got
his halter. The new one put his head over
his stall door to look out, and I turned just
in time to see the old horse leap and snap
his teeth viciously down on his rival’s nose.
When I yelled, he let go and the other poor
horse withdrew, shaking his smarting nose,
and no doubt wondering what had gone
wrong with the world. Not so the aggressor,
who turned away with an air of heartfelt
satisfaction. His grouch was gone, his fury
satisﬁed, and from then on he accepted the
other horse, not liking him, but tolerating
him. Perhaps I should have whipped him,
but, after all, he is very old, and if one
hearty bite from another horse’s nose
soothed his hurt feeling, I thought he was
entitled to it.

 

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

A CHILD’S STORY OF THE ANIMAL
WORLD, Edward G. Huey.

A very informative book is this study of
animals which Mr. Huey has written as a
sort of primary zoology. The complicated
tale of the animal kingdom has been sim-
pliﬁed and dramatized, so that the child
reads on and on as in any story of adven-
ture, making friends with spiders and por-
poises, lions and tigers and whales, until
he has a new understanding of the field
of zoology. It is in twelve parts, each of
which is divided into several chapters.

The child who intelligently studies this
volume will know how to tell a spider from
an insect, why some sea animals are not
ﬁsh, why some mammals with claws are our
friends and others our enemies, why man
is the most important mammal, and gen—
erally how zoology opens the door to all
kinds of fascinating things in the world in
which we live. There is a whole part on
fish, another on reptiles, another on birds,
one on dogs, and yet another on hoofed
mammals, to mention but a few of the many
subjects treated.

Apr. 1936

The voluminous text, on very large pages,
is illustrated by H. R. Daugherty and Olive
Earle. There are sixty-ﬁve reproductions
of photographs and innumerable authentic
drawings. Altogether the book presents a
rich, complete picture of the animal world
which will fully satisfy the child of in—
quisitive age.

355 pp. $3.50. Reynal & Hitchcock, New
York.

DOG ENCYCLOPEDIA, Captain Will
Judy.

The prolific editor of Dog World has
brought out a second edition of this book,
revised and enlarged. That there will be
very many dog owners, fanciers and breed—
ers who will be eager to possess the new
volume, we do not doubt. It is the most
complete reference work on dogs that has
been produced in this country.

A “Publisher’s Note” states that the
second edition is approximately four times
as large as the ﬁrst, contains 587 articles,
more than 875 illustrations and approxi—
mately 825,000 words, all of which, with the
many books on individual breeds which the
Judy Publishing House carry, attest the
ever—growing popularity of the dog.

In alphabetical order are presented the
origin, development, history and standards
of all breeds of the world. Also are treated
many subjects concerning the care, breed-
ing, kenneling, training and exhibiting of
the dog.

The author is recognized as a leading
American authority on all that relates to
the dog. His latest book shows a wide re-
search in the ﬁeld of canine literature and
history. It is a veritable storehouse of in-
formation.

462 pp. $5. Judy Publishing Company,
Chicago.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animal—s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLL‘ARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

: ‘1‘Yﬂ’q.-'_i‘."lu
‘ ‘ L42. ‘

.4<m',.¢ﬁ A

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and tnat it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

      

 

 

_ MI 1,v— .- .‘1 '
gilt-e =—~ J.

u
_ "Ap—H

 

 




:M‘

mm‘s—tsrr‘_ . <

31—32; 21—. 1‘ 4—7—1.” 9:323:

l
l
E
l
l
%

 

 

Page 62
@119 'iﬁanh nf ﬂung

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage. '

The American Humane Education Society W111 send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirtv
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, spec1al Band" of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

See inside front cover for prlces of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and thirty-one new Bands
of Mercy were reported during February.
Of these 157 were in Illinois, 151 in Georgia,
115 in Massachusetts, 96 in Florida, 77 1n
Texas, 54 in Pennsylvania, 51 in South
Carolina, 27 in Virginia, two in New York
and one in Kansas.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 215,337.

Little Brothers

ELLA C. FORBES

Little Brothers of the forest,
When the green ways call, to play,
Place your eager steps with care,
That there come no evil there,
Bringing you dismay.

Little Brothers of the forest,

Life is frolichsome and sweet,
But there’s many an idle ranger
And the green ways hold a danger

For unwary little feet.

There are cruel beaks and talons,
There is he who sits and gloats

In his thoughts that love to linger

On the coin he hopes to finger
From your furry little coats.

Little Brothers of the forest,

Tread with caution as you go,‘ ;
That no lurking snare may trap you,
No malignant fate enwrap you

In the green grass, or the snow.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
field missionaries and others who have
Spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu—
mane Education Trust Fund.

Passer-by to angler: “How are the ﬁsh
in this stream?”

Angler: “I really don’t know, I’ve been
dropping them a line every day, but I have-
n’t had any answer yet.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Apr. 1936

away. Round and round
the tree they race, the
fugitive appearing to
be as elusive as the
dancing shadows that
play on the ground
beneath.

At last they meet. It
is on the thick bough,
and each goes gingerly
towards the other, their
tails stretched behind,
and each ready to
spring at a moment’s
notice. Their small
noses meet, for a
couple of seconds they
sniff, then sit up side
by side. The truce has
been made, play is over,

“GOOD MORNING, MERRY SUNSHINE” a n d t h e woodland

 

Mr. Squirrel Greets Spring
EARLE W. GAGE

OR the past three months Mr. Squirrel

has been snoozing comfortably in his
snug quarters; the snow blew past him;
storms howled, rain and sleet fell, but not
a whit cared he. He slept most soundly,
his warm fur coat keeping him cozy in his
hole in the hollow tree.

Now that it is warm and there are signs
of spring in the air, Mr, Squirrel, too, is
showing signs of life. The sun has been
shining in a cloudless sky for hours; the
warmth penetrates the thick covering of
his home, causing him to bestir himself.

Slowly he unrolls, for during his long
sleep he has remained in a tight ball with
his warm brush curled over his face, which
itself was well hidden in his thick fur.
Stretching his limbs somewhat deliberately,
he dreamily openshis eyes; perchance gives
a long sigh, and appears almost as if he
would go back to sleep again, but he re-
covers and stretches some more.

:Twenty‘ minuteslater Mr. Squirrel is a—
wake, .but'it is a weary little mammal that
creeps out .of the tree top and blinks at the
bright, warm sun. He descends from the
thin branches and seats himself on a thick
bough below. His long tail is hanging limp.
As he waits there and gazes about, it looks
as if he were trying to recover a lost mem-
ory, to recall what he wanted to do, or to
discover where he is.

From a neighboring tree there is a short,
sharp bark. The squirrel jumps up, instant-
ly on the alert; his limp tail is raised and
curled over his back. The bark is repeated,
and this seems to bring him to himself, for
with an answering cry he leaps forward
along the bough, jumps from this to the
thin branches of the next tree, runs nimbly
along, and then suddenly pulls up short. A
moment before when he started to run, an—
other brown squirrel was siting there. Now
he is gone.

He gives a sudden jerk of his tail, barks
twice, then sees two bright eyes peering
saucily at him from behind the main trunk
of the tree. Again Mr. Squirrel makes a
leap, lands at the side of those black beads,
and in an instant their owner is off and

sprites start looking
for food.

Last fall the squirrels had collected large
supplies of nuts and acorns. They have been
hidden in all sorts of unlikely places, such
well-concealed Spots that even a human be—
ing would have to be gifted with a good
memory to remember them all. Place after
place is searched without success, but at last
a store is found. It has been raided by hun—
gry mice. The search is continued until a
goodly store of food is discovered.

Now the squirrels are happy as larks,
and how they chitter as they race around
the forest, eager for the summer season to
come!

The Largest Foot
L. E. EUBANKS

0 one that I know of has ever de—

scribed the elephant’s foot so well as
Carl Akely (in World’s Work). The ele—
phant is generally known to be a good trav-
eler. Mr. Akely, while admitting that the
horse is faster on level ground where the
going is good, says that on rough ground
the elephant can leave the horse behind.

Moreover, there are few animals that
can cover more ground in a day than J um-
bo; and in spite of his great size, he can
turn with astonishing agility and move
through the forest with the quietness of a
rabbit.

The elephant’s foot, on which he moves
so quickly and softly, is remarkable indeed.
It is encased in a bag-like skin with a heavy
padded bottom that has some of the char-
acteristics of an anti-skid tire. An elephant
walks on his toes, which form the front part
of his foot. The bones of his foot run not on—
ly back, but up, and underneath at the back
of the foot is a gelatin-like substance that
is a more effective shock—absorber than
rubber heels.

One of the curious things about the foot
is that it swells when the weight is on it,
and contracts when the weight is removed.
An elephant may sink four feet in a swamp,
but the minute he begins to lift his legs
his feet will contract and come out of the
hole without suction.

Be kind to animals every clay in 1936.

 




 

Mar. 1936

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

II

Page 48

The American Humane Education Society

quarter of a million children pledged to

kindness to animals in 1935 through the
efforts Of the American Humane Education
Society alone! They were organized in more
than 7,000 distinct units, representing more
than half the states of the Union, Lebanon,
Palestine, Syria, Transjordan and the
Philippine Islands. If the Society had done
nothing more than this all the year, its ex—
penditure of labor and money would have
been worth while, a thousand times. But
this is only a part of the story of its accom—
plishments in 1935. Read below only the
briefest possible summary of the work of
its fourteen ﬁeld representatives, operating
in many sections from Massachusetts to
California and the State of Washington.
They made a total of 3,847 addresses before
audiences aggregating 619,564 persons.

In Northern States

The central Press Bureau is in charge of
Mrs. Clarke who sends out about 400 press
slips each month. She is now chairman of
humane education for the Massachusetts
Parent—Teacher Association. Last year she

attended 146 lub meetings and gave 27
radio addresses. Altogether she reached
more than 30,000 people and distributed
nearly 17,000 pieces of humane literature.
She assisted Mrs. Grace D. Proctor in or—
ganizing the Fitchburg (Massachusetts)
Branch of the American Humane Education
Society, and arranged many activities in
connection with the work of the Mass—
achusetts S. P. C. A., notably the annual
Fair.

In our home state of Massachusetts Miss
Maryott gave 215 talks in schools in Boston,
Milton, Revere, Belmont, Cambridge, Wal-
tham, Somerville, Dedham, Shrewsbury,
Worcester, Attleboro and Fall River, where
1,007 Bands of Mercy were organized and
nearly 40,000 children reached. She con—
ducted humane exhibits at educational gath-
erings at Boston University, Fall River
and Worcester, where literature was freely
distributed to the teachers.

Miss Gilbert was employed about half the
year in schools of New Hampshire and
northern New York, where she gave 388
talks and organized 679 Bands of Mercy.

In the 189 schools visited, 23,000 children
listened to her plea for kindness. She dis—
tributed a large quantity of literature and
many posters.

Mr. Wentzel, with headquarters in Pitts-
burgh, traveled 5,600 miles in visiting
points in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Dis—
trict of Columbia. He gave 180 school talks
and organized 170 Bands of Mercy, involv—
ing 31,000 children. He also gave 210
addresses before adults at churches, clubs,
and educational gatherings. He arranged
for humane exhibits at district conventions,
fairs, county gatherings, etc., resulting in
the distribution of 200,000 pieces of litera-
ture.

Mrs. Toomim’s efforts are conﬁned large—
ly to the public schools of Chicago in which
she gave 408 talks, resulting in the organ-
ization of 1,765 Bands of Mercy in which
76,440 pupils were enrolled. She secured
endorsement of Be Kind to Animals Week
by Governor Horner and, as part of the
celebration in Chicago, was responsible for
a demonstration in which ﬁfty police horses
with mounted men participated. She placed

 

 

Our Films

The two films, “In Behalf of Animals”
and “The Bell of Atri,” durlng 1935 were
shown in eleven different states. For Mich-
igan two were purchased outright for use
of the schools in Detroit. Two are in
use in Chicago schools. They have been
shown also in Massachusetts, New Hamp-
shire, Georgia, Maryland, New Mexico,
Louisiana, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and
Rhode Island. In many cases the films
have been shown several times when sent
for. The Boston University School of Ed-
ucation has two in use. The demand has con—
stantly been increasing. There were in all
59 rentals. The educational value of these
films is great. It is a revelation to the ma—
jority Of those who see them of what is be—
ing done by our Society. Generally the
showing is followed by the exclamation: “I
had no idea so much was being done for
animals!” The rental is so low that almost
any humane organization can secure them.
The charge is only to cover the cost of keep-
ing them in good condition and paying the
express charges.

The Financial Report

Few charitable societies should be more
grateful to their members, friends and bene-
factors than Ours. In spite of the past lean
years we have been able, if slowly yet stead-
ily, to widen our work and nowhere to cur—
tail it, or drop from our payroll faithful
employees. In spite of a deficit of $28,-
520.09 in receipts from the Angell Animal
HOSpital, due to uncollectible bills and to
the free services rendered to those unable
to pay anything, we close the year with but
a slight difference between current receipts
and expenses. Total current receipts for
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., $278,231.23;

current expenditures, $282,554.66. Current
receipts for the American Humane Educa—
tion Society $26,542.03; current expendi—
tures $25,973.34. Total current receipts for
both Societies $304,773,26; total expenses,
including depreciation charges, $308,528.00.

To all those loyal and generous friends,
both those living and those who have left
us, whose gifts have made this past year’s
work possible, we are deeply and unceasing-
ly grateful.

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis ..
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180

Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRs. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

REPORT OF CHIEF OFFICER

The work of the Prosecuting Department
of the Society during the year has consisted
principally in bringing before the courts
certain flagrant cases of failure to feed and
provide proper shelter for livestock, and vio—
lations of the laws in respect to the driving
and working Of lame and galled horses.
These involved a score of Oﬁenders. Injuries
to animals caused by hit—and—run drivers of
autos and the stoning and shooting of other
animals necessitated ten court cases. Other
offenses requiring court action were the
selling of unﬁt horses, abandonment of ani—
mals, throwing acid upon a dog, and cruelly
dragging a cow behind a motor truck.

Our humane ofﬁcers have adhered to the
principles, Whenever and wherever possible,
that it is better to convert men from cruelty
than to convict them in courts, and that the
test of a Society’s usefulness is not the num-
ber of its prosecutions, but the number of
acts of cruelty it is able to prevent.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

”Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
R. EVANS, V.M.D.
. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oammwm
bowwmw

 

 

m?’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LL m 1868.AND FOR Pom-y,

ONE

 

.¢

. “will:
. ‘. ‘7‘,

s p.)
c . Iv" ¥ -\ .
, \5/311‘.‘5.’:“ ‘ “

 

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

—COWPER

.
U.S.Trade Mark, Registemd n 1
O

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY TO‘
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered asosecend-class .matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂice at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 69

It was a wise man who said, “In con-
fronting the sufferings of helpless children
and animals on this so often blood-stained
planet, one meets the most appalling and
mysterious problem ever presented to it.”

The drought that has meant so much suf-
fering to men, women and children in great
sections of our country has meant death
from starvation and thirst to tens of thou-
sands of our vanishing water—fowl. The
shotgun and the drought—can those that
are left survive both?

The deadly oil discharged into the sea and
reaching the coastal waters of this and
other lands continues to kill by the thou—
sands our sea fowl. Only recently bathers
on one of our Massachusetts coasts com—
plained of the foul ﬁlm that coated the wa-
ters where they sought a bath. Perhaps
when enough men and women are aroused
to this peril to themselves the nation may
actually do something.

It was that rather wise old Scotchman,
Carnegie, who wrote a paper on “The Base-
less Fear of War” and said, “There has to
be an end of this some day. A man’s pro-
fession is his hobby, therefore if generals
are to decide how many soldiers we are to
maintain, and admirals how many fifty-
million battleships we are to build, farewell
to common sense, for there are no extremes
to which men’s hobbies may not lead them.”

.Not many know that a little white slab
marks the grave of “Trooper,” a brave
French dog, on the site of the Statue of
Liberty, writes the popular columnist, O.
O. McIntyre. Trooper served as a messen-
ger during the days of war-torn France,
showing loyalty and immense bravery un-
der heavy bombardment. After the war he
was retired to the little army post on Bed-
loe’s Island. When the dog died special
permission was granted the U. S. Depart-
ment of the Interior to bury him at the
base of the island’s flag pole.

September, 1936
A Great Loss

N the death of Dr. S. Parkes Cadman the

humane cause the world over has lost
one of its most loyal friends. Year by year
when Be Kind to Animals Week came this
distinguished preacher never felt it beneath
his dignity or the sanctity of the pulpit to
call attention to the claims upon us all of
the creatures below us for just and kind
treatment. Interested as he was in prac—
tically every good cause that could appeal
to the human heart, Dr. Cadman never
failed to tell the great multitudes who lis-
tened to him over the radio of what was
being done in the interests of the animal
world and urged upon all his listeners the
rights of man’s lowlier kin. Missed as he
will be by Protestant, Catholic, Jew, by all
those philanthropic organizations that never
turned to him in vain for help, he will also
be missed by those of us in humane work to
whom he so generously responded when we
asked for his co—operation.

Humane Driving

A correspondent in New York City sends
in the following interesting anecdote:

It was at the intersection of two of our
New York City streets. The green light
was in favor of the east and west cross—
town traffic, and as I waited for the lights
to change I saw an eastbound taxicab jam
on, its brakes and stop suddenly, despite the
green “go” signal. In a moment it shot
ahead again and traffic moved on. I was
wondering at the reason for the cab’s sud—
den stop, for my eyes, focused far ahead
on the street, had not seen what was pass—
ing directly in front of me. A pedestrian,
with a pleased expression on his face, mur—
mured in a foreign accent: Sava (1’ life of
(1’ poor cat.” Then I saw, safely across the
street, walking along in dignity and quite
unaware that her life had been saved, a
large cat.

I continued on my way with a feeling of
gratitude on behalf of puss for the kindly
taxi driver who was willing to stop a few
seconds to save a cat’s life.

No. 9
Unbelievable but Verified

A Marvelous Story

A story appeared sometime ago in that
very attractive magazine entitled
Democracy, published in Kansas City, Mis—
souri, which seemed so wholly incredible
that I took great pains to have it verified.
The story was told by Lieutenant Comman—
der C. M. Holton, U. S. N. I knew he had
left Kansas City so I wrote to the United
States Navy Department for his address
and they gave it to me as Shanghai, China.
I wrote Lieutenant Commander Holton tell-
ing the story, asking him how far he could
vouch for the article in Democracy. This
is: his reply:

Dear Dr. Rowley,

“Your letter of May 14 reached me yes-
terday. The story you enclosed about these
English sparrows is essentially correct.
Since August, 1934, these birds have been
under observation, ﬁrst ‘Beep’ and then
his mate and now there is ‘Beep, J r.’ ”

Here is the marvelous story:

“In 1934 while Mrs. Holton and I were
living in Kansas City a little English spar-
row just out of its nest began to take an
interest in the family, and several months
later when we moved to St. Regis he fol-
lowed accompanied by a young female.
When the mating season was over, there
was a new member of his family whom we
named the ‘Crown Prince.’

“We took a trip to New York. We went
from Alton, Illinois, across the state of
Illinois, across the state of Indiana, and
through Columbus, Ohio, down. to Chillico—
the. The Beep family accompanied us,
keeping up the pace, flying all the way and
reaching New York with us. They return-
ed with us, flying back to Kansas City.

“Then,” says Lieutenant Commander Hol—
ton, “regrettable as it was to leave the Beep
family, we thought the story ended when
we boarded the train for San Francisco at
five—thirty in the afternoon. The Beeps ac—
companied us to the station, but we hoped
by boarding the train and drawing the
shades so they could not see us that they

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Pa ya 41;

the ﬁlms, “Bell of Atri” and “In Behalf of
Animals,” and 3,000 copies of special “Hu-
mane Exercises” in the Chicagoschools.

Throughout the South

Miss Finley, in Virginia, organized school
and playground groups for summer humane
work, and arranged for composition, pic—
ture and bird feeding-box contests in the
regular schools. She visited 261 schools,
gave 223 talks, reaching nearly 19,000 pu-
pils, and organized 155 Bands of Mercy.
Adult addresses numbered 21, before audi—
ences totaling 2,500.

Mr. Lemon traveled nearly 11,000 miles
to visit more than 300 communities in Vir-
ginia where he is carrying the humane mes-
sage to the Negro population. He gave 242
talks in 214 schools, and reported 252 Bands
of Mercy. He also spoke before 54 adult
audiences, and held humane exhibits at
Hampton summer school, a large agricu—
tural fair, and two church assemblies.

Mr. Carroll, though maintaining head—
quarters in Columbia, South Carolina, ex-
tended his work to North Carolina, Geor—
gia, Virginia and the District of Columbia,
while his press releases went to 70 Negro
papers in 33 different states. He sent 3,000
announcements of Be Kind to Animals Week
to schools and colleges and distributed 2,000
special humane education posters to summer
schools. He visited more than 500 schools
and organized 286 Bands of Mercy, having
traveled more than 17,000 miles and made
500 addresses. He distributed more than
12,000 pieces of literature and altogether
reached 126,700 children and adults.

Mr. Burton, in Tennessee, presented our
message to Parent Teacher Associations,
vacation Bible schools, Sunday-school con—
ventions, pastors’ associations, teachers’
institutes and rural conferences. This in-
volved 22,400 miles of travel, 197 talks in
192 schools, reaching 26,600 children, 66
adult addresses before audiences aggregat-
ing 19,000, and the distribution of 3,500
pieces of literature. He aroused so much
enthusiasm for the Jack London Club that
nearly 7,000 of his hearers pledged them-
selves to refrain from attending theaters
catering trained animal acts.

Mrs. Weathersbee has the Parent-Teach-
er work in Georgia throughly organized,
through the assistance of ten district hu-
mane education chairmen. She personally
reached 61 Parent-Teacher and educational
meetings, with exhibits and free distribu-
tion of literature. She held ten schools of
humane instruction and, in the summer,
talked at four Teachers’ schools and four
camps for boys or girls. Her duties took
her to 122 cities and towns in which she
succeeded in enrolling nearly 50,000 chil-
dren in the Band of Mercy. She receives
the whole-hearted support of the Georgia
Department of Education which has made

humane education a school project in that
state.

Mr. Griffith’s work in Florida and North
Carolina is unique as he makes general use
of a loud speaker on the streets, through
co-operation of the police in the various
towns. He estimates that 10,500 peOple
have “listened in” to his humane talks
through this medium. In addition, he

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

visited 74 schools, gave 52 talks and organ-
ized 385 Bands of Mercy, thus reaching
more than 15,000 children. He visited many
institutions, distributed literature freely,
and often found occasion to advise moun-
taineers in the care of their animals.

About 100,000 persons, two—thirds of them
children, were reached by Mr. Barnwell,
working largely among the colored people of
Texas. His school talks numbered 272
while his addresses to adult assemblies num—
bered 220 more. The latter included Church-
es, colleges, social and religious groups,
and interracial conferences. He organized
684 Bands of Mercy and distributed 11,000
pieces of literature.

In the Far West

Mrs. Nichols, national chairman of hu-
mane education, arranged for an exhibit at
the annual convention of the Parent—Teach—
er Association in Miami, Florida. In her
absence this was in charge of Miss Marie
French who also conducted the humane ed-
ucation conference there. Mrs. Nichols was
able to attend the board meeting of the Na—
tional Congress at Chicago, and also to visit
the Boston office and give several addresses
on her return through Florida and Califor-
nia to her home in Washington, but later
was compelled to seek rest from her ardu-
ous work.

Mrs. Park continues to conduct the West—
ern Humane Press Bureau from headquar—
ters in Palo Alto, California, sending
monthly releases to 550 editors. She gave
several lectures, had literature tables at na-
tional, state, county and local conventions,
and distributed quantities of humane liter—
ature in schools and elsewhere.

Be Kind to Animals Week

The twenty-ﬁrst observance of national
Be Kind to Animals Week was worthy of
this signiﬁcant movement, perhaps the most
far-reaching in its inﬂuence of any animal
protection work in this country since the
inauguration of the American Humane
Education Society by Mr. Angell in 1889.
The Governor of Massachusetts, in his Proc-
lamation for the Week, alluded to Our
Dumb Animals as “a wholesome inﬂuence
for good in every corner of Christendom.”
In Massachusetts we distributed 8,000 cop—
ies of an eight-page leaflet, specially pre-
pared, to teachers in public schools for use
on Humane Day. Our annual poster con—
test, open to all pupils above the third grade
in public and parochial schools of the state,
resulted in the receipt of 6,096 posters from
442 different schools, representing 153 cities
and towns. First prize medals were award—
ed to 579, second prize medals to 710, and
honorable mentions to 1,073 pupils. Each
of the latter received a year’s subscription
to Our Dumb Animals.

Three cash prizes were given by Our
Dumb Animals for the three best short
manuscripts on “The Most Remarkable
Story of Animal Intelligence.” More than
two hundred manuscripts were received
from all parts of the United States and
Canada. The Society issued a large edition
of a special Humane Sunday leaflet, with
appropriate addresses by its President, in
response to many calls. One thousand copies

Mar. 1936

of a striking national poster, designed by
Morgan Dennis, were effectively used.

Jack London Club

Trained animal acts showing cruel treat-
ment seem to be more conspicuous now in
screen productions than in actual perfor—
mances on the stage. Many complaints are
received but it is almost impossible to place
the responsibility where the public is not
admitted to the actual act. However, mem-
bership in the Jack London Club, which
means pledges to boycott trained animal
acts, increased by more than 25,000 during
the year. Altogether two-thirds of a mil-
lion members have been enlisted in this
cause, and the public sentiment thus stim—
ulated must ultimately have its effect in
seriously curtailing, if not completely
stopping, these cruel performances.

In Foreign Fields

The international scope of our work is
shown by the fact that during 1935 we dis-
patched literature or other supplies to
Canada, Newfoundland, British West In—
dies, Chile, France, Spain, Italy, Bulgaria,
Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Transjordan,
Mesopotamia, India, China, Canary Islands,
Philippine Islands, and South Africa. It
is unusual when a mail is received without
having at least one communication from
some foreign country, either asking for
supplies or seeking advice in humane work.

New Literature

Editions of the Humane Calendar for
1936, new “Humane Exercises,” new leaflet
entitled “My Little Brothers of the Woods,”
and reprint of “The Teacher’s Helper,”
cards, press slips, blotters, aggregated near-

ly 50,000 copies. Several of our popular'

four-page leaflets were reprinted also.
During the year no less than 141,250 free
pieces of literature, posters, blotters, but-
tons, badges, pennants, etc., were sent out
from our office in addition to the many
thousands that were sold at cost to socie-
ties and individuals in all parts of the world.

For financial report see last paragraph
of report of Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

 

Sig,-

DISCOVERED BY MASS. S. P. C. A.
OFFICER AND HUMANELY
DESTROYED

More than 400 such horses were put to

sleep by the Society’s officers in 1936.

 




Pagel58 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Oct. 1936

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@112 'ﬂﬁanh nf mrrrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
lwill try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for‘ the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Banal of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Sixty—four new Bands of Mercy were re-
ported during August. Of these there were
63 in Illinois and one in South Carolina.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society,218,149.

Prying into Bird Secrets
BESSIE L. PUTNAM

ANY birds are not so secretive at

nesting-time as they try to be. Yet,
if they unwittingly tell too much by their
actions, this is even more reason why we
should not take advantage of their indiscre-
tions. True,.some of the ground sparrows
and the meadowlark will scoot along in the
grass or weeds for a few yards before rising,
thus deluding the intruder. The killdeer,
on the other hand, rushes from afar to meet
him. It may even ﬂy into his face or drag
its wings on the ground, as if crippled, in
order to lead him away from its treasure.
If he continues nearer, its efforts are re-
doubled; and, in this way, it actually helps
one to locate the very spot it is trying so
hard to conceal. But if he goes in the op—
posite direction it still further discloses its
ruse by losing interest and moving off.

The ruffed grouse adopts similar tactics
in its woodland home. But its nest, instead
of being a spot in the ope-n field perhaps
bordered only with stones, is partly con—
cealed under a log or brush pile; though the
7 to 14 buff colored eggs are less protected
by coloration than the four of the killdeer,
they are so thickly mottled with reddish
brown that they are almost the color of the
ground on which they rest.

The robin can well afford to be quite fear-
less since its nest is usually placed out of
reach from the ground. Watching the
birds for a short time as they fly back and
forth in gathering material for their build-
ing, or in feeding their young, will reveal
the nest’s location. The wren, too, seems
to mind it little if folks are watching its
domestic affairs. Yet we have known one
to spitefully‘ tear out every bit of its nest
because one woman “peeked,” though she
was sure that in carefully lifting the cover
of the box in which this nest was placed she
had not disturbed a single stick.

The oriole and scarlet tanager choose ele—
vated locations, so we may encourage the
little folks in watching them all they wish.
The cuckoo is a bush lover and so touchy
that we have known her to forsake her nest
after part of the eggs were laid, when she
thought human curiosity too great. Taking

 

Photograph by courtesy of Ayrshire Digest

MEMBERS OF THE BRANDON, VERMONT, AYRSHIRE 4—H CALF CLUB,
WITH THE HEIFERS WHICH THEY PURCHASED

 

a single egg from the nest of any bird does
not necessarily mean just the destruction of
one birdling. It may mean a desertion of a
nestful of eggs, even when they are almost
.ready to hatch. So, encourage the wee folks
in locating tree-top nests, but be chary of
encouraging an intimacy which may in any
way interfere with the welfare of the wing—
ed folks. Count the number of tidbits offer-
ed to the baby robin every hour, but allow
the ground birds to attend to their nursery
duties unhindered.

Miracle in the Desert
BRUCE JENNINGS

F you have ever visited the West in the

summertime, you have certainly crossed
some of its vast areas of alkali flats. As
your car has sped by, you have perhaps
pondered the utter waste of these thousands
of barren acres and wondered, if some day
man would not find some use for them.

Only a few years ago there was just such
a desolate waste in Box Elder County, Utah.
For miles it stretched into the west, thou-
sands upon thousands of acres of gray dust
with a green strip down their center where
the. Bear“ River gradually faded away into
the desert. Lizards played among the
stunted greasewood on summer afternoons
and crows sometimes soared by overhead;
but if other life ventured into these wastes
it did not long survive.

‘ In 1928, by a special act of Congress,
this area became the Bear River Migratory
Bird Refuge. There was loud laughter a-
mong the scoffers thereabouts, as there is
for so many of the Government’s enter-
prises, when it was announced that these
desert acres would be made into a sanctu-
ary for species of wild life which were rap-
idly becoming extinct. The knowing could
find many reasons for insisting that the
project would be a failure, but it is proba-
ble that they were not greatly concerned
with the approaching extinction of our mi—
gratory waterfowl.

If evil counsel had prevailed the desert
must have remained a desert, but there
were those who saw that it might one day
be brought to bloom like a rose. They per—
sisted in their vision, and today, only six
years after the first dike was begun, they
are able to see their dream a present reality.

If you should visit the Bear River Mi-

 

gratory Bird Refuge today, you would not
be inclined to believe anyone who would
tell you that this, six years ago, was a des-
ert. A series of fresh water lakes and ponds,
some 50,000 acres in extent, cover the bar-
ren alkali flats of yesterday. Thousands
of acres which were six years ago as bare
of vegetation as a city street are now lux-
uriant meadows. In the ponds grow sub—
merged aquatic plants in rich profusion.
This plant growth furnishes food, cover,
and desirable nesting sites for the water-
fowl visitors to the sanctuary.

The little gray lizards have vanished
from their former haunts and in their stead
are millions: of migratory birds that con-
gregate here to partake of the bounty pro-
vided for them. If they have become af-
flicted with disease, they receive treatment;
if they have been injured or wounded, they
are cared for and furnished with food. Safe
from most of their natural enemies, they
can build their nests and rear their young
in surroundings almost perfectly adapted
for their purpose. The hand of man, that
once dealt nothing but destruction to these
birds, is now extended in a spirit of help—
fulness.

It is evident that the birds have learned
to recognize and appreciate this change in
attitude, for they have lost much of their
natural timidity and pursue their habits of
life undisturbed by the many visitors to the
sanctuary. Avocets and stilts, Caspian
terns, sea gulls, ducks, geese and other wa-
ter fowl gather here in countless numbers.
Through all the land, it would seem, the
glad news has. gone forth that man is now
their friend and will deal kindly with them.
To those who visit the refuge,—this miracle
that has been wrought in the desert—must
come the realization that in the accomplish—
ment of such enterprises man most ennobles
himself.

“Cruelty, like curses, comes home to
roost; the worst effect of it is the inevitable
deterioration of the offender.”

“I’ve ruined trap lines by stealing traps
and casting them to the bottom of the river
hole. I think no civilized woman would want
to wear furs again if once she saw an ani-
mal tortured in a steel trap. But lots of
women aren’t civilized.”

JUDY VAN DER VEER, in “The River Pasture”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

July, 1936

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 111

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

A Mischievous but Lovable Pet

T HEY have found that their pet crow is a mischevious
little dickens, but Collete and Betty Cole, two little
girls of Toulon, Illinois, love him anyway.

They raised two crows from babies. One, “Nip,” flew away
and evidently answered the call of the wild, but “Tuck” is
still with them. -

Tuck flies to meet them when they return from the store
or from school and rides home on the shoulder of one of them
or sits at their play-table waiting for some cracker crumbs 0:
other tid-bits. Or, if they are hoeing in the garden, he
lights upon the hoe—handle. When the family washing is put
out, it is necessary to lock “Tuck” up in the barn because he
pulls out all of the Clothespins. The crow and the cat eat
from the same dish, but the crow is always aggravated when
the cat wiggles its tail and procedes to peck at it.

Yes, Tuck is a real bird and likes to lie upon his back and
have his abdomen scratched just as well 'as the cat does.

Are You Kind?

Written by WAYLAND JAMES HOLLEY, age ten years and
eleven months, for Be Kind to Animals Week, Aprll, 1936

Are you kind to little creatures

That roam about the woods all day?
Are you kind to little squirrels

That romp and jump and run and play?

Do you love little animals
That you love to tease and poke?
Hear the horse neigh and whinney
And the toad and bullfrog croak?

Do you love, the pig’s deep grunt

And the cow’s sweet mellow voice?
I wonder which one you would pick

If you ever had your choice.

E. R. PERRY

You saucy robin perched upon a twig,
Why do you rob my little cherry tree?
The ruby fruit, so luscious, ripe and big,
Why do you peck and eat so greedily?

I, too, like cherries, and besides, they’re mine;

I’ve watched this tree for years with jealous care.
There’s nothing quite so tasty when I dine

As cherry pie to top the other fare.

But, now I do bethink me, you’re the one

That eats the bugs and vile worms by the score.
Come when you like until the day is done,

And eat your fill; I will complain no more.

Terrier and Kitten

MYRON A. PATCH

N ICK” was a terrier. As is the case with most terriers,
his temper, good or bad, was out of all proportion to
his size. Under ordinary conditions, no stray cats were al—
lowed by Nick to come on the place that was his home.

This made it the more surprising to his master and mis-
tress when, one day,. Nick appeared, carrying by the scruff
of its neck, a most disreputable looking kitten, which, with
a seemingly apologetic air, he laid at their feet.

His mistress declared that he was saying, in plain dog
language, “I can fight cats. But I simply cannot fight any-
thing as helpless as this. Can’t you do something for it?”

Of course Nick was praised and petted for his good deed.
The kitten was given warm milk. And then, to test the depth
of Nick’s good intentions in the matter, that night the kitten
was placed with Nick, in his kennel bed. But—another sur-
prise for his mistress—this seemed to please Nick, and terrier
and kitten curled up together. And in the morning, together
they came for their morning meal. And, most surprising of all,
Nick allowed “Bum,”—as the kitten had been named, to eat
with him, from the same dish.

From that time until a year later, when Bum, in crossing
the highway, was killed by a motor—car, the two were almost
inseparable companions. ‘And his mistress declares that Nick’s
grief was pathetic at the death of his cat partner, Bum.

Double Acrostic
ALFRED I. TOOKE

WRITE the words in a column with the first and last
letters all in capitals, and you will get the name of
an instructive and enjoyable magazine.
1. A state noted for its oil production.
. A fabled animal resembling a horse, but with a
straight horn projecting from its forehead.
. A Jewish doctor or interpreter of the law.
A band instrument that makes a booming sound.
This comes in very handy when it is raining.
Melodious, like the song of a bird in the sunshine.
Feathered friends of man.

[\3

«anew

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page .49

agents’ cars, five of which were new. For
the Hospitals new equipment is constantly
being added as new and modern require—
ments demand.

The Rest Farm for Horses and Small Ani-
mal Shelter at Methuen

The past year has been a busy one at the
Farm. There has been a daily average of
301/2 horses to be cared for, 3,261 small an—
imals received, necessitating 1,773 ambul—
ance calls. The small animal Cemetery now
numbers 727 graves with 41 burials during
1935. This Farm and Shelter has supplied
a need for Methuen, Lawrence, the Ando-
vers and surrounding towns that was never
met before. One can but wonder what was
the pitiful lot of the more than 3,000 un—
fortunate dogs and cats now annually
brought to the Shelter through the years
before any such shelter with its ambulance
was provided to gather them up, find homes
for many of them and painlessly put to
sleep the injured, diseased and unwanted.

Let the Following Tell the Rest of the Story
The Agents’ Work During 1935

Miles traveled ................... 171,897
Complaints investigated ......... 5,454
Animals examined in investiga-

tions .......................... 69,214
Animals placed in homes ........ 1,336
Lost animals restored to owners. 506
Horses taken from work ......... 245
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . 405
Other animals humanely put to

sleep ..................... . ..... 18,257
Animals inspected at stock—yards

and abattoirs ................. 715,225
Injured or sick animals at stock-

yards and abattoirs humanely

put to sleep ................... 338
Horses watered on Boston Streets 13,760
Prosecutions .................... 48
Convictions ..................... 37

Ambulance Trips

Horse ambulances ............... 76
Small animal ambulances ....... 9,519

(2,757 in Boston)

The Work of the Angel] Animal Hospital in
Boston and the Hospital in Springﬁeld
During 1935

Small animals treated ........... 9,384
Large animals ................... 50
Birds ............................ 76
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 9,510
Dispensary Cases

Small animals treated ........... 28,479
Large animals ................... 39
Birds ............................ 433
Total treated in Dispensary. . . . . . 28,951
Operations ...................... 11,273
Total animals and birds treated

last year ....................... 38,461

Summary

Cases in Hospital since opened

March 1, 1915 ................. 135,303
Cases in Dispensary since March

1, 1915 ........................ 324,816

Total ........................ 460,119

Some idea of the extent of our work in all
departments of the building at 180 Long-
wood Ave., Boston, may be indicated by the
fact that the total number of incoming tel-
ephone calls at the Society’s switchboard
was approximately 80,000 for the year.

 

OWNED BY BERT UPTON

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

One of many photos of dogs sent in by
grateful owners for care given in Angell

Hospital.

 

Springﬁeld (Including Branch Hospital)

Cases Investigated ..............
Animals Inspected ..............
Horses taken from work, being

unﬁt for service ...............
Horses humanely destroyed .....
Prosecutions ....................
Convictions .....................
Small animals humanely de—

stroyed .......................
Homes found for small animals. .
Animals restored to owners ......
Ambulance calls, small animals. .
Miles traveled in investigations. .
Dispensary cases ................
Hospital cases ...................
Operations ......................

Essex County and

510
23,555

15
18
9
7

2,943
452
183

2,030

9,576

4,623

1,329

1,896

Methuen Rest Farm and Shelter

Small animals called for or re-

ceived .........................
Dogs returned to owners. . . . .
Ambulance calls ................
Complaints investigated .........
Animals inspected. . .. . . .. .....
Poultry inspected ...............
Horses taken from work .........
Horses humanely put to sleep. . .
Cows humanely put to sleep. . . . .
Prosecutions ....................
Convictions .....................
Average number horses at Farm

per month ....................
Miles traveled ...................

Cape Cod District

Cases investigated ...............
Animals inspected ...............
Horses put to sleep ..............
Small animals put to sleep ......
Homes found for small animals . .
Animals returned to owners .....
Ambulance calls for small ani-

mals ..........................
Miles traveled in investigations. .

Public talks .....................

3,261
47
1,773
438
80,354
62,650
52

170

2

12

7

30%
38,914

1,042
1,592

1,007
61

669
25,486

M or. 1936
Berkshire County

Complaints investigated ......... 261
Animals inspected ............... 8,087

Small animals humanely put to
sleep .......................... 2,336
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . 16
Prosecutions .................... 6
Convictions ..................... 4
Animals placed in homes ........ 67
Animals returned to owners ..... 24
Mileage ......................... 29,935
Ambulance calls ................ 1,924

Worcester County
Complaints investigated ......... 465
Animals inspected. . . . . . . . . . 4,322
Horses taken from work ......... 37
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . 22
Other animals put to sleep ...... 31
Prosecutions .................... 6
Convictions ..................... 6
Mileage ......................... 10,302
Bristol County

Complaints investigated ......... 474
Animals inspected ............... 3,267
Horses taken from work ......... 35
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . 14
Other animals put to sleep. ..... 167
Ambulance calls ................ 487
Prosecutions .................... 5
Convictions ..................... 5
Miles traveled ................... 19,774

The Taunton Branch

Excellent work is being done by this ac—
tive Branch composed of a group of women
whose leader, Mrs. H. F. Woodward, is one
of the most loyal friends the animals of
that part of the state could have. She re-
ports 948 animals cared for as follows:
Homes found for 78, returned to their
homes, 60; humanely put to sleep, 810. The
agent at Attleboro is always ready to re-
spond to her calls. This report does not
include the many investigations made and
time spent in raising money for the Branch
and winning new friends to the cause.

The Women’s Auxiliary

To this helpful and co-operative body of
women the Society owes a genuine debt of
gratitude. Through their efforts many of
the latest instruments and appliances need—
ed in the Hospital have been supplied. Their
gifts of money, for this purpose, raised by
them through their many activities, have
been sincerely appreciated by the Society.
Out of their activities have grown the W0-
men’s Auxiliary of Springfield, which is
closely allied with the Auxiliary here and
is constantly aiding the Hospital there, and
the Women’s Auxiliary of Winchester,
which also is co-operating with the Auxil-
iary here in Boston. The president of the
Boston Women’s Auxiliary, Mrs. Edith
Washburn Clarke, who is also president ex
officio of the two other Auxiliaries, has
been especially successful in interesting the
Women’s Clubs of the Commonwealth in the
general work of the Society, and making
many friends for it. Recently she has been
elected state chairman of the humane edu-
cation department of the Parent-Teachers’
Association.

 




 

 

 

Page 188

joyous gnawing of the best chair. Ridicu-
lous and alarming how a small dog’s per-
sonality can so grow upon you even in a
short space of time (and I’ve only had him
two weeks).

Micky, Micky, Micky . . . Surely I can
telephone someone? Sew something? Do
something which does not require overmuch
concentration? But even as I dial the ex—
change, I replace the receiver. Absurdly I
cannot trust myself to speak. 'I take up a
needle and thread but somehow cannot ﬁnd
the eye. I throw it aside.

Suddenly the front door bell peals through
the ﬂat. Mother? Brother? Betrothed? I
can’t face any of them now. I wait, hop-
ing desperately they’ll go away. They don’t,
the bell peals louder than ever. Without a
glance at what I know must be a violently
shining nose and dishevelle-d hair, I go
down and open the door. There on the step
stands a boy with something in his arms.
Something white with one brown ear and
a dark patch on: its back.

‘(M_?’

It doesn’t move.

“I found ’im in King’s Road,” the boy
says “e—

All at once the motionless object begins
to stir. One brown eye is rolled in my
direction, the white very evident, an apology
for a tail begins to thump against the boy’s
ragged sleeve.

He’s not hurt. He’s all right. He’s back!
I swallowed an extraordinarily uncomfort-
able lump which had gathered in my throat
to say, “Thank you, thank you very much
indeed. Wait a minute while I fetch my
bag.” I do so and return to exchange a
handful of silver for an extremely grubby,
much chastened dog . . . What can I do?
I feel a small heart beating faster surely
than it ever has before underneath my hand.
A damp nose is pressed against my arm.
The whole mute body of dog expresses
apology, thankfulness and an urgent plea
for forgiveness more eloquently than any
words I have yet heard uttered. I stumble
up the stairs and replace the culprit in his
basket, saying nothing, doing nothing, quite
frankly incapable of either. I turn away.
Suddenly there is a wild leaping at my side.
A beseeching gaze is ﬁxed steadily and
squarely upon me, a paw is thrust to my
knee. I’m ﬁnished. I give way at last to
those all too long checked tears.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1936

Our Winter Neighbors

HARRIETT SMITH HAWLEY

drifts of snow are piled high around our
ancient door—ways, and where an occa-
sional sleigh with merry bells still gayly
punctuates the breathing stillness, our win-
ter neighbors bring us added cheer. Real
neighbors, these, who both in storm and sun-
shine, wing their way to make of our com-
munity a real bird village. A sanctuary, not
by national or state edict, nor through the
efforts of club or organization, but rather
because of our love of a song in a feathered
throat.

To be sure, our surroundings of low hills
flanking a meandering river valley with
rich plantings of evergreens are alluring
to birds, but these alone would not induce
them to our street. Rather is it because
we do our part in planting for them the
berry-producing shrubs and in winter main—
taining at almost every house a feeding
board. It is this consideration that makes
it possible even on the coldest day for any—
one walking under our bare elms to see
flocks of flitting birds and to hear an all
variety program of bird notes varying from
the sharp “peenk” of the woodpeckers to the
soft dulcet whisperings of a host of feath—
ered folk.

Birds might be called our hobby. And so
keen have we become in our desire to lure
them to our homes, that there is a real ri-
valry on our street in bird attraction.

Thus one sees suet arrayed in all kinds
of tempting ways, suet in great pieces hang-
ing from tree branches or arbors, suet in
wire cages, suet tucked in pine cones tied
on shrubs. And although few of us have
been able to afford a bought feeding sta—
tion, the various contrived boards of our
own making are just as acceptable to the
birds.

On these boards, we spread with lavish
hand crumbs, corn meal, scratch food, crack—
ed corn, chopped suet, sunflower seeds, pie
crust tid—bits, and any other choice morsel
pleasing to bird appetite. For birds, like
humans, do not all crave the same diet.

From my own observation, I find that
while suet attracts both the hairy and
downy woodpeckers, as well as the brown
creeper, it is sunflower seeds that bring

H N our quiet village, where at present,

 

How bless’d, how envied, were our life,
Could we but scape the poulterer’s knife!

But man, cars’d man, on Turkeys preys,
And Christmas shortens all our days.
JOHN GAY

 

the nuthatch’s “yank—yank,” as he hustles
off the seeds from the board to his crevice
storehouse in the pine. As for the blue jays,
they eat anything. “Quantity,” they seem
to cry. As I write this, I notice three jaunty
top—knotted fellows sitting on our wistaria
vine ready to take possession of the board
as soon as the gray squirrel who by right
of eminent domain must be respected, sees
fit to whisk himself off. The blue jays are
scolding in their loud bold tones. Yet gar—
rulous gluttons though they are, they give
me real joy as they bring their bright blue,
like a bit of sky right before my window.
With an almost contemptuous challenge
they invite me to come out and enjoy the
weather.

Then there are the flocks of tree spar—
rows and juncos, great pals evidently, for
they always come together, with an occa—
sional brave song sparrow in their troupe.
They prefer corn meal with some of it on
the snow so that they can hop on the white
crust as they do in their summer mountain
home. Given plenty of meal, and they will
remain all day pecking away diligently
with so much gay chatter that one can not
help but feel that for continuous conversa—
tion they are the most congenial winter
companions.

Then for singing, the chickadees, those
trim black—capped little neighbors that are
a constant joy. They like scratch food and
also particularly like to peck at cones filled
with suet and peanut butter. Their song is
worth any amount of trouble in catering to
their taste. Like the gay Tommy Tuckers,
they sing for their supper. They like radio
accompaniment, too, I ﬁnd. Real troubadours
of winter, no day is too cold to keep them
from singing.

And besides our daily winter visitors,
there will come occasionally the usual and
unexpected guest that causes an excited tele-
phone call from one bird enthusiast to an—
other to “Hie right over and see.” The
surprise arrival may be a flock of gorgeous
pine grosbeaks on the honeysuckle vine at
“Green Dormers,” or the evening grosbeak
feeding on maple seeds in the grove, or a
chance ruby-crowned kinglet with the chick-
adees at “Red Top Bungalow,” or two tufted
titmice at the “Salt Box” or the red—breast-
ed nuthatch at the “Curtis House,” or the
first February fox sparrows and purple
finch at my own “Shadow Oak.” All these
create a decided stir in our village. We
jot them down on our bird lists with all the
elation of a book hobbyist locating a rare
first edition.

Just recently, my nearest neighbor with
great agitation phoned to tell me that while
she was looking out on her bird board a bird
appeared such as she had never seen before
and, snatching a chickadee, carried it off.
Consulting her bird book, she believed it a
northern shrike.

This was news, and although I disliked
the thought of losing any of my bird family,
I did long to see this rare visitant. But
he has not reappeared.

More unwelcome neighbors are thequar—
relsome starlings. On very bitter days,
these greedy creatures will arrive in force

 

 

- «Ac,-

 




 

 

 

 

 

Dec.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston
Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

. Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.
Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.

KIBBE, Pres; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—- i

MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCI-I ES

Miles traveled by humane cﬂicers. . 11,061

Cases investigated ....... . ....... 458
Anirrals examined. . .. . . . . ...... 6,173
Animals placed in homes. . .. .. . . . . 165
Lost anima’s restored to owners. . . . 53
Number of prosecutions ........ . 4
Number of convicticns............ 2
Howses taken frcm work ... .... .. 17
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 67

Small anin. als humanely rut to sleep 1,741
Stcck—yards and Abattoirs

Anima‘s inSpected ...... . ..... .. 58,128
Catt'e, swine and sheep humanely
putto sleep........... ..... .. 14

Free illustrated lecture, “Friendly Folk
in Fur and Feathers,” by Thornton W. Bur-
gess, under the auspices of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., at the Boston Public Li-
brary, Copley Square, on Humane Sunday
evening, April 11, 1937.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

91195.”;
bowsmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 1,003 Cases 2,908
Dogs 763 Dogs 2,441
Cats 223 Cats 428
Birds 9 Birds 28
Horses 5 Goats 7
Rabbits 2 Monkey 1
Goat 1 Squirrel 1

Calf 1
Turtle 1
Operations 916
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ........................ 143,944
Dispensary Cases ................ 349,501
Total ................ 493,445
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 153
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 530
Operations ......................... . 186

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re—
membered in the wills of Generva E. Ricker
Of Stonington, Connecticut; Mary E. Brown
of Boston; Ella S. J enne-ss of St. J ohnsbury,
Vermont; and Albertina Von Arnim of
Brookline.

November 10, 1936.

Passengers on the new ocean liner,
“Queen Mary,” may bring their dogs to be
housed on, the top Of the ship in twenty—six
new type kennels all steam—heated and air—
conditioned.

 

A FRIEND TO EVERY BEAST
AND BIRD

Page 185

For the Horses’ Christmas

HE Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will Ob-

serve its annual custom of distributing
Christmas dinners for horses on the
day before the holiday. At the most ad—
vantageous places available, generous bags
of feed will be given to drivers, or placed
on their trucks for home consumption.
The horses Of “peddlers’ row” will be
Visited and each supplied with a twenty-
pound bag Of oats, cut-up apples and car-
rots. Any surplus will be carried to
stables where it will be most acceptable.
SO many have contributed towards this
holiday celebration in the past that we
feel they and others will very gladly send a
donation, however small, to insure its repe-
tition.

Outstanding Humane
Films

In regard to our two humane films, “The
Bell of Atri” and “In Behalf of Animals,”
Mr. Leon F. Crane, general secretary Of the
Y. M. C. A., Marblehead, Mass, wrote re—
cently:

“They were the most instructive films I
have had the pleasure Of Showing to the
boys and girls Of Marblehead for many
years. I had 130 attend the showing which
was free and to which the public was in—
vited. It was the largest crowd I have had
thus far to educational movies.”

If you are interested in showing either
of these films, which are available both in
the 35 and in the 16 millimeter size, address,
Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
for terms and dates. Special Offers are
Open to schools and organizations in Mass—
achusetts.

Mrs. Straffin Again President

At the annual meeting Of the Brockton
(Mass) Humane Society, in October, Mrs.
Ruth H. Strafﬁn, the popular president, was
re—elected. Other officers chosen were Mrs.
Alice Cary, ﬁrst vice—president; Miss Elsie
Gardner, second Vice-president; Miss Mabel
Hathaway, treasurer; Mrs. Lillian M. Gard-
ner, secretary; and John .N. Howard, audi-
tor. Statistics quoted in the Shelter report
show unusual activity for this small but
effective Society. During the year 960 dogs
and 2,009 cats were received. Agent Ells—
worth Leach made 2,333 calls, requiring
8'7 investigations. Six times Officers Of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., with which the
local Society co-Operates fully, were called
out. .We congratulate the Brockton Hu—
mane Society and its Officers upon the un-
usually good work Of the past year.

Humane Calendar for 1937

Although late in announcing it, the Amer-
ican Humane Education Society will put
out a calendar for 1937 with colored pic-
ture Of a mare and her colt. Prices will be
the same: 20 cents for a single copy, two
for 35 cents; $1.80 per dozen, postpaid.
Special rates to Societies with name and
list of Officers printed at top Of back, for
immediate orders only. Address the Sec-
retary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

would not follow but remain for a while at
the station and then return to their neigh-
borhood.

“At Cheyenne, Wyoming, I went into the
station to buy a newspaper. While going
to the station I thought I heard Beep’s
voice, but cast it aside as impossible. It
was not until we were descending the Rock-
ies that I looked back and saw. the three
Beeps in close formation taking a short
cut across one of the curves following the
train. Apparently they flew after the train
in the daytime, all the while raiding for
food. At night I believe they boarded the
train, riding on the roof directly over our
compartment. But of this I am not sure,
for the smoke and gases in the tunnels must
have proved severe, perhaps too much for
bird life.

“At San Francisco we went to a hotel on
Union Square. An old gentleman eighty-
nine years of age feeds the birds in Union
Square from food provided by a kindly c1ty.
The birds in the square are tame, and Beep
chattered approvingly when Mrs. Holton
stroked the feathers of one of them, al-
though he himself had never come closer
than a foot from her hand.

“A few days in San Francisco and we
boarded a steamer for Honolulu. Beep,
Mrs. Beep, and the Crown Prince escorted
us to the Golden Gate. They seemed the
embodied kindly spirit of the good people of
Kansas City. But ahead of the ship at the
Golden Gate Beep saw no land, no protect-
ing trees, no friendly farm houses promis-
ing food. A bird’s eye view of the desert
wastes was enough. He could go no far—
ther.”

This much of the story was written on
the way to Honolulu where the Commander
and his wife never expected to see the birds
again. Now here comes the most marvel-
ous part of the story. Arriving in Shang—
hai, Mr. and Mrs. Beep and the Crown
Prince again appeared upon the scene, nev—
er having been discovered on the steamer.
The Commander’s letter to me concludes:

“Naturally, I am very sentimental about
these birds, but observations have been
kept scientific. The birds really belong to
my wife who maintains. their interest is due
to the fact that she talks to them rather
than from her feeding them. No food was
received by the birds from us from Kansas
City to Shanghai with the exception of San
Francisco. In my article in Democracy, I
had the birds end their trip in San Fran-
cisco. The article was written on the ship
between San Francisco and Honolulu and
mailed on the ship. Later I found it neces-
sary to correct this article, for the birds
are with us and are eating cake that my
wife has just thrown out to them in the
yard below.”

If any of our readers can match this, as
I have said, practically unbelievable story,
we hope they will do it.

Three little English sparrows! Who
would have dreamed that within. their tiny
heads the God who marks a sparrow’s fall
could have put that something which led
them all through their long journey. One’s
thought goes back to those lines that Bry-
ant wrote in his poem, “To a Waterfowl”:

There is a Power whose care
Teaches thy way along that pathless coast——
The desert and illimitable air——

Lone wandering, but not lost.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sept. 1936

 

THE MARVELOUS TRAVELING ENGLISH SPARROWS

“Beep, Sr.,” is in the foreground, “Beep, J r.,” is in the background, while the
little fellow on the right is one of the new babies born at Ichang. Lieutenant
Commander Holton took the picture through the doorway of his cabin on the
U. S. S. “Panay” while in Ichang, China. The older Beep, his mate and two
nestlings born at Ichang departed the day Lieutenant Commander Holton

sailed on the “Panay” for Hankow.

 

 

The Training of Animals
N. AGNES ROBB

0 those of us who like animals, or to

any humane and thoughtful person,
the spectacle of them doing stunts that are
entirely foreign to their nature is obnoxious.
The antics of monkeys may make us laugh,
but when. they are dressed like jockeys and
are forced to ride on the backs of racing
dogs, as I have seen depicted on a movie
screen, it cannot be a pleasant experience
for either animal. And that is only one
of the unnatural and often dangerous stunts
they are forced to do for our amusement.

That cruelty frequently is used in train—
ing, there can be no doubt. The Massachu—
setts S. P. C. A. and other humane socie—
ties have thoroughly investigated the mat-
ter, and anyone sufficiently interested will
have no difficulty obtaining statistics. If
you want to know what methods are used
in the training of dogs, read “Michael
Brother of Jerry” by the late Jack London
who was a lover of dogs. In this book he
has exposed the methods used, and it will
be an eye—opener to those who previously
have not been interested.

Among the attractions advertised for an
amusement resort recently were “Wonder
Bears” that performed on roller skates,
rode bicycles, rowed boats, walked tight
ropes, and rode the “giraffe wheel.” Now,
is it not utterly unreasonable to think that
they could be taught to do these things
without cruelty being used?

Children seeing animals perform, natur—
ally do not realize that suffering is involved
and they sometimes try to train their own
pets at the cost of at least much discom—
fort to the animals. It seems to me the

frequent seeing of such sights must event-
ually have a hardening effect on them. On
the other hand, I venture to say that chil-
dren who are taught to consider the feel-
ings of helpless creatures are not nearly as
likely to be found in the criminal class later
in life.

If a human being does something hazard—
ous for the entertainment of the public, he
at least does so voluntarily and wins his
reward in applause and hard cash, but the
animal is robbed of his natural freedom
and forced, often by cruel methods, to per-
form unnatural and difficult tricks.

Last Christmas, while looking for illus—
trated story—books for children, my atten-
tion was drawn to several which depicted
cats and kittens dressed up and in. unnatur-
al attitudes. While probably no actual
cruelty was used in obtaining these models,
the subjects looked ridiculous and uncom-
fortable.

Animals have a natural dignity which
should be respected. Why should they be
forced to perform dangerous and silly
stunts. in. order to amuse us (so-called)
higher animals? They are loyal and faith-
ful friends, responding readily to kindness,
and they are surely much more pleasing in
their natural state.

Let us “speak for those who cannot
speak for themselves.”

 

HE Jack London. Club is a hu-

mane society with no officers and
no dues, and a membership of nearly
700,000. You can become a member
of this club by refusing to patronize
the theaters that cater animal per—
formances, and by sending your name
to Our Dumb Animals, Boston, Mass. l

l

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 86

April 17, as Humane Day, when
many interesting programs were
given. Sixteen hundred copies of
the national humane poster, as
pictured in our issue of last
March, were distributed by dis—
trict officers in Massachusetts
and by field workers in other
states.

A novel enterprise of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. was
the issuing of trailers with
sound accompaniment, bearing
the legend, “THE MASSACHU-
SETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS URGES YOU
TO OBSERVE BE KIND TO
ANIMALS WEEK, APRIL 19—
25,” to ninety-five leading mov-
ing picture theaters throughout
the state. These were shown at
every performance during the
entire week and elicited much
favorable comment.

During the week Officer Fred
F. Hall, of Springfield, present-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

  

    
 
  
      
  

 

     
 

Drops of Water Wear Out Mighty Stones

 
  
 
 
  

(5 £\’; :I 573,,“
@ W \\\ II I/
W \\\\\\\III ﬂ/j

_- _-—_.___-,—_‘,—__u
'— --~_—'—

I —_-.— ‘_.——:——’_ :;_: 1’
.—_—— _— .

:::::::

WI IIII

III * MIIII -1; :1;
77;? PIIIIIIIIIII: IIIIIIII

IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIII III III,
I IIIII IIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

IIIII II IIIIIIII IIIIII I

IIIIIII
II I I IIIIII IIIIIIIIIII
III III”. II III

 
    

  
 

  

um
IIII-
“III
I

II'IIII

   

I III

III I III“ III. III
II 'IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIIII
IIIIIIII III III IIIIIIIII
III I III/I WI IIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIII I III

    

'III IIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIII'II’III
III"III‘IIII
II .
i‘I IIII’ I..I
%§%III

:1
:2

M
*—

 

o;
Uu
S
E
\x’
¥

 

 

 

 

 

III I III IIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 1936

gheny and Monongahela rivers.
Mayor McNair of Pittsburgh
made the presentations. The So-
ciety made liberal distribution
both of the national humane
poster and of a special poster
announcing Be Kind to Animals
Week, the latter being displayed
on the Pittsburgh trolley cars.
Local birdhouse and poster con-
tests were held, and many radio
talks were given. The Pitts-
burgh Press and the Post-Ga—
zette gave liberal space for pic—
tures and cartoons. All schools
and churches were sent appro-
priate literature.

The Delaware County S. P. C.
A. of Media, Pa., interested
Boy Scouts to hold humane pro-
grams in all troops. All Wom—
en’s Clubs in the county set
aside a special day in keeping
with the Week; pet clubs were

 

ed the Society’s bronze medal to
Mrs. Charles Coolong of Monson
for rescuing a pointer from

drowning at the risk of her own I I
life. Several stereopticon ad— IIIII
dresses were given in the schools
of Dedham by Miss Ella A.
Maryott, and Secretary Guy
Richardson delivered President
Rowley’s address on “The Rela—
tion of the Home to Character
Formation” before the sixth dis—
trict conference of the Parent-
Teacher Association at Methuen.
The Winchester Auxiliary of
the Mass. S. P. C. A. placed
copies of the national poster in

 

       

‘I/
/

.1 /

' Y. ’7 ’12:“; ,/// . / 1’01,
_- ’ -.' /\)/(j):-— )d\//’ at; 47;;
’I II / / /222 I ,// /
//// //l // //////// // [g///

This cartoon, showing drops of Kindness wearing out the stones
of War, Jealousy, Brutality, Hatred and Cruelty, appeared in The
News—Sentinel, Fort Wayne, Indiana, April 19, 1936.
Harry Larimer, staff cartoonist.
column editorial on Kindness by Clifford B. Ward, editorial writer
of The News-Sentinel.

It was accompanied by a two-

  
   

: IIIIII III II
I II III-IIII “III I IIIIIII III II IIIIIIIIIII organized and pet shows held;
IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIII - ‘III II II II IIIIIIII k // [AW/o. \IIII‘I'II IIIII IIII HII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII and radio and stereopticon talks
II I IIIIIIIIIIII MIMI III III II ,3 ,0 II,,-,I I III .
I "III II III‘II RI”, / fIIIII IIII IIIIIIC 7 /)5 OIIIIIII I III III/[III III were glven.
I I W" III I-“I‘II IIV II ’ IIIIIII'II' IIDII/x/x 7 %:c l|‘(l:()> I [I . .
IIIIIIIIIIIIIII III 81/”;II‘I Vb ”7-7, g/gffIIcIIII'IIIII, III_‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Illin01s Governor Acts
I A ”42/3“ I I]; it: Iii/53'2" \IM‘H‘ "";c;;u,, I III II‘ ’I‘ In his statement on Be Kind
.1 I III fa) 6 ggk/ \\III II @>{%/ 'l/’/:&///////n/}X¢T;L’II to Animals Week Governor
I III .ai‘f-‘EL/I/IZEIZEI é’ ngv ////’/ ///////////I/‘//0 (j N; IIIIII ~ Henry Horner of Illinois urged
":I'II _ iwIV/r 2/ / (ff//’ / “all citizens of our state to re-
.‘ ;/ M'hf/ 1/ ’/ spond wholeheartedly to the pur—

poses of this observance, par—
ticularly that feature which will
stress the need to make ou1
highways safer for humans and
animals.” The Governor, also the
Mayor of Aurora, sent a letter
of appreciation to Mrs. Wilson
Groshans of that city for the
long and commendable work

It is by

 

schools of that town and sponsored special
humane exercises in six of the schools. The
Thomas R. Plympton School of Waltham
put on a program by pupils in sixth grades
and exhibited the ﬁlm, The Bell of Atri.

Fitchburg Branch Active

The Fitchburg Branch of the American
Humane Education Society induced local
milk companies to use 30,000 collars on
milk bottles to advertise the Week. It also
arranged an attractive display in the show
window of the Worcester County Bank. A
Be Kind to Animals program was presented
in B. F. Brown school auditorium Tuesday
evening, while Supt. Burtt asked principals
of all schools in the city to put on humane
exercises during the Week. Essays were
written in a contest open to junior high and
high schools. The State Teachers’ College
anticipated the Week by showing the film
of the Mass. S. P. C. A. and listening to a
brief address by Secretary Guy Richardson,
on April 8.

The Melrose Humane Society presented
a silver cup to the pupil from the seventh
grades of the public schools who wrote the
best esSay on kindness. Artistic posters
were placed in all schools and in many store
windows.

The press of Boston and of the state, as
usual, gave much space to accounts of the

celebration, editorials, illustrations, etc.
Leading editorials appeared in. the Record,
Boston; Telegram, Worcester; Standard,
New Bedford; Telegram, Lawrence; Enter-
prise, Brockton; Tribune, Cambridge; Mes-
senger, Norwood; Chronicle, Reading; and
doubtless many other newspapers which did
not happen. to find their way to our desk.

Among New England newspaper features
were an editorial on “The Slaughter of
Pets” in the Herald, Portsmouth, N. H.; a
cartoon, “Be Kind” by Halladay in the
Journal, Providence, R. I.; and long editor-
ials on “Humane Sunday Observed Today”
in the Post, Bridgeport, Conn.; and “Be
Kind to Animals” in the Hour, Norfolk,
Conn.

Maine Governor’s Proclamation

Governor Brann of Main-e issued a pro-
clamation designating April 19 as Humane
Sunday and called for less “wanton dis-
regard” of animals by automobile drivers.
He also suggested that the people “give
thought to the matter of humane education
among our young people.”

Western Pennsylvania Society

The Western Pennsylvania Humane So-
ciety awarded honor medals to six men for
rescuing dogs from ice ﬂoes in the Alle—

that she has been doing as a
state humane officer.

Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, ﬁeld worker of
the American Humane Education Society in
Chicago, reports that the celebration in that
city exceeded in publicity and public under-
standing both in the schools and out, that
of any previous year. Local broadcasting
stations carried daily announcements of the
Week and several special addresses were
given by prominent peOple. In the schools,
through the co— —operation of the Illinois Hu—
mane Society 4 000 copies of “Humane Ex—
ercises” were distributed, and $90 in prizes
for the best stories and a ten— dollar prize
for the best playlet on “Kindness to Ani—
mals” were offered. Special lunches weie
given to horses on the streets of the city.
The press of Chicago responded generously
with space devoted to appropriate pictures
and articles.

From Oklahoma’s Governor

Governor E. W. Marland of Oklahoma, in
a proclamation issued April 17, invited
“the co- -operation of school teachers, minis—
ters, civic organizations, and the people in
general, in the observance of the occasion,
to the end that a more widespread public
interest be taken in the welfare and kindly
treatment of all animal life.”

(Continued on page .96)

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

l

“A 44- :- ‘w—h—

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 131;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Nest of Robins in Her Hair

ALETHA M. BONNER

“A Tree that may in summer wear
A nest of robins in her hair.”

friend of birds and of nature recently

asked the question: “Why did Joyce
Kilmer place a robin’s nest in the branches
of his immortal “Trees,” rather than the
nest of a more ‘poetic’ or romantic bird—the
nightingale, for instance?”

There were several answers volunteered,
the most of them in jest. One person
thought it was merely a matter of the two-
syllable rob—in rushing in where a three-
syllable night-in—gale could not tread!

Another answer was prefaced with the
frank statement that poets were “queer
folk” and that as Stephen Collins Foster
studied maps for many days before locating
the right river (the obscure little Suwanee
in the Southland) for his “Old Folks at
Home,” so Kilmer might have been likewise
psychologically discriminating in his choice
of the “right” bird.

The third reason submitted was, in effect,
that the robin builds a fairly substantial
nest, and one that Kilmer felt would not
tumble out of the tree before he had com-
pleted writing the poem!

Though lightly given, this last answer is
probably the most correct, for the robin is
a skilful nest-builder. True, his home is
rather ragged and rough in. outward ap-
pearance, formed of leaves and weed stalks
plastered together with an inner wall of
mud and a third lining of fine grasses, yet
when placed in a crotch of the tree it usual-
ly “stays put,” and serves as a living-room.
dining—room, and later a nursery for two
broods of squabbling, hungry birdlings
(from four to siX each).

Again, the universal popularity of the
robin might have had something to do with
his place in “Trees.” Everybody knows and
loves him for his happy personality.
“Cheer—up, cheer—up!” he is ever saying;
and, being the jolly good fellow that he is,
he has made the “front page” in bird-news
and notes from earliest times. To substan-
tiate the statement one has but to review
the most sensational trial in bird—lore his-
tory, namely, “Who Killed Cock Robin?” or
read again the old ballad, “Babes in the
Woods.” You remember the fate of the
“poor innocent,” and how, as the story fur-
ther relates:

“N0 burial this pretty pair
0f any man receives,

Till Robin Redbreast piously
Did cover them with leaves.”

There are still other legends—one, an
old Breton folk-tale, gives the supposed
origin of the robin’s red—breast. The story
reads: “On seeing the sufferings of our
Lord on the cross, the robin in pity plucked
a thorn, which pierced the master’s brow,
from the torturing crown . . . The sharp
thorn pierced the robin’s heart, and the
blood gushed forth producing the crimson
stain that remains to this day.” For such
a sacrificial act it was believed that the
bird was held in special honor by heavenly
powers, and children in an early day were
taught that “A robin in a cage, sets all

KILMER

heaven in a rage”; also, “Him that harries
their nest, never shall his soul have rest.”

The bird seems to have been a particular
favorite of that master penman of nature
sketches, John Greenleaf Whittier, judging"
by the frequent reference to the robin as
made in his writings. He it was who poetic-
ally established the American “House of
Robin,” in his Algonquin legend, “How the
Robin Came”—a verse ending with that fine
bit of philosophy:

“Happier far than hate is praise,—
He who sings than he who slays.”

Briefly described, this nest-architect is
black—headed, and with white eye—rims he
has the sage appearance of wearing specta—
cles. His costume consists of an upper coat
of grayish brown or slate; a white—streak
tie is at the throat, and a rust-red vest gives
a touch of color, as well as the title, “Robin—
Redbreast,” such a sobriquet as has been
already mentioned.

A favorite, yet very informal pose of this
ten-inches-of—energy is dragging an “early
worm” from the ground, for Robin is a
bird of the morning and welcomes the dawn
with joyous bursts of song. Again he sings
a lullaby to the evening sun cradling in the
west, yet in a voice more subdued than his
morning broadcast.

Unfortunately, there has been entirely too
much propaganda anent the mischief done by
robins to fruit trees and berry bushes, and
too little has been. said about the enormous
quantity of insects and the like devoured; so
for the enlightenment of those humans who
vow to wreak vengeance upon those “rob-
bing robins,” a brief month—by-month menu
is given to prove that, taking the year as a
whole, about two-thirds of the diet of R.
Redbreast consists of creeping, crawling
creatures that are a menace to agricultural
growth and development.

The Menu

January, February—Grass and tree seed.

March, April—Cut—worms and caterpillars.

May, June—Sumach berries and grasshop-
pers.

July, August—Cherries and berries (the
wild variety preferred).

September, October—Wild grapes and a re—
turn. to cut—worms.

November, December—Bugs, and
larvae with “tasty”
dessert.

insect
ground—beetles for

Sept. 1936

Matm
MARION H. ADDINGTON

A little bird went singing through the dawn,

Winging past my latticed window pane

Before the purple shadows had withdrawn

Their clutching ﬁngers from the maple lane.

He sang as though his yellow throat would
burst

With all the rapturous burden of his lay.

That his own tuneful carol was the ﬁrst

To usher in the golden light of day.

I felt my spirit mounting with his song,

And knew a sudden lifting of the heart,

Something exultant, glad and sweet and
strong

Had made the shadows of the night depart.

I heard him singing high and clear, until
Day came, a walking splendor on the hill.

The “Honey Guide”

WILL HERMAN

HERE is a plain but interesting little

bird—one with a bill like a sparrow
and toes like a woodpecker. But this little
bird of Africa and Asia is so well known
because of its peculiar habit of leading men
and animals to the nests of bees!

The Honey Guide likes honey. Unfor-
tunately, the bird is not equipped for open-
ing a honey—nest. Therefore, wise little
bird, it guides others to the spot. The men
or the animals open the nest and take their
ﬁll of honey. Then the honey guide pounces
on the left—overs. and enjoys the grubs
along with the honey.

The natives of Africa are well acquainted
with this bird. The bird will perch on a
low branch of a tree and chatter wildly
and excitedly until it has attracted atten-
tion. Then it will ﬂit on to another tree
in the direction of the nest. If the men
follow, the bird continues, leading the way
from tree to tree until the nest is reached.
If the men do not follow immediately, the
bird will jump back to its original perch
and chatter loudly and wildly, again urg-
ing the men to follow. And the African
natives always leave a fair portion of honey
for their honey guide, after opening and
raiding the nest.

If men are not to be found, the bird
attracts the attention of the ratel or honey
badger. This animal loves honey, too; but
he cannot ﬁnd the nest. The bird leads him
to the nest, which the badger opens, sharing
the spoils. Here, indeed, is one of nature’s
most interesting feathered creatures!

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1936 OUR DUMB

 

 

 

 

 

    

a!

.nu hu’ Jv
ww- , .

 

(t1 41L

‘

The Little Paths

ALFRED I. TOOKE

It’s the little paths intrigue me when I wander in the dell;

The narrow, winding, grassy paths—for you can never tell

When some furred or feathered creature may pop out to say,
“How do!”

Or pause to stare, as though to say, “Well, well! And who are
you?”

Each turn may hold enchantment, and each twist a new
surprise,

In the peaceful little pathways where God’s unsoiled beauty
lies.

There are little open spaces where the happy sunbeams dance
On a flower-bejewelled carpet; or you listen in a trance
To the soul-enthralling gladness of the wood-thrush as it sings
In the litle winding pathways that such thrilling magic

brings.

And if you stop to listen, there are murmurs all around.

A sparrow c'hirps a note of thanks for something he has found,
The busy bees are telling of the honey they have stored,

A chipmunk clhatters proudly of his deftly-garnered hoard,
And from somewhere just above you comes the cooing of a

done. . . .

It’s the little paths intrigue me, it’s the little paths I love,
And I always have a feeling that God’s benediction fell

On those little paths I follow when I wander through the dell.

How “Tippie” Warned of Danger
ELDA SPRUNGER

IPPIE” was a collie. The neighbors were saying un-
kind things about him.

“You ought to chloroform him. He hasn’t anything more
to live for.” g

“I wonder if the Browns aren’t going to get rid of that
old dog pretty soon.”

It appeared as if all odds were against Tippie. But what
had he done to deserve such cruel fate? Nothing. To those
who knew and understood him, he was a good old collie. Just
because he had lived twelve years in this world was no good
reason for the neighbors’ unkind attitude.

Tippie and his master were in the cellar. It was “bath
day.” The water was ready in the tub.

“All right, Tippie, jump in,” ordered Tom.

Tippie whined and acted strangely. He drew back and
sniffed. .

Tom couldn’t understand. The dog always took well to the
suds before.

“What’s the matter with you?” said Tom, becoming a little
impatient. He took hold of Tippie’s shaggy hair and tried
to lift him into the tub.

Up went Tippie’s nose toward the ceiling. He just sniffed
.and wiggled his body excitedly.

Tom began to smell something and sniffed. His head be-
gan to feel light and his legs to weaken. Then Tippie barked
furiously. He left his master and raced up the cellar steps

ANIMALS

Page 159

 

 

 

and pawed hard against the kitchen door.

Susan, Tom’s wife, heard Tippie’s call, and hurried to
open the door.

“Tippie, Tippie, what’s the matter with you?” But she
didn’t wonder long. The gas heater was filling the cellar with
dangerous fumes.

She rushed down the steps and turned off the jet. Through
the choking fumes she managed to help Tom up the steps to
the kitchen where he collapsed. She called the Life Saving
Squad.

After a short time Tom was breathing naturally again.
One of the husky life savers said to Tom, “Say that’s some
dog you have there. If it hadn’t been for him, you’d been
done for.”

“Yes,” said Susan, her face beaming, “Tippie’s the best
dog we ever had. And do you know, the neighbors think we
ought to do away With him.”

“Oh, no,” said Tom, “not yet. Tippie can live as long as he
wants to. The best is none too good for him now.”

Answers to “The Hidden Animals” in last month’s puzzle:

Beaver, buffalo, panther, bison, stoat, lamb, weasel, marten,

ferret.

 

“LASSIE,” THE SETTER, AND “DODO,” THE BLUE JAY

These pets of Miss Constance Bigelow of Springﬁeld, Mass,
eat from the same bowl of bread and milk held by their
young mistress.

 

 

 




 

 

Sept. 1936

Everything
JUDY VAN DER VEER

Everything, everything
Is beautiful today;

The cattle grazing on the hills,
The shaggy colts at play.

The yellow light across a field,
The sandy river bed;

The way the wind has turned the leaves,
And bent a 'willow’s head.

Even death is beautiful . . .
Where meadow grass is deep
I found a bird with folded wings:
It seemed to be asleep.

From Puppy to Pal
HUGH KING HARRIS

FOM the myriad discussions and edu—

cational effort directed toward youth,
the endeavor to insure an efficient, orderly
and wise future generation, are to be found
very definite “rules and regulations” for
raising puppies to congenial and praise—
worthy pals.

In fact I am frank enough to say from
experience, that we can select from the
preachments, formula and text of foremost
child educators the very essence of their
teachings, apply it to young dogs and we
will have the modus operandi essential for
canine perfection.

There are books devoted to training dogs.
Very good books. As for text on child edu—
cation the “woods are full to overflowing”
—if I may put it thus. How about the par—
allel?

Let me set down in condensed form, se-
lected accepted child training truths and
then substitute for a child, a puppy, check
results and see if this matter of puppy to
pal does not work out one hundred per
cent.

Education begins at the cradle. The
young mind is like an open book, its pages
blank, upon those pages will be recorded
many things. Like a sponge the infant
mind absorbs, it is receptive. At the begin-
ning may be planted seeds either of fear,
or of conﬁdence. There must never be a let—
down in discipline, for we seek obedience.
Yet the future well-being of the child may
be ruined by discipline which injects fear
into that young mind. To shake, beat or
scare into a semblance of obedience is
wrong. To be firm, to be persistent, calls
rather for kindly patience than for punish-
ment.

Provide a definite place for sleeping and
for play. Let the early routine afford a
future progress of habit, in desired chan-
nels.

Infant minds and young bodies thrive
upon sunshine, fresh air and exercise. That
strict attention be paid to diet is obvious.
Disordered digestive tracts bring about col-
icky spells, often mistaken Ior temper. The
healthy child is seldom rebellious or “tem-
peramental.”

So far we can draw the parallel. Closely.
As for the advice to object lessons, the en—
vironment and surroundings of the child,

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 139

 

THIS MEMORIAL TO “BELGIAN BOY” WAS ERECTED RECENTLY IN THE

ANIMAL CEMETERY OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A., AT METHUEN,
BY MRS. EARLE E. BESSEY OF BOSTON. THE SCULPTOR WAS MISS
BASHKA PAEFF, OF .NEW YORK AND BOSTON, NOTED FOR HER “LAD-
DIE BOY” OF PRESIDENT HARDING, AND OTHER CANINE SUBJECTS
THAT HAVE BEEN ILLUSTRATED IN “OUR DUMB ANIMALS.”

 

 

 

this does not apply quite so forcibly to the
puppy. Yet no young dog will be an or—
derly citizen when brought up amid family
quarrels, displays of temper and of sloven-
liness. “Let there be peace.”

The puppy is eager to learn. He needs a
friend, he repays that friendship a thou—
sand-fold in the days to come. To enter in—
to the detailed routine of puppy discipline,
its feeding and creating of orderly habits is
not called for in the limits of this little
preachment. Beware of advertised foods
for your puppy or dog. Consult a first—
class veterinarian for the best and safest
food for a growing dog and the amount he
should have.

The objective point when we acquire a
young dog is to develop a dog which will
fulfil our desires. If this be with the idea
of having the dog a companion for the chil—
dren, there is another educational factor to
be considered. The education of the chil-
dren themselves.

If the boy and girl are impressed with the
proper method of bringing up the new
friend, if they are made to realize that only
by patience and by kindness, by thoughtful
humane treatment the puppy will grow to
obey them, to love and chum with them,
they, too, gain this perspective and so we
find that a puppy, where the children are not
quite too young to understand, is an educa-
tional factor from the time he is ﬁrst being
taught to sit up, beg, or roll over, until he
passes on after a long period of devotion
and so out of the picture. In the rare cases
where boys or girls cannot be impressed
with the fact that a dog, or puppy, has
feelings, that it cannot stand rough treat—
ment, or abuse and neglect, if the kiddies
cannot be relied upon to treat the puppy as
it should be, then, in all fairness, forget
about adding one to the home, until the kid-
dies are a bit older and more understanding.

Humane Sunday, April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937.

 

A Saddening Discovery

HENRY Hg. GRAHAM

Y young nephew and I were tramp—
M ing the shore of Murtaugh Lake, a

reed-fringed irrigation storage reservoir in
Idaho, when sounds of a commotion in the
overflow back of us reached our ears. We
investigated.

There in the water, flapping his wings
because of fright and pain, was a huge
mallard drake, his: green head sparkling in
the rays of a bright October sun. At first
we were mystified by the beautiful crea-
ture’s inability to fly away. But not for
long. One of his yellow legs was held fast
in a steel trap. The latter had doubtless
been set for muskrat by some trapper.
There was no telling how long ago the trap
had been put there or how long the duck
had been held fast.

Feeling of the mallard’s breast bone I
discovered the bird was emaciated through
failure to feed himself properly. Web-
footed birds lose flesh rapidly when. unable
to find food. And grass in necessary quan—
tities was denied him. Far out in the lake
hundreds of his tribesmen were having a
fine time diving for food while entirely un-
aware of his predicament and utterly pow-
erless to help, even had they known of it.

My nephew and I speedily released the
bird, which flew clear away from the hate-
ful lake. We imagined he was. heading for
some grain stubbles to put some flesh on his
bones.

Steel traps and other snares are cruel to
wild life for which they are not intended,
as well as to fur—bearing animals. My
heart ached for that suffering mallard,
which, if we had not happened along, would
have died a lingering, horrible death. The
incident created a profound impression on
my boy companion, who, I am sure will
never set a trap as long as he lives.

“Blessed are the merciful.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1936

Christmas Eve in the Forest

The sun goes down, the pale moon flings her
light

On snow—topped rock and pool. 0 Holy
Night! ,

Give truce to creatures out of den and nest;

This Night, at least, let safety ’tend their
quest!

Through many moons they walk in dark and
fear;

The steel-toothed jaws, the ambush lurketh
near.

In memory of that Night when kine and
sheep

Watched while a Woman hushed a Babe to
sleep,

Give them a respite, they of nest and den.
Bring peace, goodwill to woodland, hill, and

f 6%;

Let Love this night bend low, and spread
Its wings

O’er little frightened shiv’ring, crouching
things.

0 Holy Night, that shineth down the years!

Comfort the sorrowing, wipe away their
tears.

Quiet the human pain, the fear—and then

Bring peace to furry things, as well as men!

JEMIMA REMINGTON in “Where Pussy
Willows Dip”

A Charitable Hen

SARA M. PERRY

NE of our big Rhode Island Red hens

seemed so avidly hungry all the time,
that I decided to watch and see if I could
ﬁnd the trouble.

The chickens have a spacious run in the
orchard; plenty of grass, fallen fruit, and
a place to scratch to their heart’s content.
We’ve just a small ﬂock for home use.

I went out in the orchard to see if I could
ﬁnd, perhaps, that some other chicken was
domineering and ﬁghting this hen. But, no,
there she was, scratching away, not another
chicken near. She’d made a deep hole and
worms were popping out every few
“scratches”; but my hen wasn’t eating them
——she-’d stop as each worm popped out and
wait for a robin to take it.

I hadn’t noticed the robin, it’s wing was
dragging as if broken. He’d hop into the
hole, grab the worm, then hop out again
and wait for the next one.

One of the other chickens came up to see
what was going on, the big hen fought sav—
agely, ran the chicken off, and went back to
digging for the lame robin. Day after day
I watched them, and she fed that robin until
he was able to ﬂy. How long she’d been
doing it, I have no idea, but one day I went
out and there she was, feasting on the
spoils of her own labors. A robin ﬂitted
about her but made no attempt to take
the worms as she dug them.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Lost Dog

HELEN TREVELYAN

English novelist and actress, author of “Heaven’s Rage ”

Y dog is lost, my little short—legged,
M not-too-good-in—trafﬁc dog—is lost.

How heartily I loathe all the happy,
proud, and even; exasperated possessors of
dogs, as blindly and helplessly I search the
streets and shops . . . Dogs in cars, dogs on
leads, dogs at heel, all snugly and securely
owned, so very much not lost . . . Where is
“Micky”? Where can he be? With an al—
most physical sense of sickening despair I
realize how vast is even one small section of
this oh! so vast London. Every store’s a
wilderness, every thoroughfare a desert in
which to lose a small dog irrevocably. What
can I do? Where can I look? How hopeless
it all is. He may be only a few feet away,
behind that counter or the other side of that
door and yet I cannot ﬁnd him—cannot
hope to ﬁnd him. . . .

And he? He so brave and gay and in—
domitable must now be scared, bewildered
and horribly humbled. Oh, Lord, what can
I do? . . . The Police? Yes, of course, why
didn’t I think of it before, those stout com—
forting blue-coated beings, they if anyone
will help me, I must ring them up . . . They
are at once reassuring without being over
sympathetic, thus threatening my danger-
ously waning control, “Yes, Miss, at what
time? Eleven thirty, yes, Miss, and the name
of the dog? Micky, yes, Miss, and the breed?
Sealyham, and the markings, if any? White
with one brown ear, yes, Miss, and which
ear would that be?” Which ear? Oh these
tortuous, not to be thought of details! “The
left.” “The left?” “Yes, Miss. Any other
markings?” “One black patch on the back.”
Black! How wicked thus to betray Micky’s
pure Sealyham strain by calling it black,
yet if I say “badger” (the correct term)
they may question and enquire and some—
how I find it difficult even to think about,
far less talk about him at all. So I say
black. “One black patch. Yes, Miss, meas-
uring about what size?” Lord! (Shall I
ever be able to measure it exactly?) “About
three inches by three, I think,” I manage to
get out. “About three by three, yes, Miss,
and valued at?” “Oh, valued rather highly,
at—” “Very well, Miss, we’ll do our best,
but—” “Thank you, thank you very much.”
I ring off, I can’t bear any more.

How empty, how desolate the flat is. I
can’t write, I can’t read, I can’t even tidy
a drawer or dust a book . . . where, oh
where, can he be? Micky, who gets so ter-
ribly in the way. Whose demands on time
and attention are exorbitant; whose capa—
city for affection is a thing to marvel at;
who simply cannot resist a hearth brush,
a toy animal or a cushion (preferably a
new one), who has dislocated more tele—
phone and wireless connections than one
would have thought possible. Whose gay
lovable person is (was, oh, Lord!) irrevoc-
ably entwined about my very existence;
whose eagerness, zest and enthusiasm for
life puts most blase cynical world—weary
humans to shame. Whose small being over—
flows with such a wealth of love, gratitude
and wistful questioning as to capture the
hardest of hearts.

 

MISS TREVELYAN AND TWO OF
HER PETS

His basket stands empty, a silent accusa-
tion of my carelessness in leaving the front
door open before he was old enough to
curb that adventurous spirit which must
have irresistibly overwhelmed him. How
clear it all is to me now! A chance to
wander, to explore, to investigate new
smells, fresh ground! How exciting, how
wicked, how thrilling! And so he set forth,
ﬁlled with the heady exhilaration of his own
daring and importance, until suddenly, feel-
ing hungry perhaps, or a little lonely or in
need of a familiar foot or scent instead of
the once seemingly exciting unfamiliar ones,
he turned—and was lost. Which way home?
Which street out of so many, all so exactly
alike? A mad dash down one. A frantic
tearing up another. A dead halt. An agon—
izing searching up and down, this way and
that. Not a recognizable object in sight.
Oh, oh, oh! the awful desolate empty feel—
ing of being lost. Poor Micky. Kind people
stop and speak to him. He sniffs them ab-
sently. No, no, not the one he’s looking for.
Someone stoops and tries to pick him up,
but politely, instinctively, he resists (Micky
has perfect manners). .No, no, not those
arms, nor those, nor those. In and out, in
and out, back and forth, back and forth
amongst strange feet he ﬂies, a steadily
growing haunted look in his eye, a tense
frenzied line about his small anxious body.
Oh, this is terrible. This is punishment too
cruel for what was only meant as a mild
lark, a youthful escapade. Oh, oh, oh,
wheels, feet, noise, noise, wheels, feet . . .
Which way? Which way? Which way?

For three hours I wait, aching, longing
for that determined scratching on the mat,
that mad scamper across the» polished ﬂoor,
that heavy breathing beneath the door, that

 

 

 

 




 

Sept. 1936

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
Listen to the Birds!

Photographs by the Author
ALVIN M. PETERSON

 

BLUEBIRD AND BROWN THRASHER AT THE AUTHOR’S BIRD—BATH

FTEN, in mid-winter, the chickadee’s

clear Whistled “fee—bee” is to be
heard. This, however, must not be confused
with the phoebe’s less ringing “fee-bee”
to be heard in early spring. Listen for
phoebe’s modest effort in the neighborhood
of bridges. Phoebe is a home-loving little
bird that is said to mate for life. It fre-
quently nests in the same place year after
year—on beams and ledges under bridges,
shelves about cliffs, and suitable nooks
about our homes and other buildings.

A lovely song to be heard in mid—spring
is the clear, sweet descending whistle of
the white—throated sparrow. A little later
the vesper sparrow’s song, a combination
of runs and trills, is to be heard about
fields and treeless pastures. About the
same time the piping, tinkling song of the
field sparrow is to be heard in open woods
and pastures. The song of this bird gens
erally is simple, but at the height of the
nesting season it is prolonged and varied.

The brown thrasher is a great songster,
and it specializes in grand opera. The
songster ﬂies to the top—most twig of a tall
tree, or some other prominent perch, and
then what a medley pours from its throat——
a long, rich, varied song that always at-
tracts one’s attention. The song consists of
couplets. Bird lovers everywhere have fa-
vorite versions, in words, of the thrasher’s
song.

The catbird, or northern» mockingbird,
also has a. varied song, resembling some-
what that of the thrasher. This bird often
imitates the songs of other birds; it some-
times sings in a subdued way and again
very loudly; and its song often has a comi-
cal twist. The cat-bird, in other words,
specializes in musical comedy.

Very few have tried to write in words
the rollicking song of the bobolink or the
bubbling warble of the house wren. Listen
for the bobolink in ﬁelds and meadows and

notice that it often sings while ﬂying. To
see and hear the house wren the chances
are you will not need to go farther than the
backyard. Rollicking—that is the word
that best describes the bobolink’s song; and
bubbling—that, it seems to me, best ﬁts the
house wren’s effort.

The Baltimore oriole has an alto voice
and chants the same song all day long, one
year one thing, the next something else:
“Will you really? Will you really? Really?”
“Here, here, here! Here, Pretty!” “Coming
over to see you! Coming over to see you!”
or “Potatoes, plant right here! Potatoes!”

The orchard oriole’s song is loud, clear
and ﬂowing, and it often is delivered while
the songster is dashing from tree to tree.
The scarlet tanager has a sweet voice, and
its song slightly resembles those of the rob-
in and rose—breasted grosbeak. However,

THE BLUE JAY OFTEN IMITATES THE NOTES OF OTHER BIRDS

Page 135

it is burred, a quality suggested by its
“chip—churr” call note. The rose-breasted
grosbeak is one of our ﬁnest singers. Its
song is prolonged, and it is very rich, as if
produced by the careful blending of the
notes of several musical instruments. The
wood thrush with its bell—like “A—e—o-lee,”
or “Come to me,” the lark sparrow, red-
eyed Vireo, warbling vireo and many other
birds which cannot be mentioned excel as
singers. The songsters to be heard on a
given day increase in numbers as spring
advances, until by early summer they
reach their greatest numbers. Thereafter,
less and less are to be heard until late sum—
mer, when the woods and ﬁelds seem
strangely quiet once more.

The phoebe, wood pewee, towhee, whip—
poorwill and some others are named from
their songs. And some birds, notably the
meadowlark, sing almost as freely in au-
tumn as during the spring. In fact, so
loud, clear and inspiring does the meadow-
lark sing on crisp, frosty autumn days that
one might be justiﬁed in concluding that the
seasons have in some way become reversed
and that it once again is spring.

Although the blue jay is not a singer, it
has many call and conversational notes. It
often imitates the notes of other birds. It
will take you a long time to learn all so
well that you will not, at times, be fooled
by them.

The next time you get the chance—and
such chances come daily during the spring
and summer—listen! Listen to the wonder—
ful songs of birds. Listen until you are able
to identify all our lovely songsters by their
songs alone.

Homes for Wrens

Wrens are not too particular about the
nest—box they occupy, writes James B. Rob—
inson in Flower Grower. In my opinion
they are more likely to look to the sur-
roundings. They like the atmosphere and
home life of human beings; and if your
yard and garden are acceptable, they will
ﬁnd a place in your porch vines or in a
small near—by tree. They like shrubbery and
may settle close to your doorway or walk.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

J une, 1936

17'?!
I

I
y."
K
1%
\

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation ..
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

    
 
 
    
     
     
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
     
 

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston '
Middlesex, Norfolk and P
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Wester
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and N
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield B

  
   
 
  

.'.3

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal
ethuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS.
WELL, Sec. ‘

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C.
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH W
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas '
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday. ’

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—

MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

. Miles traveled by humane oﬁcers. . 14,541

Cases investigated . . . . . . . . ....... 405
Animals examined ......... . . . . . . 8,777
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . . . . 155
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 79
Number of prosecutions ........ . 3
Number of convictions .. . . . . . . . . .. 3
Horses taken from work ...... . . . . 18
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,180
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ......... _ ....... 48,479
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
puttosleep ............ 30

In View of the advances in scientific
knowledge, in so many varied fields, it is
not inconceivable that eventually there may
be a much greater understanding between
man and his hairy, furry and feathered
companions.

—Telegram, Worcester, Mass.

 

.. No- child 5 can ”practise.emits? it
1ivi
granter harmoq. ,

Went 'you say ._‘a',word1nb all
aster Chick and. the Easter 2- n

   

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬂ'
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oammwm
bownmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 787 Cases 2,232
Dogs 568 Dogs 1,844
Cats 201 Cats 336
Birds 11 Birds 40
Horses 5 Coats 7
Goat 1 Rabbits 4
Snake 1 FOX 1

Operations 86.2, . III-VIII... w I,”
Hanitn they are indifferent.

’1

fig. creature w1thout , domsg hi

"I lie spend the whole summer going
places—and how they go!

As a warning to Speeding motorists the
State of Michigan has found it necessary
to place warning signs in deer country.

DRIVE SLOWLY —- DEER
or
BE CAREFUL — DEER COUNTRY

and even at that, dozens of deer are struck
by speeding motorists each summer and fall.
The deer feed at night and move about quite
freely. The lights of a speeding motor car
confuse them and they will stand still and
let the car, unable to stop in time, strike
them dead or cripple them.

Not only are deer the victims of the auto-
mobile age. Raccoons, woodchucks, ground
squirrels and cottontail rabbits are killed
by the hundreds each year. Among the
song and game birds most frequently killed
are the kingbirds, sparrows, bobolinks and
occasionally a horned lark. Quail, pheas-
ant and partridge now and then are kill-
ed and, more often than many folks believe,
nighthawks, whippoorwills and small
screech OWls are struck. This latter group
are nearly always killed at night. Many
a windshield or window has been shattered
by the confused birds who are trying to
escape the blinding light of the automobile.

Page 89

Auxiliary Activities

0 NE of the features of Be Kind to

Animals Week at the Angell Me-
morial Animal Hospital, Boston, was the
annual Hospitality Day Observed on
Wednesday, April 22, by the Women’s Aux-
iliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. This
successful aﬂ’air was under the direction of
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president, as—
sisted by Mrs. Frank Fayerweather, chair-
man Of the tea committee, Mrs. Charles C.
Hoyt, chairman of the hostess committee,
and Mrs. Herbert Prescott, chairman of the
food committee.

At the afternoon tea, Mrs. Walter S.
Woods of Chestnut Hill, Mrs. Edward T.
Rugg of Brookline and Mrs. Frank Stewart
of Newton Center poured. Tea was served
by Miss Betty Allen, Miss Eleanor Fayer-
weather, Miss Louise English, Mrs. Richard
H. Wallace and Mrs. George Bentley. Many
of the numerous visitors took advantage of
the opportunity to‘ inspect the Hospital.
“Do—DO” and “Di—Di,” twin billy goats, snow
white and only seven weeks old, attracted
much attention as they held a special re—

ception for the guests.

Mrs. Clark Re-elected President

At the annual meeting, held May 5 at
otel Sheraton, Mrs. Edith Washburn
larke was re—elected president. Other Of-
_- cers elected were Mrs. Arthur W. Hurl-

- ‘ urt, ﬁrst Vice-president; Mrs. John A. J en-

nings, second vice—president; Mrs. Harry

Cole, treasurer; Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, re-

cording secretary; Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt,
corresponding secretary; Mrs. Agnes P.

Fisher, chairman of work committee; Mrs.
Charles Stanick, chairman of ways and

means committee; Miss Blanche Bardin,

Mrs. Frank Towne and Mrs. Herbert Pres—
cott, directors for two years.

At the luncheon which followed the busi—
ness meeting, Mrs. Clarke presided and pre-
sented the following guests from the Mass.
Federation of Women’s Clubs, each of
whom spoke briefly: Mrs. John H. Kimball,
first vice-president; Mrs. William J. Mc-
Donald, treasurer; Miss Mary D. Clare, di-
rector Of the sixth district; Mrs. Walter H.
Woods, fourth district director; and Mrs.
John A. Jennings, chairman of club insti—
tutes. President Rowley of the Society
thrilled the audience with a stirring address
on “The Value of Humane Education in
Character Building.” There were vocal se-
lections by Mrs. Cecil Beattie and Mr. Earle
Lawrence.

The hostesses were Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt,
chairman; Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, Mrs.
Frank E. Towne, Mrs. Benjamin J. Blakney,
Mrs. Francis Carreiro, Mrs. Edward K.
Bennett and Mrs. Doris L. Greenlaw. Decor-
ations were in charge of Mrs. John A.
Jennings.

The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals has been remem—
bered in the Wills Of Jacob Hittinger of
Belmont, Harriet E. Perkins of Boston, Ed-
ith L. A. Bayliles of New Bedford, Inez H.
Burnham of Winthrop, and Ludlow Carroll
Willett of Baltimore, Maryland.

May 12, 1936.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 




 

 

Sept. 1936

 

SWAN O.N NEST

 

Wild Pheasants in Boston

F . H . S I D N E Y
Signal Tower Director, B. & M. R. R. Freight-yards,
Boston

UT in a vacant field within a mile of

the North Union Station, in Boston,
right in the heart of a busy shifting yard,
a large flock of pheasants make their home.
At one of the fields there is a small piece of
marsh where muskrats build their homes
and live in peace.

Of course no one is allowed to discharge
firearms within the city limits of Boston,
and that is perhaps why the pheasants have
never left there in spite of the fact that
freight-yards, roundhouses, signal-towers
and yardmaster’s offices were being built
all around them.

There is a growth of weeds, bushes, and
a few small trees in the field. This year
two pheasants have built their nests on the
railroad embankment where main line pas-
senger trains roar by every few minutes;
but the pheasants sit peacefully on their
nests, undisturbed even though men are
passing back and forth all day and all
night. The only thing that will make them
leave their nests is when a foraging scaven-
ger of a pigeon approaches too near, then
the pheasants will leave their nests and
fight.

Several broods have been hatched in the
freight-yards for years, and apparently the
most of them stay right there. “There’s
no place like home.” Everybody feeds the
pheasants, so they never lack food.

Bonds of Our Societies

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-
eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free

folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)

The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name
Age
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Discarded Tin Cans

LOIS MANOR MARMON

NTIL today I had never thought of
U empty, discarded tin cans in any
light save as a nuisance and something to
be hauled away every spring and fall to the
city dump. But I have learned that they
can be a real menace to our pets, especially
cats.

Today I spent visiting at the home of my
cousin and after the noon meal, when the
dishes were finished, I saw my cousin put
an empty salmon can and lid down into the
hot, soapy water washing and rinsing them
thoroughly. I was curious about this rather
unusual proceeding for I had always
thrown cans away as soon as they were
empty. So I asked if she were saving the
can. “No,” she replied, “but I always wash
cans that contained food attractive to cats
or dogs. We throw the cans in a pit at the
back of the garage where they are hauled
away at intervals. This pit is a very easy
place for cats to prowl around, and a year
ago we had an experience with a pet eat
of ours getting her head caught in an emp—
ty salmon can she had been licking. If my
husband and I had not heard her frightened
mewing and gone to her rescue it would
have been a sad experience with a tragic
ending, so ever since I have made it a point
to wash the cans so there would be no dan—
ger of cats getting their heads fastened in
them trying to find some food at the bot—
tom of them. Another way to protect the
cat from this peril is to bend the top of the
can together, so practically closing the open—
mg.

Whether we have pets or not, one of these
plans should be followed. Indeed, it is a
very definite way of showing kindness and
consideration for our four—footed friends.

Protected Apes

JOHN P. DINNENY

HEN the British captured Gibral—

tar in 1704 the place was inhabited

by superstitious natives of conglomerate
races and many thousands of apes. who,
presumably, had been. brought there from
near—by Africa across the Strait. As the
English power expanded, th; legend grew
upon the Gibraltarians that just so long as
the land was inhabited by the apes so long
would the Union Jack wave above them.
The British more or less fostered the belief
with rules and regulations relative
to apes to make their rule easier.
In 1930 extinction of the apes
through disease and decadence
seemed at hand. Only two old, ster-
ile females comprised the popula—
tion and the natives, as superstiti-
ous as ever and mindful of the
legend, became restless. Where-
upon an officer, one Captain Smith,
was commissioned to visit Africa
and return with a cargo of virile
replacements, which the Captain
did, allowing him to inscribe the
initials, OCA, “officer commanding
apes,” after his name. Gibraltar’s
wavering allegiance was again
strongly bulwarked, and the laws

THE HORNED TOAD IS REALLY A LIZARD

Page 11,1

protecting the simians more rigidly en—

forced. It is a crime even to tease one of
the creatures. Killing one constitutes high
treason.

The Horned Toad of Texas

GERTRUDE E. FORTH

NE of the homeliest and humblest cit-

izens of the southwestern states is the
horned toad. This queer fellow is really
not a toad at all, but a lizard. However, he
is most commonly known as the horned toad
of Texas, and, as such, he is regarded al-
most affectionately by the people of his
native state.

This curious creature measures only three
or four inches in length. He cannot hop or
run fast, but he manages to cover the
ground at his own rate of speed, asking
only to be allowed to live his life as nature
intended.

His appetite is not large, a few flies or
other insects forming his main diet.

Perhaps his chief attraction for us is
his homeliness. This lack of good looks is
indeed a blessing in disguise for his suit
of armor edged with saw—like teeth, does
not invite the acquaintance of animals that
roam the desert in search of high adventure,
or a meal for the taking. Even the head
is hooded with sharp spikes or horns, which
further serve to persuade the most venture-
some animals to leave him alone.

When Mrs. Horned Toad goes walking
with her toadlets on a fine sunny afternoon
over the arid plains of the south, she has
no fears for the safety of her family. Even
though the desert swarms with death-deal—
ing monsters of the animal world, she knows
that the unattractiveness of her brood is
their insurance policy against accident or
disaster. She is certain that her babies will
never be killed, kidnapped or stolen, so she
goes about contentedly catching a few bugs
for them and showing them how to catch
their own. They are soon left to depend
entirely upon themselves with the wide des—
ert as their playground, and an even chance
to procure the occasional insect for food.

So gentle and harmless is the horned
toad, that he makes the most delightful of
pets. Children find him so companionable

that they like to carry him around in their
arms.

The next time your friends visit the south-
ern states ask them to bring you one of
these peaceful, dust-colored little creatures
for a pet.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

01

 

U U. S_Tra.de Mark, Registered ‘

ANGELL 1N 1868.AND [FOR FOR-”LONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
~COW‘PER

   
    

GLORY 'ro
GOD,

   
 

PEACE on EARTH,
KmouEss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 1‘0‘
EVERY mea
CREATURE.

 
   
 
    
 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as.second-class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂ‘ice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bo

‘VoL 69

A great money-making business! Recent-
ly, so The Plain Truth tells us, the state of
Missouri licensed two hunters to go out
hunting quail. They paid $3.50 each for the
license and killed nearly 1,000 quail, quoted
as worth $3 each. And every one of these
quail was worth more than that as an in-
sect destroyer to the farmers of Missouri.

That an unusually large number of birds
have died this past winter from severe cold
and lack of food seems most probable. We
are told that an investigation is being
carried on at Ann Arbor to discover how
far the death rate of birds is increased by
cold and lack of food and how it may be
possible to provide against these causes.

A small zoo of some hundred animals in
a neighboring state was wiped out by the
recent ﬂood. Only one bear, we are told,
escaped. One can but feel pity for the poor
wild creatures who must have been terriﬁed
by the rushing torrent as it rose into their
cages, but there is also the comfort in know-
ing that their unnatural life of captivity
and imprisonment is over.

During 1935 our Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
dealt with 846,575 animals. There were
actually examined 69,214. There passed
under inspection at stock—yards 715,222.
Small animals to the number of 21,200 were
gathered up as lost or unwanted. Placed
in homes 1,788; restored to owners, 690.
Hospital cases, 9,510; cases brought to Hos-
pital clinic, 28,951.

Reports from northern sections of the
United States tell us that many deer have
died from starvation during the bitter days
of the winter of 1935-1936. Scouting par-
ties have come upon herds so near to death
that they have simply stood still in their
tracks or refused to get to their feet when
approached by man. But these deer are the
ones which, had they lived, would have been
the prey of the hunter next open season.

hday,l936
War

Everyone knows what Sherman said
about war. But what Sherman knew
about war was about as much as men of
his day knew about electricity. The last
war was horrible enough with its deadly
devices—gigantic tanks crushing every—
thing before them and ﬂaming with shot
and shell; poisonous gases spreading death
far and wide; airplanes dropping bombs
over defenseless cities and towns. Regard
for innocent men, women and children non-
combatants? None whatever. Before the
end of the last war everything that human
ingenuity could devise to maim, torture,
murder soldier or citizen on the side of the
enemy was used as if pity, compassion, re-
gard for human life had no place in the
souls of men.

The next war! It seems impossible that
there can be men mad enough, dehuman-
ized enough, brutal enough, to allow such a
thing, not to say declare it. But should
another modern war come, it would break
upon the world with atrocities and horrors
before which ﬁends of the pit, should such
creatures exist, might stand aghast. There
are now ﬁre bombs so deadly, and yet so
light, that a single two—ton bomber, we are
told, could carry and drop over a defense-
less city without warning 2,000 of them.
These immediately upon falling on street
or roof burst into a liquid ﬁre at a tem—
perature of over 5,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Even a small airplane could drop scores of
them and set a city on ﬁre in as many
places. Deadlier and deadlier gases are
being studied in the war laboratories of
every civilized—God save the mark—nation
of the earth.

Who, facing these facts, will not strive by
every means in his power to further every
peace movement that makes its appeal to
him? It seems quite believable that another
war, with these latest inventions of death
and destruction, might easily leave in ashes
great cities of the contending nations and
kill millions of citizens far from any battle

ston, Mass.

lﬁo.5

line and mean the very suicide of the con-
tending nations.

What shall we do?
for peace.
peace.

The Suffering Behind Them

To many, “furs” mean nothing but some—
thing to wear. To many they also tell a
.story that makes the heart sick. The vast
majority of the wild things of the woods
and streams, seeking their food, little con—
scious of the enemy who had planned for
their destruction, were suddenly startled,
then gripped as the steel trap snapped and
seized them to torture till death or the
trapper’s gun or club ended their misery.
Were all the torment endured to be gath-
ered into one great total, it would appall
a heart of stone. Think of these ﬁgures
from one country alone—the United King-
dom of Great Britain: The Board of Trade
at London reports that the value of the furs
imported into the United Kingdom during
1935 was approximately $39,162,220. Little
heeded on earth, the cries of the millions
whose lives were taken must have made
angels weep.

Talk peace. Give
Work for peace. Pray God for

The friends of the American Fondouk at
Fez will be delighted to know that a most
generous lover of animals has sent us a
check which will make possible the ﬁnest
kind of ambulance for our work at Morocco.
It will be of sufficient size to take care of
the small and large animals, carry the nec-
essary first aid equipment, and greatly add
to our facilities for meeting the demands of
the suffering animals in that North Afri-
can city.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application. Readers are reminded that
we are always ready to send free sample
copies to prospective subscribers.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

" ANGELL \N 1868.AND FOR FORTy‘ONE

U.S.Trade Mark,Registemd n 1 W
8}» ‘

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

~—COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,

PEACE on EARTH,
KmoNEss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 1‘0‘
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Entered assecond-class .matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂice at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for malllng at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 69

We cannot emphasize too strongly the
need of having plenty of fresh water avail—
able for all animals in hot weather.

Governor Merriam of California should
be added to the list of those Governors who
issued proclamations for Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week in 1936.

There are now eighteen incorporated hu-
mane societies in Los Angeles County, Cali—
fornia. At a recent meeting of the State
Humane Association steps were taken to
investigate the situation with a view to
curtailing “racketeering” and conﬁning in—
corporated societies to those functioning
properly.

The Scottish S. P. C. A. of Edinburgh an—
nounces that in its essay competition for
1936, open to all schools in twenty—six Scot-
tish counties, more than 26,200 essays on
“What My Pet Thinks About Me” were
written in 503 schools. Book prizes were
awarded as follows: 503 ﬁrst, 124 second,
and 86 third.

,There are reported to be nearly 3,000,—
000 dogs in Britain, or 900,000 more
than 15 years ago, and 1,000,000 more than
before the War. A factor said to be con-
tributing to the popularity of the dog is
that modern married couples have fewer
children and ﬁnd a dog a good companion.
Children have also a greater aﬁection for
animals than was the case years ago.

We regret to record the death of Mrs.
Jean Roberts Albert, of Lewiston, Idaho,
late editor and publisher of the official or—
gan of the National Vegetarian Society.
We always welcomed the copies of this out-
spoken magazine, with its frequent denun-
ciations of various forms of cruelty to ani-
mals. We often found Our Dumb Animals
quoted in its columns. We hope means will
be found to continue the publication and
carry on the work in which Mrs. Albert
was so interested.

August, 1936

Influence of the Home

[DE-REACHING as may be the in-

fluence of the School in its relation
to character, the Home must ever rank first
in its determinative power. Into the life
of the child has passed physical, mental,
and moral inheritances of unnumbered gen—
erations. Heredity? The modern student
is quite ready to confess that the more we
know about it the less we know about it.
The last word is yet to be spoken, and prob-
ably never will be spoken. But the individ—
ually acquired qualities of the child’s par-
ents, we may believe, are not more than a
relatively small part of what it possesses.
Yet the training, the education of the child,
fall primarily upon the parents, who have
to deal with the bodies, minds, and souls
committed to them with many an inheri-
tance for which they are not responsible.
True, it sometimes seems, that where the
parents have given of their best in fidelity
and in wisdom, in counsel and example,
some strange twist in the nature of the
child, harking back nobody knows for how
many a generation, has appeared to make
their work almost a failure. Children. there
are, we grant, who are like sports in our
gardens, bearing scarcely any trace of the
parentage that the home has given them.
Some blossom into unexpected beauty of
character, some, so far as we can see, into
disappointing unloveliness. And some—
times a child has gone out from a home
whose career has seemed to have no other
explanation than that found in the words
of Goethe: “Happy the man whom the gods
loved before he was born.”

But where, as in the home, are planted
in the human mind and heart those seeds
whose harvests yield the fruit of good and
evil, drawn from the soil earlier genera-
tions have given the parents to cultivate?
Where, as in the home, grow most naturally
into the character within the soul of the
child the impulses toward generosity, help-
fulness, kindness, sensitiveness to others’
claims to their inherent right as fellow

No. 8

mortals? Where, too, as in the home, are
acquired the opposite of these nobler and
finer characteristics—lack of respect for
law and order, resentment of established
authority, the habit of unkindly criticism,
bigotry, prejudice against those of differ—
ent race, or color, or creed? That old say—
ing, “As the twig is bent so is the tree in-
clined,” is as true of the child in the home
as of the sapling in the orchard or the oak
in the forest. The relation of the Home to
Character Formation? It is that of the
potter to the clay, of the planter of trees
to the tree he plants —— save that clay as
well as tree presents little resistance to the
shaper’s hand compare-d with that which
the will of the child may offer.

If it is in the Home that character first
receives the shaping influences that are so
largely to determine what it is to be; if
justice, kindness, reverence for life, abhor—
rence of war are to be maintained; if love
of peace, and recognition of the claim of all
of one’s human. fellows to be treated as one
would wish to be treated, were all the cir-
cumstances of breed and birth and color
and creed reversed—if these are the ele-
ments in character that make for life’s su—
premest values, then surely with them, as
part and parcel of the child’s character,
must go the consideration for the rights of
all that world of animal life we speak of as
our kindred earlier born, endowed like us
with the capacity to suffer.

No character stained with the taint of
cruelty can be other than a menace to man
and beast. Cruelty takes a .multitude of
forms. To man’s inhumanity to man has
been added the immeasurable and tragic
burden. he has laid upon the animals with
which he has come in contact. Are children
naturally cruel? Many of them are often
cruel without being conscious of it. Teach
the child to love the woods and the fields,
the flowers and the birds; to think of his
horse or dog or family pets as his friends,
and you have not only awakened in his
soul one of the choicest of life’s virtues, but
you have added to his capacity for happi-
ness a hundredfold.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 164

When Sportsmen Reign
LOUISE DARCY

Across the bag the crack of guns

Rings out and feathered bodies fall
Upon the water red as blood,

While from the sky live birds still call.

There is a rush of frightened wings
And many swell the crimson tide.
These are the days when sportsmen reign
And wildfowl know not where to hide.

 

SOME CONFISCATED “TOYS”

A veteran, battle-scarred collie, barks his
approval at the collection of B-B guns and
.22’s that will no longer inﬂict pain and
death to dumb animals, now that they are
in the custody of Joseph Fox, executive
secretary of the San Diego Humane Society.

Although there is a heavy ﬁne in San
Diego for the use of such “toys,” Mr. Fox
is of the belief that more is accomplished by
conﬁscation of the weapon than by press—
ing police charges against the offender. His
way leaves an opportunity for humane edu—
cation, while the police might cause only
resentment and future revenge on the un—
protected animals.

Near Tragedy at Zoo

When Chauncey Carr leaned too close to
the lion’s cage at the Hoosick Falls Zoo the
lion caught him and slashed him furiously.
His brother, Warren, whipped out his pock-
et knife and courageously rescued Chauncey
by slashing at the lion’s paws until it let
go. It took fifty stitches to close the boy’s
wounds. He has our sympathy. He will
be more cautious in the future. He knows
now that a caged lion is likely to seize any
opportunity to show his revenge.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
ATelling Letter

A well-known subscriber to Our Dumb
Animals, who has seconded our efforts to
suppress cruelty to animals in motion pic—
ture production, has favored us with a copy
of his letter to a theater manager. The
letter capably speaks for itself.

Plymouth Theater
Plymouth, New Hampshire
My dear Mr Graves,

It was my misfortune to take my family
and a couple of friends to your
Theater on Saturday evening,
September 26th. One of the pic-
tures shown that evening was
“Bengal Tiger.” Never have I
seen such an exhibition of abso—
lute cruelty to a fine. animal as
was shown in that picture.

In my opinion you should be
ashamed to exhibit it and the
law should not permit it to be
shown. I talked with a number
of people after seeing the pic—
ture and without exception, they
agreed with me. I certainly hope
you will not put on an animal
torture picture in the future.

Very truly yours,
H. E. G.

Carnival of Carnage

T a certain time in the year

a strange impulse takes pos-
session of some people. It is
shown in a desire to shed blood;
to slay the helpless; to scatter
fear, pain and death where once
was life, peace and happiness.
It then becomes the “proper
thing” to leave one’s home, in—
vade the homes of our peaceful
brothers of the forest, and kill
them for what men hunters are
pleased to call “sport.”

To those who, when the “open
season” is on, are wont to find their “sport”
in duck-hunting along our shores, or seek
to maim and kill the larger game of field
and forest, we would recommend the fol—
lowing as told by an ex-hunter:

“I remember I once stood at sunset on
a lonely beach, looking out over the water,
completely absorbed in the beauty of the
scene, when suddenly a tern sailed slowly
into view. I raised my gun and fired, and
the bird, with a broken wing, fell whirling
through the air to the water. Wishing to
end its misery, I fired another shot, but this
fell short; and then my ammunition gone,
I went slowly back over the sandhills, leav—
ing the tern to float back and forth on the
dark water and utter its mournful cry.

“In the morning I went again to the beach
and found the poor creature, half—dead,
dragging itself up the sand, covered with
blood, its broken wing hanging from its
body. In mercy I killed it. .Never shall I
forget the look of those deep, shining black
eyes that seemed to ask only for death and
relief from suffering. It seemed like mur—

der. From that moment I quit gunning
forever.”

.Ioin the Jack London Club and register your
disapproval of cruelty in trained animal acts.

Nov. 1936

Prey of the Highway
LEONIE HUNTER

N an auto trip across the country, from
the Pacific to the Atlantic and back a—
gain, one of the most distressing things that
the observant motorist cannot helping not—

ing, is the surprising number of animals
killed along the way.

Cats and dogs that were someone’s cher-
ished pets, lay dead by the roadside because
someone was driving too fast to slow down.
People do manage to stop for cattle cross—
ing the roads; if they didn’t, it might cost
them a tidy sum to pay the farmer for the
animal.

But all the little wild creatures, jack rab—
bits, squirrels, chipmunks, prairie dogs,
pheasants and, surprisingly, even many
birds, fall prey to the monster with the two
big eyes of fire that charges down on them
through the night. It is true that they be-
come bewildered and dart right across the
path of the vehicles. I have seen curious
little prairie dogs sitting up unperturbed in
the middle of the road. Nevertheless, it does
seem a pity that so many helpless small
creatures are slaughtered when a little cau—
tion on the part of the motorist would have
spared them.

A Governbr’s Kind Act

HE story of a man, his dog and the

Governor of Michigan came to light
recently at the Capitol. It consists of two
letters appearing in the Detroit Free Press
as follows:

“I am wondering what I can do about my
dog,” A. Robert Cox, of Flint, wrote to Gov.
Fitzgerald. “Almost six years ago my back
was broken in an accident and I have had
to lie ﬂat ever since.

“That in itself is bad enough, but when
they are going to take a fellow’s dog away
from him just because he does not have the
money to buy a license for it, that is ter-
rible.

“My dog doesn’t run all over the country-
side like some dogs around here, and I don’t
believe he would hurt anyone unless they
were bothering some of his friends.

“He is a good dog and all the neighbors
will say so, and then, too, we live on a farm
and I don’t see why it is necessary for me
to have a license for a dog that does not
leave the place, any more than it is to have
one for a cow or horse, which are larger
than any dog and could do much more dam—
age than a harmless pet.”

To which the Governor of Michigan re—
plied:

“I hope I am not too late to help you keep
the companionship of your dog. It is trag-
edy enough when an able-bodied person is
threatened with such a loss. For a person
in your condition, it is immeasurably worse.

“You understand, of course, that the law
cannot make exceptions in favor of individu-
als, no matter how worthy they may be.
The shortcut for this problem is for you
to get a license, so that your dog may romp
wherever he pleases, so long as he does no
one harm. The license fee is enclosed.

“May the future offer better prospects—
to both of you.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108
Quail

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Along a secret leafy trail
I saw a band of baby quail.

They were shy and elf—like things,
Wearing untried folded wings.

Like dry leaves before a breeze,
They scurried by the feet of trees.

Startled into sudden fright
They fled like shadows in the night.

I could not find them anywhere . . .
It seemed that they had not been there!

Now I know I saw that day
Little elfin things at play.

Vole Ventures to Vocalize
Written in February
LAURA RAYMOND STRICKLAND

D ID anyone else hear a little mouse, last
night, singing for his supper in the
soft, newly fallen snow? Well, I did!

Thoreau has said: “No second snow-
storm in the winter can be so fair and in—
teresting as the first.” That may be true
so far as the storm itself is concerned, but,
to the observant ear and eye, developments
are always interesting after any storm, as
I hope this little story will prove.

I said the little mouse was singing for his
supper, but after due deliberation, I am
more inclined to think he was rehearsing for
Major Bowes’ hour, as it was about seven-
thirty when I heard his sweet song! How-
ever, he was no novice; like many of the
amateurs, he must have studied all his life!
His trill, floating on the night air, sounded
startlingly like the E string of a violin,
vibrating in twelfth position. So sweet, yet
so shrill, it came to me through closed doors,
even with the radio turned on in the next

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

room.

Silently, but quickly, I opened the door,
for, like Mr. Damrosch, I, too, believe in
fairies. Surely, I was getting warmer, for
there was the trill again; this time louder,
clearer. Hesitatingly, I turned on the light,
fearing my fairy would vanish, but, instead,
I saw the sound was produced when “Twin-
kle-toes,” my little half—blind kitten, moti-
vated the mouse by reaching down in a hole
in the snow, which she had previously dug,
and gently, almost rev-erently, touched the
little creature; whereupon she seemed to
shrink back in nascent ecstasy at each re—
curring trill.

My husband, investigating the source of
cool air, found me standing with lifted fin-
ger, so he, too, listened in. Knowing he had
never heard a “singing” mouse, I said,
“What do you make of it?” He replied. “One
of your birds must be caught under the
snow: the sound is coming directly from one
of_the ground stations.” ’Twas then I chal—
lenged him to dig away the snow, cautioning
him to be very careful of the mouse!
“Mouse,” he retorted, do you think a mouse
could sing like that?” But he had hardly
finished the sentence, when he exclaimed,
“Well, for the land’s sake, it is a mouse, and
a tiny one, at that!”

Evidently, this ventriloquistic vole, is
spending the winter under the cement walk;
possibly, in company with chipmunks who
were seen storing acorns there last fall.
The temperature having risen to thirty de-
grees, a. new high for this winter, the petite
performer persuaded himself to climb the
chipmunks’ channel for a breath of fresh
air, and then lingered to partake of the
grain which he found at the entrance.

Luckily, it was “Twinkle-toes” who dis-
covered him. This capricious, yet captivat—
ing cat, seems to have developed an esthetic
side to her nature, resulting, perhaps, from
her own handicap. She shows a feeling for
her fellow creatures quite different from the
ordinary cat, to whom mousie would have
meant merely a meal—ticket.

 

 

PATRICK BYRNES, EDITOR OF
COLORADO, AND SOME OF HIS NUMEROUS RANCH PETS

“THE INDICATOR,” PUEBLO,

 

July. 1936

A Sane Fourth for Animals,
Too!

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

HE lists of casualties in the daily pa-

pers on the fifth of July always fail to
include the numerous dogs and cats who
also are victims of too boisterous Indepen-
dence Day celebrations.

Each year many dogs are burned as they
mingle with groups of children playing with
fireworks. Although we speak of a sane
Fourth, a number of the noisemakers are
still unsafe unless very carefully handled
and kept away from animals who are apt to
come too close to them.

The small firecracker is harmless enough
when touched off with a match and quickly
thrown out into the distance. Often it hap-
pens that the playful dog, excited with the
uproar, runs out too quickly to investigate
or to retrieve the firecracker. He is either
burned by the explosion, or his paws coming
in contact with the hot cracker, are pain—
fully hurt.

The common sparkler that is supposed to
be very safe, is, on the contrary, dangerous
both to children and animals for the wire
from which the sparks emanate becomes
red hot when the match is applied. Children
thoughtlessly throw these burnt-out spark-
lers (which remain hot for sometime) right
and left into the path of the dog, who may
be running about in excitement.

Though cats are more inclined to sit down
and watch the hubbub from a safe corner, I
have often seen cats startle and evince con—
siderable fear when a near-by loud shot
frightened them. They are in danger, too,
of being hit and burned by a carelessly
thrown firecracker, if near a group of chil-
dren shooting off fireworks.

Even if animals did not suffer from
burns, the noisey confusion which causes a
dog to bark continuously and to run about
and pant unnecessarily, is harmful to the
dog and upsets him so that he cannot eat
properly for a few days thereafter. Be-
sides barking, dogs annoy others who wish
to rest and spend the day quietly.

The very best plan is to keep dogs and
cats away from the crowd of celebrants.
They are better off comfortably secluded in
their favorite corner of the house or porch
until the day’s celebrations quiet down.

Children should be cautioned to think of
their pets and see that no harm comes to
them while they themselves are indulging
in the fun of noisemaking. The average
child means to spare his dog or cat any suf-
fering, but often there is the boy who will
throw a firecracker at the animal to see
what happens.

Please remember, therefore, to include an—
imals in your plans for a sane Fourth, and
save our dumb creatures much suffering.

Have you read the new pamphlet by Pres-
ident Francis H. Rowley, “The Relation of
the Home to Character Formation”? It was
prepared especially for members of the N a-
tional Parent—Teacher Congress and widely
distributed at their recent meeting in Mil-
waukee. A free copy will be sent upon. ap—
plication to Our Dumb Animals.

 

 




 

Sept. 1936

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER. HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Oﬂicers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBmT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter.
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-

WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIRBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers. . 15,357

Cases investigated ............... 464
Animals examined ............... 7,975
Animals placed in homes .......... 58
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 22
Number of prosecutions ...... ,. . . 1
Horses taken from work .......... 18
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 37

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,427

Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ................ 44,413
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ....................

Dog Catcher—“DO your dogs have 1i-
censes?”

Small Boy—“Two of them have just been
washed, so they haven’t any, but the dog
we got this morning is just covered with
them.”

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬂ
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.. Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians

PEP???
bownmn

 

 

 

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
Including Springﬁeld Branch
Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 913 Cases 2,651
Dogs 678 Dogs 2,214
Cats 224 Cats 375
Birds 7 Birds 48
Horses 3 Monkeys 4
Rabbit 1 Rabbits 3

Coats 3
Horses 2
Operations 871 Squirrels 2

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 140,998
Dispensary cases ................ 341,101
Total ............ 482,099

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in HOSpital ............ 130
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 443
Operations .......................... 181

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re—
membered in the wills of Elizabeth C. Ad-
ams of Newbury, Louise Gaylord Pease of
Chicopee, Clara K. Corliss of Boston, Annie
E. Blake of Boston, Bryan R. Houghton of
Stoneham, and Sarah Smith Look Lane of
Tisbury.

August 11, 1936.

Horses Watered in Boston

Owing to the cool weather early in the
season, the four hydrant watering stations
for horses maintained on the streets of Bos-
ton by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. were
not Opened until July 6. From that day un-
til August 7, the number of free drinks
given to the horses was 5,859. This ser—
vice is greatly appreciated by the truck
drivers in downtown Boston.

At Amrita Island

A small but enthusiastic band of humane
workers, representing many parts of the
country, gathered at Amrita Island, Catau—
met, Mass., for a. two weeks’ conference, be—
ginning July 20, under the direction of
President Robert F. Sellar of the Animal
Rescue League, Boston. This was made
possible through the provisions of the Bax-
endale Foundation. Many practical sub-
jects were discussed at the morning ses-
sions, while the afternoons were given up
to recreation.

Page 137
Chick Cruelty Exposed

HE Women’s Pennsylvania Society for

the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
whose activities in. the humane field cover
a period of over two-thirds of a century,
recently took legal action in a case involv-
ing very young chicks, which should engage
the attention of all Humane Societies
wherever these tiny creatures are being
raised.

At the plant of the Chicken Hatchery
Co., located at Ephrata, Penn., some 50,000
chicks per week are hatched during March,
April, May and June. Agents of the W0-
men’s S. P. C. A. found that at each day’s
hatch the crippled and deformed chicks,
and those not fully out of the egg, but
Showing life, were thrown out, along with
the thousands of egg shells, into refuse
containers, to be hauled away and fed to
pigs. -

After delving into the refuse boxes and
rescuing some fifteen live chicks, and taking
them for evidence, the humane agents sum-
moned the Manager of the Hatchery to
court on charges of cruelty. The defendant

assumed full responsibility for the practice

and the court imposed a fine of $10, and
costs of $15. Defendant also promised that
no chicks or eggs showing life would be
cast aside hereafter, as future feed for
pigs, until life was humanely destroyed.

The Society purposes to proceed legally
against other like establishments whenever
convicting evidence can be secured. It mer-
its the highest commendation from all those
who will now be convinced that there is
much cruelty in this young chick business
from start to finish.

Is the Horse Vanishing?

JOHN P. DINNENY

HE horse is waging a game but ap-

parently losing ﬁght against the ad—
vent of machinery. Figures compiled by
the Census Bureau are cause for grief to
horse lovers. In 1935 the equines have de—
creased over 2,000,000 from the 1930 mark,
the present population being somewhat in
the neighborhood of 11,000,000. There is,
however, a ray Shining through the murk.
The Bureau reports 140,000 more colts
frisking the ﬁelds and meadows than in
1930, which fact may be interpreted as pre-
saging an increase in the number of horses
during the next few years. To all lovers
of dumb animals this must needs be an en-
couraging indication. A further good omen
is the increase in the number of equines in
Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Is-
land, three highly industrialized states
where, without a doubt, the horse ﬁrst felt
the effects of the advent of the machine age.
The Bureau’s figures also show man’s
passion for speedand efﬁciency being re-
flected behind the plow or harrow. On an
average the individual horse is cultivating
two crop acres more than ﬁve years ago,
which means that Dobbin is being forced to
work harder and faster for the right to
exist. Apparently we are not content with
driving ourselves to a frazzle, but must
foist our mania upon the truest friend
man has ever had.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

W
'14 i
k
w
i
\
i
:‘
i,
E I
l‘
g x
1
R
- \

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS ‘SOCIETY FOR THE
: PREVENTION‘ OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
' OCIETY ~

 

   

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1936

0 UR D UMB ANIMALS

  

 

 

 

 

   

 

/ \"

3‘3 /2—
7R

/
T W _‘ / l v —'§1- /'
WWW/4255, a»; ewe

Picture

ELLA C. FORBES

The lake in the gardens
I’ve named for a sea;

A highway of commerce,
Expansive and free.

The swan is the liner,

She draws from her berth
And starts on her way

For the ends of the earth.

She is gracefully fashioned,
Her decks are agleam,

She moves from the shore
Like a beautiful dream.

While sturdy and busy,
(A water-bred truck),
Is the tug of the harbor,
The little brown duck.

“Peter” Grosbeak, 22-Year-Old Bird

ALINE J. BOYCE

ETER” has been my next-door neighbor since he was a
H) baby. He was picked up in the woods, a forlorn little
thing with no one to look after him, and brought to Mrs.
Moore in Woodstock, Vermont, by a kind—hearted boy. For-
tunately she was a nature lover and a student of birds and
knew just how to care for him, so Peter grew and ﬂourished
and in time became a beautiful rose—breasted grosbeak.

He became very tame and very fond of his family. He
always recognized his neighbors, too, and took delicacies
from their ﬁngers. Some times he was rough and really
hurt the ﬁngers that were held out for him to peek at.

I think his great age and good health are due to the fact
that he has had such wonderful care and that he had the
privilege of liberty every day. He seemed to enjoy ﬂying
about the house. The doors were locked for a little while
and Peter went where he chose. This was usually at break—
fast time and the mischievous Peter took great delight in
alighting on Grandpa’s bald head. This trick always got the
expected reaction which Peter took as a great joke.

Peter has always had a huge cage and has seemed happy.
By the time he was strong and old enough to have liberty he
was so tame that freedom meant certain death to him, so his
family have tried to make his life as happy as possible for
him in other ways, and he has rewarded them by wonderful
singing in the spring and early summer.

I thought perhaps before Peter died his great age and
happy life might be of interest to bird lovers, and if any one
wishes to see him or know more about him they may have
the opportunity. Though he no longer cares to leave his
cage and begins to show his great age, he is still a very
beautiful bird and is very particular about his personal
appearance. '

. w), "rM
If“: "1 VG >
I.__:V (r 2"} \.

E11,, ‘ 2'
”Lu , ,

   

 

'2

   

     

1' i ' _.‘,-_" , .
’ B; h ‘ . "7 ‘_~—“J ;I:-‘.';;. o
:’ [1/4"- I
\13" 'ﬁ F ‘
I
- ‘ ~ ~é \
'\r \ ) \ //’
n ‘ . i ' :3: I l ’/
r ’ ‘ / I \ \

KENNETH COLEMAN AND “BOOTS”
New Haven, Conn.

 

Life in a Hutch

UST a word about “keeping rabbits.” It does need think-
ing about before you decide to do this, advises a writer
in the English Little Animals’ Friend.

I am speaking about the kind which you often see shut up
in small hutches or boxes where they have nothing to do all
day long but to eat the food which is taken to them. The own-
ers sometimes, perhaps, let them out for a short run and then
they go back to cage life. Very dull, don’t you think, if it hap-
pens to be one pet rabbit all alone?

It is rather difficult to know how to give some freedom each
day to hutch rabbits, and that is why we never recommend
members to buy them or ask for them as gifts.

If you think of a wild-rabbit who runs about fields, drinking
the dew, feeding on many things he fancies, running down to
the home he has burrowed in the earth and being happy with
his own kind, you must see what a much more pleasant life
that is than the solitary bunny in a closed—up hutch, especially
if that “pet” was taken from the woods.

r1
C 0

Answers to “Hidden Animals” puzzle last month: Deer,
camel, sheep, beaver, calf, otter, ibex, polecat, gnu, cata—
mount, donkey.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
     
    

 

N EM A

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove

  

Dependable, safe, easy—to -‘
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty. _
WRITE FOR .

' emova
on thepraqtlcgégs 0 all

Of Worms 111 N-55'L
d ages . ADDRESS DESK
breedS an Animal Industry Dept--

PARKE, DAVIS & CO., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

 
   
  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fl“ gamut,

WOW

_—7

 

 

 

ALL ANIMAL LOVERS

should read and circulate copies of

HEAVEN’S RAGE

By HELEN TREVELYAN
25 cents, net
Written in the cause of performing animals with
Foreword by Frank Swinnerton, it is a strong 1n-
dictment of the idea that circus animals are trained
by kindness. Three photographic illustrations are
included. Order of

American Humane Education Society, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

mnhertakets

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sal-e at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 .............. - .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100

Ab out the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0.30per100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. .$1.00per100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. ............................ $2.00per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
5 ‘6 “

Surplus Cats ........................ . 0
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve . .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 ‘ ‘
“I‘he Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts.. .. .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ............ 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance

Ab out Other Animals

Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “
Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. .. Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. 2 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care. and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

olllus. . . .. ............. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1-00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An .Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ..........................
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight

each, 1 0 cts.

........................... 35 cts.
::Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
Be Kind to Animals” placards ...... each, 3 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Bowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use). Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play. . ..

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1936 ........ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teachers .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 ‘
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 ‘ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A ................... $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FILMS ILLUSTRATING KINDNESS TO ANIMALS
“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Made for the American Humane «Educa tion Society some years ago, but still in great demand

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing the activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and its Animal Shelters. TWO reels,

15 minutes each.

State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS Dec.1936

 

 

 

 

Page 182

mendous blessings? There are cat and dog'

hospitals but not enough. As winter comes,
spread scraps and crumbs on your window—
sills. Give the city pigeons a meal now and
again. Look out for the stray cats and dogs
and, when necessary, notify the Humane So-
cieties. You who live in the country can
grow a few cedars and spruces, chokecherry
and rowan trees to shelter and feed the
birds. Don’t throw out your sour milk, make
it into curds, if only half a cup is avail—
able. Then, too, the birds like a mixture of
oatmeal, dripping and currants, so make
this their Christmas pudding. And as you
must vary it, and make it last until Easter,
substitute cheese crumbs for the dripping,
now and then.

Hunters Bold

HERMOLION E- PERKINS

HEN a ﬁne day in June entices a

man from the dull atmosphere of his
ofﬁce to a spin in the open, where he parks
his car beside the road, takes his gun on
his shoulder and strides across the ﬁelds;
he believes he’s happy. The lilt of spring is
in the air and his very being is permeated
with it. A sense of buoyant freedom con-
sumes him; he congratulates himself and
cries, “This is the life!”

I have known the thrill of just such aban—
don. ’Twas on one of those rare days that
I strode across the ﬁelds. I didn’t really ex-
pect to get any worth—while game; in fact,
it was quite improbable, since the season
was closed on quail, plover, doves, etc.
Rabbits were the only game permissible;
and there were legions of rabbits!

It’s great sport, and good practice, shoot—
ing rabbits; at least, I had always thought
so. I had dropped perhaps thirty that after—
noon and left them lying in the ﬁeld. I
never went over to where the-y were; when
they fell, I walked on. If one ran, or con-
tinued to run after I shot, which was not
often, I sometimes cracked down again.

Just as I was approaching a deep gulch
I spied a mule—ear (or jack doe, beyond,
sitting on her haunches. Her body was sil-
houetted beautifully against a background
of yellow Coreopsis: her long ears were
pointing Skyward.

“Pretty target!”
ﬁred.

Instantly, a cry rang out! Cleft through
my heart like a machete. It was the scream
of a child!

I dropped my gun, scrambled down the
bank, leaped the stream, and bounded up
the opposite wall.

There she sat! Her two little paws cov—
ered her face; she wailed aloud like a hurt
baby. The bright red blood was oozing
through and dripping down her white
breast.

I stood terriﬁed. What had I done? I
had murdered a living thing! How nearly
human only God knew! A lump came in my
throat. It grew bigger and bigger.

Her cries began to weaken. Gradually,
they died away until the limp paws fell
from her staring eyes. The body slumped
over.

Great tears dimmed my vision. I was
about to ﬂee, when a slight stirring in: the
grass caused me to hesitate. There was her

I enthused aloud, and

nest; lined with fur from her own body.
She had prepared it for her helpless infants.

To me, motherhood has ever been a beau—
tiful and a sacred thing. A sob tore my
breast. I turned away. Slowly, I walked
back and picked up my gun, threw it in the
car and drove home. 1 put it in a corner
of the closet, behind the clothes, where I
couldn’t see it again. There it has been
for ﬁve years!

The joy of springtime still remains with
me; nor have I missed anything from its
glamor. On the contrary, I feel a deeper
sense of pleasure, a more profound ecstasy
thrilling me; for it exhales from the peace,
the freedom and gentle communion with
the smaller objects of life. To these lesser
ideas of the Father’s eternal law of activity
and boundless freedom, I look to learn many
useful lessons, rather than a lust or desire
to kill.

Saved by His Horse

RICHARD V. HATFIELD

ERE is an instance where the sagacity

of a horse saved his driver’s life, af-
ter a very unusual and totally unexpected
accident. The man who experienced it told
the story to the writer.

A northern .New England logging com—
pany employed an electrician. to care for the
telephone lines between its various camps.
One midwinter morning, following a thaw
ending in an ice—storm, when the thermo—
meter had dropped to thirty below zero, a
camp telephone went dead; and it became
necessary for the lineman to ﬁnd the break
in the wire.

He started out with a horse and pung.
Ice—laden boughs, bent down over the wood—
road, made his progress difﬁcult. Several
miles from camp he came to a small birch,
so heavily weighted with ice that it lay al—
most ﬂat across the road. Just before it,
on the opposite side, a boulder projected
through the snow.

One runner went up on- the rock, threat—
ening to upset the pung, and the electrician
leaped out to steady it. The horse kept on,
his breast pushing the bent—down boughs
aside. When they sprang back, they struck
the lineman a terriﬁc blow in the face. An
ice—fringed limb, sharp as a razor, cut a
gash clear across his forehead; and in an
instant both eyes were ﬁlled with blood.

In blind desperation he fought frantically
to clear them, but the blood kept spreading
a ﬁlm over his eyeballs, and his efforts were
fruitless, as he had no water, and the temp—
erature was far below zero. He could see
nothing, but his ears told him that the pung
was every second getting farther away. He
shouted, and the horse stopped. Staggering
forward he fell over the tailboard into the
back of the pung; and again his horse went
on, following the familiar trail.

The electrician was blind and helpless,
and the deadly chill numbed him; he was
gradually freezing to death. His only hope
was in the horse; but the next camp was
far distant. Could he reach it before he
froze?

Suddenly the horse turned sharply, and
left the main road. Despair overcame the
lineman. What chance did he have now?
But the animal’s instinct did not fail him.

 

READY FOR A CHRISTMAS RIDE

 

He crossed an ice—covered river, took an—
other trail, and ﬁnally dragged the pung
up to a camp of which the electrician had
known nothing, whose crew quickly gave
him ﬁrst aid. His life would have been lost,
but for the intelligence of his horse.

Nests in Winter

Bereaved of wings and song, the skies are
gray,
And bleak the woodlands where from
branch and bough
M arauding northern winds have torn away
The leafy screens so wantonly that now
To every eye are shamelessly betrayed
The lovely, secret homesteads, late the
care
Of these sweet tenant-architects who made
Our summer jubilant. That 'wigwam,
there,
Held Robin’s brood; that crumbling ruin, up
Above the porch, marks Phoebe’s camping
place;
That bower was Bobolink’s; that mossy cup
Once brimmed with wrens, and where
those twigs enlace,
Still rocks and tosses like a bell that tolls,
The cradle of departed orioles.

ARTHUR GUITERMAN in “Death and General
Putnam”

I C
.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken‘
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 92

dispatched several small boats to the scene.
Suffice it to say Bermuda was soon back
on board none the worse for his experience.
The quartermaster who had seen Bermuda
go over, said that he was stalking one of
the many birds that usually land on a ship
in the tropics, and had jumped too near the
edge and lost his balance.

Interesting to note, that so far as I could
see, birds were safe on and around our ship
from that time on. Bermuda would eye
them dubiously, but was content to let them
severely alone. These few incidents, and
many others, have inclined me to the belief
that cats are fairly intelligent animals.

Ruthless Nature

CHRISSEWELL

RELIGIOUS people have before now
lost their faith not on account of the in—
justice which is meted out to the animal
kingdom by man, (though that is sad
enough) but because of the behavior of the
creatures themselves, to one another.

“Nature red in tooth and claw” is for—
ever shrieking against their creed, and it
drowns all other voices.

What worries them is the oppression of
the weak, the martyrdom which goes on
continually in meadowland, hedgerow, and
jungle. They think with aching hearts of
the tiny bird clutched from its sheltering
twig by the owl—of the tender antelope
savaged by the lion. Even the massacre
of worms by starlings cause them to wince
with pity.

'And, in consequence, they have built up
an image of God in which He seems to be a
sort of Super Nero—or at best a moody Set—
ebos, simply concerned with the whim of the
moment, no matter where that whim may
lead.

The ruthlessness of Nature is, of course,
a desperate problem, and one upon which
the most astute minds have spent them-
selves without reaching any definite conclu—
sion. But here and there are gleams of
light.

The following points are not intended to
be dogmatic. They are simply meant to
provoke thought, and to hint, very diffi-
dently, at certain lines of reasoning which
have (at any rate) impressed the writer:

(1) Do animals suffer pain to the same
extent as ourselves? A superficial judg-
ment would say quite as much if not more;
but experience does not bear this out.

To take an example. A beautiful Persian
cat of ours, brought in one day gri-evously
injured and apparently almost dying, on
being shown a plateful of food, stopped its
moans and ate with relish. No man or
woman, under the same conditions, could
possibly have done this. It proved conclu-
sively that pain was quite bearable, and did
not preclude the pleasure of satisfying the
appetite.

(2) Animals have no knowledge and are
consequently quite without fear (which we
ourselves experience) that it may lurk in
disease, danger or old age. This makes for
a tranquillity which we are unable to ap-
preciate.

(3) A tiger will play with a man pre—

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

cisely as a cat plays with a mouse. In
both cases it seems a prolonged business of
unspeakable horror. Yet a hunter rescued
in extremis from the jaws of such a beast
declared on recovery that he was completely
hypnotized by something in the creature’s
eyes, and felt neither his wounds nor any
fright. The same mercy may apply in
some measure to all small animals apparent-
ly tortured by larger ones.

(4) Every sudden death in the animal
kingdom (chicks decapitated by a predatory
fox, and so on) can. be written off as negli—
gible. It is unanticipated, unfeared, and
without any unpleasant sensation, save per—
haps a momentary terror at the sight of the
enemy. We know this because human be-
ings, restored to life after a serious accident
which has, without warning, knocked him
unconscious, invariably say that they felt
nothing whatever.

And, finally, who shall declare that in
the animal kingdom death ends all? There
have been many who have at least cherished
the hope that death does not end all for
these friends and companions whose fidelity
and devotion have gladdened life for so
many of us.

Licensed Killers

GEORGEB.FOSTER

HOSE who are conversant with condi—

tions outside of our cities and large
villages during the annual open hunting
season in October and November, know
what a public nuisance the modern gunner
has become. From early morn till darkness
there is a continual fusilade. Every day and
all day it is like a daily Fourth of July cele-
bration. The householder doesn’t venture
out of doors unless it is necessary and the
children and cats and dogs are kept in the
house for fear that they might catch some
of the stray shots as they sometimes do.

And why all this noise and disturbance
and nuisance? It is simply to furnish so-
called recreation to 6,000,000 or 7,000,000
men and boys who call themselves sports—
men, and who go out to kill, maim and dis-
troy birds and animals which in most cases
do no harm to any one, and also in most
cases are of great economic as well as ages—
thetic value to mankind. For a small sum
they purchase a hunting license and they
seem to think that the license also gives
them a license to tramp over your fields
and forests, push over your fences if they
retard their progress, and tear down
your “no trespass” signs, if they seem of-
fensive to their Sight.

There was a time in the history of this
country when hunting was necessary in
order to support life, but that time has
long since passed, and why should we tol-
erate any longer the man who gets out and
shOots valuable birds and animals on pri-
vate property just for the fun of the thing!

Very little of the hunting is done on the
hunter’s own property. He is therefore a
trespasser on private property subject to
arrest and should properly be treated
accordingly.

In general the average hunter is a poor
shot as well as a poor sport and simply

June, 1936

murders birds and animals and leaves them
to suffer and die.

A year ago last October, during the open
hunting season, I was traveling on a late
afternoon train out of Boston. We were
passing through a wooded section of Wil-
mington when a bullet suddenly crashed
through a window in the car in which I
was sitting. It was dark at the time. Of
course, no one on the train knew where the
bullet came from. I have always had a sus-
picion that some dejected gunner, disap-
pointed at repeated firing at things and not
hitting them, thought he would try to see if
he could hit a train of cars.

I call it about time that we waked up to
the real situation, before all wild life be—
comes extinct. I wish that all bird Clubs,
Audubon Societies, humane organizations of
all kinds and nature lovers, might make a
determined and united effort to stop this
ruthless, needless, “slaughter of the inno—
cent,” before it is too late, or there will be
nothing left to be slaughtered.

I know, only too well, the difficulties in
the way. It isn’t merely sentimental. The
annual business in the manufacture and
sale of firearms and ammunition is said to
amount to $300,000,000. The license fees
amount to several million dollars and of
course in these days the government likes
that. Fancy gunners must have fancy
sport clothing and of course the clothing
manufacturers and dealers like the income
from that source. In spite of all that, I
believe that this annual killing “just for the
fun of the thing” ought to be stopped.

In our schools and families we teach
children lessons of kindness to birds and an—
imals, and rightly, and when they grow up
we sell them a license to go out and shoot
the birds and animals just for fun and rec—
reation and call the-m sportsmen. Poor
sport! Is there any sense or consistency in
that?

Here are a few suggestions in the matter.

First of all, best of all, let us have a
tightly closed season, reserving, of course,
the right of any property owner to destroy
on his own property birds or animals that
were injuring the crops or property, but not
on other people’s property.

After a few years’ trial of a closed sea-
son, there would be little danger of revert-
ing to that savage, half-civilized custom of
an open hunting season.

Another way of reducing some of the
nuisances would be to set the price of a
license so high that no one would care to

_ pay the price.

Another thing that ought to be done is to
compel the applicants for a hunting license
to pass a rigid examination as to their
character and ability to handle firearms
properly.

As things now stand, on- the payment of
a small fee, a license is passed out to any
one; it may be a robber, hold-up man or
murderer and no questions asked. ’Just let
the decent, self-respecting property owners
get on the firing line and stop this gunning
nuisance and danger, and adopt as our slo-
gan the battle cry, “Fire the gunner but not
the gun.”

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1936

Christmas Eve

JUDY VAN DER VEER

At midnight when it’s Christmas Eve,
When shining stars are frosty bright,
They say the cattle all kneel down
In memory of a Holy Night.

I do not know if this be true,

But if the patient creatures pray
I can understand their pleas,

I can know the words they say.

“Oh, God, look down on us tonight
With pity in Thine eyes,

If Thou hast time we beg of Thee,
Hear our anguished cries.

“Not always are we cared for well,
Many and cruel the stripes we bear;
Many of us are hungry, cold,
Many are dying everywhere.

“Soften the hearts of men for us,
For we have served man well,

And often the sorrows that we know
Are more than words can tell.”

Under the cold and frosty stars,
Think of the cattle kneeling,

While children sing of joyous things,
And Christmas bells are pealing.

Strange Ideas of Fun

L. E. EUBANKS

AST summer a Boston terrier drown-

ed at Seward Park Beach, Seattle, in
his efforts to humor boys who didn’t know
when the fun had gone far enough. For
three hours they kept throwing objects into
the lake and sending the dog after them.
Finally, exhausted, the terrier tried it once
too often. Heroic efforts at resuscitation by
experts proved fruitless.

I have an acquaintance who says that it
is great sport to chase jack rabbits with
an automobile. “Of course I wouldn’t run
over them,” he explains; “when they give
out I stop before actually hitting them. It’s
fun to see how dumb they are—not to get
off the highway. My wife, too, gets a great
kick out of it.”

But it isn’t dumbness; there’s ample evi—
dence to clear rabbits on any charge of stu-
pidity. It’s confusion, caused by their great
fear of the gleaming, snorting Juggernaut,
the devastating auto! The “dumbness”
isn’t on the rabbit’s side; if that man would
think he’d know that such fear, in any
creature, is about as bad as death itself.
“Might as well be killed as scared to death.”

When we reflect on the vast number of
amusements available to human beings, it
certainly seems strange that any man would
find it necessary to torture his dumb friends
for fun. We are forced to the conclusion
that when the desire for pleasure requires
any such satisfaction it must be sorely per—
verted. The law forbidding such things
should be more strictly enforced; and spe-
cial educational measures should be adopted
with every child that reveals the slightest
inclination toward torture of animals.

Annual Fair and Hospitality Day of Wom-
en’s Auxiliary, Mass. S. P. C. A., Dec 2, 1936.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Page .181

They Deserve a Christmas Pudding

F. B. M. COLLIER

 

ALBINO GOAT NURSING ORPHAN FAWNS

PON the northern half of the hemis-
I! i phere Christmas means Winter—~and

more or less provision must be made
for living through rigorous weather condi—
tions. Then what about our dumb crea-
tures? We have domesticated some, and de—
prived others of their natural haunts by
clearing the wilds and building cities. What
can we give in return?

Christmas is the time to count your bless»-
ings. Have you ever stopped to consider
what we owe to dumb animals and feathered
fowl, both in art, science and domestic
comfort?

The cow and the horse are the mainstay
of the farmer, and so the very foundation
of our food supply. To the aborigines of
this continent, the wolf, the bear, the buf—
falo, the eagle, the partridge and the ﬁsh
were not only bodily sustenance but intel-
lectual schoolmasters of woodcraft, cunning,
physical prowess, commercial skill.

Indeed the history of religious doctrines,
scientiﬁc, and civic developments are funda-
mentally concerned with the feathered and
furred creation. The wanderings of Aeneas
were directed by consulting the entrails of
beasts; the flight of geese guided the ora—
cles of ancient Athens. The blood of sheep
and goats bespoke redemption to ancient
Jewry. The dove brought news of rescue to
Noah’s Ark, and typiﬁed the Godhead in
the baptism of Christ, whilst every savage
and civilized race from the north to the
south pole has interwoven bird and beast
with his imagery of life.

The lifting of Mediaeval darkness came
with the devotion of St. Francis to the
birds of the air. This new and strange com—
panionship revolutionized the whole com—
plexion of human interest and mercy.

.Nor have our dumb friends contributed
less to the inspiration of genius. The famous
French painter, Rosa Bonheur, spent her
life portraying the glories of horseﬂesh.
Today one of England’s foremost artists,
Alfred Munnings, owes his eminence to re-
productions of the same equine beauty.
Cecil Aldine is famous as a painter of dogs

and Louis Wain a masterhand at reproduc—
ing every trick and expression of catdom.
Shelley reached the perfection of lyrical
genius in writing “The Skylark,” Keats is
renowned for his “Ode to the Nightingale,”
Wordsworth acclaimed “The Cuckoo” and
Longfellow pleaded for nature’s songsters in
his ﬁne poem, “The Birds of Killingworth.”
Shakespeare mentions no less than ﬁfty
birds in his dramatic masterpieces. Some of
his ﬁnest metaphor, his most eloquent poetry
and his great dramatic effects are wrought
by such masterly allusions.

“The eagle suﬂers little birds to sing
And is not careful what they mean
thereby,
Knowing that with the shadow of his wing
He can at pleasure stint their melody.”

And although the Bard of Avon repeatedly
uses the eagle as a symbol he is persistent
in his tender use of the gentler species.
His ﬁne lyric, “To The Lark,” is a household
carol. His continue-d reference to the dove
and Venus’s pigeons have made the phrases
everyday slogans, and how tremendously he
heightens the tragic fate of Macbeth by his
“temple—haunting martle-t.”

Seton—Thompson and C. G. D. Roberts
have written endless prose classics about
winged giants and ﬂeet quadrupeds and fur—
nished all childhood with boundless oppor-
tunity for recreation and instruction, whilst
once more a new literary light, one “Grey
Owl,” is looming upon the book world with
further animal tales. Childhood owes many
a magic hour to the wooden animals of
Noah’s Ark, to the nursery rhymes of Mother
Hubbard’s Dog, Cock Robin, or the tales of
“Black Beauty” and “Beautiful Joe.” More-
over bird and animal lore is a growing hob-
by for all people. Jack Miner rose from
obscurity to world-wide celebrity through
his bird sanctuary, and men like Earl Grey
of England found the strength and sanity
to solve colossal national problems in com—
forting contacts with thrush and migratory
fowl.

Should mankind not pay for these tre-

 

 




 

Page 46

Associate Life Members

Arnold, Miss Abbie T. Osborne, Lyman P.
Babcock, Miss Edith Phillips, Mrs. Elizabeth D.
Beekman, John V., Jr. Pillsbury, Parker W.
Beekman, Mrs. John V., Jr. Pitman, Mrs. Theodore B.
Bessom, Florence C. Pratt, Mrs. Clara E.
Bliss, Philip W. Pratt, R. M.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W. Putnam, Mrs. Harriett
Burdett, Mrs. Paul Richards, 'E. Ira
Burnham, Henry D. Richardson, Mrs. Guy
Caldwell, Miss L. W. Rogers, Miss Catherine L.
Carpenter, Edwin Z. Saﬂi'ord, Mrs. Nath’l M.
Coburn, Mrs. C. W. Seeberg, Elizabeth
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle Shattuck, Miss G. A.
Edmunds, Miss Helen C. Short, Mrs. Eliza B.
Fowler, Josiah M. Simmons, Miss F. W.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.
Goddard, Benjamin Soule, Miss Sarah M.
Grimes, E. E. Stearns, Miss Ellen
Holland, Miss Florence Stearns, Miss Priscilla
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R. Stone, Miss Esther A.
Hooper, Edward W. Thayer, Charles E.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee Thayer, E. K.
Hyslop, Samuel Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex- Thayer, Miss Marjorie
ander Thayer, Miss Nancy
Jones, Miss Helen L. Van Horn, Dora
King, Mrs. H. P. Van Horn, Elsa
Kingsbury, W. S. Walker, Mrs. William B.
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund Webster, H. S.
Minot, C. H. Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.
Newcombe, Miss Adelaide Williams, Mrs. Edward R.
W.

From a Vice-President

Your letter, notifying me of election as
a vice-president of the American Humane
Education Society, for the ensuing year, is
noted with interest and appreciation. I can
only say it gives me a genuine delight to be
thus associated with the worthy work of
your splendid Society. As the years pass,
I become all the more conscious of how much
worthwhile this Society has been. It is not
uncommon for me to meet individuals, ma—
tured in years, who remember very happily
what it has meant to them to come under
the influence of the American Band of Mer-
cy, and I doubt whether there is any other
phase of humane work which is so whole-
somely and so universally accepted as this
nation—wide, and somewhat world—wide, pro-
ject in the interest of training youth in the
fundamentals of humanity. I trust I may
make my small contribution in the form of
service during the coming year.

On Guard

This is the title given to this month’s
frontispiece by the owner and photograph—
er, Mrs. C. C. Beam of Blue Ridge, Ga. It
shows “Father Patrick” and Ruth. When
the picture was taken the noble St. Bernard
weighed 200 pounds and measured 85 inches
at the shoulder.

THEIR OWNER WAS PROSECUTED
FOR NON—SHELTERING AND
NEGLECT

   

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1936

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency James M. Curley, Governor
of Massachusetts
Ex—Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston
Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa
Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.
Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Cheshire, Conn.
Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.
Campbell, Patrick T., Boston
Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.
Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.
Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.
Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.
Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City
Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.
Fay, Miss Sarah B., Boston
Frederick, Mrs. C. F., West Lawn, Pa.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E., Pasadena, Calif.
Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.
Landes, Bernard 8., Colorado Springs, Colo.
MacCunn, Captain Fergus, London, Eng.
Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey
McCurrie, Matthew, San Francisco, Calif.
McSkimmon, Miss Mary, Brookline
Preston, Mrs. H. Clay, Binghamton, N. Y.
Rutherford, Frank B., Philadelphia, Pa.
Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario
Smith, Payson, Boston
Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, Memphis, Tenn.
Weeks, Edwin R., Kansas City., Mo.
Wentzel, Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
Miss Sarah J. Eddy Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan
William Dana Orcutt Stanwood K. Bolton
Mrs. Geoffrey G. Whitney John R. Macomber
William E. Putnam John R. Forgie
Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall Mrs. Margaret Deland
Charles G. Bancroft Frank M. Hotchkin
Walter M. Kendall Philip Stockton

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation.

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President, First National
Bank of Boston

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

M a7“. 1936
Foreign Corresponding Representatives
George B. Duﬁ' ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. S. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain '
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert. Boston. Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia. S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New Or-
leans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Active Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Baber, Miss Zonia Marsh, A. M.

Ballard, Dellworth Mitchell, Miss Mary
Barnard, Harry Ransom, John E.
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Rogers, Albert R.
Burhans, Mrs. Lela G. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Smith, Oliver

Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fay, Miss Sarah B. Traver, Mrs. L.

Fisher, H. Tucker, Nathan, M.D.
Glenn, Miss Carrie Upham, Miss E. Annie
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E. Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Kidder, Nathaniel T. Williams, Miss Nellie C.
Kilgore, John D. Woodward, Miss Mabel M.
Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H.

Associate Life Members

Babcock, Miss Edith Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.
Barnwell, Almon Angell Meyer, Miss Heloise
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
Curtis, Atherton W.

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. Parker, Miss E. S.
Furlong, Rollo L. Stone, Miss Esther A.
Gray, Miss Ellen Todd, Mrs. Albert
Larkin, John D. Weeks, Edwin R.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 




 

peckers alone.

Dec. 1936

and in a very short time will nearly anni—
hilate a large piece of suet, to say nothing
of cleaning the feeding board. Yet when
the sun shines on their metallic purple and
green plumage, they are not to be entirely
despised.

Occasionally, too, we get the game birds
to make memorable a winter’s day. A pheas—
ant or partridge comes to dine. And that
icy morning that brought nine quail to our
door, was one long to be remembered. Like
the chickens, their preference is corn.

It is thus, that as we in our village pro—
vide for the birds, they bless us with their
companionship. And while we may await
with anticipation the spring migrants, they
can not entirely take the place of our in-
timate winter neighbors.

An All-Year Servant

WILLIS MEHANNA

The blue jay does not have the best of
names among all bird lovers for it is gen—
erally claimed that he destroys the nests and
young of small birds.

In all my life of sixty years no such ac—
tion of the blue jay has come under my
notice. Of course such a thing could be
possible, but I wish to give him the beneﬁt
of the doubt. He is a rugged bird, eats
weed seeds and insects, and has been known
to destroy half—grown mice.

He braves the winter weather, staying
with us all the year. Most of his time is
spent in the woods. He has a way of coming
into the dooryard, lighting in a tree and
singing a loud, clarion call which can usu-
ally be interpreted as a warning that a cold
wave is on the way. After hearing this, it
is a wise move to carry the potted flowers
in from the porch so they will not be frozen.

Hunters are asked by the United States
Biological Survey to leave woodpeckers
alone, for they are nature’s own tree sur-
geons and save trees by eating the grubs
and worms that attack wood. It might be
a good idea for everybody to leave wood—
——Boston Globe

 

YOUNG SONG SPARROW

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 189

The Musical Song Sparrow

ALVIN M.

HE musical song sparrow is a winter

bird in many parts of the United

States, living on insects to a great
extent when they are to be had, but eating
weed seeds, berries and other similar foods
when they are not. However, in our most
northern states, this
little bird is absent in
December, Ja n u a r y
and February. But
early in March it re_
turns and is to be
heard singing most
pleasantly in its fav—
orite haunts, and it
remains until Novem—
ber, or about nine
months in all.

A bird that is known
by the name song
sparrow must be an
exceptionally good
singer, and this we
fin-d to be true. Many
of our sparrows—the
vesper, lark, white-
throated, fox, tree and
field sparrows, for ex—
ample—are creditable
singers; and some of
them actually are
gifted with song. Still,
one of the most gifted
of all our sparrows as a singer is the song
sparrow, and it not only has one song in
its repertoire but several. Someone, once
upon a time, put the song sparrow’s song
into these words: “Molly, put the teakettle-
ettle—ettle on and we’ll all take tea—ee—ee.”
It would hardly be correct to say that the
song sparrow actually says these words
when singing; nevertheless, the writer
likes this version, for it does suggest
some of the notes and besides gives one an
idea of the charm and sprightliness of the
song. The songste-r mounts to the top of a
post, weed or stick when singing, and raises
its head and pours forth its joyful, spark-
ling melody over and over.

The song sparrow
is usually to be seen
and heard in brushy
places along roads,
fences and streams;
and generally it is to
be seen on or near
the ground. If you live
near the banks of a
stream and have a
number of bushes in
the yard, the chances
are you will find the
song sparrow to be
neighborly and con-
fiding. It is quite like-
ly to visit you, sing
for you, and nest in
the yard. However, if
you live farther from
water, you are likely
to see less of it. In
the latter eventuality,
you can be quite sure
of getting a glimpse

PETERSON

of it and hearing its song by taking a walk
to the nearest stream and looking for it
in trees, bushes, brush piles and thickets.

The song sparrow is dressed in gray and
brown like most sparrows. But while it is
easy to see that it is a sparrow, it also is

 

NEST OF SONG SPARROW WITH AT LEAST TWO COW—
BIRD’S EGGS (THE LARGER ONES)

easy to see that in some way it is unlike the
others. It has brown stripes on the sides of
the head and throat; and these stripes run
back over the sides and seem to center in a
blotch on the breast. “When trying to make
sure that a sparrow seen is really a song
sparrow,” writes T. Gilbert Pearson, “look
for a spotted throat and breast with one
spot in the very center of the breast decid—
edly larger than all the others.”

The song sparrow nests on the ground as
a general rule, hiding its cradle in a tuft
of grass or cluster of weeds on a bank,
hummock or at the base of a tree. Many
nests are built along highways and railroads
and on the banks of streams. The nest is
made of grass, weeds, rootlets and bits of
bark, and lined with ﬁne grass and hair.
The eggs are white but spotted with brown.
Many song sparrows are imposed upon by
cowbirds, the latter laying their eggs in the
nests of these useful and delightful song-
sters and leaving the incubating and care
of the young hatched from them to the birds
imposed upon. The writer has found many
song sparrows’ nests full to the brim with
eggs of the two species, the cowbirds’ eggs
being larger but otherwise much like those
of the owners.

Windsor Park among its many distinc-
tions has one that is particularly charming.
says the Calumet (Ill.) Record. It is a
squirrel haven. Children are taught not to
molest the little animals, and the youngsters
have practically constituted themselves into
a society for the protection of squirrels. So
tame are the squirrels that it is a common
occurrence for them to venture indoors at
the invitation of the children, who often
treat them to a feast of nuts.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 16

To a Caged Tiger

ANNIE GRAHAM KING

Thing of beauty, thing of rage,
Thing of freedom in a cage,
Tiger, breathing jungle ire,
Are you moulded out of fire?

I can see your blazing eyes

From a jungle thicket rise,

I can see you leap away

Through the bush in search of prey.

I can see you crouch and spring—-
Beautiful, terrific thing——

I can hear you crunch and gnaw
What you hold beneath your paw.

While you frat behind the bars,
I can see huge tropic stars
Burn and blaze and fade away
In the pause before the day.

Thing of beauty in a cage,

I would fain your grief assuage.
Tiger, wild and fierce and free,
You’ve become a part of me!

Motion Picture Cruelty

URING a rehearsal last month of the

moving picture “The Charge of the
Light Brigade” by Warner Brothers,
several complaints were received by the
San Francisco S. P. C. A., with an urgent
request that humane officers be sent to
watch the preliminaries for filming the
picture.

The location. is at Sonora, a small town
about 150 miles from San Francisco. Offi—
cers Girolo of the San Francisco S. P. C. A.
and Winters of the Sacramento Society
were sent at once. They found that between
three and four hundred horses were being
used, and that the majority of them were
to die or be seriously wounded in the “Pit
Falls” and by the device known as the
“Running W.”

When informed that this device was to
be used Officer Girolo told the director that
arrests would be made, if any animals were
injured. In describing what took place, he
states that five pits about 8 feet deep and
10 feet square were dug, then camouflaged
by a screen being put over the top of the pit
and brush evenly spread over, making it im-
possible to detect the holes. Eighty-ﬁve
horses were in a wedge shape line ready to
charge at the director’s orders for full speed
ahead. Men had wired 5 horses at both
front ankles, running the wires up the back
of the front legs through a metal ring un-
derneath the belly band then between. the
hind legs back along the ground and firmly
attached to an iron stake from where the
horses started. This device is the “Run-
ning W” or tripping wire. When the cue
was given all horses started at full speed
ahead.

This is what happened: One horse fell in—
to pit No. 1 when the wire became tight
pulling its front feet up to its belly. Anoth-
er horse fell into pit No. 3, other horses fell
and great confusion followed, several riders

(Continued on' ‘ page 128)

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1936

Shall We Save the Mountain Goat?

BRUCE JENNINGS

 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN GOAT AND KID

LD time prospectors have told me
G that the mountain goat was once a.

relatively cbmmon inhabitant of the
West, a nimble but friendly fellow who
would visit their camps occasionally for the
titbits that he might ﬁnd. Today we do
not ﬁnd this easy to believe, for the moun—
tain goat has become exceedingly disin-
terested in any contact with human society
and clings like the greatest recluse to his
rocky crags. Not many Westerners are
familiar with his habits, or perhaps even
aware of his existence, so rare and exclu—
sive has he become, and if hunting him is
allowed to continue, even in a limited way,
he will eventually become extinct, for his
struggle for survival is a severe one that
involves the conquest of almost uninhabit-
able mountain peaks and the ravages of
several natural enemies.

The mountain goat has adapted himself
splendidly to his high, rocky, and often
snow—covered environment. His feet are
short, broad, and spreading, and the bot
toms are equipped with a cushiony material
that closely resembles the crepe rubber sole
on our own shoes. His head is carried low,
as if he were always ready for battle; his
fore quarters are powerfully built, but his
hind quarters are small. He is thus de-
signed for traveling over bluffs and rocks,
and can surmount steep crags easily and
gracefully. Along the back of his neck to
the loins extends a mane-like growth that
stands up and is perhaps ﬁve inches long.
This makes him appear much larger than
he really is, for he rarely exceeds two
hundred pounds in weight. In color he is
pure white, which changes to a yellowish
white as he approaches a ripe old 'age, and
this white serves to set off the jet black
color of his two short horns.

The mountain goat is thus one of our
more picturesque species. He is found only
in rough, rocky country, and usually at
high elevations. He is not, like the deer
and elk, a great wanderer, but drifts about
on a piece of range two or three miles wide

and about the same in length. He never
migrates in winter, but braves the cold
and the snows on the same high peaks that
he has climbed in summer.

One of the more interesting peculiarities
of the mountain goat is his habit of sitting
on his haunches like a dog. He will sit
thus for hours at a time as he surveys the
country from some high point. He is a
wise fellow, but curious, and his curiosity
sometimes overcomes his wisdom. The
hunter has little trouble in taking advan—
tage of this trait. When hunting, all he
need do is get into the goat country, conceal
himself, ﬁre a shot, and wait until the goat
climbs out upon a prominent place to look
around. He will always appear to ascer—
tain the reason for the noise, and his white
color makes of him an easy mark. A hunt—
er never hesitates to make use of a ruse
which would seem completely alien to the
tenets of good sportsmanship when the
point involved is the destruction of some in-
offensive animal.

Foresters say that the arch enemy of
the mountain goat is the black or golden
eagle, another dweller in lofty places. The
young kids are an easy prey for the eagle,
since their white color is an insufﬁcient pro—
tection when they move, and the great birds
are able to snatch them from the rocks and
cliffs where they range. The cougar, the
wild cat, and the coyote also victimize the
kids.

The adult goat is a courageous animal
and will protect his young valiantly against
the attack of marauders. However, it would
seem that a large percentage of kids are
killed by predators. Since the female goat
does not produce more than a single kid or
a pair of twins in a season, it can readily
be understood that, even were the moun-
tain goat not molested by man, the Species
would have a hard struggle to survive in
the face of such great difficulties.

Of the various herbivorous wild animals
found in our mountains, the goat is perhaps
the only one of which it can truly be said

 

 

 

 




 

2mg HJw—um. Om. >gWC—LPZON mwmnu>rr< DEM—CZNU ﬁO—N HIM ZNNUM Om. HIM mOO—Nﬁuw
Ammm Ummm Hamv

     

 

H ._._._m Z>mm>nzcmm44m mon_m._.< mom ._._._m
. 1 unm<m2102 o." ancmr._.< ._.o >z_§>_.m
. a... ._._._m >Zman>z :Es>2m mocn>ioz

MOO—m4< l

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

June, 1936

Ancient Swannery in Danger
MARTHA E. BONHAM

0 .NE of the most peaceful places in
the world is Abbotsbury in Dorset,
England, where for almost 1,000 years wild
swans have made their home.

Recently the Air Ministry decided to es—
tablish ranges for machine—gun. and bomb—
ing practice at Chickerell, which is the
winter quarters of the swans. Bird lovers,
the Council for the Preservation of Rural
England, as well as the owner of the swan-
nery, the Earl of Ilchester, have protested,
but all in vain. The Air Ministry gave the
matter careful consideration, but not being
able to ﬁnd sites where less serious objec-
tions were raised, they decided to proceed
with the project.

This ancient home of the swans has been
an ideal place for them to live. Within the
brackish water grows a rare sea-grass
which forms their natural food.

There is no deﬁnite record of the begin-
ning of the swannery, but it is thought
the birds were ﬁrst introduced for food by
the monks of the Benedictine Abbey of
Abbotsbury which was founded in 1044. At
the dissolution of the monastery, the abbey,
including the swannery, came into the pos-
session of Sir Giles Strangways, in whose
family—that of the Earl of Ilchester—it
still remains.

Even though the utmost care may be
taken, as the Air Ministry declare will be
the case, and no swans are killed in the
target practice, the sound of the machine-
guns and the sight of airplanes swooping
down at 250 miles an hour, will frighten
the swans away from their home.

It is sad to think that this peaceful place,
long a sanctuary for all sorts of birds and
the delight of nature lovers, should become

a training ground for perfecting military
efﬁciency.

Why Cage Your Canary P

O bird likes to be shut-up in a cage
Nas an “ornament.” Cage a wild bird and
you first break its spirit,‘then it sickens and
dies. It cannot stand imprisonment. Canar-
ies are more accustomed to it, for they usu-
ally know nothing else from the time they
are hatched. But even they have enough in-
dependence of spirit, enough love of lib-
erty, to appreciate being “outside the bars.”
If we must use a cage, let it be the bird’s
room, large and roomy, and—leave the door
open except perhaps after the bird is asleep
at night.

The bird can be readily trained, much as
a little baby, how to make proper use of its
freedom. Kindness is essential, for its con~
ﬁdence must ﬁrst be won, and we must re-
sist the impulse to handle.

A young canary can be readily taught to
step upon a ﬁnger to eat, and from then
on its training is easy. My “Toy-Boy” de~
lights even now in riding the carriage of
my typewriter back and forth. If I read a
newspaper he is apt to perch on its edge,
chirping contentedly. Such a “trained” bird
will ride about on one’s shoulder, and be~
cause of its kindly treatment will even re-
sist the impulse to ﬂy away if the window

is Opened- PETER REMMY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Meat Scarce—Birds Eaten

(0 NE of the most deplorable practices
from the humane point of View has
been resurrected lately in the northern part
of Italy, in the vicinity of Asiago. Song-
birds on their flight southward and on
their return are caught by snarers in nets

 

Sw1ftNews Photb
SONG—BIRDS FOR DINNER

on their routes of migration. This new in—
dustry has developed to be a quite extensive
one,,partly explained through the League
sanctions against Italy, producing a scarci-
ty of meat.

The World Association of Friends of Na-
ture and Birds has protested to the Italian
Government against this practice, but no
law has been passed forbidding the shoot-
ing or snaring of the diminutive animals,
the meat of which the Italian population
claims: is just as good as that of a chicken,
a capon, or a duck. The plateau of Asiago
is the center of the bird snaring industry,
because most migratory birds have to rest
there before starting their flight over the
Alps. Some of them are caught in nets,
some are shot after having been lured by
owls. According to reports, hundreds of
thousands of birds are being caught.

The picture shows one of the bird snarers
in Asiago on his way home. The stick with
the owl he is carrying in his right hand
was used by him to lure on the song-birds,
which he shoots with a gun. Hanging on
the stick, one can see the victims of his ex-
pedition.

Remember the constant need of bird-s and
animals for fresh water in hot weather.

 

Page 8’7
A Caged Bird

A. R. LEATHLEY

I wonder, are you happy, swe:et caged bird,

Or is the chord of mem’ry ever stirred?

Not thus you figured in the Eternal plan,

To live imprisoned by the will of man.

You have, they say, all that your body
needs,

Fresh water daily and the choicest seeds;

They say you’re safe from cats, from
hawks that prey,

They love you greatly—you’re content to
stay—

But sometimes in your song a note I’ve
heard—

A wistful tone that all my being stirred,

That made me long to tear your bars aside

And see you mount the blue so free and
wide,

To see you live the life your Maker
planned,

Before you fell into the fowler’s hand.

Nixon Waterman Say 5:

0 birds hear their own. songs and the
D songs of other birds about them? And
do they sing them for their own delight or
for what they believe is for the pleasure of
the world about them?

The latter proposition is the more agree-
able and the more reasonable. Most of our
song-birds seem to prefer to build their
nests near to human habitations where their
songs are sure to be heard. The robin, the
mockingbird, the bluebird and the wren are
happy examples. Some of the thrushes
build their homes in the deeper, lonelier
woods where they forego the society and the
protection afforded birds that dwell nearer
human habitation.

While I believe the normal bird sings for
the delight it feels it is affording the world
round about it, I knew one bird that was
robbed of the fruit of its fine purpose
though it did not seem to realize its and
the world’s loss. Across the street from
the house in which I lived years ago was a
bit of bushy growth in which, one spring,
a pair of song sparrows made their nest.
In every respect but one they appeared to
be a happily-mated, perfectly normal addi—
tion to our bird colony. This one abnormal
attribute belonged to the male sparrow who,
though he would assume the attitude of a
singing bird, elevate and open his beak and
seemingly enjoy the thrill of giving the
world his song, produced no song audible to
our closely—listening ears. Was he uncon-
cious of the fact that he was a mute? Did
his seemingly happy mate recognize his de-
ficiency and still tenderly regard him “for
a’ that and a’ that,” as Robert Burns might
say? Were any of his young similarly im-
paired? Did some accident during his early
existence destroy his sense of hearing?

Who can ever know of the strange cir-
cumstances occurring in the lives of the
little folks about us!

Send to American Humane Education
Society, Boston, for free sample literature

on birds.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

 
    
  

     
   
 

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Oﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLILARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANGR-OFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JULY, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 16
Number of addresses made, 151

17,895

Number of persons in audiences,

Summer Work in the South

HE Rev. R. E. Griffith, fie-1d represen—

tative of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, with regular headquarters in
De Land, Florida, is working in Hender-
sonville, North Carolina, and vicinity dur—
ing the summer months. Mr. Griffith’s
methods are unique in that he employs a
loud speaker on the streets of the various
towns to present his humane message. This
has proved very effective, and permission
for the use of this device is readily given by
the authorities. In his travels about North
Carolina Mr. Griffith has visited several
boys’ camps where he has given talks es-
pecially adapted to the ages represented.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Jews of Germany

HIS is the title of a book recently pub-

lished, whose author is Marvin Low-
enthal. The book is reviewed by the Cool-
idge professor of history at Harvard Uni—
versity, William L. Langer. The first par—
agraph of the review says:

“If indeed the treatment of the Jews may
be taken as a measure of human decency
at any given time, the record of Christian
civilization during the last fifteen hundred
years is shamefully low. This book will
serve to remind us, if the reminder is need-
ed, that, on one count or another, this per-
sistent minority has been despised, haras-
sed and abused almost without interruption,
despite the undeniable contributions it has
made to western culture and despite its
repeated efforts to accommodate itself to
the groups among which its lot was cast.”

Why do we call attention to this book?
First, because this quoted paragraph of the
reviewer is profoundly true. The treat-
ment of the Jew by a professed Christian
world has been during these centuries one
of the blackest, if not the blackest, crime
committed by nations the masses of whose
people have presumed to think of themsel-
ves as followers of that one supreme Jew
of all history, Jesus of Nazareth. We print
this paragraph, in the second place, because
one of the most elemental principles of that
Humane Education for which our American
Humane Education Society stands, and
which it has been seeking for half a cen-
tury and more to implant in the hearts of
the millions of children it has reached, is
the truth of man’s kinship with his neigh-
bor of every land and clime and creed and
color. If a man love not his brother, whom

he hath seen, how can he love God whom
he hath not seen?

French War Veterans Appeal
to Germans

The following appeared sometime ago in
the Associated Press as news from Paris.
It is most significant.

Paris—Four million
French world war veter—
ans called upon German
veterans tonight to join
them in reconciling the
two nations lest a “gen-
eral conflagration destroy
European civilization.”

“We must look straight
into each other’s eyes and
speak without beating a-
bout the bush,” read an
appeal drafted at the na-
tional convention of the
confederation of war vet-
erans.

“The hour of reconcili—
ation must sound. Help
us to teach our peoples to
understand each other.”

They shall not hurt nor
destroy in all my holy
mountain; for the earth

Sept. 1936

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for June, 1936 — 30 Days

Daily average large animals 55.6
Forage for same $ 82.27
Daily average dogs 6.9
Forage for same 6.78
Put to sleep 27 10.33
Transportation 12.10
Wages, grooms, watchman and stable-boys 64.15
Superintendent’s salary 115.13
Veterinary’s salary 29.60
Motor ambulance upkeep 19.61
Sundries 44.74
Building account, upkeep, etc. 12-50
$397.21

Entries: 11 horses, 12 mules, 57 donkeys.

Exits: 2 horses, 14 mules, 28 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: horses, 123; mules, 86; don-
keys, 95; dogs, 3; cats, 9.

Other Fondouks Visited: 70, all Native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 531 cases investi-
gated, 6,580 animals seen, 1,524 animals treated, 57
animals transferred to Fondouk American, 15 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

(Signed) G. DELON, Supt.

Friends of the Fondouk will read with pleas—
ure the following from Mr. Willlams, the Secre-
tary:

Bulletin: First Six Months, 1936

PERSONNEL
The superintendent, three Arab grooms, and two
Arab stable boys, the municipal veterinary, (Who is
head of the Service de l’Elevage and most helpful).

Cash Report Monthly Expenses

January $ 394.84
February 332.13
March 359.45
April 342.92
May 387.25
June 397.21

$ 2,213.80

as against same period of 1935—$2,744.94 (being
$531.14 more than same period of 1936 as well as re-
sulting in $344.94 excess of Budget appropriation. By
contrast the expenses for six months in 1936 amount-
ed to $2,213.80 or $186.20 less than the Budget allow-
anc .

In 1935 it was sometimes necessary to refuse cases
which were sure to require a long cure. The Elevage
took nearly all that Were from outside Fez, as we
were trying to keep the daily limit to within 50
large animals.

Thus: 6 months, 1935—in 181 days, large animals
258 fully hospitalized. While for 6 months, 1936—
in 182 days, large animals 318—10 large animals more
daily than 1935, all fully hospitalized.

Prices for forage up to mid-June were 15% higher
this year than last. The outpatients numbered 1,227
in this year’s period of 6 months, against in 1935 the
entire year—1,071. And “put to sleep” this six
months numbered 151, while 1935 again the entire
year—only 159.

 

NEW FOUNTAIN IN AMERICAN FONDOUK,

FEZ, MOROCCO

shall be full of the know- This very practical gift to the Fondouk was made by the
ledge of the Lord as the Metropolitan Drinking Trough Association of London, Eng—
waters cover the sea. land. It is proving to be of great service to the animals in

Isaiah 11; 9.

this hot climate.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 90

PEACE ON EARTH,

KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING

CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Oﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCfROF’I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia....................;Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Menasha, Wisconsin
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 548
Number of addresses made, 433

Number of persons in audiences, 80,073

Worn-out Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene—
fit of field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come

to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

American Fondouk, Fez

Annual Report of Honorary Secretary

HIS year of 1936 is the tenth year of

the American Fondouk. It seems full
of promise, as the summing up of 1935’s
results shows a marked and continued in—
crease in the co-operation with us, not only
of the Indigenes and their Department of
the Government, but with the French au-
thorities and police, quite down through the
whole list.

The Committee is greatly indebted to His
Excellency the Pacha, Patron of the Fon—
douk, for his ever—helpful aid when'called
upon, and for advice regarding Offenders
who require explanations of the Fondouk’s
existence there.

To M. Lemaire, Consul of France at Fez,
and also Directeur des Travaux Municipaux,
for constant courtesies, suggestions and
general counsel.

Also to M. Serra, Chef des Douanes at
Casablanca, for many courtesies of the Port.

We begin also with another cut in over-
head expenses, yet have put the entire plant
in best of order, using only a little more
than Frcs. 1000 ($66.66) from building ac-
count funds.

The fountain presented by the London
Watering Trough Association will be com:
pleted in March, situated on the upper level
of the Fondouk, where its runway will be
used for the foot—bath, with no waste what—
ever.

When efforts were ﬁrst made, about 1922,
to encourage tourist traffic to Northern
Africa, the travelers were assured that no
unpleasant sights would meet their eyes or
interfere with their enjoyment. Yet hun-
dreds of tourists cut short their stay and
advised their friends not to yet try M0-
rocco because of the distressing condition of
the animals. Local animal lovers began in
1924 to try to ameliorate conditions, but
until the American Fondouk started in
1926, little was accomplished. The vast im—
provement in the general appearance and
treatment of animals in. Fez is a marked
testimony to the effectiveness of the work
performed by the Fondouk. In six years
nearly 1,500 hopelessly exhausted, over—
worked, underfed or miserably sick pack
animals have been humanely “put to sleep”
by our ofﬁcers.

Respectfully submitted
CHARLES A. WILLIAMS
Honorary Secretary

Report for March, 1936—31 Days

Daily average large animals 57.1

Forage for same $ 74.80
Daily average dogs 5.8

Forage for same 6.00
Put to sleep 24 7.08
Transportation 10.15
Wages, grooms, etc 56.74
Superintendent’s salary 116.82
Veterinary’s salary 30.04
Sundries 48.61

Building upkeep 9.21
$359.45

Entries: 10 horses, 5 mules, 46 donkeys, 3 cows.

Exits: 4 horses, 6 mules, 41 donkeys, 2 cows.

Outpatients treated: 15 horses, 28 mules, 74 don-
keys, 1 cow, 4 dogs, 1 cat.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometers travel-
ed, 154; cases investigated, 361; animals inspected,
3,305; animals treated, 693; animals sent to Amer-
ican Fondouk, 44; pack-saddles (infected) destroyed,
11.

June, 1936
“The Magic Staff”

(Cut on the former estate of “Humanity Dick" Martin)

To Richard Martin
MINNIE LEONA UPTON

“The Magic Staff”! It may not seem
That glamorous thing of lore and dream;
Rough and unpolished in my hold
It shows! Yet staff of gem-set gold
Did never glow withbrighter beam!

Lo, it drew life from woods that team
With gallant memories! They gleam
Until it shines as shone of old
——“The Magic Staff”!

Defender of the weak! What theme
So splendid! Your high, brave regime
Has glorified that Galway mold!
This gray stick thrills with ardor bold!
Faith, strength, from its firm fibre stream
-——“The Magic Staff”!

Faithful .“Buster”

B. STEFFENS

EATH has claimed the famous shep—

herd dog, “Buster,” of Richmond Cen—
ter, N. J ., whose photograph has appeared in
newspapers throughout the country. A few
hours after his death, Buster was laid to rest
in a grave, beside the fence which encircles
the cemetery near Patterson, where James
S. Van Court, his master, was buried eight
years ago. Buster had kept watch at the
grave for seven years. Each day since
his master’s death, until a year ago, he
went to the cemetery, and lay quietly be—
side the grave. Then, when Buster was
15 year’s old, his health began to decline,
and his cemetery visits were made less
frequently.

It was in the cemetery pose, with his
head on his forepaws, that Buster was a
familiar ﬁgure to all residents Of Richmond
Center. He was found dead on the back
porch of the Van Court home. His body was
placed in an old tool chest, unused since his
master’s death, and buried in a plot of
ground next to a hole in the cemetery fence,
where the dog had entered the burial ground
daily for years.

Mrs. Van Court, and her sons, Clyde and
Richard, gathered solemnly for the inter-
ment at the burial spot, which, they ex—
plained, was as close as it could be to Van
Court’s grave. A marker is to be erected
over the faithful Buster’s grave.

The Jack London Club

Started in 1918, after the publication of
Jack London’s posthumous book, “Michael
Brother of Jerry,” the Club has now grown
to a membership of 664,499. Two-thirds of
a million patrons of vaudeville and motion-
picture theaters who are pledged to protest
against the exhibition Of unnatural, cruel
trained animal acts! If you don’t know
what this Club is, read the book mentioned
above. A copy will be sent to any address
on receipt of 75 cents, or free literature
about the Club will be mailed upon applica-
tion to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

Page’70
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MAY, 1936

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this prh
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularlv
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic—
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscrip‘s
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscrip‘s
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Merciless Poultrymen

aising poultry in. glass jars is a reﬁne—

ment of cruelty that no man worthy
of respect would indulge in. Pictures of
this practice have appeared in many papers,
and these pictures have even been repro—
duced in Europe. Some American has had
himself photographed with young hens con-
ﬁned in glass containers. Several humane
societies have given notice that any such
practice will be subjected to prosecution.
We cannot believe that this sort of thing
has the slightest chance of surviving the
public protest against it. Furthermore, we
are wholly opposed to the all-too-prevailing
methods of ‘ many poultrymen in shutting
hens up for long periods in such narrow
quarters that all exercise is impossible. Of
course, the purpose of this is to turn the
poor creatures into egg-laying machines
with no thought for their comfort or pleas—
ure. Such methods are contrary to nature.
It is like tying up for months at a time
cows in stanchions, never giving them the
life of the pasture and the open air.
Animals were never made to be treated as
one might treat a piece of machinery.
Whatever health authorities say about it,
we refuse to believe that milk or eggs pro—
duced under these unnatural and inhumane
conditions can be of the highest grade. At
least we should never buy them if we knew
it.

The Dog and the Crow

A friend writes us, “Just next door to me
there lives a family of several children, and
the children have a large black dog. This
dog is not only a playmate for the children,
he also has had a special playmate of his
own—a tame crow. This crow for a long
while followed the dog wherever he went.
Sometimes he would jump on the dog’s
back and ride a while. Then he would ﬂy
along near him, or hop along behind him.
If the dog ever disappeared without the
crow, the crow would sit around the
house or yard and wait for the dog’s return.
Alas, one day I missed the crow. What
happened? Someone with a gun had shot
him. Poor little crow, we all miss him.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

How Many Horses Left?

HE ﬁnal ﬁgures on horses and mules,

census of January 1, 1935, are just
issued. Total number of horses 11,857,850,
mules 4,818,160.

The last estimate of the United States
Department of Agriculture reports on J anu-
ary 1, 1936, a decrease of about 2% in
h01ses and 3% in mules. The value per
head of all horses and colts on January 1,
1936, was $96.79 compared with $77.05 on
January 1, 1935. This was the highest Janu—
ary 1 value since 1921. The total value of
horses for this year is estimated at $1,126,-
400,000 compared with $913,870,000 a year
ago.

The horse production is reported as
deﬁnitely on the upgrade, as horse colts
under two years of age showed an increase
of 140,670, or more than 14%, over colts of
the same age reported by the census of 1930.
The decrease in mule colts has been 30%
less than mule colts of the same age re-
ported by the census of 1930.

The Thermometer and the
Cricket

Those who read on the Children’s Page
of the February issue of Our Dumb
Animals the article entitled “Crickets as
Thermometers” by Norman C. Schlichter
will be interested in reading the following
from Miss Katharine Tousey, who suggests
a correction in the method of determining
the temperature from the chirps of the
crickets:

“This formula for ﬁnding the tempera—
ture Fahrenheit by the snowy tree cricket,
as in C.W. Townsend’s book, “Beach Grass,”
I have found to be correct. He counts the
number of chirps in 14 of a minute and
adds 39. Your formula is evidently impos-
sible, because on a hot day, say 80°F., the
cricket never could chirp 40 times a second,
and if it could you could not count it. I hope
you will print the right formula in Our
Dumb Animals, as telling the right temper—
ature by the crickets is such a fascinating
thing to do.”

The safest nation in the world, we are
called. An ocean to east of us, an ocean to
west of us. Yet we are planning to spend
for the Navy Department for 1936, $630,-
000,000, and for the Army $304,500.000,
nearly a billion dollars. This is more than
Great Britain and Japan together are
Spending on their armies and navies, and
how little our chances of war compared
with theirs!

We are glad to report that the Woolworth
Stores have stopped selling toy guns and
pistols. We congratulate them. The senti-
ment against the sale of such toys is rapid-
ly growing. Concerning this the Christian
Science Monitor says:

Apart from the physical danger, however,
the universal wish for peace is not further—
ed by fostering a fondness for weapons
which are usually used for mimic warfare
or imitation of the cowardly acts of
gangsters.

May, 1936

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me

the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name
Age
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

A correspondent sends us what she be-
lieves a thoroughly authenticated story of a
little eleven-year-old girl in Oskosh, Wis—
consin,who came down with mumps. A few
days later her pet fox terrier who had been
keeping her company since her illness fol-
lowed suit with what was said to be the
same trouble. It has been said that humans
sometimes contract diseases from animals
and a few cases are on record where it has
appeared as if it worked the other way.
There is a disease, however, that causes a
swelling in the throat of a dog which close-
ly resembles mumps but it is not due to the
same cause.

Strange but True

Mrs. Nellie P. Tobey, of Great Barring-
ton, confirms the strange story we saw in
the newspaper by a personal letter to us.
The story was that she had a cat named
“Joe” that had made friends with a little
mouse. She says, “The mouse came out in-
to the room, became acquainted with the cat
and they played together, running around
the room, and when the mouse, which was a
very tiny one, grew tired he hid somewhere
until rested. Then he would come out again,
climb on the arm of the chair where I was
sitting, jump to the floor and play would
begin again. I closed the house last autumn
and I am wondering if Joe will find his
playmate when we go back in the spring.”

Well, Joe must be at least a. fine cat to
treat his little playmate with so much
courtesy.

Moving Picture Houses and
Be Kind to Animals Week

Ninety-ﬁve trailers carrying the words
“THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY :LTO
ANIMALS URGES YOU TO OBSERVE BE
KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK, APRIL 19—25”
were sent out to 95 moving picture houses
in Massachusetts, which, havingibeen vis-
ited by our ofﬁcers, agreed to attach them
to their ﬁlms during that week. This in-
volved no little work, securing the agree-
ment to use the trailers which we fur-
nished, but we are conﬁdent it was worth-
while.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 181;

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

DECEMBER, 1936

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-

lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals,

 

particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

A Plea for the Fondouk
at Fez

REMARKABLE opportunity for add—

ing to the splendid work of the Ameri-
can Fond-ouk at Fez has just come to our at—
tention. Adjoining the Fondouk is a valuable
piece of land which could be used for exer-
cise and pasturage for the mules, donkeys
and the horses under treatment. Of this, Mr.
Charles A. Williams, honorary secretary,
writes:

“This could not have been purchased when
we bought, but it so completes the plant
that we could easily, with the present force,
handle 100 donkeys and 50 mules and horses
per day. If to the contrary, and to be eco-
nomic, only averaging 80 daily and increas-
ing the out-patients’ visits, with the pas—
turage added we might be able to save
enough on forage by the animals’ grazing in
the seeded part to be 100 per day in summer.

“Every Arab is a gardener to the extent
of raising anything edible, and in summer
from 11 a. m. to 3 p. m., when outdoor work
is nearly impossible due to the heat of the
sun, the grooms could easily be cultivating
the parts that are well shaded. A great
deal of lucerne can easily be raised for this
purpose. The part toward the point of the
land is what would be seeded and become
the pasturage. If we can buy at $1,500 to
$2,000 we shall own eight times more than
the original piece purchased, and if at either
of those sums exactly that much less than
we paid for the site of the building.”

Toward this purchase we already have
$400. Who will help us secure the balance?

The report of the Superintendent shows
the daily work as it goes on at the Fon-
douk. Here is the story of one day’s work
taken at random from the report.

Thursday 24th. 7.80 Fondouk. Usual work.
Brought to Service of l’Elevage, on motor-
cycle the dog of Mr. Chancogne, very sick.
Then to Souk el Khemis, where inspected
320 animals, treated 25, bought 1 donkey to
put to sleep. Returned Fondouk 10.80. RM.
2.30 to Bab Guissa by “tour de Fes.” Vis-
ited 21 fondouks, inspected 416 animals,
treated 91, sent 8 donkeys to Hospital, de—
stroyed 1 infected pack—saddle. Returned
Fondouk 5 RM. Transported today a don-
key with our new motor ambulance from
Casbat ben Debbeb, about 10 miles out. Ani-
mals in Hospital: 50.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

With the Parents and
Teachers Association

UR Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, for years

representing us on the Executive Board
of the National Parents and Teachers Asso—
ciation, attended the meeting of the Board
held recently at Chicago, and from there
went to Toledo, Ohio, to the State Congress
Convention- of the Association. The high re-
gard in which Mrs. Nichols is held in the
ﬁeld of Humane Education was evident in
her being introduced to the delegate body of
some 1,500 and asked to address them. Later
she conducted a class, spoke 25 minutes be—
fore a large conference on Public Welfare,
stressing the vital need of Humane Educa—
tion, and in the evening was asked to give a
brief radio broadcast upon the general
theme of the Conference. Few of our read—
ers, we think, realize the signiﬁcance of
what Mrs. Nichols has done for Humane
Education in securing for our American
Humane Education Society a place among
the co—operative agencies of this great Par—
ent and Teacher body with its million and
a half members.

A Novelty in Humane
Education

At the Southeastern Fair held recently in
Georgia, children of the Atlanta, Fulton
County and Decatur schools gave a program
each morning illustrating what humane edu—
cation means in the school. Humane Edu-
cation is now a part of the character educa-
tion program of the public schools of that
sectionof Georgia, and through the direc-
tion of that distinguished educator, Dr.
W. A. Sutton, Superintendent of Atlanta
Schools, it has become a part of the school
program of the proposed new curriculum
which it is said public schools generally will
adopt. Back of all this splendid work in the
schools of Georgia is the devoted and effi-
cient worker and representative of our
American Humane Education Society, Mrs.
Katherine Weathersbee.

An Interestin 9; Letter

We were pleased indeed to receive, re-
cently, the following letter from a corres-
pondent in California:

Forty years ago, during the lifetime of
that great and good man, Mr. Geo. T. An—
gell, I was the publisher of a newspaper in
San: Mateo, California, and received and
read Our Dumb Animals regularly, and
looked forward to every issue with pleasure.
Then I moved away, and the old pleasurable
association was lost sight of.

Today a lady friend gave my wife a copy
of the issue of September, 1936. It brought
back old times, and renewed the regard for
our immortal friend, Geo. T. Angell, and
all that this good man stood for.

After all these years, I want to be in
again, and herewith enclose check for one
year’s subscription to Our Dumb Animals.

Humane Sunday, April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937. Humane
Day in schools, Friday, April 16. for which
special literature will be offered by the
Mass. S. P. C. A.

 

 

Dec. 1936

Safe Annuity Bond 3

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name
Age
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Mr. Packard’s Retirement

Mr. Winthrop Packard, a director of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., announces his
retirement as secretary—treasurer of the
Massachusetts Audubon Society, in the Oc-
tober issue of the Bulletin, the Society’s
official organ which he has edited since its
inception in 1917. He has served the Au—
dubon Society of Massachusetts for twenty—
four years, a period during which it has
become very prosperous and has carried
on very effective work for the protection
of birds. Among other noteworthy accom-
plishments was the establishment of the
Moose Hill Bird Sanctuary, at Sharon,
Mass., which “has become the most effec-
tive, best known demonstration sanctuary
in the country,” if not in the world. Mr.
Packard is considered to be one of our
most authoritative ornithologists. His con-
tribution to the cause of bird protection,
especially in Massachusetts, is second to
that of no living person. He is succeeded
in the office of secretary and treasurer
by Mr. Carl W. Buchheister, whose selec-
tion seems to augur well for the continued
prOSperity of the Massachusetts Audubon
Society. ‘ ~

The Royal S. P. C. A., England, has pre-
sented Haile Selassie, former Emperor of
Ethiopia, with its silver medal for his co-
operation with the Society when it planned
for the establishment of an animal hospital
at Addis Ababa during the war.

Sport

Hunted, and fleeing for safety,
Knowing not whither to run;

Seeking some haven of refuge
From the bark of many a gun.

Woodcock, duck, grouse and pheasant,
No longer in quiet may roam

The beautiful fields and forests
That God gave them for a home.

Gorgeous in colorful plumage,
Graceful and speedy in flight,

Who can shoot and blind them,
Creatures of song and of light?

Why all this wanton destruction,
Clothed in the trappings of sport,
When we should give them refuge,
Their friendship and confidence court.

H. R. HUTCHISON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

J une, 1936

 

Founded by Geo. ,T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation ..
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W." W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—

MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

. Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,541

Cases investigated ............... 405
Animals examined ............... 8,777
Animals placed in homes .......... 155
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 79
Number of prosecutions ........ . 3
Number of convictions ............ 3
Horses taken from work .......... 18
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,180
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ......... p ....... 48,479
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 30

In view of the advances in scientific
knowledge, in so many varied fields, it is
not inconceivable that eventually there may
be a much greater understanding between
man and his hairy, furry and feathered
companions.

—Telegram, Worcester, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
R. EVANS, v.M.D.
. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

OHQHWF
rownmn

m?

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 787 Cases 2,232
Dogs 568 Dogs 1,844
Cats 201 Cats 336
Birds 11 Birds 40
Horses 5 Goats 7
Goat 1 Rabbits 4
Snake 1 FOX 1

Operations 862
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1,1915 .......................... 138,432
Dispensary cases .................. 333,408
Total .................. 471,840

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 123
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 389
Operations ............................ 163

Motorists, Beware

FERN BERRY

OING some place? The traveling pub—
(fl lic spend the whole summer going
places—and how they go!
AS a warning to Speeding motorists the
State of Michigan has found it necessary
to place warning signs in deer country.

DRIVE SLOWLY —— DEER
or
BE CAREFUL —— DEER COUNTRY

and even at that, dozens of deer are struck
by speeding motorists each summer and fall.
The deer feed at night and move about quite
freely. The lights of a speeding motor car
confuse them and they will stand still and
let the car, unable to stop in time, strike
them dead or cripple them.

[Not only are deer the victims of the auto-
mobile age. Raccoons, woodchucks, ground
squirrels and cottontail rabbits are killed
by the hundreds each year. Among the
song and game birds most frequently killed
are the kingbirds, sparrows, bobolinks and
occasionally a horned lark. Quail, pheas—
ant and partridge now and then are kill-
ed and, more often than many folks believe,
nighthawks, whippoorwills and small
screech owls are struck. This latter group
are nearly always killed at night. Many
a windshield or window has been shattered
by the confused birds who are trying to
escape the blinding light of the automobile.

Page 89

Auxiliary Activities

NE of the features of Be Kind to

Animals Week at the Angell Me-
morial Animal Hospital, Boston, was the
annual Hospitality Day observed on
Wednesday, April 22, by the Women’s Aux-
iliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. This
successful affair was under the direction of
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president, as-
sisted by Mrs. Frank Fayerweather, chair—
man of the tea committee, Mrs. Charles C.
Hoyt, chairman of the hostess committee,
and Mrs. Herbert Prescott, chairman of the
food committee.

At the afternoon tea, Mrs. Walter S.
Woods of Chestnut Hill, Mrs. Edward T.
Rugg of Brookline and Mrs. Frank Stewart
of Newton Center poured. Tea was served
by Miss Betty Allen, Miss Eleanor Fayer-
weather, Miss Louise English, Mrs. Richard
H. Wallace and Mrs. George Bentley. Many
of the numerous visitors took advantage of
the Opportunity to inspect the Hospital.
“DO—Do” and “Di-Di,” twin billy goats, snow
white and only seven weeks old, attracted
much attention as they held a special re—
ception for the guests.

Mrs. Clark Re—elected President

At the annual meeting, held May 5 at
Hotel Sheraton, Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke was re—elected president. Other Of-
ﬁcers elected were Mrs. Arthur W. Hurl-
burt, ﬁrst vice-president; Mrs. John A. J en-
nings, second vice—president; Mrs. Harry
Cole, treasurer; Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, re-
cording secretary; Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt,
corresponding secretary; Mrs. Agnes P.
Fisher, chairman Of work committee; Mrs.
Charles Stanick, chairman of ways and
means committee; Miss Blanche Bardin,
Mrs. Frank Towne and Mrs. Herbert Pres-
cott, directors for two years.

At the luncheon which followed the busi-
ness meeting, Mrs. Clarke presided and pre-
sented the following guests from the Mass.
Federation of Women’s Clubs, each of
whom spoke briefly: Mrs. John H. Kimball,
first vice—president; Mrs. William J. Mc—
Donald, treasurer; Miss Mary D. Clare, di-
rector of the sixth district; Mrs. Walter H.
Woods, fourth district director; and Mrs.
John A. Jennings, chairman of club insti-
tutes. President Rowley of the Society
thrilled the audience with a stirring address
on “The Value of Humane Education in
Character Building.” There were vocal se-
lections by Mrs. Cecil Beattie and Mr. Earle
Lawrence.

The hostesses were Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt,
chairman; Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, Mrs.
Frank E. Towne, Mrs. Benjamin J. Blakney,
Mrs. Francis Carreiro, Mrs. Edward K.
Bennett and Mrs. Doris L. Greenlaw. Decor-
ations were in. charge of Mrs. John A.
Jennings.

The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals has been remem-
bered in the wills of Jacob Hittinger of
Belmont, Harriet E. Perkins of Boston, Ed—
ith L. A. Baylies of New Bedford, Inez H.
Burnham of Winthrop, and Ludlow Carroll
Willett of Baltimore, Maryland.

May 12, 1936.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

May, 1936
The Wisdom of Geese

JACK MINER

HHAVE said that in some ways birds had
brains superior to ours. Let me try and
explain myself. The ponds on my bird sanc-
tuary are so small in comparison to the
North American continent, that no words
can express the proportion of them to the
millions of square miles of land and water
of North America. Even the point of the
finest needle pressed on the map of this
continent would represent several square
miles; so again, I say, these ponds, which
comprise only a couple of acres on my bird
sanctuary, cannot be measured or propor—
tioned to the North America continent.

It is a well-known fact that since 1909 I
have been tagging ducks, and since 1915
have tagged over eight thousand Canada
geese, which represent approximately for-
ty tons of honkers that have gone through
my hands and had an aluminum tag placed
on their legs, in order to study their routes
of migration — but what else has it proved?
It has proved that these same birds came
back to these same mud holes year after
year for feed and protection and kindness,
that I try to give them. It further proves
that they know a friend from an enemy;
proves that they know a place of safety and
rest, or in other words, where to go for a
breathing spell. But the big thing it proves
is that they have been given brains, know-
ledge or sense, that without the aid of com-
passes, instruments or such like, they can
get up during early October at the Arctic
Circle, with their family following in single
ﬁle, and in a short time come circling down
on these little artiﬁcial ponds of mine, where
they know they are safe; and in the early
part of March, the ones that have escaped
the deadly aim of sportsmen along the Mis—
sissippi valley and the Atlantic seaboard,
rise up out of range of shot and shell and
keep at that great height till they land back
at this spot of safety. The tagging system
has proved they come here from as far
north as Great Slave Lake and Baﬁ‘in Land,
as far west as British Columbia, as far east
as Labrador, New Jersey and the Atlantic
coast, and as far south as Florida, 'Ala-
bama, Louisiana and the Gulf coast.

How many human beings, with an aero-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

plane, or dropped down in these localities,
could, without aid of compass or other in-
struments and only depending on their own
brains, even find their way to such a small
spot; and, if they did, how long would it
take? I am afraid some of them would be
glad to have some goose brains to even bring,
them out of such desolate places in northern
regions to civilization.

The Hardy, Horned Lark

FERN BERRY

E hear a lot about semi-hardy plants

and ﬂowers but seldom do we use
that term in speaking of birds. There is
one bird that might well be called semi-
hardy for while it does leave for the South
in the late autumn it returns to build its
nest long before other summer birds ever
think of returning. It often arrives in late
February or early in March. This bird is
the prairie horned lark. It will build, in a
slight depression on the ground, a nest of
grasses and vegetable ﬁbers and often a
snow—storm will completely cover the nest.
The young birds often suffer death or loss
from this exposure. However, the eggs and
tiny birds seem rather hardy.

The prairie horned lark is so named for
the tiny “horns” on either side of the head.
These are black tufts of feathers and are
erected when the bird is startled or angry.
Another interesting thing about the horned.
lark is that it never hops but runs about
the ground like a small feathered mouse.
It gets its food from the ground, eating
weed seeds and some insects. Its song is
rather a weak performance. It loves the
open country and will ﬂy from post to post
or before an automobile, often uttering its
song from a clod of earth.

In mating season the horned lark will ﬂy
to an elevation of from ﬁfty to one hundred
feet in the air and may sing while at this
height but its voice is rather feeble at that
distance. The female usually raises more
than one brood each year. The ﬁrst brood
more often than not is destroyed by the
severe weather. It is not uncommon to ﬁnd
a horned lark’s nest as you walk across the
ﬁelds, still patched with snow—banks or with
tiny fairy-like mirrors of ice.

Page 69'

Nixon Waterman Says:

DOUBTLESS the robin’s song is more
generally known and appreciated by
all our people than that of any other of
our wild birds. There is scarcely a home
in any section that is blessed with a fair
showing of trees, but there is a robin’s
nest within hearing distance. It is fortu-
nate for all that the robin’s song is so
cheerful, inspiring and uplifting. Heard in
the morning it tends to brace one up for
the day’s work ahead. Heard in the even—
ing, it is solacing and rest—begetting. All
of this was deeply impressed on my mind
when, one spring some years ago, a pair
of robins decided to build a nest in one of
my orchard trees. My pleasure at noting
we were to have such agree-able neighbors
was sorely lessened when Mr. Robin began
singing his love song. It was strangely
different from the normal song of the robin.
It was the saddest grouping of bird notes I
have ever heard. Even the notes of the
mourning dove were hopefully cheering in
comparison with it. But although the bird’s
notes were very sad, his appearance and
movements were as bright and chipper as
a robin’s should be. Usually I much regret
the cessation of the robins’ singing, but I
was frank enough to say I was glad when
that bird’s sojourn with us was at an end
and he and his fellows winged their way to-
ward the Southland. I often wondered by
what strange circumstance or freak of for-
tune he came by such a sad song. And did
he and his mate think the song just as
beautiful as the song all the other robins
were singing? I hoped they did. But ever
since hearing that sad song I have always
felt grateful for the beauty and cheerful-
ness that render so gladsome the notes of
the great company of robins that with the
departure of winter come gaily bringing the
springtime on their wings.

For DOg Owners

“They say dogs are so smart they can
find their way home from long distances.”

“That depends. If you are trying to
get rid of the dog, he can. But if you have
a good one he is likely to get lost if he gets
out of your sight.” ——Pathfinder

 

“HONK, HONK, HONK,” THE GEESE ARE MARCHING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
SOCIETY ~

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

. ,. 7%»?
7/” .lz
V////.
“4%?”7”,
I/I/

an
x, ,I/

TWIN MOOSE CALVES IN MANITOBA

I.//
//5 .F/
I 1% 1/

)
S
a
a

d
e

S
o
9

low

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 112

“June Day” at Springfield
(Continued from page 105)

treasurer of the auxiliary, Mrs. Harold S.
Treworgy, Mrs. James E. Redman and Mrs.
Harold D. Stickney, assisted in taking ad-
missions at the gate.

To Mrs. M. F. Peterson, general chair—
man, Mrs. Walter W. Peacock, co-chairman,
Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, president, and her
able staff of officers, and especially to the
hostess, Mrs. Denault, the Society is great—
ly indebted for the splendid success of this
outstanding social event, the generous pro—
ceeds of which will be used in carrying on
the work of the Branch Animal Hospital on
Bliss Street, Springfield.

Humane Education
HUGH KING I‘IARRIS

WOMAN recently brought a half-
Astarved mongrel to me, “wondering if
I could not save it from the Pound.” This,
together with some experiences in drives for
humane funds, where persons have ad—
vanced absurd ideas as to the plans and
methods of shelters, is cause for wonder
to one conversant with the facts. Seem-
ingly, despite consistent effort to educate
the public as to Humane Society activities,
there still exists a need for getting the
“inside story” across.

Certainly humane endeavors have gone
far toward helping all animals, yet in a
talk with the woman who wanted me to
do something about a lost dog, she inti-
mated that animals taken to the Pound, (as
the Shelter is still called in Grand Rapids),
were “abused, half fed and finally brutally
killed.”

In such a case there remained but one
course open for me. To set her doubts and
fears at rest, and above all to so change her
conception of the facts that she would not
continue to spread false doctrine as to the
treatment of animals in the Pound, I in—
duced her to drive with me to visit our local
refuge for animals. While the present
quarters are in the big city garage, due to
the fact that a new Shelter is to be pro—
vided in a short time, the old Pound now
being torn down—this visit was a happy
one. Scrupulous cleanliness, plenty of food,
sympathetic care, and the ﬁnal putting to
sleep of animals a painless and really
humane act. Many of the animals wounded,
or sick, were given ideal hospital care. Of
course, we who know humane work, realize

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

this is the rule throughout the country.

Humane ofﬁcers and workers daily pro—
vide examples of kindness and even of hero-
ism in rescuing and handling animals. It
was a thrill to note how the woman with the
wrong ideas changed her entire view—point.
In fact, she became so impressed that she
now goes out of her way to aid and co—
operate with the work.

My thought is that effort to have more
persons actually visit the various shelters
would be a strong and efficient educational
movement. It is a long step ahead when
such humane ﬁlms as that showing the acti—
vities of the Angell Animal Hospital and
scenes at the Rest Farm for Horses, Me—
thuen, can be shown. The dissemination of
humane literature is another humane edu-
cational factor to be kept up. Concerned
with our own efforts, knowing the constant
effort in every phase of animal and bird
welfare, we are prone to overlook a cer-
tain barrier of public opinion. A false
conception of the facts—sometimes this
amounts to actual antagonism. I recall
certain plans in one city where some of
the city council were inclined to belittle the,
work, trying to play politics by saving
money on “fool animal projects.”

Here, too, intensive personal effort with
actual case contacts served, with some clever
newspaper propaganda, to bring public
opinion into action in such a way the city
officials saw the light and the project was
passed unanimously. As space is limited
I will not repeat one very valuable bit of
text, which I wish everyone could read,
that is the article on page 58 of the April,‘
1936, issue of Our Dumb Animals—under
the caption of “American Fondouk, Fez,”
read “A Sample of the 31 Days’ Work”—-—
and when we read that, let us remember
we are not reading about enlightened and
highly civilized America, but far—off Fez.
With such an example before us, surely we
can gain greater inspiration to carry on
at home, and to see that humane educa-
tion reaches greater numbers every day.

The work going forward among the
Bands of Mercy, the greater inclusion of
humane education in the national school
curricula—these are bearing fruit; the
younger generation are absorbing the truth,
but we will always have with us the older
ones who through ignorance and perhaps a
bit of perverse stubbornness, view animal
welfare in the wrong light. It is these we
need to concentrate upon with unabated
vigor.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”:
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the Sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

that it is the second

 

 

 

July, 1936

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

LUCKY DOG, Ian Hay

This is a gripping story that can be read
most enjoyably in an hour’s sitting. “Lucky
Dog,” a little homeless, sick and starving
mongrel puppy, tells it himself: how he was
picked up from a London gutter, mud and
all, by a lovely lady who with her husband
at once adopted him. The love and affection
lavished upon him by the young couple is re-
turned in greater fold by Little Boy, which
was the name that his frail and childless
mistress liked to call him. The puppy is so
unshakably attached to his benefactress
during her illness as to be a comfort and
solace to the very end.

Mr. Hay is the author of many books, a-
mong them “Scally,” a charming dog story
of several years ago. Lucky Dog is another
of irresistible appeal.

79 pp. $1.25, Little Brown & C0,, Boston.

Newton

Newton is one of the beautiful suburbs of
Boston with a population of some 65,000.
The following appeared recently in a Boston
daily paper:

Newton is going to sell some of its mo-
torized municipal equipment and buy horses,
Mayor Childs said yesterday.

Next winter, he announced, 30 more
horses will be hauling sidewalk snow plows
and doing better work than the eight trac-
tor plows purchased last winter for $1,600
each. The latter are for sale.

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American

Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene—
fit of field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

Postage free to any part of

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
1g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

‘ Mm”... , .4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 140
The Stag

JOHN RITCHEY

He stands against the sky, a mighty stag,
His shoulders heavy muscled, withers thin-
ned.
The great hoofs lifted, pawing at the crag,
A creature never harnessed, never binned.
He snuffs the wind and shakes his antlered
head,
The young air speaks of summer on his
back.
Stilled are the wails of horns and the dark
dread
Of belling hounds that followed on. his
' track.

He listens; down an avenue of fir

Come sounds of wild things moving in the
wood.

The forest wakes, the feathered people stir

Among the trees, the air is clean. and good.

The winter that was hard has passed and
gone,

He is the king of all he looks upon.

How to Meet Dogs

WILLIAM HENRY SPENCE

NE often meets persons who are afraid

of dogs. It is a needless fear and can

be easily overcome by learning how to meet

a dog whose approach seems to mean
trouble.

Recently, I witnessed two incidents, one
which showed how not to deal with such a
dog; the other, how to treat him. One morn-
ing I heard my dog “Mike,” a boisterous Ker-
ry Blue, making a terrible rumpus in the
yard. When I rushed out to see what was
the matter, I found that he was barking at
the boy who delivers the morning paper.
The situation was not dangerous because
Mike is really a friendly dog and probably
had run toward the boy wagging his stubby
tail, and voicing a noisy welcome. But, the
boy did just the wrong thing. He yelled
with fright and began kicking, and striking
out with his hands. Then Mike’s playful-
ness changed to anger, and his manner be—
came fearsome. I had to step in and stop

him, and make him understand that the boy '

was a friend of mine and intended no harm.

Some time later on the same day, a
strange woman appeared in my neighbor’s
garden. Mike who seems to regard him-
self as the guardian of that property as
well as mine, went bounding through the
hedge barking at a great rate, as if to order
her off the premises. The woman was ev-
1dently wise to dogs. Instead of showing
fright, or trying to drive Mike away, she
stood perfectly still, and said to him in a
quiet and kind voice, “Now, now, it’s all
right. Don’t make such a fuss. I belong
here. I’m Timmy’s grandmother.” (Timmy
1s my neighbor’s little boy). Mike quit
barking at once and soon was capering
about the lady as if she were a long lost
friend.

. The truth is that few dogs are really vi—
c10us, especially those that are noisy bark-
ers. The only dog to beware of is one that
comes growling and crouching low, and even
1n his case the danger is slight if one uses
the right method.

To a person who is nervous when a bark-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ing dog comes toward him, I would offer
these suggestions: '

Note if his head is up and his tail a-
wagging. In that case, he is friendly.

Stand perfectly still. If you are afraid,
don’t show it. Whatever you do, don’t turn
and run away. Retreat invites disaster..

Do not strike out with the hands or feet,
or make any threatening motion. If you do,
the dog will think that you really are an
enemy.

Talk to him quietly, as if he were giving
you a cordial welcome, and greeting you as
an old-time acquaintance. Usually, as soon
as a dog is sure that you intend no mischief,
he will drop every show of hostility.

In case a dog comes at you creeping low
and snarling, do not hastily take to your
heels. Move slowly backwards, if it seems
unsafe to stand still, talking meanwhile
calmly and kindly. He may cease his at-
tack, or he may be held at bay until help
arrives. In extreme cases fling your arm
up in front of your throat. That would be
the point toward which he would leap. How—
ever, one may go through a whole life—time
and never be attacked by a really ugly dog.

In case you are bitten by a dog, go at
once to the nearest doctor, or drug store,
and have the wound cauterized, to prevent
infection.

Dogs and Telephones

R. T. H.

HE writer has not yet learned of
T instances in which dogs have sent tele-
phone messages, but he knows of two abso—
lutely authenticated cases—in one of them
he was. present and can testify from first-
hand knowledge—in which dogs were at the
receiving end of the phone and took the mes-
sage with neatness and dispatch. Both
cases date from the last few months, and
both happened on the same University
campus. Of course it is to be expected
that University dogs will be more intelli-
gent than those in less favored communities.-

A University professor of German Swiss
blood, whose wife is also Swiss, so that
German is the usual language of the family,
has a small black dog named “Argus,” a
quiet animal whose chief business in life is
to act as his master’s silent shadow. It
happened one day, however, that Argus
misunderstood his instructions and came to

 

Sept. 1936

the University after his master, when that
scholarly gentleman was not at the Uni-
versity at all, but at home. The dog wan—
dered about the floor on which are located
the offices and classrooms of the philoso-
phy department, with which his owner is
connected, and since he is a familiar figure
in those parts, no one paid any particular
attention to him till the telephone rang. It
was the Swiss philosophy professor, who
had hunted for his dog in vain about his
house, and who suspected that the animal
might have strayed off and gone to school.
The colleague who took the telephone mes—
sage remembered having seen the dog in
the hall, and offered to do what he could
toward getting him started home. Argus
came when he was called, but he was deaf
to all suggestions that he had better go
home to his master. Informed of the situ—
ation, the dog’s owner suggested that the
animal be brought to the phone. When
Argus heard the familiar voice, apprising
him in his own familiar German. language
that he was wanted at home, the look of
perplexity faded out of his eyes, and he
made for the door like a person who knows
what is expected of him and proposes to do
his duty without delay. Ten minutes later
he trotted calmly into his own front gate.

Argus has a speaking acquaintance with
a handsome big police dog named “Zizi,”
who belongs to a lady member of the
French department in the same institution.
Zizi likewise visits the University fre-
quently, and one day when her mistress
came home and failed to find the dog, it
occurred to her that Zizi might have gone
to the University in search of her. She re-
membered the case of Argus, which had
been much discussed about the campus, and
on the chance that her dog might be the
victim of a similar misunderstanding, she
called the French offices at school. Yes,
Zizi was there at that very moment, in—
vestigating the door of her mistress’ class
room, just across the hall from the offices.
Called to the phone, the animal semed a
little puzzled and smelled curiously about
the phone table for a moment in an evident
attempt to locate the owner of the voice.
But when she caught the purport of the
message, she gave up idle speculation about
the strange contraption by which it had
reached her, pricked up her great ears at
the call of duty, and loped off soberly for
home.

 

“WHEN SHALL WE THREE MEET AGAIN?”

 




 

 

June,1936

A Poem for Little Dogs

NANCY BYRD TURNER

For all the faithful little dogs
That ever lived, no matter where,
I make a simple song today

And fling it on the air,—

For little dogs too small to hunt,
Or guide, or guard their man’s possessions,
Or do enormous deeds,—too small,

In fact, to have professions;

Who never had a chance for fame,
And never could their fealty prove
By doing any single. thing

But love, and love, and love!

To all those little eager dogs

Of any place and any time

Who gave their best with might and main.
I dedicate this rhyme!

Dog’s Rights Recognized
CARLTON A. SCHEINERT

HEN a Los Angeles judge passed

sentence on a “hit and run” driver
who struck a dog and continued on his
way, he stood on a point of law that might
well be brought to the attention of other
dispensers of public justice.

In the case in point, the motorist, when
brought into court by two humane officers,
held that he was not at fault, as he did
not strike a human being; thinking, as
many do, that the law does not extend far-
ther. But it happened that the judge was
a lover of dogs, and he could not see it in
the same light as the prisoner. Also, the
California law states that when a motorist
is involved in an accident, no matter how
slight, in which injury or damage has been
done to human life or property, he must
stop, give aid or make such adjustment as
is possible.

Taking this law as his guide, the judge
ruled that a dog was at least “property,”
belonging to its owner, who would “act”
for it in case of accident. The fact that
the dog might not be on leash, might indeed
dart out onto the highway as unexpectedly
as a little child, was Considered. For, like
a child, a dog cannot be held anything but
innocent in intent. A motorist may not
continue on after striking a dog any more
than he may if he strikes a child, but must
stop and render aid.

It may not have been a precedent—but
the ruling has been followed in several simi—
lar cases, making the streets safer for dogs,
drivers more careful.

True Benevolence

Too many of our generosities are selfish
at bottom; we do good to those who can
make return, and flatter ourselves that we
are bountiful. True benevolence has no
thought of returns, but does good indis—
criminately,—comes to the rescue of the
horse, abused, as well as of the man fallen
among thieves; sees that the guest is pro—
vided for, and does not forget his dog, if he
have one.

REV. NEWTON M. MANN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Bruce” — an Able Sea-dog

ALFRED ELDEN

nature, a narrow estuary between.
Kennebunkport and Cape Porpoise,
Maine, that squirms back into the land
about a quarter of a mile. At high water
it is beautiful with picturesque wharves and

T URBOT’S CREEK is just a trick of

the wharves I say, ‘All right,’ and over he
goes and swims ashore. When I row off
in my skiff to my boat in the mouth of the
Creek, he watches alertly for sea gulls. He
pays no attention to the small ones but
when he spies a particularly big fellow over

 

“BRUCE,” FAMOUS DOG OF TURBOT’S CREEK, MAINE

patched—up old gear and bait houses. Proba—
bly it is 100 feet or more from bank to bank
and the lobstermen’s boats chug noisily from
“outside” to the Creek’s head.

At low tide things are not so good, for
the water leaves the Creek almost entirely,
only a thin thread of silver trickling down
through the center with not enbugh water
to make it navigable. Those who do not
wish to depend on the tides to get off to
their lobster pots anchor out in the mouth
of the Creek and row off to their motor
boats in skiffs.

This isn’t a story of Turbot’s C'reek, how-
ever, but of “Bruce,” its famous dog. Partly
collie and partly spaniel, this intelligent an—
imal is owned by Frank G. Fisher, warden
and lobsterman. Everybody loves Bruce
who loves everybody and everything —— ex-
cept rats. One day he killed nine of them.
And there is an inexhaustible supply of ro-
dents around the bait houses.

“I have had Bruce since he was a little
puppy,” said Fisher. “He is a mixed breed
but his parents were both blooded stock.
What he doesn’t know isn’t worth knowing.
He is seven now. I suppose it may be the
spaniel in him that makes him such a wa-
ter dog. It is a fact that from May 1 to
October 1 he is never dry. If he wants to
get from one side of the Creek to the other,
he walks to the bank, sizes up about how
swift the tide is running in or out, makes
his allowances, plunges in and lands exactly
where he wants to on the opposite bank. It
isn’t much of a walk around the Creek but
Bruce prefers to swim.

“When I come back from hauling my
traps and enter the Creek Bruce stands
waiting in the bow. Perhaps 100 feet from

1:47»: -W

the side he goes. I keep right on to my
motorboat and while I am getting ready
to start herchases the gulls from ledge to
ledge. I have actually known him to swim
two miles before he finally got tired and
swam to my boat to be lifted in.

“One day, recently, I was towing a dory
behind my motorboat. Bruce was sitting
in the dory. Coming around suddenly, a
sharp wave turned the dory bottom side up
with Bruce under it. Did he get rattled
and drown before I could get to him? Not
at all. He just dove down and swam out
from under. Then I took him in. If I
leave him at home any day he sticks around
the wharves until he hears the sound of my
boat exhaust. He knows it from every other
craft in the Creek, and there are about 20
of them. As I come in he swims out to
meet me and is overjoyed when I lift him
in. A

“In foggy weather Bruce goes far out on
that point, the nearest to the open sea.
When he hears a boat coming in he barks
and barks until he sights it. In this re-
spect he is about as good as a real fog sig—
nal, and he has guided a lot of the boys in
safely, for the mouth of the Creek isn’t al-
ways easy to locate in thick weather.”

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   
   
     

  

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0

AND MERCY T0 h '
\ EVERY LIVING
' CREATURE.

v.
e x
m ‘2
2';

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustee-s of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff. . . . . . . . -. .......... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California.
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR OCTOBER, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 770
Number of addresses made, 350

54,125

Number of persons in audiences,

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American

Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene-
fit of field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu—
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu—
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Story of
the Fondouk

Dear Dr. Rowley:

I must write you
this little story,
which I hope may be
deserving of appear-
ing in Our Dumb
Animals.

Since September
2nd, we had in Hos—
pital a poor weak
donkey in sad con—
dition and b a d l y
wounded on the
back, belonging to a
native, Mohammed
bel Haj.

Both the Vet and I
tried to buy him to
“put to sleep,” but
its owner refused.

On Sept. 21st he
came to the Fondouk to retrieve his don—
key. We tried again to buy it, but he re—
plied: “I will take it to Souk e1 Khemis and
sell it at a high price!”

As we had healed the wound we had to
surrender it to its owner.

But what a surprise to see, the day after,
the donkey coming back alone to the Fon-
douk. It had escaped from its owner, and
running through many streets, lanes and
roads, had found again the way to the
Fondouk, where at full speed it took its
same place in the stalls.

Two days after the owner came, asking
whether we had seen his animal which had
escaped from the Souk.

Then we bought it. But it was with a
heavy heart that I painlessly “put it to
sleep.”

Sincerely yours,
G. DELON, Supt.
Fez, Morocco

In the Virgin Islands

Efforts to establish a Humane Society in
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, are being made
by Mrs. Helen R. Stride and other interested
persons. One meeting has been held already.
Suitable literature has been forwarded by
the American Humane Education Society.
The ﬁrst Be Kind to Animals. Week ever
undertaken in St. Thomas was a great suc—
cess. The superintendent of education of—
fered co-operation, and the public showed
unusual interest and responded generously.

Only Hal and myself of the nine remain,
And Hal’s forgotten the bird, forgotten
the shoot;
The grass, the wood and the spring are here
in my brain.
With the dogs and the wine—leaned
brambles black with fruit.
I think of the towering bird with its clohing

lung,
Its; bursting heart, its struggle to scale
the sky.
And wonder when we shall all be tried and
hung,

For the blue September crime when we
made it die.

JOHN MASEFIELD in The Towerer

Dec. 1936

 

/. U66 ...,.....,.

PERSONNEL AT FEZ FONDOUK IN NEW UNIFORMS
ORDERED BY CHIEF OF POLICE. THESE MEN ARE
AUTHORIZED TO HOLD AN OFFENDER UNTIL
A POLICEMAN ARRIVES.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for September, 1936 —— 30 Days
Daily average large animals 53.6
Forage for same $144.19
Daily average dogs 7.9
Forage for same 7.81
Put to sleep 51 25.21
Transportation 20.96
Wages, grooms, watchman and stable-boys 74.14
Superintendent’s salary 115.33
Salary of superintendent’s replacement 59.31
'Veterinary’s salary 29.65
Motor ambulance upkeep
(All landing expenses) 294.52
Motor bicycle upkeep 9.09
Pharmacy supplies 93.35
$579.04

Entries: 15 horses, 10 mules, 77 donkeys.

Exits: 9 horses, 6 mules, 44 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 48 horses, 41 mules, 59 don-
keys, 1 cow, 3 dogs, 3 cats.

Other Fondouks visited, 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 230 cases inves-
tigated, 4,023 animals seen, 709 animals treated, 31
animals transferred to Fondouk American, 5 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

In one night a. single mole has been known
to burrow a passage four hundred and ﬁfty
times its own length. If a man could only
work at the same rate in proportion to his
size, twelve navvies in one night would exca—
vate a railway tunnel four miles long.

Protheroe’s “Natural History”

The Anti-Cruelty Society

J ustly proud of its new home and enthus—
iastic over its new manager, Dr. W. A.
Young, the Anti—Cruelty Society of Chica—
go appears to be entering upon a new era
of activity and progress. Its Year Book
for 1936, just received, is one of the most
attractive of the kind to come to our atten—
tion. Its 48 well printed pages, in heavy
paper covers, show a dozen large illustra—
tions of the exterior and interior of the new
building, each with adequate descriptive
text. There are also portraits of officials,
copies of letters from the Governor of Il-
linois and others, historical and present-
day sketches of the Society, and (what is to
be highly commended) a statistical report
confine-d to one page.

We offer hearty congratulations to the
new management and best wishes for the
future of its up—to—date and enterprising
organization.

 




 

 

 

 

Aug. 1936

that he is not in the slightest degree de-
structive. Deer, elk, and moose do occasion—
ally invade the ﬁelds of valley ranches and
graze the same mountain ranges as do
sheep and cattle. But the goat’s habitat is
the higher and more inaccessible reaches
where domesticated stock cannot graze.
Here he spends his days, climbing among
the rugged crags of America’s highest
peaks and ﬁnding his sustenance in the-
rock moss, bark of occasional trees, and
tufts of grass.

The hunting of the mountain goat can-
not be defended, therefore, on the grounds
that he consumes forage needed for do-
mesticated animals. This specious argument,
so often used to defend the slaughter of
other wild animals, does not have the least
application in his case. To permit his con-
tinued destruction by hunters, however,
will be to insure the eventual extinction of
one of our more interesting native Species.

Salute to the Sparrow

THOMAS R. BRADY

Blithe creature of the air,
God keep thee long;
May He in goodness spare
Thy humble song.
Though much maligned and spurned by men
I, for one, am happy when
I hear your merry chirp again.

The spring and summer days

I must reserve
To give the rest the praise

That they deserve.
But when the leaden skies forecast
The coming of the winter’s blast
You come into your own at last.

Too true, thou art a tramp
Who loves to fight;
But I admire the scamp
Who knows his right;
Who, lacking gifts of birth and grace
Goes boldly out to win the race
And puts the others in their place.

ROBIN INCUBATING

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Listen to

Page 117

the Birds!

Photographs by the Author

ALVIN M.

OMEWHERE the birds are singing

evermore.” Listen to the songs of wild

birds. Somewhere, at this very mo-
ment, some of them are singing, pouring
forth melodies that please, cheer and in-
Spire.

Listen to the birds early in the morning,
when ﬁrst awake, when dressing, and while
eating your breakfast. Listen to them when
doing your daily tasks—raking the yard,
tending the ﬂowers and working in the
garden. Listen when resting at noon and
after your day’s work is done. Listen
when driving along some country road,
when hiking with your friends, and when
roaming through the ﬁelds, pastures and
woods.

Most birds do not sing the year around,
the spring and early summer being the
season. of song. Then large numbers of them
sing to their mates—to woo, entertain,
cheer and please them. But though they
sing mainly to their mates, their songs are
so loud that all who have ears for such mu—
sic may hear.

Although there are scores of species of
song birds, the songs of the different species
differ so much that the songsters may be
identiﬁed by their songs alone. The song
of the bluebird differs from that of the
robin, that of the red—wing from that of the
meadowlark, and that of the veery from
that of the wood thrush.

Three of the ﬁrst birds to be heard sing-
ing each year are the nuthatch, horned lark
and cardinal. The nuthatch often is to be
heard singing early in the morning, on a
bright, crisp day in February perhaps, a
modest “kwee—kwee-—kwee-kwee” that pleases
and assures one spring is near. The bird

usually is hidden from view at such times,
clinging to a branch, or the trunk of a tree,
far from the ground. The cheerful twitter—
ing song of the horned lark is to be heard
about ﬁelds and meadows.

Sometimes this

 

PETERSON

 

“BLUEBIRD’S SONG IS INSPIRING”

bird ﬂies upward a step at a time and sings
its "chip-chip-a-chee—chee" over and over
while ﬂying. The cardinal has a loud song
that at once attracts attention—a whistled
“whit—whit—whit, whip-whee—u, whip-whee-
u, whip-whee-u.” This bird chooses a prom—
inent perch when singing, and it has more
than one song.

Later the mellow, warbled “teer—a-lee” of
the bluebird is to be heard, the cheerful
“cheer—up, cheer—up, cheer” of the robin,
the whistled “spring-o’—the-year” of the
meadowlark, and the “chonk-er—ee” of the
red—wing. The bluebird is to be heard about
open woods, ﬁelds and pastures, though it
also visits the yard and loves to forage in
the garden. The robin comes freely to the
yard and sings, as a rule, while perched on
the branch of a tree. The meadowlark is
to be found about ﬁelds and meadows,
where it usually mounts to the top of a post
or tall weed when it wishes to sing. And
the red—wing frequents neighborhoods bless—
ed with water. Bluebird’s song is inspir—
ing; robin’s cheerful; meadowlark’s joyous;
and the red—Wing’s gay, like the epaulets on
his shoulders.

About the time you are hearing the ﬁrst
notes of the bluebird and robin, you may
also see and hear the song sparrow, but
you must visit the borders of streams and
ponds, where it is most often to be found—
on or near the ground in thickets, bushes,
brush piles and young trees.

It is both interesting and instructive to
try to supply words to the songs of birds.
Does your bird seem to be repeating or say—
ing certain words or phrases when singing?
If so, what does it seem to say?

The cruelty of steel-traps, the chaining of
dogs, the life imprisonment of wild crea-
tures from whom every natural instinct has
been stamped; all abuses of man’s authority
over those who possess no form of defense
beyond their own strength, should call
champions into the field of fearless action
on their behalf. THE HON. MRS. CHARLTON

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160

Journey’s End
MINA M. TITUS

Does open range, so wide and free,
Where meadow grass is sweet,

In vision come to hungering things
That ride on aching feet?

Each jammed against his neighbor as
The freight trains jolt and sway;
No food, no drink, no rest—what air!

0f light there’s not a ray.

The long hours drag to thirty—six;
In vain they call and call;
The strong ones stand with numb feet
braced;
The weak ones reel, then fall.

The handlers come with raucous shouts
And through an open door

With goads and haste they drive them out
Into the stock-yard’s roar.

Their nostrils quiver at fresh air,
They blink at sudden light

As starving, thirsting, stiff and sore,
They move in helpless fright.

The open range, so wide and free,
Where meadow grasses bend,

I hope in vision comes to cheer
Them, reaching Journey’s End.

Society Has Its Best Year

At the annual meeting of the Susque—
hanna County Humane Society, held in
Montrose, Pa., in August, President John
P. Lyons stated that the past year “had
doubtless shown greater advancement than
in any of the sixteen years of the So—
ciety’s life. More animals have been received
at the shelter and more cases investigated.
“The membership is larger than ever be-
fore. Many schools were visited and a large
number of people added to the list of junior
members.

A feature of this meeting was a stirring
address by F. R. Cope, Jr., on the value of
wild life and the necessity of preserving it,
in which he said: “The time has come for
all of us, and especially for those profess—
ing an interest in humanitarian work, to
give—not less attention to the protection
of our children and our domestic animals
and pets,——but a great deal more time to
safeguarding our valuable and interesting
wild life.” 5"

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

People Differ in Hobbies

Editorial in Palo Alto Times

N animal lover, who prefers to remain
A anonymous, has contributed $5,000 to—
ward a new municipal animal shelter for
Palo Alto, and the city has matched the
sum to make possible the erection of a $10,-
000 structure to serve the uses of the im—
pounded members of the dumb creation.

This will cause many persons to remark
that the money should have been devoted
to building a children’s home instead, just
as the sight of any well cared for dog al—
ways prompts some people to say, “They
should be lavishing that affection on some
child instead.”

But if that line of thought were carried
to its logical conclusion, the cats, dogs, po-
nies and other pets that play such an im—
portant part in many a family and that add
pleasure and interest to many children’s
lives would be driven to extinction.

The criticism that people who are lavish-
ing a normal affection on some pet should
be devoting it to some child instead, is not
valid. Many a person who is in position
to care for a pet animal could not under-
take the raising of a child on the same time
and money. The two responsibilities are
far from equal.

Moreover, there is plenty in the world
for the children and the animals too. The
hobbies of some people cause them to en—
dow orphanages and finance the worthy
activities of children’s home finding socie—
ties. The hobbies of others make it possi—
ble for comparable arrangements to be
made for the dumb animals. It is well that
not all people are alike in their inclinations
and their charitable impulses. Because peo—
ple are dissimilar in their hobbies, both or-
phaned children and animal waifs have
cause for gratitude.

A Wonderful Report

We are in receipt of the hundred and
twelfth annual report (for the year 1935)
of the Royal S. P. C. A., London, England.
It is a momentous work of the kind, em-
bracing 256 pages of text, exclusive of
those devoted to advertising. The frontis-
piece is a fine portrait of His Late Majesty
King George V, mounted on his favorite
horse. The King was the principal patron
of the Society during his reign. Among
several other illustrations is one of the So-
ciety’s lorry, gaily decorated, bearing this
significant legend: “R. S. P. C. A. Guard—

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Oct. 1936

ians of the Nation’s Animals.” .

The organization has many branches and
auxiliaries throughout England and Wales,
with approximately 9,000 members. About
300 groups of Bands of Mercy were formed
during the year, and 25,000 badges and
44,000 membership cards sent out from
headquarters. We are especially pleased to
note the advertisement on the back cover
of the report, which reads in part: “Join
the British Jack London Club in connection
with the R. S. P. C. A. and so help to stop
the cruelties involved in training animals
to perform at public entertainments. No
entrance fee. No subscription.” We heartily
congratulate this great mother Society of
us all upon the year’s accomplishments, of
which we can give scarcely a hint in this
brief notice.

Our Taunton Branch

An excellent report comes to us from the
work of the past year by our Taunton
Branch, of which Mrs. Howard F. Wood—
ward is president. The Branch now has a
total membership of 61. Twelve regular
meetings were held, and the president re-
ports that homes were found for 55 dogs
and four cats. Sixty-eight dogs, two cats,
two rabbits, and one calf were returned to
their respective owners. It was necessary
to put humanely to sleep 191 dogs, 348 cats,
five birds and two horses during the year,
as these unfortunate animals were not in
such condition that. homes could be found
for them.

The total receipts were $1,312.86; the to—
tal expenditures, $1,218.19, leaving a bal—
ance, July 1, 1936, of $94.17.

And out of war and after all,
What is it people get?
Just widows, wounds and wooden legs—
And lots and lots of debt.
Old Rhyme

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animal—s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
tltle the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SO I
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. §.ETY

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
is. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

(TETRACHLORETHYLENEC T.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove ‘

Large Roundworms “
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy- -to- .
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE ran
BOOKLET NO- 5521 >
on the practicglgzngogau ’ ‘ .
of worms in N

d ages. ADDRESS DESK 58— H
breedsan Animal Industry Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

  

  
  
     

 

  
  
 
  
   
    
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALL ANIMAL LOVERS

should read and circulate copies of

HEAVEN’S RACE

By HELEN TREVELYAN
25 cents, net
Written in the cause of performing animals with
Foreword by Frank Swinnerton, it is a strong in-
dictment of the idea that circus animals are trained
by kindness. Three photographic illustrations are
included. Order of

American Humane Education Society, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hot,“ reiAchinQ
Burning Feet!
Comforter! by

uticura
DI HEM E N'I'

  
 
   

@

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS. INC.

Entertakers

BOSTON—aBROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3373 ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, ...... $1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .

Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5. 00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 " "
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 " “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease 6.0 “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 50 ‘
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 ‘
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play .............. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 " “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... .50 ‘ ‘
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 ‘
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ................ 1.00 “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. ., special ........................ boards 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .,paper 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ....... Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1. 00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ......
Foreword from‘ ‘Michael Brother of J erry” .30
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . 1. 00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . 1.00 " “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............. .50 “ “
Leaflets, No. 7, Farm Animals ...... .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 per 100
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ........... 12 cents each; ten for $1. 00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

.1I'lus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ...... _ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts.each;six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play .

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1936 .......... $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . . .50
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each; 1. 00
The Coming Education ................ .30 "
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 ‘
Humane Sunday, 1936 ................ 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

‘l (1

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Special Low Rates will be made for the Summer Months for Rentals

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s famous poem of that name

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing the work of the Angell Memorial HOSpita], Boston, and that of the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses at Methuen.
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms of rental or sale on application to Secretary, Massachusetts 8. P.C.A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

of our Two Films

and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

u U. S.Trade Mark’RegiStered .f \

T ANGELL 1N 1868.AND FOR FORW‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY TO‘
EVERY lemo
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered assecend-clasmmatter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬁice at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 8, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3,‘ 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬁice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 69

November, 1936

No. 11

 

Many of our readers will be surprised to
learn that, according to the statement of
C. J. Faw'cett, Extension Animal Hus-
bandman at the Massachusetts State Col—
lege, there are today in Massachusetts
26,000 horses and 200 mules in active
service on our farms.

Few people, we imagine, in this country
are aware that there is a hospital for
camels established by the Society for the
Protection of Animals in North Africa at
Biskra where hundreds of emaciated
camels come in from the desert covered
with hideous sores and neglected wounds.
Surely the gospel of compassion for
animals is spreading around the world.

Animals lovers who enjoy the Harold
Lloyd pictures will see them with keener
interest when they learn that he is par-
ticularly averse to the killing of game
for sport. It is said that recently when
a friendly admirer presented the com—
edian with a deer head trophy to be hung
in his home Mr. Lloyd promptly returned
it with curt thanks.

An article in the Animal World issued
by the Royal S. P. C. A., England, tells
us that all the year throng “ ‘a caravan’ of
camels, horses, mules, donkeys, dogs and
cats passes through the gates of the
animal hospital at Jerusalem. In ﬁfteen
months nearly 12,000 treatments were
made, donkeys coming an easy ﬁrst with
6,877, dogs second with 8,192, and camels
third with 715.”

What the civil war in Spain has meant,
and is still meaning, to the great multitude
of animals in that land, one can scarcely
even imagine. If no mercy has been shown
by the warring forces to each other, ﬁghting
so desperately for place and power, the
beasts of burden, the animals of the farm
and all the other domestic animals must
have shared in the horrors of this interne—
cine strife.

A Letter of Appreciation

HE Angel] Animal Hospital receives

many letters from people gratefully
recognizing the service rendered to them
when they brought their animals to its
doors. It is true that sometime-s a dif—
ferent sort of letter reaches us, because
animal hospitals, no more than human
hospitals, cannot accomplish the impossible.

A recent letter, however, we feel is
worthy of mention. Its writer says in
part:

“Of course I have visited “Ritzie,” my
dog, frequently during the summer months
while he was being treated for the resto—
ration of an injured leg that looked at
ﬁrst as though it would have to be
amputated. Always I found him receiv—
ing the best of care. He had large quar-
ters, his bandages were clean, his bedding
was clean, his drinking water fresh and
cold. On one visit, in trying to locate the
door, I accidentally found myself in the
kitchen. The cleanliness there delighted
me. The fresh meat waiting for the dogs
looked good enough for human consump-
tion. Ritzie received the best of care,
and I have only praise for the management
of the Hospital. The leg that seemed
nearly severed with the fracture of the
bone is now normal and there is only a
slight scar on the inside.”

Race Prejudice

This magazine has stood, from the day
of its inception, for justice and fair play.
It has by no means conﬁned its interest
to animals. Men, women, children, the
victims of greed, oppression, injustice, prej-
udice, have found on its pages an out—
spoken championship. It has asked of no
man the color of his skin, nor of any man
the Shibboleth of his sect. It has never
been able to understand how anything but
a man’s inner spirit could be the measure
of his manhood, or anything but the fruit
of his creed the test of his religion.

An Ancient Document

Colonel Leonard Noble, of Harpsden
Court, Henley—on-the-Thames, Vice-Chair-
man. of the Council of the Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
has called our attention to a book en-
titled “.New Archaeological Discoveries”
published in 1903, which tells of a Coptic
fragment which concerns the treatment
of a mule. The fragment contains these
words:

“And Jesus said, ‘Man why dost thou
beat thine animal? Seest thou not that
it is too weak for its burden?’. . .But the
man answered and said ‘What is that to
you? I can beat it as much as I please,
since it is my property, and I bought it
for a good sum of money.’ . . .But the
Lord said, ‘Do you not see how it bleeds
and hear you not how it laments and
cries?’ But they (the disciples) answered
and said, ‘Nay, Lord, we hear not that it
laments, and cries’ and the Lord was sad
and exclaimed, ‘Woe to you that you hear
not how it cries to the Creator in Heaven
and cries for mercy. But three times woe
to him of whom it complains and cries in
its distress.’ And He came forth and
touched the animal and it arose and its
wounds were healed, and Jesus said to
the man, ‘Now go on and beat it no more,
that you also may ﬁnd mercy.’ ”

While there is great obscurity with
regard to the existence of Christianity in
Egypt among the native population in
very early days, it can be traced back as
far as A. D. 240. St. Anthony, A. D. 270,
it is claimed was a Copt as was also the
founder of Egyptian monasticism of the
4th century. The scriptures were tran—
slated into Copt not later than the 4th
century. According to a somewhat recent
census, it is stated there are still over
600,000 orthodox Copts in Egypt. This
old Coptic fragment is in a class with
many of the fragments discovered in
recent years which seem to have some
relation to our gospels.

 

 

 




 

J unc, 1936

The Goal Denied

Late summer days, we’d hear our mothers
cry:

“Come to the porch; they’re driving cattle
by!”

And in the distance hear dust-thunder tread

Of hooves beneath the sulky sky of red.

Reluctantly we’d leave our leaf-house plans,

And watch these creatures, most abjectly
man’s,

Draw near their ﬁnal service to their lords.

Across the road, the village park green-
swards

Were never failing lures to bovine eyes.

But something drove them past that para—
disc—

The callous drover, weary, too, no doubt,

Would round them in with incoherent shout

To stumble on, in puzzlement of soul

At being turned from this so fair a goal.

And in the night, from railway cattle cars,

We’d hear them loud explaining to the stars I

How they reached paradise and turned
aside—

But wise as now, how hard they would have
tried!

CAROLINE HOMAN WARD, Kansas City Star

“Ginger,” 3 Remarkable Cat

HENRY H. GRAHAM

HEN we lived on a farm in the Mid-

dle West many years ago we had a
beautiful mother cat named “Ginger.” She
was so-called because of her pep that was
manifest on all occasions.

Ginger was perfectly behaved. Even her
kittenhood was marked by consideration for
her little playmates and she seldom got
rough or unmanageable.

In the yard there was a box—elder tree
that housed a. family of robins. One day I
caught Ginger eying the nest longingly
from the ground and the next thing I knew
she had started to climb the tree. The par-
ent birds, of course, were beside themselves
with anxiety and terror.

Rushing to the cat I pulled her down and
cuffed her very gently. It was enough. She
never had to be reprimanded twice. But the
real fruit of that mild chastisement came
when another of our cats, “Bessie,” tried
to carry out ideas similar to those of Gin-
ger. Bessie did not get far, however, for
Ginger would not let the other feline climb
the robin tree. And for days after that
Ginger stationed herself near the box-elder
to guard the feathered inhabitants.

Another instance of Ginger’s remarkable
vigilance comes to mind. She had recently
given birth to a litter of kittens and the lat-
ter liked to watch while I milked the cows.
One evening two of the babies tried to climb
up the pail to taste the warm beverage. But
Ginger, always alert, cuffed them so vigor-
ously that they never renewed the attempt.
She knew that dinner time had not arrived
until I poured some of the milk into a pan
for the cats and she took the only means she
knew of informing the kittens to that effect.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

Seafaring Cats I Have Known
A. J. HAYES

T is a rare ship indeed that points its
11 nose seaward without one or more ani-

mal pets aboard. Dogs, cats, parrots,
monkeys, goats, and birds—all are repre-
sented among the sea—going fraternity. On
different occasions I have been shipmates
with a bear and a kangaroo. They were
responsible for cheering up many an other—
wise dull hour at sea. Possibly this at-
tachment between sailors and animals may
possess a significance which could easily be
explained by those scientific minds who de-
light in such problems, but, happily, we are
not concerned with such questions.

Of the animals that “go down to the sea
in ships” the cat seems to adapt himself to
his surroundings more easily than the
others, and to survive to a greater age. He
is sure-footed, easy to feed, and I cannot
ever recall a cat suffering from the common
ailment of man and beast on the high seas,
mal de mer. And once he decides to be—
come a member of the ship’s company, you
could not drive him ashore with a ten-foot
pole. One other thing enhances his pop-
ularity; “Puss” plays no favorites, sleep—
ing one night in the skipper’s room and the
next at the foot of the mess-boy’s bed. On
second thought, maybe he does lean a little
toward the ship’s cook for obvious reasons,
and who can hold that against him.

Too, I think cats are much more intelli-
gent than they are usually given credit for.
“Whitey,” for instance, was an inveterate
shore wanderer when our ship was docked
in foreign ports. Almost as soon as the
gangway went down Whitey went over the
side staying away for a week at a time.
One would almost suspect Whitey of making
a mental note of the date and hour of sail-
ing, which was usually posted in a conspic—
uous place near the gangway. Regardless
of the length of the stay in port, when the
lines were cast off, and the final whistle
blew signifying our departure, you would
find Whitey parading up and down the
deck, although, as sometimes happened, one
or two members of the crew would be left
behind.

Another feline shipmate comes to mind.

While in Odessa, a Black Sea port in Rus—
sia, to which we had carried a cargo of
grain, “Sparks” brought aboard one evening
the most dejected and emaciated looking
specimen of a kitten that one could imagine.
Indeed, with starvation and misery stalking
the land the wonder is that he survived at
all. However, good food, milk and humane
treatment soon made a wonderful change in
“Bolo” as he was appropriately named.
More than a year passed before we made
another call at Odessa. During this time
Bolo had acquired the shore-going habit at
all ports of call. Yet, when we returned to
Odessa, although we lay there nearly three
weeks, it was particularly noticeable that
not once did Bolo leave the ship to View the
scenes of his early hardships. Instinct? I
wonder.

“Bermuda” is another of the species
Felis domestica I recall. He acquired the
distinction of temporarily upsetting the rou-
tine of the U. S. Navy. He had joined the
crew of the Destroyer to which I was then
attached when we had visited the island
whose name he bore. At the time of this
incident he was two years old, of a very
amiable disposition and senior pet aboard,
ranking over five or six other assorted pets.
Early one morning, after a night of prac—
tice maneuvers off the coast of Cuba, our
Destroyer group passed inside the entrance
to Guantanamo Bay just as the sun peeped
over the hills lining the eastern shore of
the bay. Less than a quarter mile away,
at anchor in formation, lay the battleship
fleet, humming with the usual stir of early
morning activities. We were the last ship
in the column, and moving at half—speed.
The quartermaster on the bridge chanced to
look astern and he suddenly sang out—“Ber-
muda’s overboard, Sir.” The Captain
glanced quickly aft and ordered the en—
gines to full—speed astern. Orders were
quickly passed and executed, and in a short
space of time our whale-boat, fully manned,
was speeding toward the small speck on the
surface of the bay that was Bermuda. Two
of the nearest battleships, observing our
maneuvers, and assuming a man overboard,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1936
The Bee

JOHN RITCHEY

These dusty wings that could not hold
Another grain of pollen gold

Will, upon some fatal day,
Fold brightness up and rust away.

This head, a diamond for each eye,
Will nestle in a rose and die.

And no one can inform the bee
How close upon infinity

Are those frail legs that fasten over
The rounded head of nectared clover.

He has no thought beyond the hour
And the wet sweetness of the flower.

He does not apprehend how cold
May be Death’s step across the mold.

He feeds upon a honeyed stream—
A fragile life within a dream.

Where Fear is Unknown
BRUCE JENNINGS

S you approach some patch of wild rose

bushes on your rambles through the
fields, there is a brief disturbance and the
brilliantly colored pheasant cock that has
been feeding on the ripe red berries whirrs
off in sudden flight. Before you have re-
covered from your surprise, he has crossed
a field or two, floated to earth, and scur-
ried away into the protective cover. You
resume your walk, and if you are an inno-
cent lover of wild life there is perhaps
some little sense of shame in your realiza—
tion that this instant fear, this sudden
flight, was all on your account. You are
an intruder who perhaps carries death in
his hands, and the weak things of the earth,
that have known- nothing of pity, flee at
your approach. -

Sometimes the strong glory in their
strength and in the fear their strength in-
spires, but to many of us there is small
satisfaction in the knowledge that as we
pass through the woods the wild things,
trembling with fear, vanish from our pres—
ence. To those of us who have had this
experience it is a pleasant contrast to visit
some locality where wild life has been af—
forded protection and has learned to regard
mankind, not as a potential enemy, but as
a friend and protector.

During the past summer I had the op—
portunity of visiting two such refuges in
Utah. One was an extensive one which com—
prised many thousands of acres, and a
large variety of wild life here found haven.
There was what can best be described, I be-
lieve, as a feeling of peace about the pre-
serve, as if the bitter warfare of the spe—
cies had been forever abandoned and the
lion and the lamb had quite literally com—
posed their differences. There was none of
that atmosphere of pursuit and escape about
these woods; none of that suggestion of in-
visible drama in which life and death are
the pawns. Deer were grazing beside the
road as we passed by; they watched us cur-
iously for a moment and then returned to

 

OUR DUMB

 

HOLTON (UPPER RIGHT)

AND MRS. HOLTON (FRONT ROW
CENTER) AND PARTY AT

ICHANG, CHINA

Mrs. Holton is watching Beep, J r., who is
a little camera shy.

 

the business of their daily lives.

This first impression of the ref—
uge was confirmed by our more ex-
tended inspection of it in the com—
pany of the superintendent. A
pleasant, gray—haired man who had
devoted his life and energies to the
conservation of wild life, he seemed
to have an intimate and sympa—
thetic understanding of the habits
and characters of his charges. He
insisted, in spite of the frankly ex—
pressed scepticism of some mem-
bers of our group, that the wild
things inhabiting the refuge knew
and appreciated what was being
done for them.

“Sometimes,” he said, “they take
advantage of our good nature and
impose upon us. It is as if they
realize that the refuge is for their
exclusive use and benefit and that
we are, in a way, intruders. You
might say that by setting up house—
keeping at our very doorsteps they
are showing their contempt for our
authority, but I believe it is be-
cause they sense so strongly the
protection afforded by human con—
tact that they seek rather than
shun the companionship of man.”

It was a strange and delightful

ANIMALS

 

Page 165

The Story of the Sparrows
Again

HE letter below will interest those

who read the story in our September
issue of the three sparrows who followed
C01. and Mrs. Holton from their Kansas
City home to China. The photograph
shows Mrs. Holton talking with them.
My dear Dr. Rowley,

I have your letter of the 6 July and
will be very much interested in the article.
I, too, would like very much to have a
chat with you about the birds. They
are really my wife’s hobby, however, and
she could tell you much more about them
than I could. I have, however, observed
enough about them to be sentimental as far
as they are concerned—in fact I have re-
fused invitations to go duck hunting.

I am enclosing two photographs, cap-
tions on the back, that I have given to
the Associated Press representative that I
thought might interest you, besides show-
ing more conclusively that at least much
of the “incredible story” is true. Except
for the fact that I have observed much
of the story myself I would have diﬁﬁ—.
culty believing it, so I do not take offense
when others have difﬁculty giving it cre-
dence.

With highest regard,
Sincerely yours,
C. M. Holton

 

ON BOARD THE U. S. S. PANAY AT HANKOW
MRS. HOLTON IS TALKING WITH THE SPAR-
ROW FAMILY IN THE RIGGING

 

experience to find birds and ani—
mals, usually so unapproachable, regarding
one’s comings and goings without visible
evidence of fear, as if all the sins com-
mitted against them by one’s fellowmen
through the centuries were forgiven and
forgotten. The wild things have been made
wild through ceaseless cruelty, and it was
astonishing to learn how quickly they re-
spond to friendship and kindness.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'_' :1x_ ".44, ._; .ka . ~£v,_-_»..:_ ~A:_.a-é ’ng-~_.

a .1‘ -_ ’.-(,-,a. .ﬁ»,....- 23."... 4, --: ~ _—,.

Page 186

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention 0
Cruelty to Animals, 46' Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all commumcations

should be addressed.
Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

SEPTEMBER, 1936

~ FOR TERMS, see back cover.
AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprlnt any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscrlpts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with,
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Religion and Humanity

AS Tennyson right when he said,
W“More things are wrought by prayer
than this world dreams of?” Have the re—
sults of modern scientific study made the
faith of what we speak of as the Victorian
age meaningless. and futile? The greatest
students who are searching into the mys—
teries. of this vast universe more and more
are coming frankly to acknowledge that
back of it all is mind rather than blind
forces that are deaf to every human cry.

Well, some of us do not forget that in
1868, when Mr. Angell organized the Mass—
achusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals and decided to start
Our Dumb Am'mals, he wrote in his diary:
“At the close of the meeting Mr. Sturgis
went with me to my office underneath the
hall; and, with a deep sense of the great
work we believed we had that day inaugu—
rated, we knelt and asked God’s blessing.”
In 1869, when the English Animal World
was begun, Mr. T. B. Smithies, after the ar-
rangement as to type and illustrations, said
to Mr. Colam, secretary of the Royal S. P.
C. A., “Every good work like this should
have God’s blessing, kneel with me and
ask it!” and we read that they went down
upon their knees and prayed for Heaven’s
favor upon the new magazine. May the
blessing that has so long followed the work
represented by these two widely-known peri-
odicals never fail them and may the pray—

ers of their readers never cease on their
behalf!

Cruelty in the Country

Custom is the perpetrator of many a
cruelty. The farmer, unless he keeps up
with the best farm literature, follows his
father’s methods, needlessly painful though
they may be to the farm animals. Think
of the millions of swine butchered in the
old-fashioned way—seized, “stuck,” and
then left to stagger around and bleed to
death. Men are doing this just as they did
1t a hundred years ago, in. spite of the fact
that intelligent and up-to-date farmers first
drop the animal by a small bullet rightly
placed, destroying all consciousness, and
then use the knife. The bleeding is in no
way retarded by this plan.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Humorous Side of It

HARLES LAMB had little difficulty
in seeing the humorous side of things.
To all who love his writings this familiar
passage from a letter to a friend to whom
he had entrusted his dog “Dash” will be
re-read with pleasure:
“Excuse my anxiety, but how is Dash?
* * * Goes he muzzled, or aperto ore? Are
his intellects sound, or does he wander a
little in his conversation? You cannot be
too careful to watch the first symptoms of
incoherence; the first illogical snarl he
makes, to St. Luke’s with him. All the dogs
here are going mad, if you believe the over-
seers; but I protest they seem to me very
rational and collected. But nothing is so
deceitful as mad people, to those who are
not used to them. Try him with hot water:
if he won’t lick it up it is a sign—he does
not like it. Does his tail wag horizontally,
or perpendicularly? That has decided the
fate of many dogs in Enfield. Is his gen—
eral deportment cheerful? I mean when he
is pleased—for otherwise there is no judg-
ing. You can’t be too careful. Has he hit
any children yet? If he has, have them shot,
and keep him for curiosity, to see if it was
hydrophobia. * * * You might pull out his
teeth (if he would let you), and then you
need not mind if he were as mad as a Bed-
lamite.”

A Great Responsibility

Dr. W. T. Hornaday, than whom there is
no saner, greater authority on this subject
writes, “The power to stop all waterfowl
killing in the United States in 1936—7 rests
in the hands of the President, the Secre—
tary of Agriculture and the Chief of the
Biological Survey.” The latest figures tell
us that in the United States there are about
5,700,000 licensed hunters, not counting the
additional millions of men and boys who are
out to kill everything wild that flies 0r
walks. It is this closed season of two years
or—the end of our wild fowl life.

According to the U. S. Biological Survey,
California hunters killed in 1935, 20 per
cent of all the wild geese in California,
Washington, Oregon and Nevada. In spite
of this, and with these figures before him,
the Chief of the State Bureau of Game and
Conservation declares. that the supply of
such game is abundant. If our wild fowl
are to be saved from extermination, all kill-
ing of these birds throughout the United
States should be prohibited for at least two
years.

Not to be Taken Seriously

It was the genial humorist, Mark Twain,
who said, in his last literary effort, when
giving some advice to a friend about what
he should do when he came to the gate St.
Peter is supposed to keep: “Leave your dog
outside. Heaven goes by favor. If it went
by merit you would stop outside and the
dog would go in.” No man, however, who
knows his dog and knows himself will fail
to find in these amusing words something
more than a sense of humor.

Annual Humane Convention, Rice Hotel,
Houston, Texas, Sept. 28—30, Oct. 1, 1936.

Sept. 1936

The Hard Luck of the
Young Albatross

0 most of us home—dwelling landsmen

the albatross is the bird which Cole-
ridge’s Ancient Mariner shot with his cross—
bow bolt and most bitterly rued the deed,
a spectral and mysterious wanderer of a
wide and distant sea, a sea of utter loneli—
ness, of phantom ships and bitter, ghostly
punishments for strange misdeeds. Robert
Cushman Murphy writes of this wandering
albatross and all other birds of these dis—
tant southern seas in his excellent and most
readable two volumes on “The Oceanic Birds
of South America” recently published by
the American Museum of Natural History,
New York.

Strange indeed is the Ancient Mariner’s
story of the albatross, but hardly stranger
than the facts in the life—history of these
unbelievable birds.

“When the chicks of the wandering alba—
tross (Diomedea e. exulaus) are some four
months old,” quotes a revieweruin Bird—
Banding, “something happens which is so
extraordinary and spectacular that the ear—
ly accounts of it found little credence, al-
though we now know that it is paralleled
in greater or less degrees among all Pro-
cellariiform birds. With the setting—in of
the Antarctic autumn, the adult albatrosses
completely abandon their nestling offspring,
not for a. matter of days or weeks, but for—
ever. Off on their Odyssean wanderings
go the old birds, leaving the obese, well-
muffed youngsters sitting on the trampled
tops of their nests, where they remain
quietly no matter how the wind howls or
the snow beats down upon them . . . For
three months or longer the young albatross-
es receive no Visits from the adults and
subsist entirely without food. Toward the
end of this time, they begin at last to am—
ble down off their nests and to try their
legs and afterwards their wings.”

—Bulletm of the Massachusetts Audubon
Society

The Toy Gun

The air—gun or B. B. gun and the sling—
shot, so coveted by boys and so freely ad-
vertised by certain. conscienceless business
houses, are responsible not only for the
death of hundreds of beautiful and useful
birds, but for sad and permanent injuries
to others. A circular issued by the Illinois
Congress of Parents and Teachers states
that in one institution for the blind, there
are 300 children who will never see again
because their eyes were put out by toy guns.

How to Stop Cruelty

This is Mr. Angell’s answer: There is
only one way to do it, and that is to go
down to the foundation and build up. We
must educate the children. We must cre-
ate a great public opinion. We must wake
up the pulpit and the press, and scatter
the literature of humanity until it shall be
read in the homes, taught in the schools,
hung on the walls, and all the children shall
feel that these animals have been merci-
fully created by our common Father, and
mercifully given us to use, but not to abuse.

 




