 

 

 

 

 

April 1955

MARE’S RAIL JOURNEY SUFFERINGS

A case arising out of a bay mare’s journey by rail
from Carlisle to Preston, when suffering from a
swollen leg, was heard at Carlisle.

The owner was ﬁned £25 for allowing the mare
to be carried by rail when it could not be carried
without unnecessary suffering. A railway cattle
dock foreman and his employers were each ﬁned
£10 for permitting the animal to be carried.

Costs met by the owner amounted to £15; the
other two defendants each had to pay £5 85. This
was a police prosecution but evidence was given
by RSPCA Inspector P. G. Clarke.

At 4 o’clock in the morning on the day on
which the mare began her journey she was in such
a bad state that she had to be de—trained. The
mare had been more than thirteen hours on the
train. The mare was then seen by a police ofﬁcer,
a veterinary surgeon and an RSPCA Inspector
and was humanely destroyed.

One witness gave evidence that the mare’s leg
was swollen to almost twice its normal size.

(A.9047.)

PERFORMING ANIMALS

Questions in Parliament

MR M. STEWART asked the Secretary of State for
the Home Department whether he would cause
inquiry to be made into the methods used in the
training of performing animals.

MAJOR LLOYD'GEORGE: No, Sir. I have no
reason to think that the system of supervision
provided by the Performing Animals (Regulation)
Act, 1925, is in need of revision.

MR STEWART: Has the right hon and gallant
Gentleman studied the review which I recently
sent him of a recently published autobiography*
of a circus trainer, who stated from his experience
that it is impossible to train performing animals
without cruelty of a kind which contravenes the
existing law?

MAJOR LLOYD—GEORGE: I have heard that on
many occasions. The Act of 1925 has very wide
powers which, when proof is given, can lead to
all the performances being forbidden, and indeed
to the licence being taken away.

MR PETER FREEMAN (Council Member): Is it
not a fact that most of these animals are trained
abroad in conditions which would never be
tolerated in this country? Will the right hon and
gallant Gentleman receive a deputation from
animal welfare societies to be given information
about this subject, and give further consideration
to it?

MAJOR LLOYDvGEORGE: I do not know about a
deputation but if the hon Member will let me
have any information that he has, I shall be glad
to look into it.

* This book was reviewed in Animal World

THEANIMALWORLD 45

OVE RSEAS N EWS

 

An RSPCA overseas Animal Defender with a friendly buck
in Tanganyika

ONTARIO BULLETIN

The work of the Ontario SPCA (afﬁliated to
the RSPCA) is outlined in a Bulletin received
at RSPCA Headquarters.

An Inspector, investigating a camp 100 miles
from North Bay, found 28 horses needing attenv
tion. He called a veterinary surgeon and the
horses were examined and treated in an unbroken

I 12—hour stint of work. Most of them were suf—

fering from cuts and shoulder galls.

The same Inspector examined a cattle car
and found it held 12 hogs, 12 calves, and
23 cattle. He ordered that the 23 cattle be
removed to another car. But for his prompt
action, some of these animals would certainly
have been crushed to death before arrival
at their destination.

ANIMAL PROTECTION
HOW IT BEGAN IN OSLO

Yesterday

A pamphlet thrown into a hansom cab in
the streets of London was the means of
beginning animal welfare work in Oslo.
Mr David Graah, a Norwegian businessman,
visited London in the 1850’s and was riding
in a cab when an RSPCA pamphlet was pre—
sented to him in this unconventional way.
Back in Christiania (as Oslo was known in
those days) he published an article in a news—
paper and this led to the foundation of The
Society for Protection of Animals in the
year 1859.

 

 




April 1955

STAGE BY STAGE
——in a rescue by Oxford Police, the Fire Brigade and Chief
Inspector Waite

2&0 M _
Photos by courtesy of the Oxfor d Mail.

 

THEANIMALWORLD 43

PIT PONY IN DISTRESS
MINERS GIVE THEIR LIVES

The safety lamps in the mine at ChoppingtOn
Colliery, Northumberland, were ﬂickering. ‘Be’
ware!’ called a miner to his 62<yearaold colleague,
Mr J. W. Mahaffey. ‘The pony is down. There is
black damp!’

Experience warned Mr Mahaffey of the danger,
and yet he went to help the pony, who had col!
lapsed. He had not gone far before the insidious
grip 'of the black damp fastened upon him. A
younger man, Mr R. Groom, aged 21, followed
and actually reached the pony, but collapsed
beside the prostrate animal.

Hours later, a rescue squad equipped with
breathing apparatus made its way to the scene
and retrieved the bodies of men and animal—
all joined in the peace of death

In all his ﬁfty years of c011iery experience,
the colliery manager had never met two braver
men. This was the opiniOn he expressed to the
RSPCA, which has awarded posthumously
its highest honour to both these gallant
miners: the Margaret. Wheatley Cross.

Silver Medals

Cries from a ventilator shaft on the ss Brettenham
gave the location of a cat who had been missing
for seVeral days. The shaft was 20 ft. deep and
had an aperture measuring only 2 ft. by 1. ft.
Mr J. Brady went down the shaft and, from half
way down, tried to lasso the cat. Unsuccessful,
he had to be hauled back, suffering from exhaus—
tion. Mr G. Millington then volunteered. When.
he‘was halfway down, colleagues advised him to
give up. This he refused to do, and he soon had
the satisfaction of seeing the cat make 'her way
up to him. Securing her, he was hauled up, but
had to rest two or three times, because of his
exhaustion.

For their bravery in risking their lives for
animals, both men have been awarded the

RSPCA silver medal.

Rescue 1n Darkness

When Inspector F. T. C. Wood received a
call that a bull mastiif had fallen into a 50—ft.
well, he went without hesitation to the scene
of the incident, armed with long ropes. Work
ing in pitch darkness, helpers lowered him to
the water at. the foot of the well, into which
the dog had fallen. Fumes almost overcame
the Inspector, and he asked to be given a damp
cloth, which he placed over his mouth and
nose.

Nervous, the dog was liable to snap, but the
Inspector found him too far gone for resistance

 




1

Animal World

Incorporating e'l‘lle Winged Messenger’

 

VOLUME L No 4 THREEPENCE _ ‘ APRIL 19?5

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

@RIEE’QDRMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every

description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOPOCIA.

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘1 bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

-‘. z *4_\L. “4..“ .

 

April 1955

THE AN MAL WORLD 47

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

 

Sammy, whose picture comes from Mrs W. A. Holdway,
Clapham, London

Barnet and District Mrs Macmillan, Hadley aux hon sec,
reports the Nomad Players presented a show at the Church
House, Barnet, and raised £14 113. 1d. for branch funds.
Bromley and District (Kent) The annual party of the Stag
and Reindeer Groups was held at St John’s Hall, Bromley.
A large decorated cake was cut by the new Chaplain to the
Groups, the Rev J. Palmer.

Caernarvonshire West and Anglesey Miss Price, Benllech
aux hon sec, reports that a rummage sale raised £15 18s. for
branch funds.

Cardiff and District Mrs H. W. Ainsworth, branch hon sec,
reports that a dinner-dance raised £33 for branch funds.
Dorset—North Mrs D. Noble, Shillingstone aux hon sec,
organized a whist drive and raised £7 10s. for branch funds.
Durham—South, and North Yorkshire Mr P. Woods,
SlJennymoor aux hon sec, organized a dance at the Gretna
Green Wedding 1nn, Aycliffe, and raised £16 195. 6d. for
branch funds.

Essex~Mid., Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, was invited by the heads
master of the Boreham Primary School to give a talk and
ﬁlm show. Mrs T. A. French, Boreham aux hon sec, attended.
Mrs Donovan took the chair at a debate at the Highlands
School Animal Defenders’ Club, Hornchurch. ..
Gloucestershire—Mid Mrs Edith M. Porri, branch hon
sec, has sent a c0py of the branch annual report for 1954.
Grimsby and District The branch annual dance was held
at the Royal Hotel, Grimsby. Among those present were
Major Clixby Fitzwilliams, branch chairman, Mrs Clapham,
brancbh hon sec and Mrs Frankish, longest serving committee
mem er.

* .
A collection at Grimsby Town Football ground raised
14 3.9. for branch funds. .
Kent—Folkestone, and District Mrs Grace, branch hon sec,
reports that Mrs Walton, organizing secretary, organized a
‘Dacrlby and Joan’ entertainment and raised £10 for branch
un s.
Kent—Isle 0f Thanet Miss Edith Denning, 'Birchington
aux hOn 36C, organized a bring-and-buy sale and raised £47
for branch funds. ' .
London East At St Phillip’s Church, Newark Street, White-
chapel, an RSPCA bronze medal was presented by Father
cher to Mr Ruben Baldry who rescued a dog from St
Katherine Dock. A -
ndon‘ North East Mrs J. G. Rowell, Edmonton S.W.
aux hon sec, reports that the annual party of the Jackdaw
Animal Defender Group was held at St Aldhelms Hall,
Simonton. A presentation was made to Mrs Rowell for her
Ong Service as Group leader. Among those present were

Mr Dennis Porter, who entertained the children, Miss Mel'
lows and Inspector Blain. .

London South East When RSPCA ﬁlms were shown to the
Girls’ Life Brigade, a collection was taken for branch funds.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton A talk was
given to children of Chelmorton School on animals. Among
those present were Mrs Beswick, Buxton aux chairman and
Miss B. M. Satterthwaite, Buxton aux hon sec. Mr F. B.
Oates was the speaker. "
Newcastle-upon-Tyne Miss Turnbull, Berwick aux hon sec,

. organized a whist drive at the Theatre Cafe and raised £15

for branch funds.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich The Mayor of Thetford
(Mrs S. M. Wheeler) presided at the annual meeting of
Thetford aux at Thetford Guildhall. Mrs Jones, aux hon
sec, reported that £50 had been sent for branch funds.
Major Chapman, branch organizer, spoke on the work Of
the RSPCA. Members re-elected were: Mrs E. Witton,
chairman, Mrs Jones, hon sec, and Major F. G. M. Burns,
hon treasurer.

Norfolk West Miss Ann Lambert, Magdalen aux hon sec,
organized a delayed Christmasparty for Magdalen’s Animal
Defenders in the Church Hall, Magdalen.

*

The Rector, The Rev W. S. Harper, conducted a service

at St Peter’s Mothers Union Animal Remembrance Service,
West Lynn. The lesson was read by Chief Inspector Morrison.
A collection of 7s. 6d. was taken for branch funds.
Northumberland West The branch held a Valentine Ball at
the Royal Hotel, Hexham and raised over £25 for branch
funds. A bring-and-buy sale raised £27 35. 8d.
Rotherham and District Alderman Mrs Green presided
over the branch annual meeting at Davy’s Cafe, Rotherham.
Mr D. A. L. Camm, asst sec from Headquarters, spoke.
Among those present were: The Vicar of Thryberg (The Rev
K. Dixon), The Rector of Whiston (The Rev Redrobe),
Mrs Lodge, Mr C. A. Stevens, branch hon treasurer, Chief
Inspector Farmer, West Riding Constabulary, Mrs Bayley,
Mexboro’ aux hon sec, Mrs Scott, Maltby aux hon sec,
Miss Collinson, branch hon sec, and the Dpeputy Mayoress
of Rotherham (Mrs Duke). Senior Inspector Young re-
ported 67 convictions.

An eﬁective
display at
Gosforth Show

 

Southport, Birkdale and District Miss Richards, branch hon
sec, reports that a Christmas competition raised £41 12s. and
a coffee morning and bring and buy sale held at her home
raised £45 for branch funds. . .

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch Mrs
McFarlane, Heaton Chapel aux hon sec, organized a child-
ren’s talent contest and raised £4 19S. 3d. for branch funds.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Mrs R._Belcher, Southwold
co aux hon sec, reports that a gift shop in Southwold raised
£50 for branch funds.

West Bromwich and Wednesbury The Mayor of West
Bromwich and the Mayor of Wednesbury spoke at the
annual inspection of West Bromw1ch clinic. The Mayoresses
of West Bromwich and Wednesbury accompanied. Mr
Dawes, branch chairman, spoke on the work of the clinic
and of the RSPCA. Branch ofﬁcials attended.

 

 




 

ANIMALTH

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE

Vol L No 4 New Series

CRUELTY FOR CONSCIENCE’ SAKE

The spectacle of cruelty caused by ignorance
or by brutal indifference to the feelings of
animals is one that we can comprehend, even
whilst we deplore it. But when from sections
of the community there arises a cry that
cruelty be permitted for the sake of conscience
then we protest in the name of humanity
that such a cry is specious.

The Slaughter of Animals Act of 1933 made it
illegal throughout England and Wales to slaughter
cattle for food without preliminary mechanical
stunning. Exempted from this Act are animals
slaughtered for Jews and Moslems.

.- Let it be said at once that the RSPCA has
no feelings against the upholders of any
religious beliefs. It has no policy beyond the
promotion of animal welfare. Having said
this, we will add that neither has the RSPCA
any fear of individuals or organized bodies
in its advocacy of kindness to animals.

Exempted—~—Why?

Exemption was allowed for Jews and Moslems
because the tenets of their religious faith were
supposedato demand that animals slaughtered for
their consumption should have their throats cut
whilst fully conscious. Doubt has been cast upon
this argument as a ground for exemption. As far
back as November 29, 1928, the Imam of the
Mosque at Woking, having consulted learned
colleagues, wrote: ‘I have seen the Humane
Killer, and have shown it to many eminent
Moslem doctors in England. I do not think that
the use of the instrument is in any way against
either the teaching of the Koran or the injunc~
tions of the Prophet.’ As for Israel, the Old
Testament forbids the eating of things strangled
but never~not even indirectly—~deals with
methods of slaughter. Jewish slaughter rules de~
pend not on the Bible, but on the traditions
embodied in Rabbinical teachings.

On such doubtful grounds were the practisers
of ritual slaughter allowed to continue methods
forbidden to the vast majority of the population.
Slaughter without prerstunning was once the
rule in normal slaughter houses, and in those days

APRIL I955

WORLD

OF THE RSPCA

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

Christian people could not criticize their fellow
citizens of the Jewish and Moslem faiths. But that
has been changed. On grounds of humanity, prev

stunning has been ruled essential.

The subject has been made a question of
conscience, and therefore the RSPCA appeals
to the conscience not only of the minority
groups for whom ritual slaughter is practised
but to the ordinary population of Great
Britain. To these people we Say: in 1952,
200,000 animals were slaughtered by the
Jewish method—including 73,000 cattle,
34,000 calves and 93,000 sheep.

These ﬁgures were given in the House of
Commons, by the Minister of Food. He did
not add that of these 200,000 animals,
half the carcasses were consumed by Gentiles,
as Jews take only the forequarters.

Gentile Conscience

Knowing this fact, how can any Gentile eat meat
with an easy conscience? The ritual method ap
plied to these 200,000 animals involves the cutting
of the throat; the animal is allowed to die from
loss of blood.

There is no guarantee that the meat you bought
today was not from an animal whose life ebbed
away in red, painful spurts of blood. Painful—-
yes! For 200,000 animals were slaughtered in
one year alone without the pre—stunning necessary
to render them unconscious.

We appeal to all—no matter what their faith——
whose consciences are not deaf to the cries of
pity fromother creatures. Ritual slaughter with
out preastunning must go. It can be abolished by
law.

During this very. month, a Bill is to come
up for Second Reading in the House of Com-

, mons. This, the Slaughter of Animals Bill,

supported by the RSPCA and introduced by
Mr R. F. Crouch, MP, aims at ensuring that
animals killed by the ritual method for those
of either the Jewish or Mohammedan faiths
shall be rendered unconscious before the
knife is used.

The passage of this Bill will lift a burden from
the conscience of us all.

EDITOR

 




 

 

 

*—-—-w 4—» A ,

\

 

THEANIMAL-WORLD 39

 

   

. J x
'15 ,_.

MAKING THE PUNISHME
FIT THE CRIME

Look well at these pictures! Harrowing they may
be, but they are of special historical signiﬁcance.
In them we see carcasses of some of over 400
fowls starved to death.

When the case, brought by the RSPCA, was
heard by the magistrates at Okehampton, Senior
Inspector Thwaites said that he found the carcasses
of 297 chicks and 179 fowls. Some had disinte«
grated; others consisted of nothing but feathers
and bones. All were starved to death.

About 150,200 live pullets were staggering
and could only stand withdiﬂiculty. Another
witness said that when fed, the living birds
fought like mad things, and in the wild
scramble for food three of the weaker birds
were trampled to death.

 

2.

The solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA
said there were no signs of disease. All the
476 birds had died from starvation yet sacks
containing 25% cwt. of chicken mash were
found in a barn untouched.

For causing unnecessary suﬁering to the fowls
by unreasonably omitting to give them sufficient
food and proper care and attention, a poultry
farmer was sent to prison for three months and
was ordered to pay £10 105. 1d. costs; for being
the owner and permitting the offence, a landowner

was fined £50 and ordered to pay £5 55.

The ﬁne of £50 is the highest ever recorded
by the RSPCA for a single offence since it
was founded in 1822. It was imposed by the
magistrates under powers given them in the
Protection of Animals Act, 1954, which came
into operation on January this year. It is the
maximum ﬁne under this Act. (A.9205.)

 




 

April 1955

T‘HEANIMALWORLD 41

 

RSPCA WORK DURING 1954
A BRIEF REVIEW

 

INSPECTION

RSPCA Inspectors investigated 27,790 complaints
of cruelty to animals. Their investigations led to:
872 prosecutions (17 persons sent to prison);

473 admonitions issued by RSPCA Head—

quarters; 9,657 verbal cautions.
Animals Suffering Cruelty

Animals the victims of cruelty in the RSPCA’S
872 prosecutions were (among others):

Dogs. 232 prosecutions (9 offenders im—
prisoned; 12 disqualiﬁed from owning a dog
or holding a licence); Horses and Donkeys.
51 (1 offender sent to prison); Cats. 94 (2
offenders sent to prison); Cattle, sheep, pigs
and goats. 108 (2 offenders sent to prison);
Rabbits. 12; Poultry. 71; Birds other than poultry.
191.

Child Offenders

Juveniles under the age of 18 convicted of cruelty
to animals totalled 80.

CLINICS

Three more clinics for the free treatment of
animals of the poor were opened during the
year, bringing to a total of 113 the number of
these clinics now operated by the RSPCA in
agreement with the British Veterinary Associa—
tion. The number of animals handled at these
clinics and under free veterinary voucher schemes
numbered about 400,000. Thousands of animals

were placed in good homes.

Air Hostel

The Air Hostel at London Airport handled a
total of 342,646 animals and birds.

North Wales Unit
The Unit travelled 26,715 miles and handled

2,537 animals.
Emergency Service

The RSPCA AlleNight Emergency service operat»
lng from Headquarters sent its ambulance on
2,631 humane missions. Animals and birds
saved by ﬁrst—aid or veterinary treatment num—

bered 2,761,

EDUCATION

1,521 schools in England and Wales were visited
by RSPCA schools lecturers; Visits to other youth
Organizations brought the total lectures to 1,658.

eW Animal Defender groups numbering 429
Were formed, bringing the total groups to 3,100—
ranging in membership from dozens to hundreds.

AWARDS
The RSPCA considered 470 instances of bravery

in the rescue of animals and awarded:
127 certiﬁcates; 65 bronze medals; 6 bars to
bronze medals already held; 12 silver medals;
1‘ Margaret Wheatley Cross.

OVERSEAS

A new Branch opened at Gibraltar brought to
a total of 10 the number of overseas branches.
An official from Headquarters spent six months
reorganizing the Singapore Branch. The Tangana
yika Division now has 148 African centres and
8 intervracial auxiliaries.

PARLIAMENTARY WORK

New Measures supported by the RSPCA and
enacted during the year were:

Slaughter of Animals (Amendment) Act,
.1954, which empowers the Ministry of Agria
culture to introduce additional regulations
governing humane slaughtering.

Protection of Animals (Amendment) Act,
1954, which increases the maximum ﬁne for
cruelty to animals from £25 to £50. It gives
the courts power to disqualify persons on a
second or subsequent conviction for cruelty
to animals from owning the same or any other
animals again—for any period in the discretion
of the court.

Other Measures in which the RSPCA was
interested and enacted during the year were:

Protection of Animals (Anaesthetics) Act,
1954, promoted by the British Veterinary
Association and supported in principle by the
RSPCA. It extends the safeguards of previous
Acts as they affect animals undergoing opera!
tions.

Protection of Birds Act, 1954, which more
or less consolidates the numerous birdrprotec—
tion Acts. (This Measure was a compromise.)

Pests Act, which unhappily postpones for at
least four years the banning of gin traps, but
which has a clause forbidding the artiﬁcial
spreading of myxomatosis. .

Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provinces) Act,
1954 which gives the Minister of Agriculture
power to make regulations governing the tranSv
port of animals by air.

‘ Bills that had had First Reading by the end of
the year and were awaiting other Stages: Poaching
of Deer (Scotland) Bill, Animals (Cruel Poisons)
Bill, Slaughter of Animals Bill (seeking to ban
ritual slaughter), Oil in Navigable Waters Bill
(seeking to curb oilrpollution of the sea.)

Questions, often inspired by the RSPCA, were
asked on every aspect of animal welfare.

 

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE ‘QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTH ER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, D50

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, IP
Vice-Chairman: *MRs WALLIS POWER, JP

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POULI-z'I'T, THE RT HON THE EARL
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ, MA POWELL, COL R. M., Dso
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ, MRCVS, DVM. GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, I’H.D
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS, R. C.
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS 0F
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP HOWELL, BASIL P. 1380., MBE SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
DAWEs, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS *HUNTER, MISS SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. I. 3., MBE, TD, JP

 

 

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT, MRS, MA
‘DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LOCKWOOD, LT—COL J. C., JP, TD, MP TUFNELL, LIEUT—COMMANDER R. L., MA. RN
ESTCOURT—OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
(CANTAB), DOMs MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ., FCA
*WINCIIESTER, F. J., ESQ, ECIS, FSS

*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA
* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS I‘SQ, MBE, ACIs
Deputy HP“ Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, 1550- FCA ASSIstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, LSQ, BA

Hon Medical Ofﬁ:‘cr——A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, ERCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND C0, ST RAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WH'TEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

USED unusua-

. '\

I 3 (U/{ I/fk\>\‘\;’/~ \\\
K

L” /
I @ffion $0008
/

W
W Barking up
the WRONG THEE!

   
  
   

  

 

/:»

III I
I, I“ l

’I
III'II

SIMPLE" "\\\\ I, , , SPRATT’S not scraps
SAFE" 1 is what a dog

SURE 71¢me Xﬂ needs for nourishment!

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS , / [5 BONIO . MIXED OVALS - WEETMEET

IchIsIun SHELVDKE HO . BIRMINGHAM - 5 . ”GUM QR“ PUPPY BISCUITS ' DOG CAKES

5456

\\
\\

        

Spratt’s Patent Ltd., 41/47 Bow Road, LONdon' E'3
/

 

 

 




 

38 , THEANIMAL WORLD

 

ST JOHN PARTRIDGE MEMORIAL
. ' CLINIC .

A recent issue of the Fulham Chronicle describes
a visit to the St John Partridge Memorial Clinic,
where Mrs Longman (Council Member and
Hon Secretary of this clinic, as well as Chairman
of the Council’s Clinics Committee) was on
duty at the reception desk surrounded by dogs,
cats and birds.

The veterinary surgeon, described in the news;
paper as ,‘a cheery man in whom all the pet
owners have great confidence’, said that he had
never been to a place where they looked better
kept. In recent years, the veterinary surgeon said,
budgerigars have become as frequent as dogs and

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Appeals made by the RSPCA have led to these

market improvements:

At North Walsham, Norfolk, the poultry
and pig pens are now covered and a building
has been set aside for the use of calves, who
formerly were placed in open pens, exposed to
blazing sunshine, or to bitter Winds.

At Alnwick Cattle Market, straw is now
provided for the pigs and calves.

At Marple, Cheshire, new and commodious
pens have been erected for cattle, pigs, calves,
sheep, and poultry.

' Shelter is now available for pigs and Calves
at Waltham Abbey Market and these are well
equipped With straw.

EAGER TO LEARN

‘The children hardly gave me time to ﬁnish
speaking to them before they were asking

Iqauestions’, reported one RSPCA School
ecturer.

Since the last report 126 lectures have been
given in schools in Wiltshire, Sussex, Surrey,
Yorkshire, Kent, Reading, Cardiff, Merthyr
Tydﬁl, Westhoughton, Bury (Lancs ), Tilbury

April 1955

Photo taken by Arthur Towers reproduced by
courtesy of Fulham Chronicle.

A typical scene at the RSPCA St john
Partridge Memorial Clinic, Fulham,
London, SW6

 
 

there were plenty of tortoises when the season

was right.

Record Cards

Every animal has a card on which his progress is

charted. After discharge the card is kept for a
year.

Advice given by the veterinary surgeon was
that if anything were wrong with a pet he should
be brought to the clinic promptly as delay could
mean real trouble.

This clinic like all those run by the RSPCA is
for pets of people unable to pay veterinary
surgeons’ fees and is organized in conjunction
with the British Veterinary Association.

and the London area. The Bromley Common
Youth Fellowship and Clapham Young Britons
were also addressed.

Thirty—ﬁve new Animal Defender groups were

formed; 341 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

.GROUP XIII
SPRING CONFERENCE

The Spring Conference of this Group
will be held on Saturday, April 23, 1955
at 11.0 a.m. at St Nicholas Hotel, St
Nicholas Cliff, Scarborough, and all
branch and auxiliary branch secretaries
are cordially invited to attend. The chief
secretary of the society has kindly con'
sented to be present and the Mayor of
Scarborough (Councillor Miles Bird,
J.P.) will accord the Conference a Civic
Welcome. Resolutions and other agenda
material should be sent to the group sec!
retary as soon as possible, and, in any
case, not later than April 9.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

4o ' THEANIMALWORLD

April 1955

 

 

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

FEBRUARY 1955

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,217 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Oﬁenders imprisoned.
68 Offenders ﬁned.

19 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
787 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting 4

CATTLE—Neglecting, starving, beating, conveying in an

unﬁt state,etc. 7
PIGS—Starving, neglecting 5
COATS—Neglecting 2

DOGS—Neglecting, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state,
attempting to kill in improper manner 11

CATS—Neglecting, conveying in an improper manner,

killing in an improper manner, etc. 11
FOWLS—Neglecting, starving, overcrowding 10
RABBITs———Starving 3

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Using bird lime 4
Conﬁning in small cages . 3
Attempting to take 1
Injuring 1
VARIOUS OEFENCES:

Steelrtooth trap—set in open 1
Causing in offences 3
Permitting in offences 4

Infringement of the Slaughter of Animals (Pigs)
Act, 1953 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS ’71

During FEBRUARY 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the

RSPCA, disqualiﬁz d FIVE persons from owning a dog or

holding a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:
ONE for 2 years; TWO for 3 years; ONE for 12 years;

ONE
for life.
Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 4,7 5 5
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January ISt 185
Total number of CAUTIONs from January Ist 1,708

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,300 Dogs 3,122 Misc. 528 Total 6,950
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrstraid: 1,724

PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats 9 Dogs 70 Misc. Nil Total 79

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,232

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,604
No. of animals’ rescued: 11

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 192

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:
Cats 10 Dogs 33 Misc. 2
No. of other animals handled by the Unit:
Cats 41 Dogs 68 Misc. 6 Total 115
No.‘ of miles covered by the Unit during the month: 2,050

AWARDS

Total 45

Cases considered 70
Certiﬁcates 25
Bronze Medals 14.
Bar to Bronz Medal 1
Silver Medals 2
Margaret Wheatley Cross 2

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS 27,686
CONVICTIONS ... ... 864
CAUTIONs . .10 142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
N0~ of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440 '

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals . .. 6
Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10

Merit Certiﬁcates . . . .. . 121

 

 




 

 

 

42 . THEANIMALWORLD

MONKEY TRAFFIC DEPUTAT ION

Grave concern at the fact that during the last
two years ’ 100,000 monkeys have been sent
through London Airport" to the United States
was expressed by a deputation which waited 'on
the High Commissioner for India, Mrs Pandit,
at India House, Aldwych, London. The Deputy
High Commissioner, Mr Y. D. Gundevia, was
present, as was Mr Krishna Menon.

Leading the deputation was Mr Peter Freeman,
MP, a member of the Council of the RSPCA.
Others present were: _

Miss Lind—af—Hageby—Animal Defence and
Anti—Vivisection Society.

Dr B. P. Allinson—London and Provincial
Anti’Vivisection Society.

Mr G. Bowker—National AntiaVivisection
Society. ~ ,

Mr W. Tyldesley—British Union for the
Abolition of Vivisection.

Mrs Wallis Power, JP and Mr B. P. Howell,
MBE—Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. ' .
The object of the deputation, which was

cordially received, was to urge that measures be
taken by the Indian Government to prohibit the
export of these monkeys frOm India.

Experiments

The deputation pointed out that 75 (per cent of
the monkeys going through London Airport to
the United States were intended for experimental
purposes and 25 per cent for use , in rocket
research.

The fact that the RSPCA has a Hostel at
London Airport has given'these poor creatures
a little comfort on their journey, but the
casualties during the two years in question
have amounted to about 1,000 monkeys and
these are increasing because a larger propor—

EXPORT OF HORSES TO; CONTINENT

A Ministry of Agriculture statement shows
and ponies shipped to the Continent of
to have been:

£ £'£ £ £

April 1955

‘

 

tion of the monkeys now coming in are
pregnant adult females and parturition often
takes place on the journey, with the result
that, only too frequently, both the mothers
and their offspring die.

Post mortem examinations by veterinary
surgeons show that the deaths of both male and
female monkeys are due to ‘severe stress’; in
other words, they are so terriﬁed by the journey
that they collapse.

‘We are bound to feel’ said Mr Freeman
‘that those animals who die en route are
fortunate, in view of the fate that awaits
them at their j ourney’s end.’

Note: At the suggestion of the High Commis
sioner a statement has been submitted for
transmission to the Indian Government,
giving the foregoing facts, which were out—
lined verbally at the interview.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the folloWing

deaths: ,
Miss Hilda Size, member of Birkenhead Branch

. Committee; Rev F. C. Baker, former member of

RSPCA Council; Mr E. M. Elliott, President of
Walsall Branch; Miss Wharton, Hon Secretary
of Withyham Auxiliary; Alderman R.

Edmunds, President, Hampshire—Southampton
and District Branch; Lady Sybil Grant, President,
Surrey—Epsom Branch; and the following sup'

porters: Captain Capper, Mr James Cook, Dr I
Acomb and Mrs Rooke.

#1

the number, classiﬁcation, value and destination of horses
Europe during the period October 1 to December 31, 1954.:

£ £ f £b£ £ £ £

nm w 511m m13m w15d m17m m19m wanmb

Class valued to

 

 

 

Thoroughbreds . . . — __ __ 1 1
Racehorses ——— _ ' 3 1 _
Show Jumpers — _ 1 2 1
Ponies and Foals —— —_ 3 1 __
Broodmares .. . . . . —— __ __ 3
Other Horses —— — ._ 1
Totals —— —_ 7 19 4

 

1
1 __

50 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 10001000
2

 

l
l
l

26 49
___ 4
__ 8

l
l
I
I
| 4>| ch U1

I] 18

 

 

2 3 1 _~ _— ._ 12 . 37 85

 




 

44 THEANIMALWORLD

and was able to hold him in his arms whilst the

helpers hauled him to the surface. Soon after—

gards, the dog was resting in front of his master’s
re.

For bravery displayed during this difficult
rescue, the Inspector has received a bar to the
RSPCA bronze medal he already holds.

A similar award has gone to Inspector Hughes,
for attempting to rescue a sheep from Carreg
Gwalch, Conway Mountain, and to Leading
Fireman F. J. Lavers for rescuing a cat from a

tree jutting over a rock face at Abbey Quay,
Penzance.

Kid on Quarry Ledge
Inspector Matthews, hanging perilously over
a quarry face, with a drop of over 300 feet
below him, took from Police Constable Har—
rison a struggling kid. The animal was stranded
on a ledge 25 feet from the top of the quarry,
and the Police Constable was lowered to the
rescue. Because of the struggles of the
frightened animal, the constable was in dif—

CRAMPED TRAVELLING QUARTERS

   
   

from nose to tail root; he stands l3 inches high. Yet, he had
been sent by rail in the box in which he is shown standing
in the picture. The box measures l2 inches by l2 inches by
l2 inches. The top of the box was nailed down before the
puppy was ‘despatched’ from Derbyshire. Inspector Harland
said that the dag was terriﬁed of people—and especially of
men. For causing the animal unnecessary suffering by causing
him to be travelled by rail in a box of insufficient size, a
man was fined £5 by the Kendal magistrates and was ordered
to pay £l0 9s. 6d. costs. The puppy is recovering in a good
home. (A7939) '

This bull terrier puppy measures approximately 24 inches /

April 1955

ﬁculties, and the Inspector was lowered on
the same rope—which was tied to a tree——
to his help.

Both men, for their gallantry, have been
awarded the RSPCA bronze medal.

This rescue was performed at Craven Lime
Quarry, near Settle.

Bronze Medals

The same award has gone to Inspector Gardner
for rescuing animals from ﬂoods in the Gloucester
area and for rescuing a cow near Gloucester
Market.

The rescue of dogs at personal risk has gained
RSPCA bronze medals for: Mr J. D. Mottishaw
(attempted rescue), P.C. G. Profﬁtt, Mr C. Ninnis
(attempted rescue), Fireman A. W. Lowe and

‘ Mr K. Jarvis.

Others who have received RSPCA bronze
medals for bravery in the rescue of animals are:
P.C. J. Jacques, who rescued a sow and nine
piglets from a burning building, and Mr J. C.
Atkinson for his part in the same rescue.

DEAD SHEEP IN CATTLE LORRY

When a cattle lorry was stopped recently it
was found that the sheep and pigs it con—
tained were so badly overcrowded that two
of the sheep were already dead; the pigs
were standing on them.

At the Gloucester City Magistrates’ Court the
lorry driver was ﬁned £10 and ordered to pay
£4 11$. costs after he had been found guilty of
carrying fiftyvfour sheep and thirty pigs in a
manner likely to cause them suffering.

‘We think’, said the chairman of the Magis’
‘trates, ‘this is a terrible case.’

One witness said he saw the driver poking a
stick through a gap in the cattle lorry. The man
then went into a cafe. The witness looked into
the lorry and his evidence continued: ‘I saw two
dead sheep and the remainder of the sheep
standing on the backs of the pigs which were
stood on the backs of the dead sheep.’

The witness told the driver what he had
seen. The driver muttered that he knew and
he dld not seem to want to take any notice.

Because of this the witness told the police and
gave them the number of the lorry. It was the
result of this that the lorry was later stopped.

Inspector Gardner was called, and the lorry
was taken to a yard and unloaded and the dead
sheep removed. Forty sheep were on the top
deck and thirty pigs and ﬁfteen sheep on the
bottom deck. After the lorry had been properly
loaded thirteen sheep were left. Inspector Tuohy
as well as Inspector Gardner gave evidence.

(A.89O 1'.)

 

 

 




 

46 ‘ THEANIMALWORLD

Today

Among the present day problems occupying
the attention of the Norwegian Society are: the
rescue of sheep lost in the woods and mountains,
transport conditions for animals and oil pollution
of the sea. ,

SINGAPORE

A News Letter circulated by the Singapore
Branch of the RSPCA and recently received in
London gives among a varied list of activities the
following information:

RSPCA Activities .
Period May 1, 1954, to October 31, 1954
Field Officer:

Calls Attended to ' 1 789
Visits to Markets and Pet Shops 29
Visits to Schools “ 77
Cruelty Cases and Complaints ’
Investigated " .'.. ’ 39
Prosecutions 1
Police Cautions ' 3
Verbal Warnings . . 35

Note: In addition 2 cruelty cases were brought
to court during this period but were dis—
missed owing to insufﬁcient evidence.

Animal Rescue:

Injured, Stray and Unwanted Animals

collected... , 970

Animals Boarded by RSPCA 102

Animals Placed in Homes 316
RSPCA Advisory Service:

Calls Received ’ 3,393

Some of the cases:

May 1954 ,
Receiving a. report that a crated pig had been
seen on a lorry and was in danger of asphyxiation,
the Field Ofﬁcer traced the offender who‘was
severely cautioned at Beach Road Police Station.
Suitable action was taken to release the pig.

July 1954

A complaint was received that a puppy was in
the act of being fed to a python at an address in
Alexandra. The Field Ofﬁcer investigated and
found the puppy lying dead by the side- of the
python and after searching the premises dis,
covered two monkeys trussed up in very small
wooden boxes. The owner of the animals was
arrested on two charges, being subsequently
ﬁned the maximum of 200 dollars on a charge of
cruelty to monkeys. In the absence of the material
witness, the charge of cruelty to a puppy had to
be dropped.

April 1955

Fund Raising

Appeals to the public took the form of a letter
to prominent persons and business houses and
a special letter to service personnel. A joint Flag
Day with the Animal Lovers’ League was held on
October 2, 1954. Receipts from: appeal letters
amounted to 2,701 dollars and the Flag Day col—
lection totalled. 5,824 dollars, of which the
Singapore Branch received 2,912 dollars. On the
Sunday preceding the Flag Day, Radio Malaya
arranged for the Branch President to broadcast
in the ‘Week’s Good Cause’.

A Gala Premiere of the ﬁlm The Green Scarf was
held in aid of the Branch, on December 7, 1954.

London Effort

Miss Adele Rudd has sent £40 from Mortimer’s
Collection for’Cat Welfare. The sum is for cat

"work at the RSPCA Singapore Branch. '

(Mortimer is the name of Miss Rudd’s cat.)

ETHIOPIA

At the personal wish of His Imperial Majesty,
Haile Selassie, Emperor of Ethiopia, an invitation
was extended through the Ethiopian Embassy in
London for the RSPCA to help in the establish,
ment of animal welfare work in Ethiopia.

Inspector Luetchford was sent from RSPCA
Headquarters and arrived in Addis Ababa in 1952.
His task was to help in creating an Ethiopian
counterpart of the RSPCA, and the Inspector,
who has recently returned, reports that the
Imperial EthiOpian SPCA is now in being.

Before the new SOciety Could operate, a charter,
similar to the RSPCA’s Act of Incorporation, had
to be promulgated. In preparing this, the Inspector
had the help of the Municipal legal adviser, and
he had the satisfaction of seeing its ofﬁcial accept—
ance before leaving.

Clinic and Inspectors

A clinic was established in a building in the
centre of the town, and ﬁve Inspectors (employees
of the Municipal Public Health Department) were
trained.

A valuable reform introduced within a few
months of the Inspector’s arrival affected the
conveying of poultry. Chickens were strung to;
gether in bunches and carried on a pole,“ but a
proclamation issued in February 1953 banned
this method; conveyance in baskets was sub;
stituted.

Although InSpector Luetchford has returned
to England, the RSPCA is in constant touch with
the Ethiopian Society through the Ethiopian

Embassy and is always ready to further this
humane work. ‘

 

.‘ 4 A,“ 444‘ u 44

 




 

48 THEANIMALWORLD

April 1955

 

West London The branch arranged a propaganda display
at Cruft’s Dog Show, Olympia, and'the receipts amounted
to £45 65. 6d—branch hon sec: Mrs R. C. Riseley.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Mrs Dark organized a
whist drive in Pitton and raised £7 25. 3d. for branch funds.
Miss Wormell, branch hon sec, presented the prizes.
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Mrs Booth,
President of Bromsgrove aux, presided at the annual meeting
of the auxiliary. She paid tribute to the work of Mrs Lazenby,
aux hon sec and branch hon sec. Wing-Commander Hillier
spoke. Mr R. Bartlett, aux chairman, gave a ﬁnancial report.
Yorkshire—Barnsley and District A coffee morning organ-
ized by Miss Parker and Mrs White raised £46 10s. for branch
unds
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs L. Gray,
branch hon sec, reports that a bridge drive raised £15 125. for
branch funds.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Senior Inspector J ack-
son spoke on cruelty to animals at the Pannal Ash Police
Training School.

 

At the GIoucestershire—Mid Branch Bazaar (left to right):
Sir Percy Lister, Mr S. Hill (Chairman), Wing Comdr
Hillier, Lady Lister, Mrs E. M. Porri (Branch Hon Sec)

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Cliburn, Hatﬁeld, East Grinstead, East
Ham, Pudsey, Maidstone, Newbury, Welburn, Skelton,
Nottingham, West Norwood, Lowestoft, Altrincham,
. Chelsham' Common, Tooting, Croydon, Curbar, Newport,
Whittlesey, Liverpool, Stourbridge, Horam, Nuneaton,
Blyth, Hazel End, Abingdon, Bury, Hull, Mortonein-
Marsh, Chislehurs‘t, Oldbury, Birmingham, Llanelly,
Burnham—on—Sea, Penrith, Blackrod, Hemel Hempstead,
Chertsey, Portreath, Hove, Haslemere, Bletchley, Woode
mansterne, Alnwick, Bletchingley, Bromsgrove, Dalton—ine
Furness, Bromley, Highams Park, South Oxhey, South
Shields, Anderton, Poulton—le—Fylde, Southampton, Chis—
wick, Harpenden, Cambois, Port Talbot.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Aberayron, Miss Menevia Jones and Mrs R. J. Evans,
aux hon secs, £12 15. 761.; Borth, Mrs J. James, aux hon sec,
£12 185. 3d.; Bronant, Miss E. Howells, aux hon sec,
£2; Cardigan, Mrs K. Key, aux hon sec, £8 125. 161.; Lam—
peter, Mrs D. A. Thomas, aux hon sec, £21 65.; Llanddewi—
Breﬁ, Mr B. James, aux hon sec, £2 105. 261.; Llanarth,
Miss A. Lewis, aux hon sec, £3 65. 661.; New Quay (Cards),
Mrs Phillips Davies, aux hon sec, £13 145. 461.; Pontrhydo
fendigaid, Miss Richards, £1 125. 1061.; Tregaron, Mrs
Jones, £6 135. 661.; Llandyssul, Mrs Gwyn Jones, aux hon
sec, £10.

HOUSE—TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the housevto
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or

organizers. ) .
Oldham, Mrs Bethel, branch hon sec, £4605. 8d.;Wiltsh1re

(Salisbury and District), Miss Wormell, branch hon sec.»
£250 125. 1061.; Wimbledon and District branch, Mrs
Turner, branch hon sec, £4 55. 161.; Portreath, Mrs E. J.
Pawson, aux hon sec, £3 75.; Frodsham, Mrs Ravenscroft,
aux hon sec, £33 25. 10d.; Newark, Mrs Aldred, acting
aux hon sec, £1 155.; Catterick, Miss M. Baker, £6 105.;
Alne, Mr Dale, aux hon sec, £23; Forest of Dean, Mrs
Demel, aux hon sec, £75 105. 8d.; Burnham, Mrs Morgan,
aux hon sec, £55; Kilsby, Miss Balding, £2 85. 3d.

 

ADVERTISER’S ANNOUNCEMENT
‘OUR CATS’, the popular monthly magazine that spans
the world of Cat Lovers. Every issue contains interesting and
helpful articles by experts, general interest features and
wonderful pictures. A splendid gift for a Cat Lover any-
where. Subscription rate I75. 6d. for l2 issues (specimen
copy Is. 7d. post free), from4 Carlton Mansions, Clapham
Road, London, SW9

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO'. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgete 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibuteo Edo'

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE cox CAPTIVE 1'
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GU N s
Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals ,
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LoNDON   JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

TUESDAY
24 MAY

‘Please help.”
says the Peke .ﬂ...........

HOW TO HELP

By making a street collection in the Metropolitan Police area (London

and Suburbs) on 24 MAY.

By making a house to house collection in London (and Suburbs)

between 18 MAY and 24 MAY (inclusive).
By placing tins and emblems in shops and business premises

By making a private collection amongst relatives and fr1ends even
if you do not live in the London area.
5. By sending a donation
6 By sending the names and addresses of friends who
are prepared to collect.

NB/No one under the age of 18 is permitted to collect
either in the street or from house to house in the
LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes possible
for young people to make private collections

 

 

amongst relatives and friends.

MW,

lUHm

.l
ill

Offers of help, please, to :-

Whefle *ge’e" RSPCA, Appeals Dept,
a wi , t ere’s
I05 Jermyn Street, London SWI

a way

,..\

J‘

l
l

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 




