‘ui‘

«WV-'qv

"I

 

 

 

uln'l

S“
o
t
0‘
In
P.
x
o
F"
VI
5
e,
t
r
u.
o
C“
[

.ir 1.1.x

 

 

II} {IL

 

 




March 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD . 33

INTELLIGENCE IN COWS

‘Dr Maurice Burton, writing in ‘The Illustrated London News’, explains that, having watched with attention
the behaviour of cows, he will use with ‘greater discretion’ the word BOVINE, which is often used as a synonym
for STUi’ID. The ensuing article is a brief extract from a longer one in ‘The Illustrated London News’, by
permission of whose Editor it is here quoted. Dr Burton speaks of his own observations and those contributed

by Mr A. Brownlee to the ‘British Veterinary Journal’.

v

Learning and memorization start early in life. A
newly—born calf has the instinct to nuzzle the
under—surfaces of the dam’s body and to suck the
skin. In time it ﬁnds a teat; but the second time
it ﬁnds the teat more quickly. Taken from its
mother it has to search again for a source of food,
but again it can be taught to drink from a bucket,
by giving it a ﬁnger to suck, thus guiding the
muzzle to the milk. The same learning ability
comes into play in later life, as when a cow will
put its fore—feet on to a raised platform to reach
up, or will go down on its knees to reach under a
fence. Brownlee quotes an instance of a bull, fed
mangolds in a long trough glazed on the inside,
having difﬁculty in grasping the food on this slip—
pery surface. The bull learned to throw the man—
golds out on to the bedded ﬂoor, to get a ﬁrmer
grip on them. He may have done this accidentally
at ﬁrst, but can we say the same of the other feats?

Curiosity

A heifer learned to open the half—door of its
loosevbox by pushing the bolt with its muzzle.
Another achieved the same end by pushing the
bolt with its horn. A third would turn on a tap
to drink. Whether such exploits are the reSult of
accident we cannot even guess, because they are
never seen until they have been perfected. The
fact remains, h0wever, that curiosity plays a large
part in learning, and it may have been originally a
curiosity, an impulse to investigate, which led to
such feats. Even an hour’old calf will walk round
its loose—box examining every part of it and every
object in it. Any new object subsequently intro,
duced will be treated with suspicion, to be investia
gated with senses on the alert. On the other hand,

a familiar object, say a wheelbarrow, moved from-

one place to another, will be treated as an old
friend. Introduced into a new environment, the
same exploratory behaviour is seen, the animal
examining and memorizing everything.

Memory

More deﬁnite examples of memory must be
numerous, and instances well known to those
used to dealing with cattle. Thus, cows used to
going to their own stalls will do so again even
after being continuously at pasture for months.
Then there are the following isolated examples.
Of three‘cows put into a loose’box overnight, one
was butted by the other two. The following day
they were all put to pasture, and when, in the

evening, the three were again shepherded towards
the loose—box, the cow that had been beaten up
took strong evasive action to avoid a repetition of
the previous night’s trouble. A herd of cows, at
pasture by day and housed by night, were changed
one afternoon from a relatively bare pasture. to an
abundant one. The next morning, many of the ’
cows made at once for the rich pasture instead
of the one to which they were accustomed. A
bullock that had been fed as a calf from bottle
and teat, when presented again with this same
equipment at the age of two years, began to suck
the teat as formerly.

Domesticated animals, and especially those
kept for utilitarian purposes, are apt to lead Cir»
cumscribed lives in which initiative is discour—
aged. Added to this, the general security they en—
joy in the matter of food, shelter and protection
does nothing to call forth resourcefulness. The
value of Mr Brownlee’s studies, which are given
here in a somewhat inadequately brief form, is
that they indicate some of the basic elements in
the behaviour, and allow us from these to apprer
ciate the higher ﬂights in the wild behaviour.

 

BATTERY HENS

A letter sent by Clare I. Capron to the ‘Daily
Telegraph’ is reprinted with acknowledgments:
While appreciating the expression, through
your columns, of so much sympathy over the
sufferings of dogs and rabbits, I wonder if any
could be spared for that domestic bird, the hen.
To speed up output she is incarcerated by the
thousand in batteries and deeprlitter houses. In
the former she is deprived of all chance of scratch;
ing, running around and dustabathing, and even
of the sleeping period of night darkness. She can
only stand or squat endlessly on a small wire grid.
In the latter, which might provide far better con—
ditions, there is frequently overcrowding as Well
as a concentration of the proverbial hen'pecking.
Is rectiﬁcation of this apparently unrealized
cruelty too much to hope and expect? Incident—
ally, the difference between eggs laid under even
relatively natural conditions and those produced
in the forced ‘laybour’ of concentration camps,
speaks for itself to consumers with half an eye,
and also half a palate. ‘

 




 

 

March 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 29

 

Starlings Fug-hound

 

Photo] [Courtesy Cheltenham Newspaper Company
Inspector Butﬁeld shows the starlings'the way to freedom

One of the most unusual rescue efforts under,
taken by an RSPCA Inspector is described in the
ensuing report from Inspector Butﬁeld:

I beg to report a call from Achille Serres, Dry;
cleaners, Promenade, Cheltenham, re the possia
bility of a bird in the chimney. I went along and
opened up a sealed ﬁreplace only to have twenty
or more birds ﬂy out, all starlings. The lady in
the upstairs ﬂat had complained of similar noises
in the night in her bedroom ﬁreplace which was
also sealed. There was no noise but I decided to
open up just in case. I did so and out ﬂew six
néclne birds which paciﬁed the owner considep
a y.

As this was not coincidence I decided to
examine every ﬁreplace in the chimney structure.
This involved several offices and ﬁrms and many
ﬁres, most of them sealed. In almost every case
I met with some opposition, but this, soon

changed ,when I released live birds. Having

cleared all these ﬁres I left windows and ﬁres
open so that further trapped birds could escape.

TERRIFIED BIRDS '-

One ﬁrm in the row had already released a
number of birds. I went over every ﬁreplace in
the ofﬁces and cleared many more birds out. By

this time I had enlisted the aid of a passing
police constable, and» between us we entered
every room in a block of buildings. We also
opened all ﬁreplaces that were sealed, even those
sealed with solid woodwork. In each case we
released terriﬁed, live birds. In one room alone
where the ﬁreplace was open, a room approxi’
mately 12 ft. by 6 ft., I went in to be met by a
cloud of eighty or more live birds.

With a large window open it took almost
ﬁve minutes for them to ﬂy out in a steady
stream. This was indeed a fantastic experience
and by this time I was meeting no more
opposition as the local public was interested
and stood around watching.

In all I released at least ﬁve hundred birds, all,
from ﬁreplaces and chimneys with a few from
air shafts. I left: word in each shop or ofﬁce to
leave windows open and ﬁres out. The police
constable arranged special watch for the area
overnight. .

This morning I again went the rounds and
released several more birds, but the Midland
Bank contacted me and reported that one of the
staff had heard a noise in an air pipe.

There was a live bird in there somewhere
and when I broke the pipe I found that there
were ﬁve or six dead starlings in a form of
expansion chamber. These birds were cooked
by the heat and gas, but they were blocking
the entire ﬂue.

I got six birds out of this pipe, but I was not
happy about the location of the pipe so I ex
amined a set of builders’ plans and got permission
to explore the roof. The plans showed that the
chimney had been sealed off years before and
ended in a blank wall. I took a chance and asked
the maintenance man to knock a hole in the ‘
wall

After a long time, the man ﬁnally broke
through into this old chimney stack and it
was pitiful to see that even while his chisel
went through the wall, starlings were trying
to force their heads past the chisel and hammer
to escape. We ﬁnished a large opening and
had the satisfaction of releasing about ﬁfty
more birds. ‘

INSPECTOR’S THEORY

Whilst on the roof I had noticed three sets of
chimney stacks. Each one approximately 10. ft.
by Z ft.-and ﬁtted with six large 'pots. They were
higher than the surrounding chimneys, and. I can
only conclude that a ﬂock of many thousands of
birds had ﬂown here in the fog. Either there-had
been a freak down draught, although the majority
of ﬁreplaces were closed, or they had restedpn

Continued at foot of next‘page

 




 

ANIMAEHWORLD ’

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF . THE RSPCA

Vol LIII No 3 New Series

MARCH I 958

PRICE FOURPEN CE

63. per annum. Post Paid

CHILDREN AND ANIMALS

One hundred and ﬁve young people under the
rage of 18 were convicted of cruelty to animals
during 1957.

In contrast with the prosecutions taken by the
RSPCA against adults, whose crime generally is
that of neglect, the offences committed by
children are usually of a violent nature.

We would instance Case B.1960, in which a
12—yearvold boy went into a garden without perv
'mission, took seven budgerigars from an aviary,
pushed them up the sleeve of his jacket, and then
drove a screwdriver up his sleeve, stabbing four
of the birds in the abdomen. He was placed on
probation for two years by the Bromley Juvenile
Court, after being ,placed in custody for two
weeks for a medical report. Then there were the
two Dudley boys aged 14 and 15 who, in Case
No. B2718, caught a pigeon on the canal side.
They cut the bird’s ﬂight with a penknife, threw
it into the air, tried to hang it by the neck from a
pole, tried to poison it with parafﬁn, beat it with
sticks and broke its neck; ﬁnally, they tied the
bird’s legs, pushed it into a paint tin and threw it
over a wall.

Such crimes, described in all their vile
detail in the newspapers, arouse understand—
able horror. ‘

In considering the number of such prosecua
tions, we must bear in mind that the RSPCA prOe
ceeds against children with the utmost relucta
ance, preferring to advise, instruct and admonish
or to encourage a parental rebuke.

From the violence of these crimes and the
widespread publicity they gain, there is a natural
temptation to pillory all children. The general
condemnation of ‘the modern child’ is something
to which the RSPCA cannot subscribe. The
Society sees in these crimes a challenge to be
accepted.

The challenge is two—fold: ﬁrst to ﬁnd
offenders and bring them to book, and,
second, to educate, educate and educate.

The temptation to condemn a generation for
the faults of the few is easily overcome by any’

one having access to the inspiring reports ﬂowing
regularly through RSPCA Headquarters to the
Awards Committee of the Society’s Council.
Let us remark, before brieﬂy taking two from the

numerous tales of the gallantry of children on,
behalf of animals, that the Society does not ena ‘

courage children to take unnecessary risks, but
says, rather, that young people seeing an animal
in difﬁculties should tell an adult. Despite its
utterance of this word of caution, the Society
believes that selﬂess and courageous acts per;
formed by children merit reward, both for the
kindness of the act performed and for the
example they offer to others.

Here was a 12—yearaold boy walking his dog,
Susie, along the canal side. Susie fell in, and without
any hesitation the boy jumped in after her, though the
water was 8 feet deep and the banks were of steep
concrete. He rescued Susie and then had to be rescued
himself! A boy aged I3 swam through a choppy sea
to rescue an injured seagull. He was covered in blood
and his arms and hands had scars as a result of
wounds inflicted by the terriﬁed bird, but his only
complaint when he took the injured bird to the
RSPCA Inspector was that he had lost his Animal
Defender’s badge. He has received another badge——
and a presentation book.

Active kindness, as exempliﬁed‘in the action of
these and numerous other children, is pleasing
to the Society, which gives high prominence to its
educational work among the young.‘ . -

During last year, 1,087 schools in England and
Wales were visited by RSPCA schools lecturers,
and no less than 1,197 lectures were given on
kindness to animals.

Let us admit: there is a hard core of cruel children,
but the RSPCA believes that cruel tendencies can be
checked and turned to humane ends. It is because of
this faith it uses every possible method of reaching
children with lessons of kindness.

EDITOR

* Children who keep pets should have the constant
supervision of adults. '

l1

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC LT.-COL. SIR THOMAS MOORE, BART, CBE, MP ANTHONY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

 

THE COUNCIL

Acting Chairman: MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

Acting Vice-Chairman: LT.—COL. J. C. LOCKWOOD JP, TD

AGlUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA *PRITCHARD. MRS D.
GARDNER HON. JULIET *
AILWYN THE RT HON LORD .. ’ , RATTRAY R. F. ESQ MA PH.D
‘ALLIBERT, MRS HARVEY’ Ml‘s 1‘ W" MA RISFLEY, MRS R.’ c. ’ ’
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP 38%;??? :51: 15522.3 Q MBE *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HUNTER’ MISS " ’ SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS ’ ‘ SNFLL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. E.

LEE MRS E. M. ,
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA ’ MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
“WATER, H_ E" ESQ” MRCVS LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L.TH. *TAIT, MRS, MA

OORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN. MRS W- *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
'DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MR A- WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH-B *wHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
’EVANs, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

 

 

GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS *Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

 

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM. ESQ, BA

Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI AILAN JOINPR, ESQ

Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C‘. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS _
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177
R.S.P.C.A.

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY POR THE PREVENTION OP CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, for the
general purposes of that Society, the sum of £, free of all duties
payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a suﬁicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex-

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

CAUTION
By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

 

 

 

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

All inquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

@MEFORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES ’

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo'

 

 

MORTIMER RUDD, once a London Stray, works on for the
Fund he founded. His Memorial Fund last year totalled about
£I,OOO and was divided between the Mayhew Home and the
cat ward,A|giers Hospital. Send a birthday donation in mem-
ory ofMortimeroryouroWn loved petto MORTIMER RUDD’S
FUND FOR CAT WELFARE, RSPCA, I05 Jermyn Street,
London, SWI.

 

 

 

 

 

RSPCA BIRD FUND

The Hon Secretary now has available supplies of
materials for voluntary helpers willing to make up
woollen, embroidered and sewn articles for sale on
behalf of the Fund. Please apply, indicating articles
preferred, to: Hon Secretary, RSPCA Bird Fund,
105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, . BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

March 1958

Chairman

At their meeting held in London on January 16,
1958, the Council of the RSPCA accepted, with
the very deepest regret, the resignation of the Rt
Hon Lord Merthyr, DL, TD, their Chairman since
1952. Because of his recent appointment as Chairv
man of Committees and Deputy Speaker in the
House of Lords, Lord Merthyr has had, reluct—
antly, to surrender a number of his outside
interests. He remains a member of the Society.

Until the question of Lord Merthyr’s suc—
cessor in ofﬁce has been decided after the
Society’s Annual General Meeting to be held in
June, Mrs Wallis Power, JP, VicevChairman of
the Council, who has been acting as Chairman
in recent months during the absence of Lord
Merthyr abroad, has kindly undertaken to con—
tinue to perform the duties of Acting Chairman.

Lieut—Colonel J. C. Lockwood, JP, TD, Honor’
ary Treasurer of the SoCiety, has consented to
serve as Acting ViceaChairman.

THE ANIMAL'WORLD 2'7

PreSIdent
Sir Malcolm Sargent, who has been VicevPresident
of the RSPCA since 1949, has now accepted the
Presidency of the Society, which became vacant
on the death of Professor Gilbert Murray.

Vice—Presidents
Two new Vice—Presidents appointed to join
the Earl of Shaftesbury, KP, PC, in that ofﬁce are
Lt—Col Sir Thomas Moore, Bart, CBE, MP, who
remains a member of the RSPCA Council, to
which he was appointed in 1928, and Mr Anthony
Greenwood, MP, who was a member of the
RSPCA Council from 1952 to 1955, when he
relinquished his membership of the Council
owing to pressure of other duties. '

 

The Queen’s Generosity
A cheque has been received from the Keeper of
the Privy Purse, who has been commanded by
The Queen to send a donation from the Royal

Mews Fund (1957) to the RSPCA.

 

Riding High
Horse in the Clouds by Helen Griﬂiths. Illus»
trated by Edward Osmond. Hutchinson. 123. 6d.
From time to time books appear making such
claims on credulity that their authenticity is
doubted. We transcribe from the ‘blurb’, which
is accompanied by a photograph of the authoress:

‘Helen Grifﬁths wrote this story when she was

sixteen and still at school. She wrote it three

times before she was satisfied with it and then
saved all her pocket—money towards the typing.

She packed it in a box and sent it to the pub

lisher of her favourite books. She wrote it for

boys and girls of her own age who love anir
mals. And she wrote it with such skill that
already it has been widely praised. . . . You will
see for yourself why Pampa’s story is not just
an ordinary story about Wild horses and life on

a ranch and why grownvups as well as children

declare that they could not put it down until

the last page was turned.’

We endorse the last sentence entirely. As in the
case of some other doubted books, one can say
that if it is spoof, the spoofer deserves the highest
credit—apart, of course, from doubtful ethics. It
is a very remarkable book, so well written" that it
holds the interest intensely as claimed. It is a fact
that from time to time young persons turn up
who reveal the most extraordinary maturity and
command. This appears to be one of these cases

-——the maturity comes out in the characterization
‘ of the human beings as well as of the animals——
and yet there is in it the charm of the suggestion
that the author is not grown up but has the
naivety of the right, unaffected, healthy, genuine

kind. The book is not ‘mollycoddle’: it is realistic
in accepting the world as it is, faute de mieux; the
attitude to animals is that of the RSPCA. The
illustrations are good. We recommend the book
wholeheartedly as one to be given as a prize or by
other well—wishers. As it is certain to be reprinted
(it will be in great demand among the large ‘horsy’
public of today), we point out that on page 33
foals are'spoken of as suckling their dams and on
page 156 there is a misprint. R. F. R.

 

UNCLAIMED

Mrs Du Sautoy
Newby, Presi-
dent of the
North Devon
Branch, sends
this charming
picture of Andy.
He was picked
up in the road
when about ﬁve
weeks old and
Mrs Du Sautoy
Newby adver-
tised him but no
one claimed him.
Two years later
Andy made the
handsome pic-
ture we see,
thanks to having
been given a
kind home.

 

 

 




March1958 THE ANIMAL WORLD 35

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of func-
tion, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by
the sum raised. The letters AM indicate Annual Meeting; they
are followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary,
and an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and
of oﬁicials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary .)

Balham and Tooting New Malden, bring and buy stall (at
puppet and RSPCA ﬁlm show), Mrs Flexman (Raynes Park
aux hon sec). Mrs Lee (branch hon sec) attended. £5 4s. 6d.
Bristol and District Stoke Bishop, bring and buy sale, Mrs
M. B. Ellis, £52 10s.

Dorset—North West Moors, whist drive and gift stall, Mrs
Adams (aux hon sec), £60.

Hertfordshire—East Hitchin, three years’ collections, Miss
Denniss (aux hon sec), £120.

Kent_—Ashford and District Smarden, jumble and produce
sale, Mrs M. Fielding-Mould (aux hon sec), £39 15s. 11d.
Kent—Canterbury and District Herne Bay, collections
during 1957, Miss Michell (aux hon sec), £300.

Kettering and District Kctterin g, Christmas sale and draw,
Miss Pankhurst (aux hon sec), £154.

Northumberland West Hexham, Rock ’n Roll ball (£65)
and Christmas draw (£54), Mr Matt. A. Iley (branch hon sec).
Rotherham and District Rotherham, whist drives, Mr J.
Bramall (Thurcroft and District aux hon sec), £15 10s.
Rugby Rugby, Christmas draw, Mrs M. J. Prickett (branch
hon sec admin) £112; cake stall £7 14s. 9d.

Southport, Birkdale and District Bring and buy sale (£151)
and Chrlstmas draw (£53), Miss Richards (branch hon sec).
Sussex—East and Hastings Robertsbridge, dance and
show, Mr Day (aux hon sec), £9 0s. 9d.

Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Wraysbury,
beetle drive, Mrs Willatts (aux hon sec), £7.
Yorkshire—Barnsley and District Christmas fayre, Miss
Parker and Mrs White (committee members), £60.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Shipley, coffee morning,
Mrs Place (committee member), £25 11s.

Dan, the white
cocker spaniel
owned by

Mr Donald
Fraser of the
Royal Beacon
Hotel, Exmouth,
raised two
guineas for the
RSPCA on his
twelfth birth-
day. Mr Fraser
sent the money
to the Society
‘as a thank
offering for
Don’s happy
life’

 

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible, the place at which the collection was
made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

House—to—House
' £ 3. d.
Formby, Mrs Bourhill (aux hon sec) 33 5 2
Llansantffraid, Miss A. M. Richards 6 10 O
Lancashire North St Borders, Miss E. Sha

(branch hon sec) 354 19 3
Wiltshire North, Mrs Wheeler (branch hon

sec) 84 5 1
Grimsby, Mrs Bainborough (branch hon sec) 40 10 2
Nelson, Miss D. Ashworth (aux hon sec) 10 10 0
Newcastle—upon—Tyne, Mr A. L. Wilson

(branchsec)... 4 11 4‘
Ashington, Mr T. C. Juster (aux hon sec) 25 15 9
Kent, Tunbridge Wells and District, Miss D. .

Knox 191 7 4
Worksop, Mrs Wright (aux hon sec) , 71 19 5
Sussex East & Hastings, Mrs Sletcher (branch

honsec) , 111 17 10
Brackley, Mr R. Deplidge (aux hon sec) 24 11 4
Bromley (Kent) & District, Mrs Hill (branch '

hon sec) 523 15 7

Fla Da s
g Y ‘ £ 3. (1.
Mansﬁeld, Miss M. P. Cooper (aux hon sec) 183 0 8
Leicester, Miss B. H. Hearth (branch hon sec) 681 15 4
Shildon, Mrs Allinson (aux hon sec) 10 7 4
Spaniel

Chesterﬁeld, £15 185.; Darlington, £44 Is. 10d. (between
April and the end of year); Bamford (‘The Anglers’ Rest’),
£6 115.; Bracknell, £5 35. 1d. (three weeks); Chelmsford,
£5 65. (in nine days); Hull, £138 125. 3d. (four months);
Macclesﬁeld, £40 (six months); Scunthorpe, £95; Ports—
mouth, £16 12$.‘6d.. (seven months); Leeds, £20 195. (two

weeks); Mevagissey, £42 17s. 9d. (two months); Cardiff,
£34 105. 3d. (the Branch has ordered three more boxes);
Burnley, £30 (three months); East Grinstead, Uckﬁeld and
Crowborough, £35 85. 8d. (in ﬁve months); Weymouth,
£73 (in 1957).

Streatham: This Branch decided to purchase its ﬁrst large
Spaniel collecting box last June and now has four. It may
be of interest to other Branches that in the last seven
months of 1957 these boxes have collected over £110.

Forthcoming Flag Days ’
Notiﬁed up to time of going to press on January 31

CREDITON " Sat., April 26
EAST GRINSTEAD ,, March 15
FLEET, Hampshire ,, April 26
OKEHAMPTON, Devon ,, ,, 5
SHIPLEY AND BAILDON, Yorkshire ,, March 29
WARRINGTON .. . ,, April 12

An appeal is made to any readers able to assist these col—
lections to communicate with their local Hon Secretaries,
whose names and addresses will gladly be provided by
RSPCA Headquarters.

Christmas Market, 1957
A very successful Christmas 1 Market was held at the
Seymour Hall, London, W1, on Noyember 20 and 21, when
the following gross amounts were raised by the Branches,
Auxiliaries and Clinics which took part:

Branches and Auxiliaries £ 3. cl.
Highgate 150 9 11
Crystal Palace... 38 18 4
Barnet 93 3 6

Kensington ,.. 37 7 3

 

 




 

March 1958

examined suggest that a fairly large proportion
of the rabbit population may already be immune
to myxomatosis. Reports received by my Minis—
try indicate generally that the rabbit population is
increasing, although where active measures, by
gas and otherwise, are being taken, rabbit numa
bers are being kept down. I should like to em—
phasize the great importance of occupiers doing
everything in their power to destroy rabbits over
the next two or three winter months.

MR HURD: May we take it that the new advisory
council which was mentioned in another place
the other day, will give the country regular re—
ports on the progress, or lack of progress, that
we are making in dealing with the rabbit pest?
Does my hon Friend agree that we are often
lulled into a sense of everything being all right
when it is not all right? If we could have these
reports they would be invaluable.

MR GODBER: I should be only too glad to give
the utmost publicity to this. I agree that it is
important to give the fullest publicity to the queSa
tion, and I hope that the farming community
will continue to do all it can to deal with this pest.

MR HAYMAN: Isthe hon Gentleman aware that
a noble Lord in another place last week said that
there had been three cases of men handling
diseased rabbits in Scotland being affected, or
supposedly affected, by a mild form of myxoma~
tosis? Will he ask the advisory council to look
into this allegation?

MR GODBER: I am grateful to the hon Member
for bringing that point to my attention. I was not
aware of it. I agree that it would be unfortunate
if human beings were to suffer from it in any way.

MR T. WILLIAMS: Would it not be correct to
say that the hon Gentleman and his right hon
Friend are doing their level best to discourage
county agricultural executive committees from
dealing with any pests?

MR GODBER: Certainly not. I do not accept that
for one moment. We are encouraging them to
deal with pests of all kinds—but I do not include
political pests among them.

MR VANE: Does not my hon Friend agree that
the real responsibility for getting rid of rabbits
does not lie with county agricultural executive
committees but upon the owners and occupiers
of the land concerned? Will he encourage them
to get on with the job, because it is their duty?

MR GODBER: I have done that repeatedly, and I
am only too glad to reinforce that request again
this afternoon.

(Editorial note: The RSPCA strongly op—
poses the artiﬁcial spreading of myxomatosis;
a Bill aiming at making this legal was de—
feated recently. The Society’s mercy patrols
humanely dispatch suffering rabbits wherever
they are found.) '

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 31

Fly, the dog
hero, receives
an RSPCA
plaque at the
Montgomery-
shire and
Radnorshire
Branch Annual
Meeting. Fly is
seen with

Mr Tom Powell
and joyce
Roberts,
daughter of
Senior Inspector
Roberts

LIVERPOOL SAVES CONDEMNED DOGS

Distress was caused to animal lovers in Liverpool
recently when the discovery of foot—andvmouth
disease among cattle at Stanley abattoir led to the
issue of an order that all dogs on the streets
within a radius of two miles of the abattoir were
to be rounded up and treated as strays. The dogs
were collected by the police and given for safe
keeping to the RSPCA Liverpool Branch. Ar—
rangements were made for the comfort of the
dogs in the Branch Home at Edge Lane, and an
announcement was promptly made by the
Society that animals would not be destroyed,
unless they were seriously sick or injured.

In the meantime the Mayor appealed in the
local Press for owners to come forward to save
the dogs, and Mr Clitherow, Liverpool Secrea
tary, made a similar appeal on television.

Hundreds of animal lovers came forward to
offer homes to any dogs unclaimed, and within
four days of the order being announced, every
dog was happy, either in his own home or in one
that had been found for him with animal loVers
by the Society.

 

BATH BAZAAR TOPS £1,000

What can be achieved by enthusiasm, hard work and
organization is shown in a report received from Mr J.
Hobhouse (Bath Branch Chairman and Council Member)
on the Bath Branch Christmas Bazaar held at the Pump
Room. The proﬁt raised for branch funds is no less
than £1,020 55. 1061. The enterprise used in producing
this striking result is perhaps suggested by one of the
items in the expenditure side—the hire of p a loud- .
speaker van! Among the numerous helpers we noticed
that Mrs Hobhouse raised on her stall £330 105. 1d.
and Miss Doveton £284.

The substantial sum raised by this bazaar is a measure
of public interest, itself a tribute to the wonderful work
of the Branch Cat and. Dogs’ Home in ﬁnding new,

 

 

homes for about 600 animals every year.

 

 

 




 

26 , THE ANIMAL WORLD

March 1958

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

JANUARY 1958
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,008 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
77 Offenders ﬁned.

29 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

708 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state 4
CATTLE—Neglecting 1
PIGS—Neglecting .. . 2
DOGS—Neglecting, scalding with hot water, shooting and
wounding, etc. 17
, CATS—~Killing in improper manner, kicking, allowing to
_ be injured in steel tooth trap, etc. 7
EOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,
beating
FERRETs—Conveying in improper manner . .. . . . 1

OEEENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 6

Conﬁning birds in small cages 3
Oﬁering for: sale other than close—ringed specimens
bred in captivity . 6
Selling other than close—ringed specimens bred in
captivity . 9
Injuring .(.. 1
Using bird lime 3
Using net for the purpose of taking 1
Using trap for the purpose of taking 1
VARIOUS OEEENCES: ,
' Infringements of the Transit of Horses Order, 1951 6
Permitting in oﬁences 3
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 77

——

During JANUARY 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TWELVE persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months: FOUR for 5 years: ONE for 7 years: FIVE
for 10 years: ONE for Life.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
3,519 Cats 3,660 Dogs 901 Misc.
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,371

Total 8,080

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

78 Dogs 20 Cats 1 Misc. Total 99

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,028

N o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 9

No. of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 244

No. of animals rescued: 12

N o. of inspection complaints: 5

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,305

NORTH WALES UNIT
First Aid Cases:

38 Cats 78 Dogs 9 Misc. Total 125
No. of animals handled by Unit:
166 Cats 134 Dogs 17 Misc. Total 317

No. of miles covered by Unit: 3,000

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT
First Aid Cases:

47 Cats 67 Dogs 12 Misc. Total 126
No. of animals handled by Unit:
80 Cats 92 Dogs 16 Misc. Total 188

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,770

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT
First Aid Cases:

. 69 Cats 205 Dogs 18 Misc. Total 292
No. of animals handled by Unit:
146 Cats 262 Dogs 20 Misc. Total 428

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,041

AWARDS

Current awards under review.

RECORDS FOR 1956

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS . . . 26,508
CONVICTIONS . . . . . . :. . 1,029
CAUTIONS 8,979

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 145,471

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,267

 




 

 

28 ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

March 1958

 

Errant Cats . . . . . .

J . RELUCTANT
EMIGRANT

 

The modern craze for emigration was not shared,
it would seem, by Rikki the Seal point Siamese
Queen. She was due to go to New Zealand with
her owners, Mr and Mrs Rawson, and their two
boys, of Orpington. Her fare was paid and she
was being transported to the docks in December,
but when the van in which she was travelling
arrived in London she was found to have ab~
sented herself. The hue and cry was raised and,
nearly a fortnight later, Senior Inspector Coles of
Bromley was asked to go to a greengrocer’s shop
in High Street, Orpington, where a cat answering
to Rikki’s description was sheltering. Neighbours
identiﬁed the truant and a radio message was
sent by RSPCA Headquarters to the ship at sea
on which the Rawson family, owners of Rikki,
were travelling. The radio message asked for
instructions, and back came the answer: ‘Please
send Rikki’. Arrangements were made and the
reluctant emigrant left England on January 20.
Her grateful owners have already sent a cheque,
which amply repays the Society for its trouble
and for the cost of the radio message.

In New Zealand Rikki will not only have the
company of her owners, but of the dog, who also
emigrated with them.

 

Another errant cat is ‘Mirjam’, whose owner
cabled from Djakarta to the RSPCA in London:
‘Informed by Quantas (Airline) Djakarta my
grey Persian cat named Mirjam disappeared from
animal transport when arriving London airport.
request urgent help and cooperation for thorough
search through your Society.’

People living nearthe airport had a visit from
Mirjam, and promptly took her to the RSPCA
Hostel, from which she has been sent to her home
in The Hague. '

 

Miriam, lost on the way from Djakarta to Holland

 

SIUQW TRAIN

Mr R. J. Jones, RSPCA officer in charge of North
Wales Mobile Unit, which operates in outaof—the’
way parts of Wales from a centre at 14 Maes
Derw, Llandudno Junction, says in his Annual
Report to RSPCA Headquarters in London, that
havingbeen stopped to give ﬁrstraid to an animal
on a stretch of road by the railway line, he
was about to set off again when the local train
drew up alongside, and the ﬁreman jumped out.
The ﬁreman climbed over the fence and had a
chat with Mr Jones about his dog. When Mr
Jones, who is trained in ﬁrstvaid, heardabout the
symptoms he told the ﬁreman it was a case for
the local veterinary surgeon, whose name he
volunteered.

The ﬁreman made his way back to the engine
amid the shouts and laughter of the passengers
and the train started up again. However, the
passengers had not heard the last of the joke!

The train stopped again after a hundred yards,
the ﬁreman dismounted and climbed over the
fence again, hailed the RSPCA Unit ambulance,
and told Mr Jones he had forgotten to put some,
thing into the donation box. The omission was
rectiﬁed before the train continued its journey. '

 

The Cover Picture

The work of Henry Moore is not to everyone’s
taste but it seems to have the approval of the
ginger cat enjoying the sunshine in the lap of
Mr Moore’s bronze King. The King, seated bea
side the _Queen, was exhibited recently at

Cheltenham.

 

 




 

 

 

30 THE ANIMAL WORLD

March 1958

 

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

QUESTIQN TIME

Oil Pollution (International Convention)

MR AWBERY asked the Minister of Transport and
Civil Aviation how many nations whose ships ﬂy
ﬂags of convenience have so far failed to ratify
the International Convention on the prevention
of pollution of the sea by oil; what proportion of
the world’s tonnage they represent; and what
steps are being taken to persuade those who
have not yet done so to ratify the Convention
before it becomes operative in July next.

MR NEAVE: None of these countries, whose ships
account for about 13 per cent of world tonnage,
has yet ratiﬁed the Convention.

The Convention remains open for acceptance
after it has come into force, and my right hon
Friend will then consider making a further
approach to the countries which have not
ratiﬁed it.

MR AWBERY: Is not the Minister treating this
matter very lightly? These ships ﬂying ﬂags of
convenience are getting a great advantage over
those which are complying with the regulations.
Will he press those people now outside, includ—
ing America, because the United States has not
yet ratiﬁed the Convention, and cannot he do
something to get them to ratify it before it comes
into operation in July this year? '

MR NEAVE: My right hon Friend is well aware
of the importance of this question. The countries
which have not ratiﬁed the Convention have
already been asked their intentions, and I can
assure the hon Gentleman that we will make
further approaches at the appropriate time.

 

Starlings Fog-bound. (Continued from previous page)

the lip of the chimney to be pushed down by
the weight of birds above. If this was so then the
ﬂock must have been enormous to have pushed
almost six hundred birds down the chimneys.
Either this or the birds, lacking sense of direction
in fog, ﬂew down the chimneys. However, re—
gardless of the reason, it was certainly one of the
most satisfying, although dirty, jobs I have been
involved in. My uniform is, I am afraid in a bit
of a mess, but this is a small thing compared with
the number of lives saved.

Footnote: On the same day as these events
happened, Regional Supt. Best (Worcester), re—
. ceived reports of dead starlings found at Tewkesr
bury. A postmortem examination of the birds
showed they had died from exhaustion, suggesting
that these, too, were victims of the fog.

MR CALLAGHAN: Will the Joint Parliamentary
Secretary consider that another way of getting
these countries to ratify the Convention would
be by approaching the large oil companies, over
which we have some inﬂuence, and asking them
if, when chartering ships, they will make this a
condition of charter?

MR NEAVE: I think that is an idea we ought to
bear in mind, and we will certainly do so.

(Editorial Note: The British Government was
the ﬁrst to take active steps to ratify the Inter,
national Convention.)

Myxomatosis

MR HURD asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food in which districts myxomav
tosis has proved a killing disease in the past six
months; and to what extent the reports received
by his Department show that myxomatosis and
the use of gas and other measures are preventing
an increase in rabbit numbers generally.

MR HAYMAN asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food whether he will make a state«
ment on the incidence of myxomatosis amongst
wild rabbits.

MR GODBER: During the past six months (he was
speaking in mid—December last) fairly widespread
outbreaks of myxomatosis have occurred and
are still active in Berkshire, Hampshire, Suffolk
and Sussex. Isolated outbreaks have also occurred
in about thirty other counties. In most out
breaks the disease has killed a high proportion of
the rabbits, but myxomatosis in a weakened
strain has now been found in widely scattered
areas, and blood tests from samples of rabbits

RUBBER ‘ BONES '—
A WARNING

Mrs Roots, writing from Woking, sends a
letter of such interest that we quote it fully:

‘I wonder if you could make it known
through your columns that rubber toys
may be dangerous to pets. We have learned
this by experience, our West Highland -
swallowed the knob end of a rubber bone
and had to undergo a severe operation to
get it removed from the gut. She was
desperately ill, but reCOVered. I cared for
her, and I should be very sorry to know
that any animal should go through what she
did. These things become dry, porous, and
brittle and, made slippery by saliva, may
easily be swallowed.’

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

32 THE ANIMAL WORLD

March 1958

 

 

RSPCA WORKERS IN NIGERIA

  

Left to right: Lady Emerson, Inspector Gabriel, Ogun-
bamwo and Adebinpe, Inspector Organizer Scott and
Mr Omololu, MBE, Branch President. Photograph taken at
RSPCA Fete which concluded Animal Week activities
during October l957—held in grounds of CMS Grammar
School, Lagos, by kind permission of Canon Adelaja

WHY WHALES SUFFER

From many sources the RSPCA has learnt of the
cruelty in the catching of whales. It appears that
the main yield from the captured animals is edible
whale oil, though there are by—products, including
meat and meat meal. A modern expedition may
obtain 30,000 tons of oil, and whale oil has
fetched in recent years as much as £120 per ton.

A practical step towards reform of this cruel
trade would be the introduction of a humane
device for catching the whales and the RSPCA
supports all who are seeking to introduce such a
device.

In the meantime, the Society believes that the
public should be told that whale oil—obtained
by cruel methods—is used in the production of
ordinary margarine, among other things. There
is, however, a form of margarine prepared only
from vegetable oil and anyone who wishes to be
certain of avoiding margarine to which attaches
the stigma of animal suffering should insist on
Kosher margarine (the type prepared from
vegetable oils).

 

AMERICA
HELPS
TANGAN-
YIKA

 

,2.
a
fly“ .

American help for RSPCA Tanganyika. Mrs W. Slater,
MBE, Organizing Secretary for Tanganyika, wishes God
speed to Mrs C. Mazerski of the USA who is taking her own
vehicle (seen in the picture) on the ﬁrst mobile unit safari

   

 

SEYCHELLES

Mr G. de Comarmond, hon secretary of the
Seychelles Branch, sends a new Ordinance ex;
tending the protection given to animals there.
Under this ordinance: ‘Any person who shall, by
neglect to feed, water, tend to sickness or injuries
or in any neglectful manner, cause suffering to
any animal, shall be guilty of an offence and liable
on conviction to a ﬁne not exceeding Rs. 100.’
The ordinance increaseS‘the powers of arrest in
this type of case. Under it: ‘Any police ofﬁcer may
arrest without a warrant any person committing
an offence against the provisions of this O-rdin’
ance when such offence is committed in his
presence. Provided that no such arrest shall be
made if the offender be known to such officer or
gives satisfactory information with respect to his
name and place of residence. Any person arrested
without a warrant under the powers given by the
preceding subsection shall be dealt with in
accordance with the provisions of the Criminal
Procedure Code.’ .

It is interesting that the principle already incor—
porated in British law that a person cruel to a
dog may be deprived of ownership, under this
ordinance applies in Seychelles.

 

GIBRALTAR VISIT

 

Film star Anna Neagle makes a friend on a visit to the

RSPCA ﬁibraltar Branch Clinic. In the picture with Miss

Neagle lS Mrs ]. T. Ellicott, MBE (Chairman Gibraltar
Branch) and Inspector P. H. Barnett




 

 

 

 

34 THE ANIMAL WORLD

March 1958

 

 

CHRISTMAS FAlR HELPERS

 

ln the lower picture ‘Mrs Dale’ (Miss Ellis Powell) signs
autographs after opening the Monmouth Branch Christmas
Fair
In the upper picture Animal Defenders are busy making
gifts for the Fair

 

SCHOOLS LECTURES

Since the last report 93 lectures were given in
schools in Monmouth, Cardiff, Sussex, Faverv
sham, Burton—on—Trent, Berkshire, Essex and the
London area. ‘

Twentyvsix new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 173 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

FLED GELINGS

At this time of the year, ﬂedgelings are often seen on
the ground, where they have fallen in their ﬁrst efforts
at ﬂying. Children ﬁnding them seek the advice of
adults. Readers wondering the best advice to give
are recommended to write to Headquarters of the
RSPCA (sending a stamped addressed envelope)
asking for a copy of the new illustrated pamphlet
entitled ‘F ledgelings’.

 

ENJOYING PETS

Enjoying Pets by J. Bentley Aistrop (Dennis
Dobson, pp. 221, with photographs and line
drawings, price 123. 6d). This is quite a good
book, suitable for the young teenager. It gives, of
necessity, only outlines of how the commoner
pets—animals, birds, reptiles, ﬁsh and insects——~
are kept and bred, but does it well. The biblio’
graphy at the end for further reading is good and
unusually catholic in its range. R. C. G. H.

MALTON MART

Senior Inspector Oxley reports that a new mart
has now been completed at Malton' which will
accommodate some 600 cattle under cover.
Hitherto, practically all cattle have been kept out
of doors whatever the weather. Another building
is being constructed to accommodate sheep and

pigs.

 

TROPHY FROM ASSISI

Mr E. Tempest, Hon Secretary Wetherby
Auxiliary, has secured a unique trophy for
the local Children’s Pet Show. It is a 20 in.
woodacarved ﬁgure of St Francis and the
Lamb, presented to the auxiliary by the
town of Assisi in Southern Italy.

 

 

 

BHEAKBACK TRAPS

A statement issued recently by the Minister of
Agriculture, and quoted in the ANIMAL WORLD,
shows that seven spring traps were approved re—
cently for use after July 31 next. Another Order
has now been made, entitled The Small Ground
Vermin Traps Order, 1958, which has the effect
of permitting the continued use of all breakback
traps commonly used for the destruction of rats
and mice and also spring traps of the kind com—
monly used for catching moles in their runs.

Editorial note: The breakback trap, which kills
instantly, has always been regarded as humane by
the RSPCA, provided that it is set properly.

 

Obituary ‘

With sincere regret we report the deaths of the
following supporters: Mrs E. Alletson, Mr D.
Wheeler, Miss Jane Badland (aged 105).

 

PERFORMING ANIMAL SHOW
BARRED

From Christchurch, of which Mrs Wallis Power
(Acting Chairman, RSPCA Council) is a former
Mayor, comes news of another victory in the
Campaign against the exhibition of trained wild
animals for entertainment purposes.

The Christchurch Borough Council (Mrs
Wallis Power is still a prominent member) has
refused a request from a circus proprietor for a
site for his Show in May.

 

The bleat, the bark, the bellow and roar
Are waves that beat on heaven’s shore.

——William Blake




 

 

   

36 THE ANIMAL WORLD March1958
£ 5. d. FILM NEWS
Wimbledon 133 11 7 The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
ChiSWiCk 77 19 2 showing recentl :
Paddington 244 4 4 Ludlow, Old Coulsdon, Norwich, Stonehouse, Wrays—
Surrey——Purley 126 17 6 bury, Newport, Edinburgh, Coventry, Newington Green,
St John’s WOOd 79 5 2 East Dulwich, Swindon, Islington, Shinﬁeld, Banbury,
Knightsbridge 227 13 O Exeter, Colchester, Streatham, East Grinstead, Aldershot,
Golders Green 227 10 10 Kidderminster, Gedling, Betchworth, Lymington, Brighton,
Wandsworth Common 74 15 0 West Looe, Quinton, Cullompton, Kilburn, Hemel Hemp.
Forest Hill and Sydenham ' ” 166 9 10 stead, Crawley, Milland, Bristol, Chatteris, Leicester,
Enﬁeld and District 106 7 6 Torquay, Peterborough, Chorley, Trowbridge, Llandudno,
St Marylebone ' ’ ° ’ " ' " 5 3 1 O Ampthill, Guildford, Leytognstone, Compton, Bognor Regis,
Finchley (E3511), Finchley (North) and Harrow, Battersea, Cheltenham, Exmouth, Crowborough,
Church End 80 O Grays, Heywood, Burgess Hill, Horsham, Swanscombe,
Balham and Tooting 97 1 9 Marton, Macclesﬁeld, Maidstone, Newcastle—upon—Tyne,
Ealing ' 55 6 Aldershot, Pudsey, Hexham, Stoke Newingon, Salford,
. . Maesteg.
Clinics, etc. i ,
'Lee Clinic 14 1
Animal Aid andWelfare Club 113 0 Mr Edgar Bruce Secchi
Animal Rescue League 137 10 5 sends this picture of 0
Animal Help Society I 238 3 Corgi belonging to Mrs
Mayhew Home 47 6 H . ‘ . , th
South Harrow Clinic 33 11 2 june arris. [amief e
Bird Fund 239 12 10 Corgi, had been m an
Mortimer Fund for Cat Welfare 299 19 4 accident and both pelvic
Putney Clinic 101 3 O , bones were fractured.
Bethnal Green Clinic .... 38 I: g Long and careful nursing
Hemel Hempstead Clinic. . 57 1 8 by ‘jamie’s’ mistress and
St John Partrldge Memorial Clinic 338 13 . .
Overseas Fund. . . . . . . .. ... 329 4 8 attention by a veterinary
Animal War Memorial Dispensary 134 16 3 surgeon, restored him to
BOW Clinic 37 5 3 ‘ health, as the picture
Balham Clinic 38 Z 2 shows
Headquarters . . . . . . ... . 1,782 4 5
Cards and Calendars 58 8 O

 

 

\

R. .P.G.A. GONFERENGE
OF GROUP 5 g

to be held at the
WHITE ROCK PAVILION,
HASTINGS, SUSSEX

on Saturday, 26th April, I958

Programme

Morning Session: I0 a.m. to I2.45 p.m.

Registration and Civic Reception by the Mayor
of Hastings

Lecture by George Cansdale
Lunch: I p.m. to 2.I5 p.m.

Afternoon Session: 2.30 p.m. to 5'p.m.

Discussion by speakers and delegates of
interesting subjects

 

Attendance has to be limited to Presidents, Chairmen and
Officers of Branches and Auxiliaries and members delegated
by Branches and Auxiliaries in Group 5, and as many as.

possible will be welcomed. Application forms have been sent
to all Branch 'Secretaries.

NOTE : Conference has been‘arranged for one day only.

. SURE ZIFCASHI Xg

CAPTIVE sou PISTOL
FOR ALL. ANIMALS

'ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD - summon-1AM - 6° ENGLAND
5456

  

1.
‘i

 

 




Il"

%

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

LONDON JOINT
ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY, IOth MAY, I958

 

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION ——- 4th MAY—IOth MAY (incl.)

Will you please help by
(a) Making a collection in the streets on the 10th May.

(b) Making a house to house collection between the 4th
and 10th May, inclusive.

(c) Making a collection privately amongst your friends,

if you are unable to collect in the street or from
house to house.

(d) Sending the names and addresses of friends who
either live in London or are Willing to come to
London for the purpose of collecting.

(e) Sending a donation.

‘ I
e I III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII -

COLLECTORS REQUIRED FOR ALL PARTS
OF THE METROPOLITAN AREA

Please state in which part of London

you would like to collect
.lllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllli:

Offers of help should be sent to the

 

APPEALS DEPARTMENT, RSPCA,
|05 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W.I

<%>%>%>%>%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%>%%%%%%

NB No one under I8 years of age may collect either in the
street or from house to house in London.

aaaaseaaaaseaseeeaaeeeeeeaeeeaeeeeee

 

%%§%X%>%X%>

 

<%>
<%
<%
%>
<%>
%
§
<%
%>
<%>
<%
<%>
<%>
%
%
as
<%>
9%
%
<%’
%
%>
<%
%
%
%> ,
%>
<%e
<%>
%
<%>
%>
<%
<%>
%
%
g
%>
%>
%
%
%>
%>
%>
<%
<%>
<%
<%

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




