 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

     
     
    
   
  
  

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

I

INCORPORATED:HYIIHESTATECHINERIYORK I
AIHiIL,Io,1866. I?

I

TWENTY—NINTH ANNUAL REPORT .

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

DECEMBER¢ﬂ,$WI

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT.
I

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:
IO EAST T\VICN'I‘Y—SECONI) STREET,

NEW7YORK.
1895.




 

Press of J. J. Little & Co.

Astor Place. New York

 




OFFICERS AND MANAGERS

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS.

1895.
President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

Vice-Presidents.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, ALFRED WAGSTAFF,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, MORRIS K. JESUP,
REV. MORGAN DIX, S. T. D., JOHN CLAELIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, PARKE GODWIN.
W. C. SCHERMERHORN, CHARLES LANIER.

 

Executive Committee.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, GEORGE G. DEWITT,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, JAMES GRANT WILSON,
JOSEPH H. CHOATE, FREDERIC R. COUDERT,
GEORGE G. HAVEN, FREDERICK W. VANDERBILT,
HORACE RUSSELL, WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK,
EDWARD A. HAMMOND, WILLIAM P. SI JOHN,

REV. DAVID H. GREER, D.D.

Secretary. Treasurer.
GEORGE G. DE WITT. CHARLES LANIER.
Counsel. Assistant Treasurer.
HORACE RUSSELL. JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.
Superintendent.

CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE,
13 Willoughby Street, Brooklyn.

Inspector. Veterinary Surgeon.
F. O. CLARK. L. MCLEAN.

 




ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies and Gem‘lemm .-

It has been customary for your President, in making his annual
report, to give a brief statement of the progress of the Society
during the year, and to add such general observations concerning
the past and the future as he might deem appropriate in View of
the facts stated. These reports have been necessary. They
have shown a steadily progressive increase of efﬁciency in the
relief of suffering, and in the punishment of offenders against the
laws for the prevention of cruelty. What they have not shown,
however, is the gradual development of a system of executive
administration which the enormous growth of the work has ren-
dered absolutely indispensable. I shall therefore ask your per-
mission to depart from the usual form of the President’s report,
and at the present meeting to submit to you the briefest pos-
sible outline of the executive system which is now in operation.

It must be borne in mind that our Society has a threefold char-
acter. It is a local society, holding and exercising in the city of
New York peculiar functions which have been committed to no
other similar society elsewhere ; it is a State Society, empowered
by the legislature to intervene for the protection of animals in all
parts of the State of New York; and, as The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, it is bound by its traditions
from the date of its organization, and by the express terms of its
charter and by-laws, to care for the cause of animal protection
everywhere in the United States. Every man of business will
perceive at a glance that the efﬁcient exercise of these varied
functions would be impossible without a wisely arranged system
of administration.

Six years ago it was supposed that a single clerk was sufﬁcient
to do all the clerical work which was then required at Head-

 




6

quarters. That was a mistake ; for the records had been allowed
to accumulate for many years without arrangement, so that refer-
ence to important cases which had occurred, and to judicial deci-
sions and legal opinions which had been rendered in connection
with them, was always difﬁcult, and was sometimes impossible.
I Meanwhile, our ofﬁce correspondence has enormously increased,
the number of letters received and answered during the past year
being twenty times as great as it was six years ago. The ofﬁce at
Headquarters is open day and night throughout the week, Sunday
included. Advice and information are constantly sought from all
1 parts of the country, and frequently from abroad, and not only the
I post-ofﬁce, but the telegraph and the long-distance telephone, are
I in constant requisition to meet the demands which are made upon
l us, and of which no record can be preserved.

i That the interest in our cause has increased during the past
I year beyond all expectation and all reasonable hope, is manifest.

 

 

It is the most encouraging fact connected with our work. Our
ideal would be attained if every good citizen would regard himself
, as a friend of our Society, and would call upon us for effectual
assistance whenever a case of cruelty to animals should fall under
l
l
l

 

his observation. Many citizens are coming to our aid in that
‘ way, and we have done all in our power to assist them to do
pl so with the least possible inconvenience to themselves, by supply—
‘ ing them with postal-cards, and otherwise. The consequence has
been that the efﬁciency of our Society has been vastly increased,
at a comparatively triﬂing expense. Of course, the work at Head—
quarters has been increased in an equal ratio ; but I am happy to
be able to say that during the past year not a day has passed
without immediate attention to any and every application which
has reached us by mail, telegraph, or telephone. I am happy,
also, to be able to report that the records of the Society, from the
date of its incorporation, have been systematically arranged and
indexed, so that the facts of every case of cruelty which has ever
come under our cognizance, and every legal opinion or judicial
decision connected therewith, can now be found at a moment’s
notice. This has been a large and difﬁcult work ; but its value in
the daily transactions of the Society, is beyond computation. It is
of such value, not only to ourselves, but to kindred societies every—

7
-1 '

 

:" FJA




7

where, particularly in the State of New York, that we have found
it necessary to prepare a brief compendium of the State laws and
judicial decisions on the subject of cruelty to animals, together
with forms of procedure and suggestions for the guidance of
the friends of the cause who are constantly applying to us for
counsel and advice; It is believed that this compilation will
prove to be of great use, and it will certainly, to some extent,
relieve the ofﬁce of a voluminous correspondence. It ishardly
necessary to say that, in the prosecution of our work outside of
the cities of New York and Brooklyn, we do not depend upon the
voluntary efforts of our friends. Our agents are constantly on
the. outlook, and we receive at Headquarters an average of over
forty newspaper clippings daily (nearly or quite 15,000 per annum),
directly or indirectly bearing on our work. Every one of these
is carefully examined by your President on the day of its receipt,
and any necessary action or investigation which they may seem to
require is immediately set on foot. In addition to this all the
principal periodicals of the country are regularly and gratui—
tously sent to our ofﬁce, and these, also, are examined to see
whether they contain, as they frequently do, any articles of inter-
est to our cause ; and during the sessions of the legislature copies
of the printed hills are sent to our Headquarters daily, and are
closely scrutinized in order that no legislation adverse to our cause
may pass unnoticed.

After this statement, I think you will perceive that the ofﬁce
work of our Society is necessarily large in amount ; that it is in—
dispensable to the efﬁciency of our work outside ; and that with-
out a carefully devised method, it would be of very little use.

I shall not trouble you at this time with a particular account of
the operations of our Corps of Uniformed Ofﬁcers during the past
year. In this department there can be little or no novelty. Like
the work at Headquarters, it has been reduced to a system under
which it is believed that a maximum of efﬁciency is secured with
a minimum expenditure of time, labor, and money. In this con-
nection, I will only say that during the past year there has been ~a
notable diminution in the number of animals suspended from
labor on account of sickness or other disability. The fact indi—
cates no decrease of efﬁciency or ﬁdelity in our ofﬁcers. What it

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

. L— inm¢u'-—_'.‘- 7. .

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

8

indicates is that the number of animals which are abused in that
way is less than it ever was before. In producing this result, the
fear of legal penalties has doubtless been effective; but it may
be hoped that a sentiment of humanity has also been growing
among the owners of draught animals, since it is observed that the
watering fountains which have been erected in many parts of the
city are more frequently used by drivers than heretofore.

Our Ambulance Service is an, important part of our system.
The Ambulance House is within a block of our Headquarters, and
is connected with it by telegraph, and a code of signals is used
under which orders can be given and obeyed at a moment’s notice.
Two large ambulances, with derrick and 'slings attached thereto,
are in constant readiness to answer any call. It is interesting to
remember that ambulances for the relief of horses and other large
animals were ﬁrst introduced by our own Society. They have
since been introduced elsewhere, but in our own service we believe
there are improvements which render them superior to all others.
The efﬁciency of the derrick and slings in the extrication of horses
from holes and excavations has been practically proved in very
many cases. It is noteworthy, however, that they have been less
frequently required of late than they were only a year or two ago,
and the reason is that contractors are now treating their horses
much more humanely. It may be observed, for example, that in
making excavations, steam power has been introduced to a very
large extent, so that the number of horses employed is notably
diminished, and the horses actually in use are employed rather to
guide than to drag the carts, since the pulling force is supplied by
steam. .

I have now to speak of a new department of our work, in which
a well—devised system and tireless Vigilance are indispensable to
success. I refer to the Shelter for Animals.*

Under Chapter 1 15 of the Laws of 1894, approved by the Gov-
ernor on the 8th day of March last, our Society was invested with
all the powers and functions which were formerly intrusted to the
city government in the licensing of dogs, in the capture of estrays,
and in the detention and, if necessary, the humane destruction of
captured animals at the city pound. The powers with which the

* See illustrations on pages 51-62.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

IO

interesting particulars. The Battersea Home has the assistance of
the metropolitan police of London ; its operations extend through-
out the city and county of London, with a population which is
about three times as much as that of the city of New York. I
ﬁnd that in 1893 it received 17,928 homeless dogs; and it may
be inferred that in a city 'of one-third the population it would
have received 6,000 in twelve'months, or 4,000 in eight months.
Our own Shelter, by the work of our own employees, and with no
assistance whatever from the police, has received in eight months
5,111 dogs alone; that is to say, in the ﬁrst eight months of
existence, with new machinery and acting under a new law, the
Shelter has received over 27 per cent. more dogs than the Bat-
tersea Home, after thirty-three years of experience, and with all
the assistance of one of the best organized police forces in the
world, had received for an equal population in the same period
of time. But this is not all; for the Battersea Home receives
dogs alone, whereas our Shelter receives cats and other animals,
and the number of animals of all kinds which have been received
during our ﬁrst eight months has been 22,028, of which 632 were
lost animals restored to their owners.

It is a cause of great encouragement that such a work should
have been put in operation without appreciable difﬁculty ; but the
truth is that the public conﬁdence which has been generously given
to the Society in this undertaking has made all our difﬁculties less
than we could reasonably have expected, and it has been observed
by some of the newspapers that the summer of 1894—the ﬁrst
summer for many years in which dogs in the city of New York
have been allowed to go unmuzzled—is the ﬁrst summer in which
there has not been a single paroxysm of popular apprehension of
hydrophobia.

Outside of the city of New York proper, the direct work of our
Society is conducted with the same regard to systematic punctu-
ality and method which we have found necessary at Headquarters,
and at the Shelter. After a year’s experience we ﬁnd that the
establishment of a larger ofﬁce at Brooklyn has been fully justiﬁed.
It is supplied with an ambulance, and six men are constantly
employed in the work of the Society. The Brooklyn ofﬁce is in
telephonic communication with Headquarters, to which it makes a

 

  




  

II

daily report. Our special agents in various'parts of the State

number nearly two hundred, every one of whom sends in a
monthly report from his own district. These gentlemen are vol-
unteers, who hold the commission of the Society with the police
powers which it confers upon them. They receive no compensa-
tion, but the Society pays the expenses of all prosecutions. It.
would be impossible to speak too highly of the devotion and
efﬁciency of this noble corps of volunteer aids. lt might, per-
haps, be well to mention here that a local society has recently
been incorporated in Niagara County with the full consent and
approval of the parent Society, but it is not less gratifying to say'
that friends of our cause in localities where the incorporation
of a local society would be inexpedient or premature are begin-
ning .to see that they can work to good advantage by avail-
ing themselves of the assistance offered by the parent Society,
with agents of our appointment, and with the substantial and
practical assistance which this Society is ready and willing to.
afford.

Year by year the work of our Society becomes less a work of

legislation and more a work of education. Indeed, I sometimes

doubt whether the beneﬁt of legislation does not consist far more
in the principles which are enunciated than in the penalties which
are imposed by the law. However that may be, education must
now be carried on mainly through the press. Our obligations to
the periodical press are great, for the periodical press, in the long
run, is always on the side of right and humanity. Yet the
periodical press is not the only preSs. Every great cause has its
own press, and it is necessary that our Society should use the
press in its own way, and speciﬁcally for its own purpose as a
means of education. -

Our “Manual of Kindness to Animals ” has undoubtedly done
good, and is likely to do more, especially if it shall be more
generally introduced into the public and private schools of the-
country.

A series of leaﬂets, begun during the past year, is already in
large request, and our intention is to extend it. Leaﬂets of a
similar character have been published elsewhere, at home and
abroad, but generally at a price which includes a considerable

  
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

12

proﬁt to the publisher. These leaﬂets are intended for gratuitous
distribution. Humane persons who desire to use them will have
to pay nothing for them but postage.

Of “Our Animal Friends” we need only say, that the pleasure
and instruction it has given to many thousands of readers is merely
an incident in the good it has accomplished, and the inﬂuence it
has won for our Society among thoughtful and earnest people.
Modest as it is, this magazine is one of the most effective agents
:at our disposal.

During the past year, there has been considerable agitation on
the subject of transportation of cattle at sea, all of which has not
been as wise nor perhaps as disinterested as it appeared to be.
Until it seemed to be evident that interested motives were at the
bottom of certain attempts to secure legislation in Congress, the
Society was disposed to favor the measures which were proposed,
always provided, however, that their objectionable and apparently
mercenary features should be excluded. To the best of my infor-
mation, these projects have been dropped ; but in the meantime,
our Society has been endeavoring to collect unquestionable evi-
dence of the abuses which demand an efﬁcient remedy. Several
months ago I sent an agent to England on one of the regular cat—
tle ships. He shipped as a working hand, and had every oppor-
'tunity to observe the treatment of the cattle. His report is in my
possession, with drawings which fully illustrate the condition of
things on that particular ship, and at the proper time I have no
doubt that it will be of effectual service. It is not, however, as
complete as it ought to be, the ship which was selected for investi-
,gation being one of the best in the cattle trade. Another of a dif—
ferent character is being subjected to a similar investigation. I
mention these facts, of which I do not think it prudent to speak
more fully at present, simply in order that the Society may know
that this important but most difﬁcult ﬁeld of inquiry has not been
overlooked.

In conclusion, permit me to say that while we have much to en-
courage us in entering on the new year, there are grave dangers to
be avoided. The very popularity of our cause has begun to be a
danger. It inspires persons of little real earnestness or stability
of character to act as its champions, and the exemplary unwisdom




    

    

13

which they sometimes exhibit does more harm than they are ever
likely to repair. As the cloak of religion is sometimes worn for
interested purposes, so the championship of a popular cause may
be assumed for the sake of notoriety or social distinction; and
then the insincerity of the advocate reﬂects suspicion on the cause
which he pretends to represent. Worst of all, since the protection
of animals has been recognized as a public duty, for the perform-
ance of which legislative bodies may be called in various ways to
provide, there is a danger, as I have already shown, lest humane
legislation may itself be prostituted to purposes of dishonest job-
bery. I am not insensible of the seriousness of these dangers;
and yet we ought not to permit ourselves to be discouraged by
them. They are dangers incident to success, and we may fairly
hope that a cause which has already had such success in the
face of open opposition and general ridicule will be able to
protect itself against the self-interested attempts of pretended
friends.

I would particularly emphasize another danger which is incident
to the present stage of our progress. It is that of hasty legislation.
We are gathering in many new recruits who have comparatively
little knowledge of the campaign that has been already fought to
a Victorious conclusion. They see things “as through a glass,
darkly.” They are occupied with details ; they do not apprehend
the proportions of the whole problem. They are eager to do
something. If they ﬁnd anything amiss, they are apt, like most
enthusiasts, to think that the remedy lies in special legislation.
They draw up bills and send them to the legislature with the best
motives in the world; and yet, if these very bills were to be passed,
a serious damage would be done to the legislation which has al-
ready been secured. It may be said, for example, without fear of
contradiction, that the present general laws for the prevention of
cruelty in the State of New York are the best in the world. It
may be doubted whether they could be improved. Certain it is
that no amendment of them which has been suggested for years
past has been able to bear the test of a thorough scrutiny. Yet
hardly a year passes without the introduction of some bill for the
prohibition of some speciﬁc act or form of cruelty, and if these
bills were to become acts, the effect would be to diminish the value




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

I4

of the general laws. It should be borne in mind that the general
prohibitions of the present law are such as to cover every form of
wilful cruelty, and that any act of cruelty, of whatsoever kind, can
be punished under the general provisions of that law. The enact-
ment of special acts is therefore needless ; and its effect, as every
lawyer knows, could only be to weaken the general prohibitions.
It would be said, and it might be judicially held, that these special
laws would not have been passed if the general law had really
been sufﬁcient; and, consequently, that other special forms of
cruelty are not prohibited by the general law. In other States and
countries, where no such general laws as ours exist, the enactment
of special laws is doubtless necessary ; but even there it would be
better to secure the enactment of one sufﬁcient general law which
should prohibit every form of cruelty; and where such a laW
exists, as it does in the State of New York, there could be no
greater danger to the cause of animal protection than that which
arises from well-intended but injudicious attempts to secure special
legislation.

It would be unjust to close this report without cordially recog-
nizing the pleasing fact, that every member of our staff, in all
departments of the work of the Society, is sincerely devoted to its
cause. They are not hirelings, but true yokefellows, some of
whom might be engaged in other work with greater proﬁt to
themselves; and if the work accomplished by the Society is
larger than the number of persons engaged in it might warrant
us to expect, I think it may be fairly said that the result is due in
part to the system of administration under which it is conducted,
and even more, perhaps, to the cordial zeal and trained discretion
of our employees. I have only now to express the hope that all
our friends and supporters may have a Happy New Year. I
wish that every blessing may be showered upon them; upon the
members of the legislature who have always been ready to hear
our appeal in behalf of those who cannot plead their own cause ;
upon the judges of our courts, who have so often shown their
conviction that the justice of man requires mercy to the beast;
upon the members of the press, whose discriminating criticisms
are sometimes as helpful as their praise ; upon the ofﬁcers of the
Society, to whose intelligent encouragement whatever good may

 

  




I5

have been accomplished has been due ; upon our employees,
Whose labors are done as in the fulﬁlment of a sacred mission;
upon the generous friends, through whose muniﬁcence the work
of our Society has been made possible ; and upon all Who are the
helpful friends of God’s dumb creatures.

JOHN P. HAINES,

Preside” t.

Deceméer3152‘, 1894.

 




 

 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

 

INCREASED interest in the Society is indicated by the election
of two hundred and four new members during the past year.

During the year twenty-nine additional special agents were
appointed, some of them at places where the Society has not
heretofore been represented. _

5Fhree vacancks (xxnured in the lixecuﬁve (Zonnnnlee-by
resignation of Mr. William Waldorf Astor, owing to continued
absence abroad, and through retirement of Mr. Anson Phelps
Stokes and Mr. A. B. Claﬂin.

Rev. David H. Greer, D.D., was elected a member of the Com-
mittee to ﬁll the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Astor.

Death removed seven friends of the Society, whose names will
be found in the obituary record.

Under authority of a law passed by the legislature of the State
of New York, and known as Chapter 115 of Laws of 1894, the
Society has established a shelter for lost, strayed, or homeless
animals, to which dogs and cats are taken, and where they are held
for identiﬁcation, redemption, or to be otherwise disposed of, or
humanely destroyed.

In the reports of the President, Treasurer, and Superintendent
will be found details of the work of the Society during the year

1894.

GEORGE G. DE WITT,

Secreiary.




20

I
I CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 account wit/t THE AMERIC A )5

 

 

 

I .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 1893
II I Dec. 3I. To Cash Balance on deposit in Union Trust Co. and in
I drawe1 . . . . . . . . $13,2I4 S:-
I I “ Bequest Maigaret A. Merritt . . . . . . 1,90]: 5 i,
“I “ Thomas W. Strong . . . . . . 1,993 0';
I “ “ E. G. Ellingwood . . . . . . 300 0-0
I ‘ . “ “ Maria Moffat . . . . . . . . 8,891 :21
. III “ “ James Simons . . . . . . . 2,862 O_j.
III “ “ C. W. Morrill . '. . . . . . . I,II8 4;,
I “ “ George L. Smith . . . 300 OC:
I “ “ Mrs. Julia Dillon Moulton, Mrs. Cora
I , Dillon Wyckoff. Sidney Dillon Rip-
I ‘ ley, and Harry Dillon Ripley, heirs
I II‘ of Sidney Dillon . . . . . 5,000 0C"
II 1 “ Sale Real Estate at Peoria, 111. . . . . . II,990 75
III “ “ “ “ Orangetown, N. Y. . . 3,000 00
II. “ Members’ Subscriptions and Donations . . 7,08 I 3 r
I}. “ F mes. . . . . . 4,96 I 50
III “ From othersources; Interest, D1v1dends, Rents.
II Dog Licenses, etc. . . . . . . . . . 60,699 05
I /
I
I x
I $1233 I 3 79
I “
I1 Dec. 31. To Cash Balance on deposit drawing interest $4,084 36
III “ “ in drawer . . . . . . I48 57——$4,232 93

 

 

I _L___L L_L_

I
I We, the undersigned, have examined the accounts of The
I as exhibited to us by books and vouchers, and ﬁnd them correct

 




    

 

21

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,

 

 

 

1894

Dec. 31. By Cash Disbursements from January Ist to date, for

maintenance of Society, Salaries, Printing,
Stationery, Light, Postage, Fuel, Rewards,

 

and Shelter for Animals . . . . . . . $48,997 89
“ Ambulance House, Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and
Abandoned Animals . . . . . . . . 1,805 58
“ Brooklyn Ofﬁce . . . . . . . . . . 8,129 25
“ Rent . . . . . . . 4,000 00
“ Gratuitous Distribution of Humane Literature 11,503 83
“ Furniture Account . . . . . .. . . . 716 80
“ Ambulance House Equipment . . . . . . 1,150 00
“ Library Account . . . . . . . . . . 910 27
“ Legal Expenses . . . . . . . 532 00
“ Shelter for Animals Equipment . . . . . A 5,720 18
“ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . 257 97
“ Repairs to Real Estate . . . . . . . . 4,745 29
“ Taxes and Insurance . . .‘ . . . . . . 2,099 67
“ . U. S. Gov’t 4721 Bonds . . . . $25,000 00
Premium . . . . . . 3,468 75
:————_:: 28,468 75
“ Estate Frances Clifford . . . . . . . . 43 38
“ Balance on Deposit in Union Trust
Co., drawing interest . . . . $4,084 36
“ In drawer . . . . . . . . 148 57
i 4:232 93

E123 3I3 79

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ameiican Society for the Prevention Of Cruelty to Animals,
and in accordance therewith.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS,
JAMES GRANT WILSON.

} A arming Committee,




 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

WHAT has been done by the special agents of the Society during
the past year in the enforcement of the humane laws of the State,
mitigating suffering, and preventing the abuse of animals, can be
but brieﬂy stated in this report.

Individual mention of special cases, wherein cruelty to helpless
dumb creatures was prevented at great personal risk, must be

. omitted for Want of space. An element of opposition—although

in a modiﬁed form—to law and civilizing methods still manifests
itself from time to time. The large number of cases investigated
is evidence of the labor required to carry on the humane work,
and it is gratifying to report that, out of the whole number of
persons prosecuted, but few were acquitted, after trial, and these
owing to the reluctance of witnesses to testify against the offend-
ers. Only those whose duty it is to enforce the laws enacted for
animal protection know the difﬁculties in the way of securing
evidence upon which trial magistrates or juries will convict ; hence
the results must, to a certain extent, fail to show in detail the
magnitude of the labor involved.

Countless cases of petty abuse of animals were disposed of by
warning the offenders against a repetition ; hundreds of disabled
animals were suspended from labor ; the sufferings of others
accidentally injured, or taken sick, in the streets, have been
alleviated, While many more, injured or diseased past recovery,
were humanely disposed of. i

It may surprise many to learn that the prosecution of cruel
people is not the main feature of the Society’s work. Not ten per
cent. of the complaints received warrant criminal proceeding; yet
all are investigated, and the evils complained of remedied.

 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    




  

22

The services of the Society’s agents are constantly in demand
and are available at all hours of the day or night.

STOCKYARDS AND ABATTOIRS.

Attention has been given to all places where cattle, sheep, and
other live stock are landed, also where animals are prepared for
human food, and everything has been done to insure humane
treatment. Many reforms suggested by the Society, with regard
to the carrying of calves and sheep from stockyards to abattoirs,
have been adopted by stockmen and drovers, and the rigid super-
vision exercised over the physical condition of animals intended
for human consumption has resulted beneﬁcially from a sanitary
as well as a humane point of View.

STABLES.

Owing to lack of means of escape from burning buildings, many
horses have been suffocated or burned to death during the past
year. It should be made unlawful to conﬁne animals in under-
ground stables, or in rear of buildings entrance to and exit from
which are only by a narrow passageway. Neither should wooden
structures be used for the stabling of live stock. Much has been
done, however, to secure for equine tenants better ventilation and
other comforts which heretofore have been denied.

DOG AND COCK FIGHTING.

As will be noticed by the subjoined summary, the dog and cock
ﬁghting fraternity were rather quiet during the past year, owing
either to the constant surveillance kept over their rendezvous, or
to a change of heart, as expressed by an old sporting man, who
said : “I am ashamed to say I have been present at dog and cook
ﬁghts, and declare that such ﬁghts are not only cruel to the
animals, but degrading and demoralizing in their effect upon the
human mind ; they are a disgrace to our civilization, and are pro-
moted and carried on only by those whose instincts are brutal and
low.” It is to be hoped that in the near future such cruelties will
be known only as scenes of the past.

  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
    




 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

WHAT has been done by the special agents of the Society during
the past year in the enforcement of the humane laws of the State,
mitigating suffering, and preventing the abuse of animals, can be
but brieﬂy stated in this report.

Individual mention of special cases, wherein cruelty to helpless
dumb creatures was prevented at great personal risk, must be
, omitted for Want of space. An element of opposition—although
in a modiﬁed form—to law and civilizing methods still manifests
itself from time to time. The large number of cases investigated
is evidence of the labor required to carry on the humane work,
and it is gratifying to report that, out of the whole number of
persons prosecuted, but few were acquitted, after trial, and these
owing to the reluctance of witnesses to testify against the offend-
ers. Only those whose duty it is to enforce the laws enacted for
animal protection know the difﬁculties in the way of securing
evidence upon which trial magistrates or juries will convict ; hence
the results must, to a certain extent, fail to show in detail the
magnitude of the labor involved.

Countless cases of petty abuse of animals were disposed of by
warning the offenders against a repetition ; hundreds of disabled
animals were suspended from labor ; the sufferings of others
accidentally injured, or taken sick, in the streets, have been
alleviated, while many more, injured or diseased past recovery,
were humanely disposed of. .

It may surprise many to learn that the prosecution of cruel
people is not the main feature of the Society’s work. Not ten per
cent. of the complaints received warrant criminal proceeding; yet
all are investigated, and the evils complained of remedied.

 




22

The services of the Society’s agents are constantly in demand
and are available at all hours of the clay or night.

STOCKYARDS AND ABATTOIRS.

Attention has been given to all places where cattle, sheep, and
other live stock are landed, also where animals are prepared for
human food, and everything has been done to insure humane
treatment. Many reforms suggested by the Society, with regard
to the carrying of calves and sheep from stockyards to abattoirs,
have been adopted by stockmen and drovers, and the rigid super-
vision exercised over the physical condition of animals intended
for human consumption has resulted beneﬁcially from a sanitary
as well as a humane point of View.

STABLES.

Owing to lack of means of escape from burning buildings, many
horses have been suffocated or burned to death during the past
year. It should be made unlawful to conﬁne animals in under—
ground stables, or in rear of buildings entrance to and exit from
which are only by a narrow passageway. Neither should wooden
structures be used for the stabling of live stock. Much has been
done, however, to secure for equine tenants better ventilation and
other comforts which heretofore have been denied.

DOG AND COCK FIGHTING.

As will be noticed by the subjoined summary, the dog and cock
ﬁghting fraternity were rather quiet during the past year, owing
either to the constant surveillance kept over their rendezvous, or
to a change of heart, as expressed by an old sporting man, who
said : “I am ashamed to say I have been present at dog and cock
ﬁghts, and declare that such ﬁghts are not only cruel to the
animals, but degrading and demoralizing in their effect upon the
human mind ; they are a disgrace to our civilization, and are pro-
moted and carried on only by those whose instincts are brutal and
low.” It is to be hoped that in the near future such cruelties will
be known only as scenes of the past.

 




 

 

 

 

24

Several gangs of dog and cock ﬁghters were captured, and the
paraphernalia pertaining to the'brutal pastime, as well as the ani—
mals engaged in the contests, forfeited to the Society pursuant to
law. All of the promoters and witnesses were prosecuted, con—
victed, and punished by ﬁne or imprisonment, "some by both.

PATROL, AMBULANCE, AND DERRICK SERVICE.

These departments have been kept busy attending to the
requirements pertaining to the special work. The patrol, with its
skilful ofﬁcers, bandages, medicines, and other necessaries, has
succored many animals found in the streets suffering from injury,
sickness, or other causes. The ambulance corps has been prompt
in responding to calls for its service, and was instrumental in
saving the lives of many animals taken sick or injured in the
streets, by speedily transporting them to veterinary hospitals. The
animal life-saving derrick was employed to rescue several horses
from drowning, as well as to hoist others out of excavations into
which they had‘accidentally fallen.

CA NALS.

Experienced ofﬁcers were detailed from Headquarters early in
the season, for duty on the canals. They report that the horses
and mules employed on the several waterways are in much better
condition than heretofore, although many were found lame and
otherwise unﬁt for service. These were at once suspended from
labor and placed in care of veterinary surgeons. Others were
found badly galled, decrepit, and disabled past use. The drivers
and owners of the latter stock were prosecuted, convicted, and
punished for cruelty, and several of the suffering animals were
humanely disposed of.

The illustration on page 25 shows the condition of a horse
found towing a heavily laden boat on the Erie Canal. The poor
creature was a physical wreck, and, in addition to old age, was
suffering from nearly all the ailments its species are subject to.
its further suffering was speedily ended.

The illustration on page 26 shows the condition of a horse found

 




 

 

HORSE USED FOR TOWING BOAT ON ERIE CANAL.

 




    
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

27

towing a boat on the Erie Canal. The lower part of the breast
of the animal was a mass of bleeding ﬂesh, into which the heavy
collar was rubbing at every strain of the tow line. The horse was
placed in care of a veterinary surgeon for the season.

The illustration on page 29 shows the Society’s ofﬁcers examining
horses on the towpath of the Erie Canal.

LOCAL AGENTS.

Reports from special agents resident in counties other than
New York and Kings, show‘that the work of animal protection
is vigorously prosecuted in those localities.

“While I have little to do in an ofﬁcial capacity, yet the fact
that I have the authority to prosecute for cases of cruelty, has
proven very wholesome,” writes one. “The abuse of animals,
which up to the time of my appointment as Special Agent was
quite prevalent in this locality, has almost entirely ceased. Know—
ing that I have the power to stop cruelty has had a beneﬁcial
effect,” says another.

Several cases of cruelty to animals were prosecuted by outside
agents, and contemplated turkey and pigeon shoots, likewise pig
and other animal hunts, were stopped; horses, cattle, sheep, goats,
calves, cows, and other animals abandoned by their owners or
turned out to die, were put in safe custody and cared for.

The knowledge that there is a representative of the Society
within call not only restrains those cruelly inclined, but encour-
ages those who are in sympathy with the work of animal pro-
tection.

MISCELLANEOUS.

To particularize the many different phases of seeming or actual
cruelty to animals, wherein the ofﬁcers of the Society have inter-
fered, would take too much space which cannot be accorded in
this report, but some idea may be had by brief mention of the
following: cats rescued from high trees, telegraph poles, and other
out-of—the-way places; goats, from being overdriven and abused
by boys ; pigeons, from being stoned and trapped; monkeys, par-
rots, birds, etc., from being kept in ill-ventilated and unclean
places; live poultry, from being carried by pedlars by the legs

. ,u.
l r




 

 

 

 

28

with heads hanging downwards ; shoeless and smooth-shod teams
sent to blacksmiths ; tight check reins removed ; broken blinders
cut off; unblanketed or improperly harnessed horses relieved ;
pieces of glass, broken bottles, nails, pieces of sharp—pointed iron,
and other dangerous substances, which might injure animals,
picked up off the streets. Places of amusement where animals
are employed, likewise race tracks, sales stables, night and day
hack stands, city dumping grounds, excavations, and other places
where horses and other animals are needed, have been visited from
time to time, and everything has been done for their care and
comfort.

The labors of the Brooklyn department of our work have been
greatly increased by reason of the annexation of several adjacent
towns to the County of Kings, but under the able management of '
Inspector Clark, considering the small force of ofﬁcers under his
command, the additional labor has been satisfactorily performed.

Summary for past eight years :

 

1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893;

l
y
l

 

Cases prosecuted in the courts. 797 991 949 986 I,07I 1,080 980: I,OIO
Disabled animals temporarily l

suspended from labor ...... 3.4.56 1,749 2,357 4,180 5,725 4,868 3,779,l
Horses, mules, and other large i

animals, disabled past recov—l ;

ery, humanely destroyed. . .. 2,546 2,455'2,812 2,284 2,62013,365 3,384,l 2,927
Small animals, homeless or disa- l

bled past recovery, humanely l

destroyed. .. ...- ........ “11,202 1,281 7051,347 2,212;3,o6o 4,794‘24,275
Disabled horses, and other large

animals removed from streets

in ambulances ............. 522 495 407 520 578 618 607 513

Complaints received and inves- .
tigated .................... 3,77313,o52}2,793f‘3,609‘6,89117,301 7,599l13,603
l

In conclusion, the undersigned refers with pleasure to the neat
appearance of the Society’s uniformed ofﬁcers, as well as their
promptness and intelligent judgment exercised on all occasions
in matters pertaining to their ofﬁcial duties.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

Szzferz’m‘mzdwzf.

 




 

Oﬂﬂommm ﬁmOZ Im>UOC>m4mmm mx>_<:Z_ZQ IOmmmw OZ ._.O<<_u>4.I OT: mEm O>Z>F

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10mmm $9»me _2 >2 Eumcoamo nozgjoz.

 




 

THUSFOLLOWTNGIUUESOME(N?THEBMNUEIMPOR-
TANT CASESPROSECUTED DURHM}1}HEYEAR

1894.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

. II.

12.

19

19

William Meehan, George Brown, John Burke, Grant Langdon,
Charles Jackson, Henry Schenck, Michael McNamara, William Right-
meyer, John Stane, William Stane, Charles Conroe, M. J. Morrison,
James McCracken, \Nilliam Jones, John Doe, G. H. Skidmore, \V.
C. Garrett, A. D. Doe, Arthur Trebilox, John Dam, John Murray,
Peter S. Miller, and Thomas McNamee, were arrested for promoting
a cock-ﬁght in a road house at Philmont, N. Y. All of the para—
phernalia pertaining to the cruel sport was seized by the Society’s ofﬁ—
cers, and forfeited according to law. Charles L. Coons, the propri-
etor of the premises, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars for permitting the ﬁght to
take place. The ﬁnes, imposed by Justice Lindsay, before whom the
offenders were tried, aggregated $280.

David Stein, for carrying poultry in a cruel manner, was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. To economize space the
fowls were packed in coops like sardines in a box.

For unjustiﬁably shooting at and wounding a dog, Paul Milke was
ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Monteverde of Newtown, L. I.

Henry Elting and John Farretson, of Tivoli, N. Y., were charged
with carrying calves in a cruel manner. It has been the custom for
men, called “small stock traders,’ to go about the country buying
young calves. After their legs have been tied together with cord, the
animals are thrown into a wagon like bundles of wood, and jolted
over rough roads many hours without food or water. The defendants
were ﬁned ﬁve dollars and one dollar respectively by Justice Sheldon.

)

2

“ I’ll kick the horse as much as I please,’ said Martin Gerdcs, when
remonstrated with for his cruelty, at the same time giving a vicious
jerk to the lines, and following it with another kick. He was a very
much surprised and frightened individual when arrested by one of the

Society’s ofﬁcers. Fined ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Anseno Lacco, for striking a dog in the eye with an iron hook, was
ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The dog
was keeping store for its master, when Lacco commenced to disturb
the contents of a refuse box outside the shop door. “Patsy,” the
dog, ran out barking at the intruder, who struck the animal a vicious
blow with the iron weapon, destroying the sight of one eye.

 




 

.52

 

 

 

Justice Sheldon.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

latter were poisoned to death.

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Justice Lott.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WW l i ‘ . ‘ I
mil; of Spec1al Se5510ns.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

dog—catcher under the old dog law.

. Jan. 23. Peter 'l‘eates, leaving a team of horses under a shed in the
of Tivoli-on-Hudson, without food or water, from ten o‘clock
morning till seven-thirty in the evening, was ﬁned c

lars by the Court of Special Sessions.

    
    

 

Village
in the
osts of Court by

i i l Jan. 26. “ Stop striking that horse,” exclaimed an indignant citizen Of Brook—
lyn to Richard Creedy, who was striking the anima
body with a heavy whalebone whip. Creedy paid no attention to the
remonstrance, but continued his abuse of the unoffen
til arrested. Justice Connelly ﬁned the offender ﬁve dollars.

Jan. 27. Caroline Rolz, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Tighe.
for throwing into the yard of her next—door neighbor Paris green, from
the effects of eating which several of the chickens belonging to

l on the neck an d

ding horse un —

the

Jan. 29. “ I didn’t hurt the horse,” was the only defence Louis Frank made,
when asked what he had to say to the charge of kicking his horse 1n
the stomach. Fined ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Jan. 30. For unjustiﬁably shooting at and wounding a dog, and then leaving
it to die, Charles Thorn, of Woodhaven, L. 1., was fined ﬁve dollars

_ , Feb. 5. “Is it possible that you are beating your horse with that bar of
1 iron l” exclaimed an indignant citizen to Joseph Ropeto, who was urg—
.,i , ing an old horse to drag a load of merchandise up a steep incline-
W1 “ You mind your own business,” was the reply, and the poor beast got
i another blow with the iron bar. An ofﬁcer of the Society happened to
be on a passing car, and went to the assistance of the horse’s defender.
The iron bar weighed four and a half pounds.
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Ropeto was ﬁned ten

Feb. 8. As Joseph Reinhart was recklessly overdriving a horse attached to a
wagon, the team collided with another horse, resulting in the latter
animal being injured internally by the shaft of Reinhart’s wagon pene-
trating its body. Reinhart was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court

Feb. 8. William S. Dey, for causing and permitting a horse belonging to
J3, him to be worked while suffering from a large sore on the top of its
1iii 1 neck, was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

1 till“ Feb. 8. John Eck, for working a horse suffering at the time from large sores
=3ij on the body unprotected from the harness, was sentenced to one day’s
imprisonment in the City l’rison by the Court of Special Sessions.

Feb. 8. Charles Elsenback, for throwing a slip noose around a dog’s neck
and choking the animal until the tongue protruded, was ﬁned ﬁve c101-
Elsenback was employed as a




 

EQIjZQ 000..

 




 

 

Feb. I7.

Feb. 19.

35

Thomas Mundin, of Catskill. could not give a reason why he per-
mitted his horse to be deprived of food and water and otherwise
neglected for several days, although he was given every opportunity
to do so by Judge Bennett ; he was therefore sent to the county jail for
ﬁfteen days for cruelty to animals.

About eleven o’clock on Saturday night, February 17th, Detectives
George Smith. \Villiam J. Mooney, and Police Ofﬁcer Ward, of the
Twenty—eighth Precinct, noticed a number of well-known toughs with
a bull-dog going towards the dock at the foot of East 110th Street.
While consulting as to the advisability of interviewing the gang, or wait—
ing further developments, several more men with 'a bull—dog passed
down on the other side of the street. Evidently a dog-ﬁght was con-
templated, thought the ofﬁcers. One of the detectives went for
assistance and returned with ten uniformed policemen. In the mean-
time the dogs were set ﬁghting and soon were ﬁercely biting and tear-
ing each other. The rufﬁans were so intent watching the contest that
the approach of the ofﬁcers was not noticed until six of the crowd were
captured, the rest escaping in the darkness, leaving the dogs ﬁghting
in the improvised pit of lager-beer kegs and boxes. With much
difﬁculty the struggling animals were separated. After the prisoners
had been locked in the station house, the dogs were brought to the
Headquarters of the Society, and the illustrations on pages 33 and
34 represent their condition at the time. The prisoners, Patrick
Maher, John Maher, James Dempsey, George Martin, Peter Howe,
and. John Howe, were subsequently tried and convicted by the
Court of Special Sessions, and a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars each
was imposed. Two of the defendants were sent to Penitentiary for
twenty-ﬁve days in default of payment of the ﬁne. As will be seen
by the illustrations, the dogs were badly mangled about the heads,
necks, and legs.

As Peter Daily, a man of herculean stature, was driving along
Eleventh Avenue a horse attached to a cart loaded with heavy stone,
one of the wheels of the vehicle caught in the railroad track, bringing
the horse to a sudden halt and almost pitching the driver from his
seat. The more the horse was urged to pull, the more tightly the
wheel was wedged between the rails. Daily was beside himself with
rage, as if the unoffending animal were at fault for getting into the
unpleasant predicament, when it was owing to his'own careless driving.
Finding that swearing at and kicking the poor creature were of no
avail, Daily seized a bale stick and commenced to belabor his helpless
Victim. Just as the weapon was raised to strike again, the rufﬁan was
seized by one of the Society’s ofﬁcers who happened along in the very
nick of time. With assistance the cart was gotten out of the rails’ grip
and hauled close to the curb. Daily was subsequently arraigned

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Feb. 20.

Feb. 26.

ID

Feb. 27.

Feb. 27.

Feb. 28.

March 2.

March 3.

March 5.

March 6.

36

before the Court of Special Sessions upon a charge .of cruelty and ﬁned
twenty-ﬁve dollars.

Morris Keiser, after cruelly beating a horse with the lash of a '
whip until tired, took the butt end and belabored the poor creature
on the body until it groaned with pain. He was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions.

“ Your horse is too tired and too heavily loaded to go any further,”
said a little messenger boy to Anthony C. Witman, who was try-
ing to make a small horse pull up a steep incline a truck loaded
with lead. Witman had already broken a whip over the weary
animal when interfered with. As if to emphasize his contempt for the
boy’s remonstrance, Witman struck the unoffending horse on the head
with the butt end of the whip, and was about to repeat the offence
when he was arrested. For his cruelty, Witman was ﬁned twenty
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Michael Ryan was seen throwing salt mixed with sand between
the tracks of the Twenty-third Street Railroad. Ryan had thoroughly
salted the street before attention had been called to him. The Society
was notiﬁed, and an ofﬁcer immediately went to the place mentioned,
where he found Ryan still at work. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions.

Isaac Silverstein, for driving a- team of horses, totally unﬁt for
labor, attached to a loaded truck, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice R.
E Connelly, Brooklyn.

Ah Tong, carrying six Chickens by their legs, heads hanging down,
refused to carry the fowls any other way. Fined ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions.

Max Greenfalder, because he owned a horse himself, fancied he
knew all about another person’s, and when a neighbor’s horse was unable
to pull aload beyond its strength, Greenfalder declared he knew how to
make it, and proceeded to apply his method, which consisted of beat-
ing and tormenting, against the remonstrance of the owner. The
abuse would have continued, but just at the moment the ill-treated
animal had fallen down, an ofﬁcer of the Society arrived who took
charge of the case, and Greenfalder to a station house, and the accused
was subsequently ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Melvin Martin, of Mohawk, N. Y., neglected for over twenty-four
hours to give his horse food and drink. Fined seven dollars by Justice
Ingalls.

Thomas Tweed, for unjustiﬁably shooting a dog. Fined ten dollars
by Justice Acker.

Etienne Segault laughed when told he was carrying four live chick-
ens in a cruel manner, viz., with the wings twisted, legs tied with
string, and slung over his shoulder. “ The chickens are all right ; they

 

 




     
   
  
  
  
   
 
    
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
   

37

don‘t know any better, no feel,” he declared. The Society’s detective
told Segault that he must carry the fowls in a better way, and proceeded
to cut the string. The Italian resisted, and said he would carry them
any way he saw ﬁt. He had a better regard for the humane laws after

serving one day in the City Prison by order of the Court of Special
Sessions.

 

March 7. Isaac H. Smith, for driving a horse physically unﬁt for labor, was
arrested. as was also the owner, James Taylor, for causing and per—
mitting the animal to be worked. (See illustration on page 30.) The
animal in the foreground h'ad all" the ailments which a horse could be
afﬂicted with, and was pronounced by the Society’s veterinary surgeon
to be past use for any purpose. It was humanely destroyed. Smith

was ﬁned ten dollars and Taylor twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions.

 

March II. George Bell, for stabbing ahorse in the side with the blade of a
large pocket-knife. Eined ﬁfty dollars by Justice A. F. Goetting. '

March II. Arrangements had been made on a somewhat extensive scale, by
a coterie of sporting men of New York and Lake Mahopac, to hold a
cocking main. After several meetings had been held to determine
where the ﬁght should take place, it was ﬁnally decided that as Mahopac
was far away from the Society’s headquarters it would be safe to
assume that none of its officers would be there to interrupt the “ sport.”
The Society’s detective, however, who had been put on the case and
who had followed the gang to Mahopac, telephoned to Headquarters,
“ The ﬁght will come off to—morrow night. sure.” Several ofﬁcers were
sent from Headquarters, and successfully raided and demoralized a
crowd of over seventy rufﬁans, who had gathered to witness helpless
creatures ﬁght to death in a barn close to a Methodist church, on one 4
of the principal streets of the town. “ Such a frightened lot of men I
never sawin my life,” said one of the ofﬁcers. “Many sprang through

”the windows and fell into a ditch of stagnant water ; others dashed for

the doorways, almost overwhelming the attacking force and trampling
upon each other.” To add to the confusion the lamps were broken and
the building was left in darkness. The ofﬁcers fought their way to the
pit, and captured eleven persons, ten birds, and two pairs of steel gaffs.
The prisoners were arraigned before Justices Crane and Anderson, ﬁned
ten dollars each, and the birds and gaffs forfeited pursuant to law.

March I3. Charles Porter, for cutting a cow’s udder with a knife, was sentenced

to sixty days’ imprisonment in the County Jail by Police Justice Monte-
verde, Newtown, L. I.

March 16. “ To overload a horse is cruel enough, but to add to it by beating
the animal on the head and body with the butt end of a whip is simply
inhuman,” said the magistrate before whom Charles Entwistle was

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

38

arraigned for abusing his horse as stated above. The animal was com-
pletely tired out. The driver said it was stubbornness, and that he in-
tended “ to take it out of him.” The offender was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 21. Rocco de Gio, Daniel Orlando, and Nicolo Robetto were laughing
and singing as they rode down Broadway in a covered wagon. Inside
the vehicle were eight small kids and a goat piled on top of each other
like bags of sawdust. The legs of the poor creatures were fastened by
cords so they could not move.‘ By accident their presence in the
wagon was discovered by the Socihty’s ofﬁcer. Robetto said they were
going to Flatbush, L. I. The animals when released could not stand,
owing to the cruel treatment they had been subjected to, and were
taken to a Veterinary Hospital in the Society’s ambulance. The
offenders were ﬁned twenty dollars each by the Court of Special

Sessions.

March 23. A horse Joseph Rooney was driving, in addition to being weak,
was very lame owing to a quittor on the nigh forefoot. For working
the animal while in this condition Rooney was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions.

“ Quittor ” is one of the most painful ailments horses are subject to.

March 24. For carrying a live kid in a cruel and inhuman manner, viz., slung

over his shoulder, as illustrated on page 39, Tony Cabrelli was ﬁned
twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The cord with
which the little creature was slung had cut into the ﬂesh of the legs

almost to the bone.

On the afternoon of Tuesday, April 10th, Annie Knauss, of Union-
Ville, Westchester County, took her invalid brother \Villie out to drive
in the family carryall, to which was harnessed an old favorite horse
named Putnam. The horse had been ailing for some time, but the
veterinary surgeon thought a short drive on ﬁne days would do the
old fellow good. All of a sudden Putnam stumbled and fell heav-
ily in the roadway, groaning as if in great pain. A neighbor hap-
pening along went to Annie’s assistance. A consultation was held,
and it was decided to let Putnam rest for a while in the road,
while Annie went home for advice. Willie was made as comfortable
as possible under the circumstances, and all were congratulating them-
selves that the case was not so bad after all. when one Christian Haas,
a baker of Shermanville, drove up. He was half drunk. and against
the remonstrance of Annie undertook to disturb the sick horse by
urging it to get up. The poor creature attempted to respond to every
kick and lash, but in vain. At last Haas declared with an oath he
“would make him get up,” and to that end started for a barn a short
distance away, returning with a bundle of straw which he lighted

 

 




 

 

 

d
E
CI
0:
<
O
>_
._1
._l
UJ
D
0:
O
9
X

 




IOmmm >2 _Zomﬁ_zﬂ.m _um._N_OU <<_._.IOC4. mxmxgmm.

 

 




 

May I8.

May 25.

May 27.

May 29.

June 2.

June 4.

June 8.

42

Harold Whitney, Albert Vroom, and John Mead, for driving a goat
all day, then attempting to hang it, poisoning, and ﬁnally, with clubs,
beating the unoffending animal to death, were each ﬁned ﬁve dollars
by Justice Mullin, of Port Richmond, S. I.

Charles H. Lang was advised by the Veterinarian of the Board of
Health to have a horse diseased with farcy destroyed. This advice
Lang ignored and caused the animal to be taken through the streets of
Brooklyn, thus exposing other horses to the danger of contagion, for
farcy is as contagious and dangerous as glanders. Justice Walsh ﬁned
the offender one hundred dollars. '

A team of horses attached to a wagon containing seven live calves
was found in the mountains by the Society’s local agent at Port Jervis.
Evidently the animals had been abandoned by their owner, who turned
out to be Edward Forsher, a calf butcher. The legs of the calves
were fastened together by cord, and the poor creatures were in a pitiful
plight when rescued by the ofﬁcer. Forsher was arrested and arraigned
before Justice Conkling, who ﬁned the offender ﬁfty dollars.

Karl Wagner, for kicking a small dog in the eye, completely destroy—
ing sight, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

A cat about to give birth to kittens crawled under bushes in Gramercy
Park. A gardener named Anthony Clavin saw the unfortunate animal
and added to its sufferings by striking it on the head and body several
times with the handle of an iron rake; he then hooked the helpless
creature by the neck and threw it into the gutter. The cruel act was
witnessed by three little fellows, who ran to the headquarters of the
Society and reported the case. An ofﬁcer was sent to investigate,
and ﬁnding the case as represented arrested Clavin, who admitted
striking the cat, because “I thought it was dying.” The. youthful
humanitarians appeared as witnesses for the Society when the offender
was tried in the Court of Special Sessions. Their manly and respect—
ful attitude so impressed Justices Koch, Taintor, and Meade that more
than ordinary interest was taken in the trial, which resulted in Clavin’s

conviction and ﬁne of twenty dollars.

Seymour Matthews, for shooting at and wounding a dog, then beating
it to death with a club, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justice O’Neil,

Eastchester.

A load weighing four thousand six hundred pounds, not including
weight of vehicle, to which was attached a small-sized weak horse, got
stalled on Liberty Street. It was impossible for the animal to go a
step further, yet the driver, William Norton, declared it should. It
did not, however, for the Society’s ambulance happened along, and
into it the weary horse was led and taken to a stable. Norton, for his
cruelty, was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

 




 

 

 

§>:|-<<>0.0Z IOmmm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

COLLAR OF A MAIL-WAGON HORSE.

 




 

 

m.’

lune IS.

lune 20.

iune ’21.

July I.

July 5.

july 6.

45

Max Start, for cruelly beating an old, worn-out horse over the body
with a heavy whip, leaving large welts, was fined twenty-five dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

Daniel 1’. Harrington dragged several sheep down an incline by the
hind legs. The bodies of the helpless creatures were shockingly
bruised by the cruel treatment. llarrington was sent to the City

Prison for ten days by the Court of Special Sessions.

Dietrick Ruesel‘mnberg owned a horse diseased with farcy. He was
warned of its dangerous condition, and advised to have it shot; but
instead of so doing he caused the animal to be turned out to pasture in
a ﬁeld where other horses were allowed to feed, thus exposing them to
the danger of contagion. Ruesebenberg was ﬁned two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars by justice \Valsh.

Carlo Lombardi, for abandoning a sick horse to die at Coney Island,
was ﬁned twenty-live dollars by justice l“innerty.

Mrs. Sarah Cole and Robert l)uryea reside at New Utrecht, L. I. An
old hen belonging to Mrs. Cole took her brood over into Mr. Duryea’s
premises, and one of the chickens partook of a deadly food, prepared,
it was alleged, by Duryea, anddied. Later in the day Mrs. Cole
found the dead chicken on l)ttryea‘s side of the fence, and on making
asearch, discovered the cause of death. -Then she came to the So-
ciety‘s headquarters and stated the case. In less than three hours
the poisoned food had been analyzed by the chemist of the Board of
Health, who declared it contained enough poison to kill a hundred
chickens ; and before the day was over a warrant had been issued for
Duryea’s arrest on a charge of having violated the provisions of Sec-
tion 660 of the Penal Code, which reads as follows:

“ A person who unjustifiably :‘tdministers any poisonous or noxious
drug or substance to an animal, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug
or substance with the intent that the same shall be taken by an animal,
whether such animal be the property of himself or another, is guilty
of a misdemeanor.”

The defendant was found guilty by a jury, and ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars by justice Cowenhoven. It appeared at the trial that Duryea had
been convicted on a former occasion of unjustifiably killing a chicken
with a stick of wood, but sentence had been suspended by the same
magistrate. Upon the second conviction Justice Cowenhoven revoked
the suspension of the former sentence, and fined the offender twenty—
ﬁve dollars additional.

For convenience sake, Lawrence Murphy tied to the rear end of his
truck the halter rope on the head of a‘ sick horse, for the purpose of
leading the animal to another stable. The poor creature fell in the
street, and was dragged for some distance on the stone pavement,

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 2.

Aug. 10.

Aug. II.

46

Murphy paying no attention to its condition. Fined twenty dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

For unjustiﬁably cutting a horse in the side, Paul Duas was sentenced
to imprisonment for four months by Justice James B. Cooper, of
Amityville.

John Foote, for overloading and beating a sore and weak horse, was
ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

For beating a horse over the head and. body with the butt end of a
whip, Oscar Hunter was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of

Special Sessions.

Richard Hayden, for overloading a horse attached to a truck of
bananas, containing one hundred and forty-six bundles averaging from
twenty to thirty pounds each, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of

Special Sessions.

Hyman Edelstein, for compelling a small-sized, worn-out horse to
pull a load weighing over three thousand pounds, not including weight
of truck, driver, and four persons, was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of

Special Sessions.

James Welch, a coachman, became very angry because his employer
ordered the l'atter’s horse and carriage for a drive. The horse, a very
valuable one, when leaving the stall commenced to prance about the ﬂoor
of the stable to the annoyance of VVelch, who struck the animal on the
head with a brush, causing it to slip and fall. While it was down, \Velch
continued his abuse, and seizing a part of. the harness belabored the
frightened horse in a cruel manner. From abuse and fright the animal
died the next day. The brutal offender was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions.

Atwater Freeman, for abandoning a horse in a pasture lot after driving
it until it was unable to go any farther, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Jus-
tice W. W. Bennett, Catskill.

Overloaded, emaciated, with sores on breast that the harness had
chafed, was the condition of a horse, one of a team, attached to a
heavy truck. The driver, George Burke, indifferent to the animal‘s
suffering, was lashing the poor creature unmercifully when arrested.
Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

One of the dog-catchers of Brooklyn, for driving a very lame horse,
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Walsh.

At half past ten o’clock on Thursday night, August 16th, Max
Greenﬁeld, employed as a driver, went to a stable to feed his horse.
A single gas jet furnished light all night. Greenﬁeld had fed his horse
and was about to leave the stable, when he saw one Samuel Strauss

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORELEG OF A HORSE FOUND AT SARATOGA SPRINGS.

 

 




 

S
G
W
R
P
S
A
G
O
T
A
R
A
S
T
A
D
N
U
0
F
E
S
R
O
H
A
F
O
G
E
L
E
R
O
F

 

 




  

Sept. 7.

 
 
 
 

 

 

Sept. 19.

50

dollars by Justice Winant for “beating and pounding a horse unmerci—
fully.”

One of the Society’s ofﬁcers, while patrolling Fourth Avenue, noticed
a horse attached to a United States Mail wagon, acting as if something
was wrong with the harness. Hailing the driver, William Brooks, the.
officer proceeded to investigate, and was surprised to ﬁnd seven bad
wounds on the animal’s breast, four on one side and three on the other,
on which the collar was pressing, causing the poor creature great
pain. The stopping of a mail wagon in the streets of New York is not
a daily occurrence, and in the present instance caused a crowd to gather
around the ofﬁcer, curious to know the trouble. The dreadful condi—
tion of the horse’s breast caused many of the spectators to express their
indignation and denounce the mail contractor for permitting such
cruelty. Brooks, however, assumed the entire responsibility, and was
subsequently ﬁned twenty dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.
The illustrations on pages 43 and 44 show the condition of the animal
as well as the bloody collar. V

Francisco Banco for cruelly beating with a whip, a lame, weak,
feeble horse, was ﬁned ten dollars. This punishment had no effect, for
Banco was again arrested a short time afterward for driving a very lame,
sore horse attached to a wagon. For the second offence a ﬁne of twenty
dollars was imposed by the Court of Special Sessions, with a warning
that he would be sent to prison if again arraigned on a charge of
cruelty to animals.

For driving through the streets of Brooklyn a horse diseased with
farcy, harnessed to a grocery wagon, Antonio Pepe was ﬁned ten dollars
by Justice Walsh.

To economize space, Solomon Finkelstein crowded a large number
of chickens into small coops. Several of the fowls were smothered to
death when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer. Finkelstein was convicted
of cruelty and ﬁned fifty dollars by Justice Quigley.

James Hurley, of 15 Monroe Street, was sentenced to the Peniten-
tiary for one month by the Justices of the Court of Special Sessions.
upon his plea of guilty'of having neglected to furnish food and water
for eleven dogs, which the ofﬁcers of the Society found in a cellar at
the above address. The animals were in 'a deplorable condition when
rescued, having been without sustenance for several days. “ The dogs
ate ravenously of the food I gave them,” said one of the ofﬁcers in his
report, “and they fought with each other for possession. It was
pitiful to witness their struggle to get at the water, and the eagerness
with which they looked for the return of the replenished vessel.”
The neighbors stated that Hurley was in the habit of going on pro-
longed Sprees, during which time the dogs were, of course. neglected.

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

  




 

' ‘WW‘:W~>~N+:¢

‘ ﬁbSK'EXWE‘PKS'Ng.‘

..vmw_l.mmoz<43m§< >>mz no MZO .m|_<_>:Z<

 

mOu awamIm

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

CITY DOGsCATCHER'S OUTFIT USED IN 1893.

 




    

Oct. 6.

Nov. 19.

Dec. IQ.

Dec. 19.

 

53

It was surmised that the animals had either been found or stolen, and
then hidden away in the cellar until sold, as all were of good breed.
By reason of long neglect all were diseased with mange in its worst
form. A ﬁnely bred greyhound had been reduced to a skeleton ; the
poor creature could not stand, and had to be carried to the Society's
ambulance. “ Can it be possible that human beings are so inhuman

‘)7

as to cause such suffering to dumb, inoffensive creatures exclaimed

one of the justices.

For compelling a horse to haul a loaded cart out of an excavation,
while the animal was suffering from two dreadful sores on its back
unprotected from the harness, John Carter was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

Herman Cohen, of Brooklyn, was prosecuted for cruelly beat—
ing a horse on the head and body with the butt end of a whip. The
poor creature was but a frame of bones, lame, sore, weak, and feeble,
with other infirmities too numerous to mention. After being in prison
for several days, Cohen was arraigned for trial, pleaded guilty, and
was fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice Watson.

For throwing boiling water on a neighbor’s dog, Hannah Rosen-
berg, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned twenty—live dollars or two months in
Penitentiary, by Justice Quigley, who, in passing sentence said, “If
it had not been for the recommendation of the jury to extend mercy,
I would have imposed the full penalty of the law, for you have been
convicted of one of the most cruel acts a person could be guilty of,
and that is-—torturing an unoffending animal.”

Theobald Severin, of Brooklyn, claiming to be a horse trainer, was
charged with beating a horse on the head and body in a cruel manner
with the butt end of a whip. “ I was only breaking a balky horse,”
was his defence. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars or ninety days’ imprison-
ment by Justice Quigley.

The illustrations on pages 47 and 48 show the condition of the right
foreleg of a horse. The animal was in a barn when found by the So-
ciety’s agent at Saratoga Springs. No information could be obtained
as to ownership. The poor creature was humanely disposed of.

The illustration on page 40 represents a horse that had been in a
stable for a long time without exercise. As will be seen, the hoofs of
the two forefeet had grown out to a considerable extent, and the ends
had to be sawed off. The poor creature was in a dreadful condition
when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer, who humanely destroyed the animal.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

a NEW YORK '

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

A/V ILLUSTRATED ﬂ/ONTIJLY Jl/IAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUC’I‘IVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

AT HEADQUARTERS COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well—KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, IO East 22d St., New York.

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

56

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
Families; ’

“ Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”-—jVew Yer/c Triemze.

“It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel

‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”
—New Yer/c Hera/(27.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”——S]5iriz‘ of Me Times.

“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most
useful career.”—— T/ze Rider and Driver.

“It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in need of.”—New Yer/e l'Verld.

“The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold—ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement,”———P/ii[czzie[]>/zia Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society, IO East
22d Street, New York.

 

 

 

  




'SﬂiVHVddV “ONIMOOO 'S‘IVWINV 80;! HENEHS

 




59

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

ORGANIZED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE PARENT
SOCIETY OF AMERICA.

 

NEW YORK. ,

“THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.”

[rzeerperatea’ 2'72 I 866.
HEADQ 03419715135, 10 East 22d Street, NE W YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. lGEO. G. DEWITT, Secretary.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.

I 3 M/z'lteugﬂby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
22 3 Damp/£272 Street, Mattie. .

RUFUS DANE, President. I E. R. QUATTLEBAUM, Secretary.
Birmingham Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

413 Eig/zteerzt/z S treet, Bz'rmz'rzg/zam.

REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. | DR. F. J. TYLER, Secretary.

 

ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Little Rock.
0. S. DILLON, President. | REES P. HORROCKS. Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

60

CALIFORNIA.
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of [Cruelty to Animals.

I 170 Market Street, San Francisco.
JACOB Z. .DAVIS, President. I C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

45 Nort/z First Street, San fose.
F. R. SHAFTER, President. I C. C. LELAND, Secretary.

San Diego Humane Society.
915 Fourth Street, San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. I GEO. N. HITCHCOCK, Secretary.
Los Angeles County Humane Society.
24 Potomac Block, Los Angeles.
HENRY T. LEE, President. I DOROTHEA LUMMIS, Secretary.

The Sacramento County Humane Society.
402 “ f” Street, Sacramento.
R. C. IRVINE, President. | W. D. LAWTON, Secretary.

The Alameda County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

1465 San Paolo Avenue, Oakland.
MRS. E. A. SHERMAN, President. I MRS. S. C. SANFORD, Secretary.

COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.

1646 Arapa/zoe Street, Denver.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. I G. H. THOMSON, Secretary.

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.

_ Colorado Springs.
E. A. COLBURN, President. IF. B. HILL, Secretary.

CONNECTICUT.

Connecticut Humane Society.

Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. I CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec’y.

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

[Vew Haven.
ELI WHITNEY, President. I EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

mImFHmm WON >Z:<_>_Im. O>._. szzmrm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




mImSmm m0m >z:<_>rm_ 0>m OI>_<_wmx wOm Ic_<_>zmr< Emmogzm Om >Z:<_>rm.

 




63

DELAWARE.
Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Mar/«rel S freez‘, W z'Z77zz'7zgz‘07z.
WILLIAM CANBY, President. I WILLARD H. PORTER, Secretary.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
1317 “F ” Sireez‘, N, W,, lVas/zz'ﬁgz‘mz, D, C,
A. S. PRATT, President. | H. SIDNEY EVERETT, Secretary.

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine Humane Society.
Sz‘. A ”gusting.

DR: DEVVITT WEBB, President. | MRS. A. M. MARCOTTE, Secretary.

The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
‘ fat/(SOﬂUZYZL’.
O. PIERRE HAVENS, President. [8. H. CHAD\VICK, Secretary.

Humane Society.
Pensacola.

S. S. HARVEY, President. [ FRANK MAURA, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Tampa.
w. G. BARTHOLOMEW, President. 1 D. L. HAWLEY, Secretary.

 

GEORGIA.

Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

I M ’[m‘os/z Sireez‘, Augusla.
HENRY B. KING, President. |S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

64

Atlanta Humane Society.

At/am‘a.
J. F. BURKE, President. | ORVILLE H. HALL, Secretary.
The Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

[Magma
ROBT. E. PAR_K, President. IJ. R. KENNEDY, Secretary.
Brunswick Branch of Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
Brzmswz'cie.
M. J. COLSON, President. | N. D. RUSSELL, Secretary.

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
560 Waéas/z Avenue, C/zz'cago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL, President. | BELDEN F. CULVER, Secretary.
The Aurora Humane Society.

A urora.

A. K. PERRY, President. | MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD-ALLEN,
Secretary.

Winnebago County Branch of the Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford.
W. H. FITCH, President. I MRS. N. F. REVV, Secretary.

Galesburg Branch of the Illinois Humane Society.

I 3 3 East Main Sz‘reez‘, Galeséurg.
A. S. HOOVER, President. IJ. F. PERCY, Secretary.

The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.
LYMAN MCCARL, President. I MISS LOUISE MAERTZ, Secretary.
The Shelby County Humane Society.

S/zeléym’Z/e.
DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, Pres. lDR. W. J. EDDY, Secretary.

 




 

66

The South Bend Humane Society.

Soul/z Bend.
S. L. KILMER, President. I D. S. MARSH, Secretary.

Muncie Humane Society.

1Wuneie.
JOSEPH A. GODDARD, President. | W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.

Des Moines. _
THEO. F. GATCHEL, President. | M. C. BRUNDAGE, Secretary.

The Humane Society.

Sioux Cilfy. .
JOHN C. KELLY, President. I EDWARD CROMWELL, Secretary

The Council Bluffs Humane Society.

Council Bluﬂs,
D. C. BLOOMER, President. I V. L. TREYNOR, Secretary.

KANSAS.

The Kansas Humane Society.

.Wielziz‘cz.
DR. GEO. F. LEWIS, President. | MRS. E. W. MOORE, Secretary.

_.—___

KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
402 West feﬂerson Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, President. I MISS BERTA WILSON, Secretary.
Henderson Humane Society.

Henderson.
L. C. DALLAM, President. I INGRAM CROCKETT, Secretary.

 




67

Franklin County Humane Society.

Frankfori.
E. POLK JOHNSON, President. I B. T. FARMER, Secretary.

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

3 5 Union Street, New 017mm.
FREDERICK W. YOUNG, Pres. I BERNARD C. SHIELDS. Secretary.

MAINE.

Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

Porz‘lmm’.
STANLEY T. PULLEN, President. I H. C. VAUGHAN, Secretary.

The Bangor Humane SOciety.
Bangor.
J. F. SNOW, President. I MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.
Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

W a fem/2716.
S. L. ABBOTT, President. I JOHN WARE, Treasurer.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

lea/£51012.

WESLEY BLANCHARD, President. I F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

MARYLAND.

Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

323 Nari/z C/zarles Street, Balfz'more.

H. IRVINE KEYSER, President. IJOHN R. DUVAL, Secretary.
4

 




    

 

    

 

 

58.

MASSACHUSETTS.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

19 Mil/e Streez‘, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, President. I JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Secretary.

Taunton Humane Society.

Taam‘on.
REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, Pres. I MRS. E. L. MORSE, Secretary.

Newburyport Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Newoarypom‘.
E. S. MOSELEY, President. I SAM. E. SARGENT, Secretary.

The Lowell Humane Society.
45 Central Street, Lowell.
JAMES BAYLES, President. | FRANK P. PUTNAM, Secretary.

MICHIGAN.

Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Deb/oil.
T. W. PALMER, President. MISS JENNIE M. SMITH,

Secretary.

Kent County Humane Society. .

Graaa’ Rapids.
REV. CHAS. FLUHRER, President. I MAURICE SHANAHAN, Secretary.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.

Kalamazoo.
FRED. HOTOP, President. | SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary.

St. Clair County Humane Society.
Port Huron.
B. C. FARRAND, President. | MRS. HELEN W. FARRAND, Sec.

 

 




 

 

 

69

MINNESOTA.
Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Cor. Sixt/i (met Sibley Streets, St. Pal/Z.
D. R NOYES, President. IR. A. HOYT, Secretary.

Minneapolis Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

504 Bank of Cor/zmeree Bzzitzizoigr, Minneapolis.

C. M. STOCKING, President. I WILLIAM CHENEY, Secretary.
Duluth Humane Society.
Dittzzt/z.
WILLIAM, S. WOODBRIDGE. J. B. MIDDLECOFF, Secretary.
President.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
I41 East Nint/i Street, St. Paul.

 

T. A. ABBOTT, President. I M. L. HUTCHINS, Secretary.
Steele County Humane Society.
.Owatomza.
B S. COOK, President. I DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.
The Winona Humane Society.
Winona.
DR. D. A. STEWART, President. I L. D. FROST, Secretary.
St. Cloud Humane. Society.
St. Cloud.
W. B. MITCHELL, President. I S. S. PARR, Secretary.
MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
chte/zez.

JOHN P. WALWORTH, President. I RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

 

MISSOURI.
Humane Society of Missouri for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.
506 59" 508 Cotzmzoia Bin/(turf, Err/2M amt Loezist Streets, St. Louis.
CEO. D. BARNAIxD. President. I JNO. W. MUNSON, Secretary.
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.

103 N ort/z Ith/z Street, St. lows.
MRS. T. G. COMSIOCK, President. IMISS M. A. BRADFORD, Sec.retary

 

 

 




 

70
The Kansas City Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Hurrzaa/a’t Building, Sz'xt/z and Main Streets, Kama: City.
T. B. BULLENE, President. | THOMAS MCGEE, Secretary.

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.

Room 15, Carliry Black, St. jasep/z.
HUSTON WYETH, President. | PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.

NEBRASKA.

Nebraska Humane Society.

Orrza/za.
GEORGE L. MILLER, President. | PRESTON H. ALLEN, Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Mar/eet Street, Portsmouth
THOS. E. O. MARVIN, President. I JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

Keene Humane Society.
Keene.

DR. GEO. B. TWITCHELL, I MISS ESTHER HANDERSON, Sec.
President.

NEW JERSEY.

The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

507 Prua’erztz'a/ Baz'lztz'rzg, Newark.
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, Pres. I E. S. EDWARDS, Secretary.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

62 ﬁlmztgamery Street, jersey City.
GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. IWM. E. MCCREERY, Secretary.

Cape May, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Cape May.
DR. EMLEN PHYSICK, President. IT. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

 




71

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Vmelamz’.
PROF. MARCIUS WILLSON, Pres. l Secretary.

Morris County Branch of the New Jersey State Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Marrz'sz‘o'zmz.
MISS E. A. GATTER, President. I MISS MAUD OLMSTED, Secretary.

The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Camden.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, President. IA. T. SELLERS, Secretary.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Hac/emsac/é.
REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. ICHAS. W. VANDERBECK, Sec.

The Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union County, N. J.
. Elz'zaéef/z.
E. P. EDWARDS, President. | J. C. COLE, Secretary.

Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Peri/z Améoy.
FRANCIS W. KITCHEL, Pres. | WILBUR LA ROE, Secretary.

 

NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, 1883.
Sing Sing.
E. G. BLAKESLEE, President. I MISS M. DUSENBERRY, Secretary.
MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
Incorporated August 9, 1888.
90 Sop/Zia 527/6623 [for/tester.
REV. JAMES H. DENNIS, Pres. I MISS E. P. HALL, Secretary.

 

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21,1888.
242 Mam Sireet, Buﬂalo.
E. A. ROCKWOOD, President. [MISS M. F. ROCHESTER, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

KINDRED SOCIETIES.

The following list shows the location of kindred organizations
in North and South America in correspondence with the parent

 

 

Soc1ety.

Alaoama.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
A7]3€Z7’l.§‘d.§‘—- cc cc cc cc cc .c
California —— cc cc cc cc cc H
Colorado __ cc cc cc cc u “
Connocticuz‘.——— * ' -‘ N H c c cc
Delaware —— ‘ “ “ “ cc cc
Florida.——- Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
Goorgim— Laws passed and State Society organized.
lcz’a/zo.-—— No laws.

[liinois.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
fna’iazza— ‘6 cc cc cc .c cc
K672l‘uc/ey.— “ (C ‘6 cc cc
Louisiana. — M c c c c c c .
Maiize— H cc cc cc cc cc
Mmy/mzd— “ “ “ “ cc cc
Massac/z zcsoz‘z‘s. — ‘ ‘ 4 ‘ cc cc c c c c
Mic/zigmi— ‘ u h H cc cc
Minnesota —— “ cc cc cc cc cc
Mississippi— “ ‘4 cc cc cc cc
Missouri “ “ “ cc cc cc
Ngé7faS/ea._ cc cc cc cc cc cc
Newaa’a.— Laws passed.

New Ha7ings/ii7ce.—Laws passed and State Society organized.
Nair/jersey — “' “ “ cc cc cc
New 3/077» __._ ‘6 cc c.‘ cc cc “
Nari/i Com/i72a.—- “ “ “ cc cc cc
0/220 -— ‘ ‘ ‘6 cc cc cc cc
Oregon.— “ '4 cc cc cc cc
PeimsyZZIania.—— cc . c cc c c cc c c

R/zoa’o [sland.— cc cc cc cc cc cc
Sout/z Carolina— °’

 

Tennessee.—

 




 

 

83

Texas.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
O7ta/l—_ “ “ H u H 5‘
Vermont— .. .. .. .. .. H
Virgizzz’a.—— Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
West Vi7gz'122'a.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Wi5607’15i7l _ “ “ “ (s (C “

I’Vyom z'ng. —-

Alas/ca.—

A rz'zomz. —

District of Columbia—Laws passed and Society organized.
[ndz’mz— I
[Vew [Vexica— Ordinances passed and Society organized.

BRITISH AMERICA.

Ha!zfax.——— . Society organized.
Hamz'llon.——- “ ‘ ‘
ﬂfom‘rcal.—- “ “
0ftawa.—— “ “
Queéec.— “ “
St. David’s, Lincoln Cm, Ontario.— “ “
5;. fo/m.—— “ “

7 227721210.—

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

Bzmzos Ayres.—Laws passed and Society organized. .

BRAZIL.
Rio de faneiro.—Society organized.
CUBA.

[lavanm—Society organized.

MEXICO.

Malia—Society organized.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

5cm Domz'ngo.—Laws passed and Society organized.

5

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

AGENTS.

List of Agents of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals in the State of New York.

ALBANY COUNTY.

BANKS, ROBERT LENOX .................................... Albany
BANKS, ROBERT LENOX, JR. .. . ., .......................... Albany
BRUCE, N. H. . . . , . . ...................................... Cohoes
BUNDY, HOBART L .................................... . . . .Albany
BURDICK, B. W.. ............................................ Albany
FORD, WILLIAM T. ........................................ Cohoes

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

GREENE, MILO B ...................................... Alfred Centre
WILLIAMS, HORACE H.... . ............................ ...Friendship

BROOME COUNTY. .
WILSON, JOHN M ........................ . ........... . ....... Deposit

CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.
DALLANBAUGH, M.D., W. CARL ................ ' ............ Olean

CAYUGA COUNTY.

CLAPP, A. B ............................................... Port Byron
\NALLACE, RICHARD A .................................... Auburn

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

BRE\VER, WILLIAM ....... ' ............................. .. . .Fredonia
JENKS, A. FRANK ....................................... Jamestown
CHENANGO COUNTY.

RORAPAUGH, FREDERICK .................................. Oxford

 

 

 

 




 

 

85

COLUMBIA COUNTY.

CROWE, DANIEL . . . . ............................. Lebanon Springs
GANTLEY, THOMAS H ..................................... Hudson
VVHITBECK, CORNELIUS .................................. Craryville
WILSON, M.D., THOMAS ........................... . ....... Claverack

CORTLAND COUNTY.
KINNEY, D. E ............................................. Cortland

DELAWARE COUNTY.
HALSTEAD, GEORGE .................................. . . . .Stamford

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE, M. D. THOMAS K. ........................ VVappingel 3 Falls
KIDD, JAMES HOWARD ...................................... I ivoli
MOITH, THEODORE ........................... Fishkill-on—the—Hudson

ERIE COUNTY.
CHURCH, C. C. . .’ ........................................... Buffalo

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

BALLARD, JAY O ............................................. Malone
DONOHOE, M. C. ............................................ Malone

FULTON COUNTY.

ROOT, ERASTUS .......................................... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J. ................. , .......... , .............. Gloversville

GENESEE COUNTY.
HOUSTON, FRANKLIN .. . .. .................. . ............... Le Roy

GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE ........................................ Prattsville
HANSEN, HENRY .......................................... Catskill
WILLARD, M.D., CHARLES E. ........................ . ..... Catskill

HERKIMER COUNTY.

CARR, A. J ............................. . ........ , ................ Ilion
HAIL, II. CLAY .......................................... L1ttle I‘alls
HALSTEAD, E.. D., ......................................... Dolgeville
KLEM, PHILIP G ........................................... Herkimer

SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ........... . ........................ Dolgeville

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

86

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
WHITE, WARREN A ..................................... VVatertown

KINGS COUNTY.

CORTELYOU, P. L ......................................... Bay Ridge
DE MUND, M.D., J. E .................................. Bath Beach

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

H ILL, HARLIN H.. . . -. ....................................... Dalton
KILLIP, W. W ............................................... Geneseo

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C. F ............................................. Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ........ . ............................... Brookﬁeld
LIPPITT, F. B ......................................... . ...... Solsville
LOCKMAN, A ............................................ .Cazenovia
PERRY, M.D., C. II. -, ...... Oneida
TEALE, B. S ................................................... Oneida
\NARREN, JOB A ...........De Ruyter
WEST, ADDISON J. ...... , ............... ' ................... Hamilton

MONROE COUNTY.
WEITZEL, FREDERICK W ........................ . ........ Rochester

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

DE FOREST, DAVID ..................................... Amsterdam
EATON, ALFRED G ............. . . .. ...... , ............... Amsterdam
'FOX, BROWNELL C ..................................... Canajoharie
KLINE, CHARLES ........................................ Amsterdam
MERENESS, CHARLES W ....... . ......................... Fort Plain

TONEIDA COUNTY.

ASHLEY, THEODORE J ........................................ Utica
LEWIS, W. D .......................... . ....... Washington Mills

ROBERTS, M..,D DAVID HENRY .......................... Trenton
ONONDAGA COUNTY.

OTIS, ISAAC C. ....... i ................................... Jordan
CASEY, O. ROBINSON .. .. ................................... Syracuse
ONTARIO COUNTY.

MEAD, C. H .................................................. Geneva

 

 




 

87

ORANGE COUNTY.

CREVELING, REV. PETER CLAUDE ..... ~ .......... . ...... Cornwall
MILLS, JAMES J ......................................... Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W ....................................... Goshen
WELLER, ABEL L.. ............ . ........................ Middletown
WILLIAMS, N. H ............ ' ......... . .................. Ridgebury

ORLEANS COUNTY.
VAN SNJNE,EDuHN.H.H.H...H.U...H; ........... ..”.Awmn

OSWEGO COUNTY.

JOYCE, WILLIAM ........................................... Oswego
NEWMAN. E. G ..................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H. ............................................ Mexico

OTSEGO COUNTY.

LATHROP, CHARLES MCHARG ......................... Cooperstown
SITTS, JOHN H. ................... . ............... Richﬁeld Springs

PUTNAM COUNTY.

BENNETT, WALTER J ..................................... Mahopac
ROBERTS, E. P ................................................ Carmel
QUEENS COUNTY.

BRUST, AUGUST C .......................................... Maspeth
BUHLER, JOHN ................... . ........ . ................ Mineola
BUSCI‘I, ADAM ............................................ \Voodhaven
CLAPP, IRA M. ............................................. Flushing
CLOWES, LEWIS H. ...................... A ................ Hempstead
CONKLIN, ARCHIE E. ..................................... Jamaica
DENLEY, JOHN ........................................... Thomaston
DUNBAR, JOHN J ........................................... Freeport
HENTZ, ALBERT ........................................... Maspeth
LOSEE, HORATIO ........................................ Glen Cove
SCHOLLE, THEODORE E .......................... Winﬁeld Junction
SEAMAN, VALENTINE ..................................... Oceanus
SKIDMORE, JR., A. W ...................................... Cedarhurst
VAN WAGNER, \VILLIAM ............................. Locust Valley
WALSH, JOHN C ....................................... Far Rockaway
RENSSELAER COUNTY.

CLINT, DE WITT ......................................... Poestenkill
JONES, W. FRANK ..................................... Lansingburgh

LANE,LE ROY C. ........................................ ' ..... Tmy

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

89

PENNEY, ROBERT W ...................................... Flanders
REEVES, DET MOLD ........................................ Greenport
REN\\7ICK, S. C ............................................ Amityville
SAVAGE, M.D., WILLIAM B ............................... East Islip
SMITH, CHARLES F ......... . ............................ Cutchogue
SPEERS, REV. JOSEPH ................... . . . . ........ Brentwiood
SQUIRES, EDWARD N .................................. Good Ground
STRONG, JAMES S ........................................ VVainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER . L .................................... Blue Point
TOTTEN, JOHN C ......................... . ...... Cold Spring Harbor
VAIL, ALFRED R.............. .............................Southold
\VELLS, GEORGE B ........ . .......................... Baiting Hollow

SULLIVAN COUNTY.
DECKER, A. A ......................................... Mountain Dale

ULSTER COUNTY.

ELLSWORTH, ELIJAH ................................. .... .Kingston
FREER, ISAAC .............................................. Ellenville
OSTRANDER, DE VVITT W ........ . ..................... Clintondale

WARREN COUNTY.

BEVINS, STANLEY H .................................... Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ............ . .................... Lake George
GRIFFING, E. T.......... ................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S ................... . . . .. ................... Lake George
MOSHER, C. A ........................ ' ..................... Glens Falls

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEWAY, FREDERICK ................................. Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M ....... . ............................ Salem
MICKLE, JAMES ......................................... Fort Edward
SCOTT, GEORGE H ....................................... Whitehall

WAYNE COUNTY.

AGETT, \VILLIAM W ......................................... Lyons
SWEET, EDGAR D ........................................... Newark

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J ............................... Mount Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL L .................................. .Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H ............................ . ................ Irvington
BAUER, JULIUS ....................................... Williamsbridge

BAXTER, ANDREW J ...................................... City Island

 

 

 

 

 




    

 

90

COLLINS, HIRAM J .................................... Mount Vernon
DEMING, M.D., WILLIAM C ............................ West Chester
FARLEY, JOHN M ...... .. . . .. . . . . ..' ................... White Plains
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ................................ -.Wakeﬁeld
HAINS, GEORGE C ..................................... Mamaroneck
HARRISON, \VALTER S .................................. Pelhamville
I‘IUSS, HENRY ......................................... Mount Vernon
JOHNSON, PERCY D ................................... Mount Vernon
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS....- ............................... '.VTarrytown
MCGRORY, DANIEL F. .............. , ................ West Chester
MONTGOMERY, FERRIS R .............................. White Plains
STEVENS, CHARLES S ............ . ...................... Port Chester
TAYLOR, ROYAL E ........................................ Peekskill

WYOMING COUNTY.
POND, MARCUS E ........ . .................................. Castile

YATES COUNTY.

MCLAUGHLIN, AMOS.‘..................................‘..PennYan
PECK, MARTIN W ....................................... Middlesex

 

 




 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

The payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time,
secures a life membership.

LA

Anderson, Mrs. Elizabeth M.

Andrews, C. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Arnold, William

Astor, William Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P.

B

Beadleston, W. H.
Bergh, Henry

Billington, Mrs. Reno R.

Bonner, Robert
Boyd, J. Gilmore
Brady, Miss Jennie T.
Brown, Lewis B.
Busteed, Richard, Jr.
Butler, Miss M. H.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Campbell, A. H.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Claﬂin, Arthur B.
Claﬁin, John

Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B.
Clausen, Henry

Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. M.

 

Clews, Henry
Crapo, John M.

D

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

DeWitt, George G.

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.

Dilks, George W.

Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleveland
Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry

Dunlap, Cornell

E
Ehret, George
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Gustavus W.
Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Foster, James

G
Gebhard, William H.

Gerry, Hon. Elbridge T.
Gilbert, Frederick E.

 

 

 

 

 




 

    

Gray, Horace
Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.
Gunther, F. Frederic

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.

Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robert

Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Robert, Jr.
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Alice
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann

I

Ingersoll, Mrs. James H.
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

J
James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman
Jones, John D.

K

Kemp, Edward
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, John W.
Kraus, Miss Emma

L

Langdon, Miss Anne L.
Lanier, Charles
Lee, Miss Alleine

Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson

Liautard, Dr. A. F.
Low, Joseph T.

M

Marie, Peter

Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary '1‘.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Moulton, Mrs. Julia Dillon
Murray, John B.

O

O’Berry, Loftus

O’Brien, William
O’Gorman, Hon. Richard
Olcott, F. P.

Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R

Remsen, Robert G.
Reusens, G.

Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Rudd, Joseph

Ruppert, Jacob

Russell, Hon. Horace

S

Schaefer, Frederick
Scharmann, H. B.
Schermerhorn, William C.

  

 

 




 

 

    

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts
Stevens, Frederick W.
Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, James, Jr.
Straus, Nathan

St. John, William P.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.
Suckley, Rutsen

Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T
Tiffany, Charles L.
Tuck, Edward

V

Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila

93

Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen
Van Tassel, Emery M.

W
Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Watson, George H.
Webb, William H.
Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrs. C. E.
Winans, Miss M. Antoinette
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.
Wood, Charles B.
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon
VVyman, John H.

Y
Yuengling, David G., Jr.

 

 

 

 

 

   
    




 

"MEMBERS.

The annual membership subscription is ﬁve dollars.

A

Abbott, Warren G.
Abendroth, W. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlmann, Otto
Appel, Jr., Henry J.
Appelbaum, Henry
Appleton, W. H.
Aron, A.

Astor, Mrs. J. J.
Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Bachmann, Frederick
Bacon, Marshal L.
Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, C. C.

Baldwin, H. M.
Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Banyer, Goldsboro
Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barlow, Mrs. Francis C.
Barnes, Mrs. A. B.
Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barnes, Reon

Barret, Miss Lily
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Beard, Mrs. J. Carter
Beckwith, Mrs. L. F.
Beinert, Charles
Belford, William J.
Benedicks, Leonard
Benjamin, A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell
Bennet, Frank
Benscher, Fred.
Benson, Miss Mary
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Berns, Dr. George H., V. S.
Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Binge, Julius

Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Peter

Blois, Mrs. E. S.

Bloor, A. J.

Bodine, B. J.

Bourne, Joseph
Bowdoin, Miss E. G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.
Brady, Miss M. L.
Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brooks, Mrs. Erastus
Brown, Benjamin
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Mrs. G. Morgan
Brown, Thomas

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.

 

 




 

Brumley, Avery
Brunjes, George F.
Bull, W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burge, Miss M. L.
Burroughs, William V.
Burt, Dr. Stephen Smith
Butler, Charles
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C
Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Callender, Thomas 0.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel
Carleton, Dr. Edmund
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Miss Edith W.
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Carscallen, Miss Kate
Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, Rev. Charles A.
Cassidy, John
Catlin, Miss C. V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Cestero, J. N.
Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chanler, Mrs. Amelie Rives
Chase, Miss Helen F.
Chisolm, Benjamin 0.
Choate, Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Christensen, Gen. C. T.
Clark, Edward J.
Close, S. B.
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs

95

Cohen, Albert A. '
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.

Colby, Miss May Colgate
Cole, Abram

Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, Miss Adele W.
Colgate, A. W.

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Constable, W. '
Cooper, Charles W.
Corbett, C. H.

Coster, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.

Coyle, Miss J. Antoinette
Cramer, L. H.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cuming, James R.
Cunningham, George
Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, John L.

Dalley, Jr., Henry
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Darrigrand, Miss Marie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Dawes, Mrs. Martha S.
Day, Mrs. H. M.

De Bow, Mrs. A. M.
Decker, J. P.

De Cordova, Alfred

De Gerlach, Alexander
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

De La Vergne, John C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

Dempsey, Daniel

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Desjardins, Miss Louise G.
Despard, Mrs. (‘. L.

De Witt, Mrs. George G.
De Witt, William G.
Dexter, Henry

Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles F.
Ditson, Mrs. C. H.

Dix, S. '1‘. 1)., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Dodge, William E.
Doelger, Peter

Donnelly, Edward
Donovan, Dennis
Donovan, Joseph

Dowd, Timothy

Dowst, Arthur A.

Duggin. Mrs. Charles
Dunn, H. M.

Du Vivier, E. A.

E

Eaton, Dorman B.
Ebling, Philip
Eckstein, Monroe

‘ Eckstein, Samuel
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Ehrmann, Julius
Elkins, Miss Fanny
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Henry

Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry.

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fairchild, Mrs. A. V.

l

I Foehrenbach, Jr., F.

Fargo, Mrs. James C.
Fearon, Robert J.
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Finck, August
Fischer, Mrs. Charles
Flegenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Miss Annie
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.

 

Foller, Nicholas .
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia F. de
Fontenilliat, Baroness Paul de
Ford, Malcolm W.

Forney, Matthias N.

Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Franchot, Mrs. Helene
Francis, Mrs. George
Frankenberg, D. _
Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franzreb, John

Freedman, Andrew

Freel, Edward

Freeman, Mrs. L.

Freeman, W. D.

Friedman, Leonard

Fries, Frederick

Froehlich, Joseph J.
Fruhauf, Miss Victoria
Fuller, M.D., William H.
Fuller, Mrs. W. H.

G

Gager, Mrs. Mary M.
Gallatin, Frederic
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.
Gescheidt, Anthony L.
Gibb, John

Gibbons, Francis J.
Gibert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.
Glassford, H. A.
Goddard, Mrs, J. Warren
Godwin, Parke
Goodrich, George Selden

   

 

 

 
   




 

 

Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.

Gregory, Louis
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H

Hackett, Jeremiah
Haddock, J. W.

Haffen, John

Hagerty, M. H.
Haight, Mrs. D. H.
Hamilton, Henry
Harbeck, Mrs. Eliza D.
Harkness, Miss F.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.

Hart, Cornelius A.

Hart, Patrick

Haven, George G.
Haviland, S. W.

Hecht, Aaron

Heins, John L.
Henderson, Mrs. Harriet
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hennig, Mrs. Sophia
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry

Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.
Heyman, Charles

Hill, James K.

Hill, Warren E.
Hinrichs, C. F. A.
Hinton, Miss H. M.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Welcome G.

Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.

Hoefer, Charles R.

 

97

Hoegg, William
Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Charles \V.
Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, Isaac E.
Holbrook, Miss Lillian
Hollins, Mrs, H. B.
Holmes, Mrs. J. W.
Holt, C. 'l‘.

Holt, George D.
Holz, Bernard
Holz, Mrs. Bernard
Hopf, Max G.
Hopkins, H. C. -

Hopkinson. Miss Jennie M.

Horn, William E.
Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrman, William
Horton, James M.
Hosey, Michael

Hower, Frederick
Huber, Otto

Huck, Miss Harriet
Hudson, Miss Anna Hope
Huerstel, Edmond
Huntington, A. M.
Hupfel, J. C. G.

Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Robert G.
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Irving, G. XE.

Iselin, C. Oliver

J
Jarves, Miss Florence
Jeffery, Dr. George C.
Jennewein, Valentine
Jerome, Mrs. Henry A.

Jerzmanowski, Baron E. J.

Jewell, George S.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Joerger, George

Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnston, John Humphreys

Johnston, Mrs. Mary

Jones, Mrs. F. R.

Jones, Floyd-, Mrs. 'George
Stanton

Jones, Miss Virginia R.

Jurgens, W. B. A.

K

Karwiese, Rudolph
Keeney, E. N.

Kellogg, W. A.

Kemp, Mrs. George
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Keugh, Miss Anna
Kimbel, Richard M.
King, Marc J.

Knapp, John M.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knopf, A. E.

Knowlton, E. F.
Knowlton, Henry T.
Knox, Thomas W.
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Kraus, Benjamin

Krause, M.D., William H.
Krowder, Miss Alice

L

Laimbeer, Richard M.
Lambert, Fred. A.

La Montagne, Mrs. E. C.
Lampe, Miss Elise H.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
Lawrence, Augustus
Lawrence, Miss H. N.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Learned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P.
Leggett, Francis H.

98

Lembke, Jr., Charles
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie
Lewis, Percy Pyne
Liebmann, Charles
Liebmann, Joseph
Lincoln, Dr. H, Warren
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Lockwood, John E.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Jr., Alfred L.
Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs. Seth
Lowell, Mrs. C. R.
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowery, Mrs. John A,
Lund,John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lyman, E. H. R.

M

Macdonald, A. J.
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Maclay, Robert

Major, F. H.

Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marks, Mrs. Nannette
Marks, Selim

Marsh, David

Marsh, Nathaniel
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, E. C.
Maverick, Mrs. Brewster
Maxwell, Henry W.
May, Moses

Mayer, David

 




 

McCarnrick, Mrs. Edgar
McCurdy, John
McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McFarlan, Mrs. Edward
McGahie, John
McGee, James
McKee, D. V. S., James
McKendrick, Miss Claire F.
McKinney, Dr. William J.
McLean, John
McLean, Miss Matilda
McManus, J. F.
McQuade, John
Mergle, Anton
Merritt, Miss E.
Mersereau, A. B.
Mertz, Miss M.
Meserole, A. V.
Meyer, Henry
Meyer, Mrs. L. H.
Michelbacker, S.
Milnor, Miss Jeannette S.
Minck, Henry
Minturn, Miss Eliza T.
Minturn, Hugh
Minturn, Miss Mildred
Minturn, Mrs. Robert B.
Mintz, Dr. Frederick
Mitchell, John A.
Mogk, William
Moller, Peter
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Monahan, 'l‘homas
Monnot, J. B.
Montgomery, George L.
Montgomery, H. B.
Montgomery, James H.
Morgan, Miss Louisa P.
Morris, Lewis G.
Morrison, Mrs. George Austin
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Moss, Frank
Moss, Harris
Mowbray, Andrew
Muller, Edward M.
Mulligan, James

6

99

Munch, Ferdinand
Mustoe, Dr. Frederick
Myers, George L.

N

Namm, Adolph I.
Natrass, Mrs. Frank E.
Neidlinger, Adam
Neilson, Howard S.
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Newman, D. V. S., Philip H.
Nichols, Norman E.
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Nobs, Mrs, M. Madelainc
Norton, EX.

Norvell, Duncan R.

O

Oakford, Miss Ellen

Ochs, Ernest

Ockershausen, Henry A.
Olcott, George M.

Oothout, Mrs. Jane E.

Orr, John C.

Orvis, Franklin H.
O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W,
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.
Ozioni, Mrs. Anna

P

Palmer, Dr. Ernest
Palmer, Master Frank F.
Palmer, Master Georgc Q.
Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parsons, W. H.

Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pegram, F. S.
Pell, J. H.
Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Perkins, Miss Edith H.
Perry, C. M.

Perry, Mrs. C. M.
Pirie, S. C.

 

 

 

 




 

Plate, Carsten

Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine
Pommer, Frank L.

Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.

Pond, Warren

Pool, John H.

Pope, N. Q.

Prout, Dr. J. S.

Front, Mrs. J. S.

Purdy, J. H.

Q

Quinlan, William '
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Raisch, Julius

Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Raymond, Charles H.
Raymond, Mrs. Juliette
Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renault, Louis

Reynolds, C. H.
Reynolds, Mrs. Jennie
Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rich, Mrs. H. B.
Rinschler, Frank
Robinson, Dr. S. A.
Rodewald, F. L.

Rogers, Noah Cornwell
Roosevelt, J. A.
Roosevelt, Jr., Mrs. Robert B.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Thomas F.
Russell, Mrs. James Townsend

100

S

Salmon, H. H.
Schaefer, Charles
Schieffelin, William Jay
Schley, U. S. N., Capt. Winﬁeld
Scott .
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmielan, C. F.
Schmitt, George
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schrader, George
Schultz, Carl H.
Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, John R.
Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seabury, George J.

~ Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.

Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheperd, Dr. A. W.
Sheridan, Thomas W.
Shine, Rev. E. A.

Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell. H. T.

Shults, John H.

Siegman, Alfred

Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard

Silver, Mrs. C. A.

Simon, George A.

Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.

Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Crawford C.

Smith, Henry A.

Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. William Alexander
Snow, E. G.

Spencer, A. H.

Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard

 

 




 

 

Spruck, Henry

Squire, Newton R.
Standish, Myles

Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stanton, Edmund C.
Stanton, Mrs. John

Stark, Philip

Starr, Mrs. Daniel E.

Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad

Stern, Benjamin

Steurer, Miss Anna

Stewart, Hugh

Stewart, Thomas J.

Stewart, William Rhinelander
Stillman, Thomas E.

Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stokes, Miss Emma Hartley
Stone, Edwin

Story, J. T.

Strauss, Mrs. Jacob

Strauss, Samuel

Stricker, Henry

Sturges, Miss May F.
Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine Allen
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore
Sutton, Mrs. Gregory
Suy-dam, Walter L.

Swords, Miss P. Caroline

,1.
Taylor, Thomas F.
Tiedemann, F.

Tilford, Miss Etta

Tilley, John W.

Timolat, James G.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomas, Miss M. L.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, Frederick F.
Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Townsend, Dr. Charles W.

101

Townshend, John
Trask, G. D. S.
Trask, Spencer
Tuck, H.

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tully, Matthew S.
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrich, Thomas
Ulshoeffer, W. G.

V

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van Campen, H.

Van der Stucken, Frank
Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Name, J. Howard
Van Ness, J. Newton
Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Van Volkenburgh, Miss Susie E.
Vogt, Henry
Voislawsky, S. P.

W

Wade, William D.
Walser, Dr. William C.
Ward, Mrs. F. A. B.
Ward, Miss J. E.

Ward, L. B.

Warren, Richard Henry
Waterbury, Miss Elsie
Waters, V. 8., Dr. E.
Weaver, Miss L. A.
Webb, H. Walter
Weber, Joseph

\Veil, Charles M.
Welles, Miss Julia Chester
Welz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon

 

 

 

 




 

Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Edward R.
White, Horace

White, Miss May W.
White, S. V.
Whitewright, William
Wicke, William
VVickham, William Hull
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris
Wilkinson, James A.
Willcox, William G.
Williams, Paul F.
Williams, R. C.
Wilson, Charles H.
Wilson, D. J.

Wilson, Edson E.
Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Wilson, John M.
Wing, L. Stuart
Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Wing, Miss Marion '

[02

Winter, George
Winthrop, Mrs. Elisabeth B. S.
VVissel, Andrew

Wood, Mrs. Duncan
Wood, George A. W.
Wood, Mrs. H. G.
Woolverton, William H.
\Vooster, G. H.

Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Work, James Henry
Work, Mrs. James Henry
Wright, Harriet
VVyckoff, Peter

Wyeth, Dr. J. A.

Wyeth, Mrs. J. A.
VVygant, W. E.

Wyman, Miss Esther

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry
Zimmerman, E. J.

 




 

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING THE
YEAR 1894.

A Carscallen, Miss Kate . . . $2 00
Abee], John . . . . $20 00 83:23 l‘I‘I‘ZfUA- 1‘" M' ' ° 1 33
Acker, Merrall & Condit . . 10 OO ‘ ° ' ‘ ' ' 5
Cary, Miss Ellen G. . . . 20 00
Alexander, John E. . . . IO 00
. Cash, C. C. A . . . . 5O
Allcott, MISS G. . . . . . I 00
Cash, Mrs A. E. T. . . . I oo
Allee, Joseph B. . . 2 00
Cash, E. G. L. . . . . 10
Anderson, Mrs. ED Milbank . 100 00 . _ .
A Cash, Geo. II. C. I 00
ppleton & Co. , . . . IO 00 C
ash, 11. L. M. . . 5O 00
Arnold, Constable & Co. . . 5 00 . .
Cash. H. M. V. B. . 2 00
Atlantic & Paciﬁc Tea Co.,
Cash, L. A. L. 25
The Great . . . . 5 OO .
A Cash, M. S. 5 00
very, Mrs. Samuel P . . 20 00
A Well Wisher Io 00 Cash, R. . . . . . . . I 00
' ' ' ‘ ' Cash, R. W. W. . . . . 5 00
B Cash, C. . . . 25
Cash, Your friend A. . . . I 00
Bacon, J. M. &CO. . . . IO 00 Cash, \V. A. S. . . . . . IO 00
Ballin, Oscar E. . . . 10 oo Castree, Miss I ouise . . . 10 oo
Barker, Miss Isabel R. . . 4 OO Chamberlain, Miss F. A. . . 29 OO
Bates, Mrs. A. F. . . . . 5 oo Cheney, M15 . . . I oo
Behr, H. & Co. . . . . . 5 OO Chisolm, Benjamin Ogden . 25 OO
Berwind, Mrs. E. J. . . . IO CO Chisolm. Mrs. W. E. . . . 25 CO
Billings, Mrs. . . . . . I 00 Chrome Steel Works . . . 5 OO
Bossert, Iouis . . . . 5 OO Chrystie, W. F. . . . . . 25 00
Boxer, Phoebe and Mab . . IO 00 Cobb. Miss Fanny . . . . IO
Braidich A. F. . . . . . 50 OO Cockey, Edward C. . . . 2 OO
Britton. Elizabeth G. . . . I 00 Cole, Mrs. Hugh L. . . . 20 00
Brooklyn Heights R. R. CO . 25 OO Coleman, John C. . . . . 2 00
Brooks, Geo. W. . . 5OO Constable, W. . . . . IO 00
Budweiser Brewing Co. . . IO 00 Contributor & Friend . . . 20 OO
Bulkley, L. . . . . . . 5 OO Cowperthwait CO. . . . . 5 OO
Bunce, John . 5 00 Crawford, R. L. . . ., 5 OO
Burger & Hower Brewing Co. IO 00 Cross, Austin & Iieland Lum—
Burhan, J. H. . . . I 00 ber Co. . . 5 OO
Burnett, S. O. . . . 5 00 Cross, Mrs. Frances E. . . 5 OO
Burnham, L. S. . . . . . 5 00
Butler, Charles . . . . . 5 00 D
Butler Miss M. H. . . .. 400 00 .
’ g . Dahn, John A., & Son . . . 5 00
Butler, Mlss Rosalie . 5 OO Daly, Henry F. . . ' . . 50 00
C Darrigrand. Miss Fannie . . 5 OO
Derenthal 81 Schalk . . . IO 00
Cahn, Mrs. Leopold . . . 5 OO Destin, Miss Lottie Y. . . 2 00
Card, Miss Zora I.. . . . I 50 Dickey, Charles D. . . . . 25 OO

 

 

 

 

 




 

Mauch, Mrs. P. . . . . . $ 2
Maxwell, E. L. . . . . . 10
May, Levy & May . . . . IO
Meeker, Dr. C. . . . . 100
Meltzer Bros. . . . . . 5
Merritt, Mrs. George . . . 100
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph . . . 50
Miller, Mrs. F. S. . I

Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁning

Co. . 5
Moller& Co., J. M. 5
Moquin & Offerman 5
Morgan, John . . 25
Morton, John, 8; Sons . 5
Mott Iron Works, The J. L. 5
Moulton, Mrs. F. A. . . Ioo
Mowbray, Mrs. H. S. 2
Newton, Mrs. R. Heber 5
New York Condensed Milk Co. 25
North American Brewing Co. 5

O
Oothout, Mrs. Jane E. . . . 5
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J. . . 20
P
Parsons, Mrs. Mary Llewellyn IO
Pell, John H. . IO
Plaiit, S. & H. . . . . 5
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K. . . 5
Portei, Mrs. M. A. . I
Potts, William . . . . . I
Powell, D. B. . . . . 5
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R. . . . 100
R
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward H. . I5
Ridley & Sons, Edward . . IO
Rogers, Mrs. M. S. . . . 5
Rudd, Joseph . . . . . . 25
Rushmore, I. W. . . . . 5
S
Saratoga . Ioo
Schaefer Brewing Co ,F. &M. 5
Schrader, George . . . 6
Schwippell, Mrs. Fanny I
Scrymser, James T. . . . 25
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A. 5
Seitz, M. 5
Shepard, Dr. A. W. 2

105

00
00
00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00

00
00
OO

00

00

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
OO
00

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

Stokes, Anson Phelps .
Stranahan,J. S T. .
Stu1ges, MIS. Jonathan
Stutz, Louis . .
Swords, Miss P. Caroline .

T

Taylor, James R. . .
'1 aylor, M1s. Nelly Callahan .
lhimig Bottling Co. .
Thomas, Mrs. Ludlow .
Thompson & Co. . .
Thompson, Frederick F.
Thompson James
Thorp, Mrs. J. H.
libbals, Henry H.,
ory of .
T om and Jim
Townshend, John
Tuttle’s Sons & Co. .

In. Mem;

U

Ughetta, Henry L.
Ulshoeffer, W. G. .
United States Bung Mfg. Co.
United States Express Co.

V

Valentine’s Sons, S.
Vanderbilt, F. W. . .
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Viner, Miss Lavinia
Vogel & Bros, William

W

Wadsworth, Mrs. Julius
Wallace, W. H. . . .
Ward, MissF. L.

Weil, Lemuel .
Welshoefer, M15. Lucy
Westcott Express Co. .
Weston, D.D., Rev. D. C.
Wharton, Mrs. Edward R.
White, Edward D. . .
White, Miss May W.

Wilde’s Sons, Samuel
Williams, Mrs. Eliza C.
Winans, Miss Isabel

\Vinans, Miss M. Antoinette .
Winthrop, Mrs. ElizabethV. S.
Wolf & Stein . . .
Wood, Mrs. George

Wright, Miss Harriet

1—4
UIUI OUIUIUINUI

HH
U1UlOU|

OU1U’V1U'1

. IOO
. 200

50

25

OO

00.

00
OO
00

00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
00
00

OO
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
00

00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00
00
OO

00
OO

 

 




 

 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BROOKLYN
BUILDING FUND RECEIVED DURING
THE YEAR 1894.

Avila, Mrs. S. A. . . . . $1 00 Maxwell, J. R. . . . . . 100 00
Brooklyn Woman’s Dumb Ani- O’Hara, Thomas ; . . . IO 00
mal Aid Association . . . 710 07 Small, Miss D. B ..... I 00

Jackson, L. F. ..... 5 oo

 

 

 




 

 

 

@hituarg (ﬂew-rd.

The Society mourns the loss of the following
members, who have died during the year :

BARTLETT,E.B.
BEERS, EDWIN

FICKEN, CASI’AR

HOMANS, E. C.

NEWCOMB, MRS. MARIE GUISE
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM
SEELIGMAN, SIMON

 

 

 




 

 

To Mose 2050 may feel disposed to donate 5)! WILL to
t/te oeneootemf oojeets of this Society, t/ze following

is suomz'tteo’ as a form .°

Form of Bequest of Personal Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Deoz’se of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property], together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any Wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor—
poration, its successors and assigns, for ever.

 

 

 




 

7. . u . .
l'auiz'unaﬂ’xxakyw
--——_,-_._._

   

i
, ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f
.
.1‘
‘4
i
\
. ,
w
3
' 1
!
‘
‘ 1 f
. in

‘0»

m ‘
‘1 fon-




THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR~ THE

PREVENTION OFCRUELTY To ANIMALS
INCORPORATED BY THE STATE 01“ NEW” ”YURI:
APRIL 10, 1866.

40>

TWENTY—NIN’I‘H ANNUAL REPORT

JOHN P. I—IAINES, PRESIDEN’I‘.

DECENHHH{3LI&M.

[IRA])QUAR'I‘ERS OI" THE SOCIETY:
IO EAST 'I‘WICN'I‘v-MN:ONI) S'I‘RIIE'I‘,

NEV7YORK.
1893.

 




 

—'l
m
Z
'0
O
'30
21>
I]
.<
I
m
]>
U
:0
C
>
:0
—I
rn
33
(D

, M

10 EAST 22d STREET,

NEW YORK.

 

 




9

Society has thus been invested are large, and the responsibility
which has been imposed upon us is heavy. It may be taken for
granted, I trust, that in performing the duty which has been de-
volved upon us, we shall endeavor to act in the interest both of
the public and of the animals that may be captured; but I do not
conceal from myself that the exercise of such functions exposes
us to a constant danger of interference with the rights of our fel-
low-citizens, and that, in the absence either of ample facilities for
efﬁcient service or of vigilant supervision by competent persons,
we must expect that our administration would be inefﬁcient and
would speedily become odious. I could by no means advise the
extension of the provisions of the new law to societies in small
places, and I should particularly deprecate it if the object of local
societies in seeking such powers were to be the increase oftheir
revenues by license fees. The fact is that the license fees in a
small city would not nearly pay for the maintenance of a sufﬁcient
establishment and a sufﬁcient corps of servants, and still less could
they be expected to pay for that sedulous and unremitting super—
vision which is indispensable to success. Our own service at the
present date requires four ambulances and two wagons specially
constructed for their purpose, eight horses, with necessary stable
room, and twenty-two persons who are at work in different relays
by day and by night. The employees, of course, make daily
reports, and are in hourly communication with Headquarters, to
which they apply for instructions in every case of doubt or difﬁ-
culty. The building which is used for the Shelter is not what we
should like it to be ; but it is 100 feet in length by 25 feet in width,
and is ﬁtted up with every possible convenience for the main-
tenance of the captured animals, and for destroying them without
pain, in case they are not claimed within the time ﬁxed by the
law. ’

The Shelter has been in operation for barely eight months. The
undertaking was necessarily experimental; but its arrangements
were carefully planned in advance, and thus far they have been
carried out with reasonable success. There is only one institu-
tion in the world with which the Shelter can be compared ; I refer
to the Battersea Home for Dogs in London. On examining the
33d annual report (1893) of that excellent institution, I ﬁnd some

 




    
 
  
  
  
    
  
    

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, fauna/y 1, 1895.

To 2726 American Socz'c'zj/ for 1/16 Premium” of Cruelty to
A izz'ma/S .-

The Treasurer begs leave to report that the balance brought
over December 31, 1893, was $13,214.85. The receipts from all
sources during the year ending December 31, 1894, were $110,-
098.94, making a total of $123,313.79. The sum expended and
invested during the year was $119,080.86, leaving a balance of
$4,232.93. The following ﬁnancial statement will show the
sources whence the revenue has been derived, and also the ac-

counts under which funds have been disbursed during the above-
mentioned period.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES LANIER,

’1 7761521767.




 

 

A z // .
, 1/. 4 //.///.MV /
////V/W,/// ///%/%%w¢% //

aw.

IOmwm ﬁOCZD ._.O<<_ZQ Im><F< F>sz wOZ. OZ mam O>Z>Fn

 




30.1129 000‘

 




 

 

41

and applied to the body of the horse. The latter writhed in agony,
yet the inhuman brute did not desist. Again and again was the burn-
ing straw applied to the body of the animal. At last, ﬁnding his
cruelty of no avail, Haas got into his wagon and saying, “ Oh, let the
old horse die,” drove off. Everything that surgical skill could do was
done for the horse. Annie was advised to communicate with the
Society; she did so,.and before sundown of the day her letter was
received at headquarters Haas was arraigned beforeJustice Armstrong,
of Tarrytown, and when asked what he had to say, replied: “ I did
it. I was drunk." His penitent attitude favorably impressed the
good-natured magistrate, who, after explaining the enormity of the
offence, and that Haas could be heavily ﬁned or sent to prison for a
long term, sentenced him to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars. Under
skilful veterinary treatment Putnam recovered from his cruel expe-
rience.

April 12. Moses Lebenman, for tying the feet and locking the Wings of ﬁfteen
chickens, and in a cruel manner throwing them on a stone ﬂoor, was
ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

April 13. Morris Kahn was driving a very lame horse attached to a butcher’s
cart. The animal was suffering from a bad sore on the knuckle joint
of the right foreleg. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

April I3. Cornelius Murray, a street sweeper, in a ﬁt of anger struck a horse
on the head several times with an iron scraper, cutting the animal
very severely. The horse had in a playful. manner rubbed its nose
against Murray’s shoulder. Fined ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions. -

April 19. John Glynn and Joseph McCabe, for instigating a dog—ﬁght at
Tompkinsville, S. 1., were ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars each by Justice Casey.
Glynn, in default of paying his ﬁne, was sent to prison forﬁfteen days.

April 24. Edward Boyle was carrying calves in a cruel and inhuman manner,
viz., piled on top of each other in a wagon forty-seven inches long by
thirty—seven and one-half inches wide. Three of the animals fell out
of the vehicle to the pavement. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions.

May 9. Michael Sutton, for striking a horse several heavy blows on back and
body with an iron shovel, was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

May I8. Rachel Snyder was arrested for selling a horse diseased with glanders.
This disease is dangerous to human beings as well as to animals. Mrs.
Snyder, it was stated, knew the condition of the horse before it was
sold. Justice Walsh of Brooklyn ﬁned her ﬁfty dollars.

3

 

 




 

'9‘"

Aug. 21.

Sept. I.

Sept. 6.

Sept. 6.

49

coming up the runway from the street with a bottle under his arm.
\Vondering what Strauss had to do in the stable at that hour of the
night, Greenﬁeld hid behind a post and watched. When Strauss got
on the stable ﬂoor, he looked carefully around ;‘ seeing no one, he
walked deliberately into the stall of Greenﬁeld’s horse and broke the
bottle in the manger, mixing the glass with the oats, and ran out of the
building. Greenﬁeld returned to the manger and covered itwith a piece
of cloth, upon which he laid a piece of timber so as to prevent the
horse from eating, and reported the case to the SOciety. The ofﬁcer
sent to investigate the matter took the glass and oats from the manger
and went to the Essex Market Police Court before Justice Feitner, who
issued a warrant for the arrest of Strauss. The defendant was found
guilty, and sentenced to sixty days in the City Prison by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Enrico Cipolari was driving to a wagon a skeleton of a horse har-
nessed with ropes that were cutting into the body of the animal every
step it took. The wretched outﬁt was taken to court and exhibited as
evidence. Cipolari was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Judge Baird, of
Mount Vernon.

John Hogan, residing at VVoodside, L. 1., went to New York to see
the Labor Parade ; unfortunately he became drunk before the parade
started, and got into Dr. Smith’s phaeton, which was waiting outside
the house of a patient, and drove off. The stealing of the horse and
vehicle was a serious matter of itself, but he might have gone unmo-
lested if he had not attracted attention by his abuse of the animal, a
beautiful, ﬁne-bred, intelligent bay, which had been accustomed to only
the most gentle treatment. A Vicious cut of the whip caused the startled
horse to rear and plunge, at which the drunken intruder swore he would
“take it out of him”—the horse. By this time a crowd of people had
gathered, and not knowing but that Hogan was the owner of the horse,
jeered at him, as well as threatened to have him arrested. Finally the
frightened animal galloped down Twenty-fourth Street towards Fourth
Avenue. Fortunately one of the Society’s oﬁﬁcers happened around
just as Hogan turned the corner, still beating the horse most cruelly.
\Vhen the ofﬁcer stopped the frantic animal, Hogan got quite belliger-
ent and abusive, but all ﬁght was taken out of him when he found
himself on the way to the station-house where he was detained for the
rest of the day and night. Fined twenty dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Joseph Schumann left a mere skeleton of a horse covered with sores,
one hoof nearly off, in the street without food or drink for several hours.
Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

John G. Caldwell of Spring Glen, N. Y., was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.mOEwFZ .m|_<_>__z< mOu KMHJMIm

 

 

 




65

Champaign Branch of Illinois Humane Society.
C/zampczzgiz.
HENRY TREVETT, President. [‘A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. I HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.-
Jacksonville Humane Society.

facksmzw’l/e.
A. C. WADSWORTH, President. I WM. PATERSON, Secretary pro tem

Kankakee Branch of Illinois Humane Society.
Kan/ea/cee.
DR. A. S. CUTLER, President. | D. L. DURHAM, Secretary.

INDIANA.

The Indiana Humane Society.

68 W esz‘ Mar/tel Sireez‘, Indiaﬂape/z's.
DAVID W. COFFIN, President. I WM. 11.. ROBSON, Secretary.

Crawfordsville Humane Society.
_ Crazefera’sw’lle.
DAVID HARTER, President. [ A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.
The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper Four/ll Sz‘reez‘, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. I WILL \VARREN, Secretary.

Jefferson County Humane Society.

Madison.
CHAS. C. CORNETT, President. I JOHN W. LINCK, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.

82 Clz'mmz Street, Fort I/Vayrze.
GEO. H. WILSON, President. | C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

72.
DUTCHESS COUNTY.

The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated May 18, I889.
35 Mar/eel Slreez‘, Paug/zkeepsz‘e.

WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES F. COSSUM,
President. Secretary.

ORANGE COUNTY.
The Newburgh Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, I889.
[Var/éurglz. .
GEORGE W. PETERS, President. | A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

OSWEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City, N. Y.
Incorporated September 23, I889.

Doolittle Home, One/ego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. I MRS. G. M. GARDENIER,Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November I7, I891.
Fallon.
THOMAS HUNTER, 21'), President] MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WEBB, Sec.

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Onondaga Society for-the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated January 3, I891.
T/zz'rzl Nalz'mml Ban/c Building, Syracuse.
HON. D. BOOKSTAVER, President. I GEORGE B. LEONARD, Secretary.

 




73

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated January 16, 1891.
07207m’aga,
WILBER S. PECK, President. | JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.
Mac/e.
H. C. GILCHRIST, President. I WILLIAM R. COLSEY, Secretary.

 

CHEMUNG COUNTY.
The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 21, 1891.
[El/11277;.
DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, President. | MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER, Sec.
BROOME COUNTY.
Broome County Society for the. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated March 23, 1891.

Bing/amnion.
DR. L. D. STONE, President. | C. E. SHORES, Secretary.

 

ULSTER COUNTY.
The Ulster County Society for the, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 25, 1891.
[(z'ﬁgsz‘mz.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. 1 W. D. HALE, Secretary.
JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, 1891.
W aten‘arwz.
S. A. HAYT, President. | MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Secretary.

 

 

 

 




 

 

74

ALBANY COUNTY.

The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated March 8, 1892.
West Troy.

DR. WM. O. STILLMAN, President. I GEORGE R. HOWELL, Secretary.
The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May —, 1894.

. Lookport.
F. J. SAWYER, President. I

. NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

As/zevi/te.
GEORGE T. DAVIS,_ President. I WALTER S. CUSHMAN, Secretary.
North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

Wilmington.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. I F. A. LORD, Secretary.

OHIO.

Ohio Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

46 W est [tint/z Street, C iizei/moti.
DR. A. T. KECKELER. President. I OSCAR B. TODHUNTER, Sec.
Cleveland Humane Society.

Cleve/(2721!.
JAMES BARNETT, President. I H. A. GARFIELD, Secretary.

The Canton Humane Society.

Ccmtoiz.
\V. W. CLARK, President. I CHARLES R. FRAZER, Secretary.

Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.

Cotzmzom.
ROBERT S. NEIL, President. I FRANK F. HOFFMAN, Secretary.
Toledo Humane Society.

313 Adams Street, Toledo.
JAMES M. BROWN. President. I GEORGE S. WILSON. Secretary.

 




H

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
VVarrerz.

GEORGE P. HUNTER, President. I T. D. OVIATT, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society forthe Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

8 Nortﬁ jeﬂersoiz Street, Dayton.
L. D. REYNOLDS, President. | H.. W. SURFACE, Secretary.
Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
At/zens.
D. J. EVANS, President. J MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
Erie County Humane Society.
Sara’usky.
I. F. MACK, President. IC. B. LOCKWOOD Secretary.

Scioto County Humane Society.

Portsmouth
E. E. EWING, President. I HARRY BALL, Secretary.
OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
Portland.
T. L. ELIOT, President. IW. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.
PENNSYLVANIA.

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1627 C/zestmtt Street, Pﬁz’tazte/p/zz’a.
ROBERT W. RYERSS, President. | M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.

Women’s Branch of Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
I I8 Soot/z Seoenteerztﬁ Street, Plzz'too’e/p/zz'a.

MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. MRS. JOHN WILLIAMS PATTEN,
Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




75

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Yon/e.
CHAS. A. KLINEIFELTER, Pres. l H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
76 Sixt/i Avenue, Piz‘z‘sonrg/i.
GEORGE WILSON, President. IE. J. YOUNG, Secretary.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of the Penn-
sylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
lVesZ C/zesz’er.

MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. [WILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.
Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 36 Penn Sireez‘, Reading.

JOHN D. MISHLER, President. |JOSEPH A. ALLGAIER, Secretary.
Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W i/[iamsporiﬂ

MRS C. LA RUE MUNSON, Pres. I MRS. S. M. HERDIC, Secretary.
Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.
DR. B. H. THROOP, President. |J. H. FISHER, Secretary.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie.
F. F. ADAMS, President. IW. B. FLICKINGER, Secretary.
Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

W iZ/ees—B 6177?.

F. M. NICHOLS, President. I REV. HORACE EDWIN HAYDEN,
i Secretary.

.————_

RHODE ISLAND.
The Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
6r LVesz‘mins/er Sireez‘, Providenee.
J. C. B. WOODS, President. |C. BLANDING, Secretary.

Newport Branch of Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Newton Building, 1V endow.
IEDVVARD R. WHARTON, Treas.

 

 




 

77
SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

C/zarlestmz.
JOHN M. KINLOCH, President. ]J. ALWYN BALL, Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Col It meta .
TILMAN WATSON, President. I D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

The Greenville Branch of the South Carolina Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenziz'lle.
W. E. JOHNSTONE, President. I P. T. HAYNE, Secretary
TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.
289 Main Street, 11/ emf/12's.
TOM GALE, President. [MINTER PARKER, Secretary.

Chattanooga Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

C/zattarzeega.
COL. TOMLINSON FORT, Pres. lPROF. E. P. SEARLE, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.

Knoxville.
J. F. J. LEWIS, President. IREV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and Children. '

31432— Um'mz Street, Nas/zm'lle.
REV. D. C. KELLY, D.D., President. I M. HOKE, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

78
TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Galveston.
J. C. S. SPENCER, Pres. pro tem. | W. H. RITTER, Secretary.

.—

UTAH.

Utah Humane Society.

Salt Lake City.
| J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.

______

VERMONT.

Vermont Humane Society.

Bristol.
H. B. WILLIAMS, President. | E. A. HASSELTINE, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Brattleoorongn.
DR. GEORGE F. GALE, President. | MRS. MARY C. VVARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Rntlana’.
L. N. FRANKLIN, President. II. H. PENNINGTON, Secretary.

Vermont Humane Society.

Burlington.
HORACE J. BROOKS, President. |H. P. WHITCOMB, Secretary.

Chester Humane Society.

C/zester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. IA. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.

Brandon Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Brana’on.
DR. C. W. PECK, President. IW. R. BRIGGS, Secretary.

 




79

The Randolph Humane Society.

Ramtotjﬁlt.
DR. W. S. CURTIS, President. I R. K. WIRES, Secretary.

 

VIRGINIA.

Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

618 East Main Street, Rte/177207207.
DR. JUD. B. :WOOD, President. I W. A. TOVVNES, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

106 Main Street, Norfolk.
W. F. IRVINE, President. I W. B. BARTON, Secretary.

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

Portsmoatﬁ.
MRS. A. P. GRICE, President. I MISS M. A. BINGLEY. Secretary.

 

WASHINGTON (STATE).

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

20 Gross Building, “ C” amt Nz'at/z Streets, Taeoma.
L. F. COOK, President. I H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

...—__

WEST VIRGINIA.

Huntington Humane Society.

ffmztz'agtoﬂ.
MAJ. JAS. M. LEE, President. I E. F. CHAPMAN, Secretary.

West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

W/zeetz'ag.
JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. I MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE, Secretary.

 

WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 Milwaukee Street, Milwaukee.
JOHN F. BURKE, President. I MRS. J. M. PERELES, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   
 

    

 

80

Fox River Valley District of the Wisconsin Humane Society.

49 [Mam Street, Oslz/Ieos/z.
EBENEZER JAMES, President. I F. J. VVILKIE, Secretary.

 

Sheboygan Humane Society.

S/zebgfgaa.
T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. I W. C. ROENITZ, Secretary.

Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Society.

Illa 7227071106.

EMIL BAENSCH, President. I P. H. HEWITT, Secretary.

Organized Committee of the Wisconsin Humane Society of Ozaukee
County.
Port lVas/zz'agz‘mz.
A. A. FARMER, President. I C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

9 3 Hal/2'5 Stmez‘, Halifax.
J. C. MACKINTOSH, President. I JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.

Hamilton Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

H a mz'lz‘mz.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., President. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
Bagm‘ Strecz‘, K727257310”.
I JAMES MASSIE, Secretary.
Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

196 St. fames Streez‘, Montreal.
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. I GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.

Ottawa. ,
THE MAYOR OF OTTAWA, Pres. | W. e. BAKER, Secretary.

 




 

 

81

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Queéee.
E. J. HALE, President. IA. ROBERTSON, Secretary. -

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ferry Building, Water Street, St. jo/m.
JOHN V. ELLIS, President. | E. J. WETMORE, Secretary.
Toronto Humane Society.
103 Bay Street, Toronto,
W. R. BROCK, President. | MISS ANNA B. DELL, Secretary.
Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Frea’erietmz.
| CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.

Catle Paraguay 1059, Baeizos Ayres, Argeiztz'ize Repaalz'e.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, REV. DR. CARLOS W. DREES,
President. Secretary.

[fie a’e faneire, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, President. I J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Secretary.

____._-

WEST INDIES.

Havana, Cuaa.
D. J. G. VILLARAZA, President. I
Saii Domiﬁge, Demim'eaiz Repatlie.
RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC, Pres. | CESAR N. PENSON, Secretary.

___.._—_.

MEXICO.
City a f Mexico.

VIDAL CASTANEDA v NAJERA, EDUARDO L. GALLO.
President. Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

88

, RICHMOND COUNTY.
BRADY, PHILIP ............................... _ .............. Stapleton

ELLIOTT, GEORGE ................................... New Brighton
MATHESON, JAMES C. .................. . .............. Green Ridge

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

CALL. JAMES ..................... . ......................... Haverstraw
SPRINGSTEEN, LEONARD ............................... . . . .Suffern

ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
WRIGHT, D. V.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......................... Ogdensburgh

SARATOGA COUNTY.

FONDA, ROBERT C .................................. Saratoga Springs
RICE, GEORGE A ...................................... Mechanicsville
SELDEN, EDWARD D ................................ Saratoga Springs
VVOODVVORTH, H. J ................................ , .. Mechanicsville

SCHENECTADY COUNTY.
HOAG, C. E ......... ' ........................ . .......... Quaker Street

SCHOHARIE COUNTY.

BECKER, W. H. . . . ............................................ Gilboa
PLANK, OLIVER F ....................................... Gallupville

SCHUYLER COUNTY.
ROGERS, ROBERT P .......................................... Burdett

STEUBEN COUNTY.

BURKE, THOMAS W ........................................ Addison
DUDLEY, J. C .................................................. Bath
PHILLIPS, M.D., CHARLES R ........................... Hornellsville

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W .............................. Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L ......................................... Babylon
CAMPBELL, ARCHIBALD H .............................. Huntington
DAYTON, \VILLIAM B .................................. Port Jefferson
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P ................................... Elwood
HOMAN, C. E. C ........................................ East Hampton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M .................................... Setauket
MORISON, GEORGE W .................................. Ronkonkoma

MULFORD, HENRY D ...................................... Northport

 




 

Diete1ich, Charles F.
Dodge, Norman W. .
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. \Vm. l2.
Dunphy, Miss Julia K.

E
Eaton Dorman B.
Ehrich Bros.
Ellison, M. D. S. R.

Ennis & Sons, Thomas .
Export Lumber Co. (Limited)

F
Fairbanks, Mrs. Leland .
Fallert's Brewing Co., Joseph.
Faye, Mrs. Ernest Frederick .
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.

Flint, Mrs. C. R.

Ford, James B .

Frank, W. H., Brewing Co.
Freeman, Mrs. W. D. .

, Frese, Estate of Charles
Friend to Dumb Animals .

G

Gallatin, Miss Louise
VGilford, Samuel T. .
Gilligan, Mrs. Catharine
Gleason, E. P., Mfg. Co. .
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic .
Grahlfs, Herman .
Greason & Howland

H

Haight, Mrs. Alicia

Ham, James M. . . . . .
Hamersley, Mrs. J. Hooker .
Hardy, Voorhees & Co.
Harkness, Miss Florence .
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Hegeman, Joseph, & Co. .
Heissenbuttell & Nearing .
Hicks, Mrs. W. F. . .
Hillman, Mrs. Antoinette
Ho1nthal, Marx, In Memory of
Hosch, F. .

Hughes, P. G. .

Hunt, Miss Ann .

Hyatt, Mrs. MargaretA.

I
Ilsley, S. A. & Co. . . .
India Wharf Brewing Co.
Indig, E. .

4; 0001mm

104

00
00
OO
00

OO
00
OO

00

3O
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00

OO
00

50
OO

00

oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
65
oo
oo
oo
64
52

OO
00
00

Iron Clad Mfg. Co. $5
Iselin, Miss Emilie E. . 50
Itgen, E. H. . . . . . . 5
J
Jackson, L. F. . . . 5
Jacquins, Mrs. Edward . . 2
Jerzmanowski, Ba1on E. J. 20
Johnson, D. V. ,S. K. 350
K
Kelsey & Loughlin . . . . 5
Kendall, Miss Georgiana . 10
Kent. Mrs. George H. IO
Kenyon & Newton . . . . 5
King&Adams . . . . . 5
Kingsland, Henry P. 25

Klots & Bros.’ Sons, Walter T. 5

L
Lane, Miss F. . . . 5
Langdon, Woodbuiy G. 20
Langdon, Mrs. Woodbury IO

Langler 8: Sons, N. . . 5
Lanier, Mrs. J. F. D. . . .
larremore, Mrs. Wilbur . . 5
Iﬁa'lourrette, MissJ. E.

Law rence,Mrs Samuel (special) 300

Leibinger & Oehm Brewing Co. 10
Lewis, Mrs. George 300
Lewis, Mrs. Harry Dickinson 40
Lewis & Co, S. W. . . .
Lewis & Fowler Mfg. Co.

IO
Lins & Sons, H. . . . 5
Livingston, Miss Ann L. 10
Lockitt 5 Sons, George . 5
Loewi, Valentine 5
Long Island Brewery 5
Low, Edward A. 5
Low, Mrs. Seth . 5

' M

McAdam, Mrs. Phebe J. 6
McAlpin & Co., D. H. 5
McShane & Co., Henry 5
Major, Mrs. R. . . . 5
Male, W. H. . . . . . . 5
Mali, Charles . . . . . . 5
Marcks, L. H. . . 5
Marsten & Son 5
Maitense, A. V. . 5
Masury & Son, John W. . 5
Matthews, The Firm of John IO

00
00
00

OO
00
00
00

OO
00

00

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
CO
00

00
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00

 




