 

 

 

merits prompt public response.

 

New York World-Telegram and Sun Editorial,
Saturday, December 9, l950

THE NEW ASPCA SHELTER

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has opened
a new hospital and shelter at 92nd St. and York Ave. Driven from the hospi-
tal it operated for 40 years at 23rd St. and Ave. A to make way for a
veterans’ hospital, it has built an up-to-the-minute institution in which are
incorporated the executive offices formerly at 50 Madison Ave.

The licensing of dogs, the policing of strays, the care of sick and injured
animals, the prevention of cruelty and the education programs of the
ASPCA play an important part in the city’s life. Ability to fill this role should
be improved by the new equipment.

The only fly in the ointment is the wide gap between what the new institu-
tion cost and what was received for the old—a difference of $500,000.
To make this up the ASPCA is conducting a building fund which, on its record,

 

 

Committee and visitors she then
toured the building.

John D. Beals, Jr., president of
the Society, presided at the cere-
monies, and among the guests
were State Senator Walter W.
Stokes, and Commissioner John F.
Mahoney of the Department of
Health.

Designed by Walker and Poor,
architects, and built by the Turner
Construction Co., the new hospital
and shelter provides modern facili-
ties, the best and most complete in
the world, for the detention of ani—
mals, for the placement of those that
can be put out for adoption, and for
hospital diagnosis, treatment and
care.

Visitors were particularly im—

pressed with the second ﬂoor hospi—
tal, with its X—ray room, operating
rooms, .dispensary, surgical wards
and a splint shop. The deep freeze
in the kitchen, and the chrome bath
tub with hose, shower and electric
dryer in the dog bath attracted
much attention. Guests were told
about the buried steam pipes under
the outdoor exercise enclosure, which
dispel ice and snow.

Mechanical wonders, however,
were no competition for the animals
themselves with either grownups or
children.

Many of the dogs and cats walked
right into a heart and then into a
home, after the home was inspected
and adoption papers were put in
order.

 

 




 

Animal Protection

1 The ASPCA, some months ago,
again offered its serV1ces to the Civil
Defense Comm1ss1on in the execu—
tion- of the present preparedness
plans; ,
During World War II as most
ANIMAL PROTECTION readers know,
the Soc1ety developed an ,eXtensive
program For c1v1l deFense as it re—
lated to anlmal protection "
, Federal, State and City civil
deFense units ”recogmzed that aside
From the humane angle control oF
the?“ animal population in bombed
areas was vital to public health and
safety They endorsed our First Aid
Classes and made W1de use oF the
mater1als we prepared based on the
eXperience oF Br1t1sh humane groups
and the best adv1ce we could obtain
in this country ’~ ' ~

The First Aid training coUrse
con31sted oF Four meetings two

hours each Instructlon was given by

 

in Civil Defence

leading New York veterinarians on
how to handle terriﬁed or injured
animals, how to administer medicine
or anesthetics, and how to apply
bandages.

The City appointed successFul
graduates as Animal Aides. Emer—
gency bags and supplies were issued
For a small Fee. Buildings were
spotted where animals could be
housed in an emergency.

The ASPCA literature on animal
protection in time oF disaster was
published by the American Red Star
Animal Relief, a department oF the
American Humane Association in
Albany, N. Y. Government agencies
thought so well of it that they de-
Ferred all inquiries on the subject to

the Red Star.

Ready once more to assume our
reSponsibility toward animals, a
similar program is now being devel—

‘oped. Those wishing to enroll 1n the
.‘F1rst eight classes should notiFy the

ASPCA Education Department, 4-1]

East 92nd Street, New York.

’ Darin 31*‘trorzd War 11 the [15190151
gave zmtruetzon 271 First ﬂza’ water

the C201! Defense program

Photo by Warren W. McSpadden

 




 

 

 

present. (“My canary won’t sing;
why?” “How do you keep a dog
from barking in the house?” “Can
my family get a dog from the
ASPCA?” “A cat came to our
house; is it all right to keep it?”
Etc., etc.)

During the discussion the instruc—
tor explains the purpose of the
Society and emphasizes the civic as
well as humane importance of its
work. “The ASPCA Story,” a new
colored motion picture, gives the
children an even clearer idea of the
necessity for animal welfare work
and shows the wide range of activi—
ties in which the Society engages.

The children then take their
guided tour of the building, begin—
ning with the second-ﬂoor Hospital.
They go through then-"examination
rooms where the veterinarians diag—
nose ailing pets. They almost tiptoe
through the temperature-controlled,
post-operative rooms. If the operat—
ing room is not in use the children
gather around the table to inspect
equipment. The ﬂuoroscope is dem—
onstrated to show how the veteri—
narian locates and removes foreign
objects that animals swallow. Wards
are visited in which animals con—
valesce. The Hospital’s outdoor exer—

William Sims, hospital Kennel

foreman, shows how the veterinarian

usesforeeps to remove a foreign oh—
jeet from a pet’s stomach

Photo by [Warren W. .MeSpadden

    

cise runs help the children to appre—
ciate the need for adequate fresh air
and sunshine for their pets.

Next they visit the Board of
Health ward where they see dogs and
cats alleged to have bitten people.
This gives the instructor oppor—
tunity to explain the New York
City bite law and to caution against
petting strange dogs or cats.

From the Hospital the children
continue to the Manhattan Shelter,
which occupies the ﬁrst ﬂoor of the
building. Here they observe a va—
riety of dogs in the kennels. A
chorus of “ohs” and “ahs” greets
the tenants in the cat ward.

Moving to the garage the group
sees the big horse ambulance and
is shown how the Society’s agents
use the specialized equipment to
rescue animals in distress.

The visit ends with an affectionate
look at the horse peering out of the
special stall. By this time from 35
to 70 boys and girls are quite ready

(Continued on page 13)

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   

 




  

3 JAMES H. RIPLEY, Chairman of
A the Building Committee, said:
“The opening of the ASPCA’s new
Manhattan hospital and shelter at
York Avenue and East 92nd Street
was the most informal and friendly
opening I have ever attended.”

That’s just what it was, and Mrs.
Vincent R. Impellitteri, wife of
New York’s mayor, made it so
because of her effervescent, but
sincere manner.

More than 1,500 members and
friends attended the ofﬁcial opening
of the Society’s new building last
December 8 and 9. The shelter
and hospital was dedicated by Mrs.
Impellitteri, whose own 2-months—
old Irish setter was then a patient
in the new hospital. Holding the
puppy in her arms, Mrs. Impellitteri

OPEN HOUSE

spoke to the guests gathered in front
of the building.

“We are not the only country in
the world with such an organiza—
tion,” she said, “but I am certain we
are the only city in the world with
such a new and modern building to
care for the friends of man — dogs,
cats, horses, or whatever they may
be.” She stressed the point that
“while New Yorkers may well be
proud of this building, they must
ﬁrst see to it that it is paid for
and then continue to support it.”

“I think I can give you my per-
sonal guarantee as to the efﬁciency
of the ASPCA,” Mrs. Impellitteri
continued. “I have my own little
puppy here—the ﬁrst dog I ever
owned and who—up until this
minute—has remained nameless.
I am taking her home today and I
hope she will like the name I have
chosen for her —— Suzie.”

The puppy was a gift from Wil—
liam J. Donoghue, the Mayor’s
secretary. It was left at the shelter
when the Mayor and his wife were on
their vacation.

After the ceremony the Society
issued an identiﬁcation tag for
the dog to Mrs. Impellitteri. Ac—
companied by the Building Fund

Mrs. Vincent R. I mpe/litteri cuts
the riééon atiopening ceremonies
of the Society’s new éni/ding

  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   

 

 

 




 

SCHOOL IS

 

FUN AT THE ASPCA

Photo by Warren W. McSpadden

William Ryan demonstrates how emergency rescue equipment is asea’

 

This article on the Education De-

partment is the first of a series

describing the activities of the
ASPCA’s various departments

 

 

 

Tours for children through the
Society’s new Hospital and Shelter
at 92nd Street and York Avenue,
Manhattan, are the newest offering
of the Education Department. Al—
though this service was inaugurated
only since the ﬁrst of the year,
teachers and other youth leaders
have indicated their hearty ap—
proval. V

Mr. Sidney Cohen, a sixth grade
teacher in Public School 139, Brook-

lyn, writes:

“A class tour through the new ASPCA

6

headquarters has great educational value for
children and provides immediate contact
with this highly interesting and important
phase of big—city life which otherwise may be
misunderstood or taken for granted.

“The over—all physical set—up is most
attractive. That the children are intrigued
and appreciative is evident from their many
well—considered questions. This voluntary
participation is prompted, perhaps, by the
friendly attitude of the staff. Children can’t
help feeling welcome, feeling wanted, feeling
important, and feeling adult.

“ The discussion as well as the ﬁlms were on
a ﬁne level of equality well within the pupils’
understanding — no talking down, no stodgy,
impersonal, routinized ‘spiel.’ Instead there
was genuine feeling of warmth and interest
and good humor.”

The visit requires an hour and a
half to two hours, and begins in
the third—ﬂoor classroom with a
discussion of the children’s own
pets and some of the problems they

 

 

 




 

 

 

Homes for the Homeless

Since June, 1950, television has
opened the doors Of over 500 homes
to cats and dogs the ASPCA has
presented for adoption.

The programs which have so
generously given time for this appeal
are VVNBT’s “Date in Manhattan”
with Ed Herlihy and Lee Sullivan
(Tuesday at 11:00 A.M.) and WJZ—
TV’s Zeke Manners’ show (Thurs-
day at 3:00 P...M)

The most gratifying aspect of
these adoptions is the number of
satisﬁed foster parents, including
many happy youngsters.

Master Ronnie Straub, aged 3%,
whose parents took a Beagle hound
puppy, came up with an amazing
name for his new—found companion.
“Brewster” is what he called it
until it was discovered that “Miss”
Brewster would be more appropri—
ate.

Five—year—old Dean Andrea is
now the proud owner of an 85%
Dalmatian puppy which he calls
“Skipper.” Skipper is one of a litter
of eight, all of which found excellent
homes at the age of ﬁve weeks.
On a recent occasion Dean ran
to his mother in great excitement:

“Mommy, look! Skipper has black

Flower ana7 his /itt/e mistress ﬂ/iee
appear on W 7Z—TV with Zeke
Manners, Henriette Harrison, ana7
ﬂrthar L. ﬂmandsen, District
Manager of the Brooklyn Shelter,
who presented the dog for adoption

 

dots coming out all over him!” It
was explained that Skipper Was
beginning to loo/e like a Dalmatian.

Then there is the touching story.
of the woman who had decided ‘she
could no longer keep her seven—1.
month-old brown terrier. She brought
him to one of the Shelters for
adoption. The dog was shown on
“Date 1n Manhattan.” The lady
just happened to be watching the
program, and when she heard the
words, “Would anyone like to have
this ﬁne little terrier?” it was just
too much for her to bear. She im—
mediately called WNBT and re—
adopted him.

Television certainly offers a ﬁne
showcase for homeless animals and
New Yorkers continue to prove

affection for them — with or with—
out pedigrees.

 

 




"'NHRT Do you SFly?»

H

FOLKS OUR HA u. ?

Pat agreed we should. Pat’s my
brother. I’m Mike. Our last name is
Riley, and most of the time we lead the
sort of life associated with that name.

But last summer, when we heard about
the ASPCA Building Fund, we decided
we could no longer afford to be play-
boys

50 we set out to raise money for the

9'
'7" A: (foal hnfww
“M .
“fa-u Cam
“air” AZ”

av

€SHQLL we SHOW THE

new Hospital and Shelter, built to take
care of the thousands of New York
animals that have no brother Pat, nor
any relatives or friends to care what
happens to them.

Please, believe us, it was the most
rewarding experience we ever had,
and this is iust our way of saying: ”We
thank you, one and all.”

74’ %

 




 

VOL. 5 NO.

1

 

aw
mv
19
HV
an
4N
Na.
no
NJ...
.01
NH
3
mv
mw
na
38
um
uv
0N
S
mw
wm
[-
9A

SPRING 1951

 




 

 

Off with the Old.

No “thank you” could possibly
surpass the sincere one expressed by
Pat and Mike. Still it seems ap—
propriate .that the Building Fund
Committee and the Board of Man—
agers add a more formal word of
appreciation, together with an in—
formal report.

Members of both are deeply
grateful to the contributors, whose
names have been recorded in a large
leather—bound book, to radio and
television, to the press, to the volun—
teers who labored over ofﬁce detail,
to the VVomen’s Division, and to all
who collected funds.

Since money is still coming in, no
audit has been made as yet, but to
date $102,032.34 has been received.
This sum does not meet our deﬁcit.
However, we feel the crusade was a
success when measured in broader
terms than money alone.

The Shoes/zine Girls, Inc., a group
of oat—of-worh actresses, inc/riding
Emma anrz‘, Leatriee McCall, and
Lois Scherzo/e, give yoey ﬂa’ams, of
radio’s “Rate Your Mate” fame,
his money’s worth, as they shine
his shoes al the [inima/ Kingdom
Ball

10

First, it provided the nucleus of a
permanent Fund Raising Depart—
ment, now set up at 50 Rockefeller
Plaza. This Department, aside from
handling all memberships and con—
tributions, will be responsible for
publicity and for the development
of ideas to make the public ASPCA
conscious, as well as ideas for fund-
raising events.

Also, the Society gained 2,196
new supporters during the Cam-
paign, who were responsible for
about one—third of the contribu—
tions. Many of our new friends be—
came members and others have

already made further contributions
toward general expenses.

We are indeed deeply grateful for
the public— spirited manner in which
New Yorkers supported our crusade
to build our ﬁne new home for the
City’s homeless and ill animals.

 

 

 




  
    
      
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Adrs. George Hayman has tea at Le
Coq Rouge as she talks over plans
for the ﬂnirna/ Kingdom Ball with
the restaurant’s proprietor, Frank
Bonaeelzz'nz' (right) and Buddy
Rogers

 

On wit/2 the New

Another signiﬁcant development, antics of the Shoeshine Girls, Barton
which grew up among Building Emanuel’s fortune-telling, and the
Fund supporters, is the lively Wom— smooth dance music provided by
en’s Division. William Adler and his orchestra.

These active ladies were the spirit The very able committees that
and the drive behind the successful organized the Ball under the leader—
Animal Kingdom Ball, held at the ship of Mrs. George Hayman and
Hotel Ambassador Gardens on Mrs. Alexandre Hoppin, co—chair—
Thursday, February 8th. This sup— men of the Women’s Division, cer—
per dance was the ﬁrst occasion of its tainly are to be congratulated for a

kind in the Society’s 86 years. Judg— gala as well as a proﬁtable occasion.
ing from its reception it is destined
to become an annual event.

The crowd of nearly 500 became Rhea EZ/z'man “'ng puppy 51'1“», l

friends early in the evening when prize at ﬂﬁimdl Kingdom Ball l
BUddy Rogers, Master Of Cere- N. Y.]urnalAmerican Photo

monies, announced the Balloon
Dance. As the balloons, fashioned in
the shape of animals, tumbled from
J aloft into the ball—room, the scram—
l ble was on. About 100 beautiful
i prizes contributed by local mer—
‘ chants were released among the
i eager competitors.

Off to a good start, the crowd
continued to be entertained by
Morton Downey’s Irish tenor, the

 




 

 

Mews and Barks

Agent Thomas J. Curran enjoying
a pleasant evening at home received
an urgent call from the Brooklyn
Shelter at 7:48 P.M. A few minutes
later he was helping to remove ani-
mals from a stable ﬁre on Alabama
Ave. Three horses and six goats had
burned to death when he arrived,
and the ﬁre, which started in the
hay shed, was spreading to the
adjoining stable. Nineteen horses
were taken out and placed in a lot
across the street until the ﬁre was
under control. Curran made certain
the horses were safe and comfortable
before leaving for home. He returned
early the next morning and found
the surviving horses in good condi—
tion.

During the devastating rain and
wind storm of last fall, when many
homes on Long Island and Staten
Island had to be evacuated, the
ASPCA was one of the agencies
which lent a helpful hand. In Queens
two extra men worked until 10 P.M.
assisting the Red Cross to evacuate
residents of Howard Beach, whose
homes were under water. Our ambu-
lance picked up dogs from a church
in Ozone Park and an armory in
Jamaica and cared for the pets until
they were claimed by their owners.

Walter Hollinde, shelter foreman
in Staten Island, picked up 30 dogs
from ﬂooded homes and the hospital
where many families had been taken
by boat. One family with their two
dogs swam to safety.

 

Courtesy of The N e-ws

ﬂSPC/il’s Thomas Morton (right)

and William Furlong of Police

Emergency Squad, remove 6—weehs—o/d

kitten trapped in drain pipe. The piti—

ful mewings of the kitten hrought

rescuers who had to chop a hole in the
pipe to extricate her

It was nearly two months later
when the last of the pets was claimed
from the shelter by a 70—year—old
bedridden woman, whose only com—
panion was the little dog.

Faint sounds of a dog in distress
attracted the attention of Mr. John
Intermaggio and fellow workers at
the ofﬁce of the Baltimore-New
York Express Co. in Jersey City. A
search located a six-months—old

(Continued on page 13)

12

 

 




 

 

 

 

Plzoto by [Warren W. McSpadden

Everyooa’y likes to see how the veleri—
nariaa locates foreign oojeei‘s in ani—
mals oy looking tlzroaglz theﬂaoroseope

SCHOOL IS FUN
(Continuedfrom page 7)
to board their bus for school or
home.

The Society is justly proud of
this new educational service for
children and feels that it is one of the
most effective means of acquainting
them with the humane purposes and
necessity of its work, as well as a
means of building attitudes of kind-
ness and consideration for our pets
and other animals.

13

 

BOARD MEMBER
ELECTED

MR. LOUIS REYNAL has been
elected to the Board of Man—
agers of the ASPCA. A design—
ing engineer, Mr. Reynal '
interested in many civic move—
ments, and is a Director of the
Women’s League for Animals.

 

 

 

Change in Annual
Meeting

The annual meeting of members
and friends of the ASPCA will be
held at 8 P.M. in the ballroom of
the Roosevelt Hotel, May 14, 1951.
The change from January to May for
this popular event was made neces-
sary when the end of the ﬁscal year
was changed from December 3lst to
April 30th.

An attractive program is being
arranged under the chairmanship of
Mr. Thomas D. Hughes.

Because the ﬁscal year has been
changed, the Annual Report issue
of ANIMAL PROTECTION will be

published in June.

(Continuedfrom page 12)
Belgian Shepherd in a sewer. The
abandoned pup was removed by the
Police Emergency Squad and turned
over to Mr. Intermaggio, who
warmed and fed the dog in the
company’s oﬂice. The Shepherd
later found a new home through the
Manhattan Shelter. .

.,:‘:21u:3 ,.e;~w

 




 

 

 

 

 

COVER PICTURE: Daisy hays the ﬁrst dog license in 1951. The
ASPC/i’s mascot reminds all her friends to purchase their licenses
before the deadline on ﬂpril 30. Send $3.00 with last year’s certiﬁcate to
the ﬂSPCﬂ horoagh oﬁce.

lVorld- Telegram photo

 

 

 

 

 

“THIS IS SOMP’N!”
(Continuedfrom hack page)

individual kennelling and where indoor exercise pens are newly established.

Even though the sleet hit my face, I thrilled to see the 20 roof runs where
animals can get sunlight and air safely on ﬁne days. Under each of the new
wire mesh cages is a tray which draws out for cleaning — another reason for
the sweet air and sense of absolute cleanliness which impressed me.

I was particularly impressed with the hospital ward. I wish I had the
space to write all about the busy mother dog nursing her ﬁve new puppies
under the warm glowing heat lamp above her. She was too busy to give me
more than a friendly glance.

I was also impressed with the pigeon perfectly happy in the cat ward. The
pigeon is a pet of the kennelman and loves to ﬂy around the room lighting
on his shoulder where it receives gracious attention.

I saw the kitchen where all food is prepared and I swear no housewife
could wish for more than the deep freeze unit provided, nor the huge copper
pots — reminiscent ofAmerica’s early history — for cooking meats and ﬁsh.

The ﬁne Education Department under Warren W. McSpadden not only
takes youngsters on tours of the building— a new feature — but teaches
about animals and their care in the cheerful classroom equipped to show
motion pictures. It was no surprise to hear that schools are rapidly taking
advantage of these opportunities.

Light colors, gleaming metals and attractive and interesting architecture
give the new ASPCA building something indeﬁnably reassuring in atmos-
phere.

A little pussycat, waiting to be adopted, purred and rubbed against the
mesh of her cage. She virtually told me:

“This is somp’n!”

 

"HELP THE ASPCA — USE THE LEWIS-CONGER WAY”

If you mention ASPCA when you purchase from Lewis and Conger, 45th St. and
6th Ave., during March, we will receive 10% of the price of the merchandise.

14

 




 

 

From Our Mail Bag

“I want to express to you my appreciation
for the assistance that you have recently given
us in the removal ofﬁve vagrant female cats
which had heen making their headquarters for
a long time in our hackyard and garage, and
which we were ahle to catch. We also want to
express our appreciation of the uniform cour-
tesy of all ofyour employees who took part in
this matter and throughout the many years that
we have called upon you for assistance. I enclose
my checkfor $25 as a contrihution.”

“I wonder if you happen to remember
Pal? I adopted him from your 23rd Street
shelter in February of 1948. We brought him
directly up to Maine; and although he was

 

frightened by the feel of the grass under his
feet at ﬁrst, he soon accustomed himself to
the country. He now considers himself a
native and looks after the whole island.”

“Please accept my check for $100. I have
just witnessed the ﬁne work of your group. dt
10 P.M. I saw a dog lying against the park wall
on Fifth ﬂvenue, and it seemed to he lost, scared
or hurt. I had my own dog on a leash with me.
I started hack to my home to phone you and like
an answer to my prayer your wagon drove up
and the attendant picked up the dog and took it
away for proper care. Someone had heen good
enough to notify you.”

“Enclosed is my check for membership in
the ASPCA. My mother was a member for a
good many years until her death in 1946.

Today I had occasion to talk with one
of your drivers who came with the ambulance
to remove a tiny injured kitten from the
street. He was very courteous, and I told him
I would join as a member immediately.”

“I am sure you will he interested and glad—
dened to hear of a particularly fine accomplish-
ment hy your staﬂ at the Shelter.

Dolores, the rescued kitten I ﬁnally succeeded
in hringing hack to suﬁcient health, was handed
over to your staﬂ for adoption. The following
morning I called to assure the former little
suﬁerer that her friends had not forsaken her,
and I was informed that she had heen adopted
the previous afternoon. Evidently, the kitten
stayed with you just long enough to have lunch.

Fine work,ﬁne work is all that can he said.”

 

ANIMAL PROTECTION, published quarterly by the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Publication Oﬂice, 441 East 92nd Street, New York 28, N. Y. (At

York Ave.)

 

OFFICERS: Pres., John D. Beals, Jr.; V. Pres., Samuel R. Milbank, William Fellowes Morgan,
Jr. , Hugh E. Paine; Treas., Robert L. Jones; Sec., William L. Burton; ﬂsst. Sec., Thomas D.

Hughes; Exec. V. Pres. , Sydney H. Coleman.

MANAGERS: John D. Beals, Jr. , William E. Buckley, William L. Burton, F. Ambrose Clark,
Sydney H. Coleman, Henry J. Fisher, Thomas D. Hughes, Robert L. Jones, Alastair B. Mar—
tin, Samuel R. Milbank, G. Montagu Miller, William Fellowes Morgan, Jr., Joseph B. Murray,
Hugh E. Paine, W. Ross Proctor, Louis Reynal, James H. Ripley, William A. Rockefeller,

George B. Wagstaff.

15

 




 

“This Is So:mp’n!”
BY FLORENCE VVESSELS

Miss Wessels, a feature wriler wit/z z‘he
New Yer/e Sunday YournaZ—ﬂmerz'ean,
here gives some of lzer imprersiom after visit—

ing the ﬂSPC/i’s new Hospiz‘a/ and Size/fer

T WAS A COLD, SLEETY afternoon when I Visited the new ASPCA Man—
I hattan Hospital and Shelter, but the warmth and light and — to me ——
wonders of the new quarters made me forget all about what was going on
outside.

As an old friend of the organization, I always loved to visit the headquar—
ters on Madison Avenue and the shelter on 24th Street. But as Mr. Sydney
H. Coleman did me the honor of taking me on an exploring tour of the new
building, suddenly the former projects seemed ancient and inadequate and,
despite their good work, were at once forgotten in an almost personal pride
in what I was seeing.

Tommy, the big black cat belonging to my home apartment house on
Washington Square, had magniﬁcently recovered when sent to the new
hospital — and I didn’t wonder! Tommy was thought to have a hopeless
skin disease and the ASPCA was called to put him out of misery. But the
hospital found he’d suffered a burn. Now the whole apartment staff is
rejoicing.

I realized that many a New York family would be rejoicing as I saw the
well-ventilated wards, clean and sweet, and the top—hole equipment provided
to make sick animals well and to house animals - lost pets, dogs and cats
awaiting adoption, dogs being held for observation after biting someone.

The special X—ray room with latest new equipment would reassure the
heart of every animal owner. So would the operating room with its gleaming
sterilizing unit and great light above the table.

But I saw another ﬁne operating room next door without the light, and
I asked why.

It was then I learned that this ﬁne hospital, which would bring dignity
and comfort to the animal, without extravagance, was still lacking equip—
ment.

I couldn’t help referring to my own budget — regretfully. It would not,
at this point, help pay for the ﬁne ward system, where each animal has

(Continued on page 14)

 




