 

 

One horse was killed and another injured during the filming of
a western'picture. The first horse was taken to the top of a cliff
high above a lake and loaded into a blind chute which was boarded
up on both sides, with a canvas curtain in front. It set on aroller—
rocker, so that the hbrse would be urged forward, its weight tip-
ping the chute and forcing the animal onto a greased slide. The
slide was designed to propel the animal well out over the water.
The first horse was blindfolded and driven into the chute. At a
signal from the director, the blindfold was removed, the front
curtain pulled aside, the horse was urged forward and, before the
animal knew what it was all about, it hit the greased slide, shot
off into space, four hoofs out and hindquarters down, and in a sit-
ting position began its descent to death. The animal hit the water
hindmost, came up twice and then went to a watery grave.

The procedure in the case of the second horse was the same
as the first. This horse, however, missed the greased slide and
fell close to the side of the cliff and suffered a flesh wound.

The incident received considerable publicity, and as the story
circulated, cries of protest came from every quarter -- not only
the humane societies , but columnists , government officials and the
general public.

Richard C . Craven, speaking for The American Humane Asso—
ciation, sounded the battle cry when he issued an ultimatum: "We
refuse to tolerate these cruelties any longer. The motion picture
industry is going to stop it, whether they like it or not. The time
has passed for requests and beseeching; we are now telling them. "

Craven backed up his words with action and went to Hollywood
as a representative of the AHA, which meant he was speaking for
virtually every humane society in the U. S. and Canada. In 1940,
he succeeded in effecting an agreement with the Motion Picture
Association under which the AHA'S representative should be re-
garded as the arbiter in all matters connected with the use of ani-
mals, and should be invited to all studio sets and locations where
animals were being used.

 




 

99

service and experienced personnel authorized by the motion pic—
ture code, wherever it is needed, regardless of state or munic-
ipal boundaries. The AHA bears the full cost of this service.

An example of mutual cooperation between the AHA and The
Motion Picture Industry occurred. at Furnace Creek Inn in Death
Valley, Where the noonday temperatures reached 115 or lZO de»
grees in the shade. The sun beat down and reflected from the sand,
and working conditions were not fit for man nor beast.

An Arab picture was in the making. The horses were heavily
draped, with almost no circulation of air possible. At the suggesa
tion of the AHA, shooting schedules were changed to take advantage
of the cooler morning and late afternoon hours. During the heat
of the day, the animals were placed in a barn where they could
relax in the cool shade.

The horses appeared happy' with this arrangement, and there
is no question about how the actors and stuntmen felt.

In the filming of'a Biblical spectacle, great numbers of ani~
mals -- donkeys, burros, goats, sheep, ducks and geese ~- were
used. Some of the animals appeared to be killed in combat. Thou-
sands of others were apparently swallowed up by the Red Sea.

Such effects are accomplished largely through technical pr oc-
esses, without danger to the animals. During the filming of this
picture, as with all MPAA Code Seal productions , AHA represent-—
atives-were on hand, day after day, watching the animals go through
their paces; offering suggestions; and checking on action behind
the scenes . '

Scope of the AHA activity is not limited to actual production.
Animal handling enroute to the location and between scenes is also
supervised. In fact, the benefit of AHA workis greater behind the
scenes , with only a small percentage of the overall effort expended
during actual production. Frequently a movie ”extra" will go
horseback riding between scenes, and the AHA representative will

I]

 

 




 

loaded with quarter or half charges sothat the noise will not fright-
.en or deafen the horses.

_ Suddenly, in the chase, there is a ravine. There's noturning
back! The horses must jump. The cameras stop, trainedjumping
horses are substituted, and the chase continues.

Then ”Mother Nature" steps in. The tempo of the picture is
stepped-up by an unexpected sandstorm. There is howling wind
and blowing sand, but the horses don't mind a bit: all of the sand
is between the cameras and the performers.

The storm clears. The ”good guys" begin to close in on the
”bad guys. " It comes down to close combat. A horse is shot!

 

MOVIE AUDIENCES thrill as dog fights wolf. Scene was filmed
with two muzzled dogs. In. many animal 'fights, ' split-screen is
used; combatants never see each other. ° WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS

5

 




 

 

The Hmzriwn humanz Haautiatiun

 

Th ehi d-the nes s y
of nim 1 acti '11 mo
pic res nd televi

 




 

 

 

 

with the horse, the animal took a drink and the director got his
scene on film.

A reporter standing nearby commented, "That man is worth

every cent you pay him. " One of the crew replied, "Oh, we don't
pay him anything. That man is The American Humane Association
representative. “ The reporter was fascinated, and he spent the

rest of the day following the AHA man: they were late to meals,
assuring first that the animals were being fed; they walked and
walked; they kept right on working after the company had quit for
the day. The reporter later admitted it was the most tiring day
he had put in for some time.

The AHA does not condone acts of brutality, even when they
can be depicted without actual cruelty taking place. In one pic—
ture, the story of dog fighting was vividly told. It was "accept—
able" because the general tenor. of the film was in opposition to the
brutality of the dog pit. AHA representatives were on hand and
they know none of the animals were abused, despite the fact that
dog fights did appear on the screen. At no time was there any
physical contact between the dogs in the pit.

When a stage coach or other vehicle turns over at ahigh rate
of speed, a break-away is accomplished. A mechanical arrange-
.ment releases the hitch from the vehicle at a designated point.
Once released, a supporting device -— invisible to the cameras ——
holds the pole and double-tree in a safe position so that it does not
strike the horses.

On a western location one day, at a given signal a herd of
horses and a tribe of whooping, hollering Indians were to charge
into camera range from behind a hill. One particular horse be—
came confused and refused to move out. A bit player became in-
.furiated, picked up a heavy hickory bow, and gave the poor animal
such a sound thump that the heavy piece of wood snapped in two.

A representative of the AHA viewed the incident from a dis-
tance, butbefore he could arrive on the scene, the producer was
already giving the actor a sound verbal drubbing: “This sort of

13

 




 

soft as could be. Leather bands with loops attached were fastened
about his front fetlocks. Wires were run through the loops and up
through a metal ring contrivance attached to the cinch under the
belly. From there the wire ran to a ground stake about 35 feet
back and was securely held.

The sorrel horse knew what was in store for him. He associ-
ated that rigging with heavy falls he had had before. It was only
put on when he was to be thrown, so he knew. He was nervous, full
of fear. It was not easy to hold him while he was being readied.

All was ready. A rider mounted the sorrel. Another rode
alongside on a free horse. The two dashed swiftly down a gentle
slope. Cameras were grinding. When the soft earth spot was
reached the wire cable pulledtaut, the front feet were plucked from
under the animal and down he crashed with his nose in the earth.
Soon he was on his feet again. He was led away. All afternoon he
was nervous, very nervous. He had experienced abad shock. He
did not seem to be bruised, and the only external evidence of in»
jury was a superficial wire cut about two inches long. Dirt was in
his teeth. There can be suffering without bruises, and that horse
had suffered.

A week later the sorrel horse was again selected for a Running
W, at another spot. Again the ground was prepared to break, if
possible, the force of his fall. But the terrible shock remained,
as in every case where such forced falls were employed. The
frightened creature struck the ground with terrific force. A fore-
leg was broken a few inches from the top. The animal rolled over
once, struggled to his feet, stood there dazed. A pitiful sight.
Within thirty seconds abullet put him out of his suffering. It was
his last Running W for mob excitement. The boss horseman shed
tears. Others were silent. It spoiled lunch for the men. Specta-
tors found it difficult to express their feelings in words.

Two days later the third Running W was staged, with a hired
bay horse, 12 years old, 1000 pounds. Extra precautions. There
could be no mishap, for that would invalidate any excuses for the
"unexpected, regrettable accident" of two days before. The horse

7

 

 




m A.

"\w 7v,
-\\‘°""’
\\®

 




 

 

 

 

Code and voluntary supervision therefore covers nearly 100%
of all animal action seen in the theatre and on television. The
AHA cannot assure that there is no cruelty inflicted in some for-
eign made films, those presented without the MPAA Code seal of
approval, and in a few television shows .

As animals became more important to motion pictures -- their
vastly increased popularity exemplified by Lassie, Flicka, Rin Tin
Tin, Trigger, Daisy, and many others -- frequent suggestions
were made that the animals should have their own "Os cars , " much
the same as the human performers.

 
   

TONY, the wonder horse, naps with owner-trainer Gene Warner.
The Three Stooges are amazed to find horse in bed.
15

 




 

 

 

The idea formed, then it snowballed. The result was the AHA
PATSY Awards , fir st established in 1951 and an annual affair since ,
to honor the Performing Animal Top Star of the Year. Francis,
the talking mule, walked away with top honors the first year. In
1958 the AHA authorized an identical set of awards exclusively for
the Performing Animal Television Star of the Year.

These annual award celebrations serve to publicly express the
day in and day out c00peration between the AHA and the motion
picture and television producers.

When The American Humane Association went to Hollywood,
a new chapter was added to the slice of Americana known as the
humane movement. Certainly, if any phase of the work appears
glamorous, this would be it. In actual practice, however, it is
just another job -- and not an easy one, at that -— which needs to
be done.

ANNUAL PATSY AWARD CEREMONY is a colorful event
which calls public attention to humane treatment of animals
in motion picture and television production. In photo, Jimmy
Stewart, who participated in 1951 Award ceremony, displays the
large First Place PATSY trophy. Awards on table are for runners -
up.
17

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

The AHA maintains a national field. staff and headquarters
staff which organizes new humane societies, advises and materi—
ally helps established societies, works to elevate the standards
of humane work, offers assistance to municipalities, and speaks
for the united humane movement in national affairs . The activi—
ties of the Hollywood Office provide an example of this latter point,
as the AHA provides a uniform supervisory service to producers
of motion picture and television shows across the entire country,
and even on location in foreign lands .

The education and editorial staff and Special national com—
mittees work with educators and parents' organizations at many
levels to further humane education. The Association publishes
The National Humane Review, a magazine that is the recognized
voice of the national humane movement, several smaller peri—
odicals, and many leaflets and booklets on a great diversity of sub-
jects from a one page leaflet on "How to Care for a Cat, ” toa 217
page book on "Child Protective Services in the United States . ”

 

The financial structure of the AHA is simple . The Association
is supported entirely by philanthropic gifts and contributions from
its friends. The AHA receives only a nominal annual affiliation
fee from state and local societies. The societies are not asked to
shoulder the financial burden of AHA work; instead, the Associa-
tion spends a large part of its income to help the hundreds of local
societies . The Association seeks a vast number of new contribu-
tors.

A gift to The American Humane Association goes to the heart
of humane work. Without this heart the humane societies of Anaer-
ica could not be the national force for good that they now are.

 

 

 




 

award...

The humane movement involves more than pre-
vention of cruelty and rescue work. It is a system —-
at times concrete, at other times a bit intangible --

‘ which exemplifies the American ethic as set fOrth on
July 4, 1776.

Impressing upon a young child today the impor-
tance of treating animals with kindness; removing a
child today from a situation involving neglect, immo-
rality, hunger and homelessness: these are the actions
that pr ovide-insurance for the future of our nation.

The story of The American Humane Association
is vast and complex. It is the story of your own local
society, repeated many times, in every part of the
nation. This small volume is designed to provide in-
formation on one interesting phase of the humane
movement, the work of the AHA Hollywood Office.
For those who are interested, a companion booklet,
available on request, gives full information about the
PATSY Awards (Performing Animal Top Star of the

Year and Performing Animal Television Star of the
Year.)

 




 

 

Settle back in your favorite easy chair and look at television,
or drop in at amotion picture theatre -- the chances are very good
that you will see animal actors running, falling, dying, and going
through all manner of difficult, amusing and clever antics . It may
be ahorse toppling over duringa savage battle with the Indians, or
a fierce fight to the death between a dog and a wolf. You may even
see thousands of animals swallowed up by the sea.

Relax, animal lovers! As soon as the four-footed actors get
out of camera range, they do the same thing that their human coun-

terparts do: get up and walk away, uninjured, to rest, relax, and
to enjoy a tasty snack.

This is a far cry from the situation that existed years ago
when animals frequently couldn't get up when the cameras quit
grinding because of severe injuries -- even death -- inflicted bY
producers who insisted on reality without regard for protection.

Today, when the ”good guys" go out after the "bad guyS” on

horseback, there may be a lot of shooting -- but the blanks are
4

 




     
 
 
   
   
     
       

  

Once again a substitutionis made. This time, a trained fall-
ing horse is brought into the picture, the ground is softened. The
horse gallops into the scene, he receives his cue, and he topples
over as he has done many times before,

 

Now the director needs a close-up of the dead animal. Another
equine is brought in -- a trained lay—down horse or a dummy. The
camera moves in for a close- -up, and of course, the horse doesn't
move until the scene is completed.

 

Some years ago a contrivance, known as the Running W, was
used on horses to provide spills and thrills for movie scenes. By
a system of wires the front feet of the horse, while he was racing ’
at high speed, were pulled from under him, forcing his thousand
pounds of body weight to crashto the ground.

A typical use of this contraption involved a sorrel horse that
had been used for the purpose several times before. The spot
where he was to be dumped had been spaded, making the earth as

6




    

     
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
     
   
   

and rider started. As he reached the end of the wire, the horse
had his head well up. When he fell, his nose smacked the earth
with a violent, sickening thud, he toppled over on his back, rolled
on his side. No bullet was needed that time. His neck was broken. “‘
He was dead. No more work on location that day. The general
attitude was of men ashamed of their jobs . Among the spectators,
a woman wept bitterly. She knew the horse well, for it belonged
to her husband.

Copyright, 1940, by The American Humane Association

VICTIM OF THE RUNNING W

O_ne leg was broken in the fall and the horse was shot by a representative of the Association. Notice ’the hobble's still
attached to the forelegs and the wire running over the neck.

 

 

In a recent picture, the movie scenario calledfor apack horse
to plunge ‘to his death fr om a snowy mountain trail. Actually, the
horse moved only 40 inches, and remained standing out of camera
range, calmly munching oats, while the actual ”fall" was accom-
plished by a special process involving miniature tie-ins.

This is in contrast to an act of extreme cruelty which took
place in 1938, and is generally regarded as the incident which
brought matters to a head.




   

Gradually there developed most cordial relations between the
studios and the AHA. Today, The American Humane As sociation's
approval is a vital factor in every picture in which animals appear .

 
      

 
 

433

A REPRESENTATIVE, Paul Ridge, left, "on location."

   
    
  
 
 
 
    
   

 

 

The AHA Hollywood Office, headed by James Jack, Jr. , is
staffed by inspectors experienced in supervising the use of animals
in motion picture production. AHA staff members provide con-
sultative service on suggested scripts (they are trained to spot
difficult or impossible situations, involving animals, which can be
adjusted in a conference before production starts, thus saving the
producer time, trouble and money.) Also offered are humane su-
pervision of the use of animals in keeping with the Motion Picture
Association of America code, and suggestions on the proper han-
dling of animals which will be acceptable to the humane-minded
public. The American Humane Association provides the uniform

97"?

'IO




 

discourage this to prevent the animals working long stretches with—
out rest, food or water.

On another location, poor quality feed had been foisted off on
the producers, and there were large numbers of cattle to be fed.
The AHA representative -- a man well versed in the needs of ani-
mals -- called attention to the situation, and then remained until
more feed was delivered sometime after dark. This is an example
of animal neglect -- certainly inadvertent as far as the producing
company was concerned -- which was corrected by the AHA rep-
resentative. As an additional note of interest, the cattle used for‘
this production gained an average of thirty-five pounds per head

from the time shooting first started until the picture was com-
pleted.

During one scene, a man was being beaten with a whip. A
horse was standing nearby. The whip, made of rags, was not hurt-
ing the man, but it did excite the horse. The animal was moved

away from the action and another, an old experienced ”actor, "
took his place.

The AHA representatives must know animals well. It is fairly
common practice to take animals from Hollywood -— at sea level —-
to the mountains -— perhaps to an altitude of 8,000 feet or more.
The rarefied air, colder temperatures, lack of facilities and other
factors call for more rest periods and other considerations. Of
course, animals are not unlike people in that they are individuals.
No set rule can be applied to all animals , for each one will respond
and react differently to a given situation. AHA representatives,
trained, professional, thoroughly experienced, know the needs of
animals; they can spot difficulties that would otherwise go un-
noticed by actors and producers.

One director needed a shot of a horse drinking from a brook.
The old adage about leading a horse to water proved to be true.
The horse just wasn't interested in taking a drink. The director
put out a call for the AHA representative who was busy withsome
animal action some distance away. He arrived shortly, "talked"

12

 

in;

 

 

 

 




thing isn't necessary, " he exclaimed, "and I won't tolerate such
childish actions by any of my people! " He called a standby car to
take the actor back to Hollywood, and then told the crowd that had
assembled, "I won't have aman like that working ona picture for
me . "

 

 

Long ago, animals were
considered for the most part
as props , something to be add-
ed for scenic effects or as ad-
juncts to human actors. Then
the AHA went to Hollywood.
Men came forward to bring out
the natural aptitude of ani—
mals, not by means of the bru-
tal whip, but by careful school-
ing processes.

The Motion Picture Asso-
ciation of AInerica Code states:
"In the production of motion
pictures involving animals,
the producer shall consult with
the authorized representative
of The American Humane As-
sociation, and invite him to be
present during the staging of
such animal action. There
shall be no use of any con-
trivance or apparatus for trip-
ping or otherwise treating an-
imals in an unacceptably harsh
manner . "

 

LASSIE COMPUTES INCOME
TAX, wonders if dog biscuits are
deductible. AHA services do not
include helping animal stars file
tax returns .

 

 

 

 

,Television productions, both live and filmed, are not covered
by such a "code'' requirement. However, nearly all television
films are supervised at the request of the producers. In addition,
the major networks make use of AHA advisory service on animals .

l4

 

 

 

 




 

 




 

the
tart

uf thz
humane

Mummmt

The heart of the humane movement is located on capitol hill

in Denver, Colorado at the national headquarters of The American
Humane Association.

The AHA is a federation of more than 500 organizations in the
United States that are dedicated to the protection of children and

animals and to the propagation of the humane ethic in all parts of
American life.

18

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Prepared by
The American Humane Association
Public Relations Department
896 Pennsylvania Street
Denver 3, Colorado

 




