 

 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
APRIL IO, 1866

——~~—-

 

TWENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

DECEMBER 31, 1892

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

10 EAST TWENTY-SECOND STREET,

NEW’YORK.
1893.

 




 

 

Press of J. J. Little 6: (‘0.
Astor Place. New York

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.

Preside” t.

JOHN P. IIAINES.

Vz'fe-Presfdnm.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, ALFRED WAGSTAFF,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS. MORRIS K. JESUP.
-REV. MORGAN DIX, D.I)., JOHN CLAFLIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN. PARKE GODWIN,
W. C. SCHERMERHORN, CHARLES LANIER.

 

Exec u live C 0721 211 i171? .

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, HORACE RUSSELL,

BENJAMIN I). HICKS, EDWARD A. HAMMOND,
CHARLES LANIER, GEORGE G. DEWI'I‘T.

ANSON PHELPS STOKES, JAMES GRANT WILSON.
JOSEPH H. CHOATE, FREDERIC R. COUDERT,
ARTHUR B. CLAFLIN, WILLIA WALDORF ASTOR,
GEORGE G. HAVEN, FREDERICK W. VANDERBILT,

WILLIAM FAHNES'I‘OCK.

Trazsm'e’r.
CHARLES LANIER.

C 0 zmsc’l.
HORACE RUSSELL.

.S'ecrc’ta/j'.
GEORGE G. DEWITT.
Assistanl Tl't’aj‘lﬁ‘fl'.

JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.

 

.S'zzperz'n luna’ent.
CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

V €[c’7’iliﬂ 1:1! 521 713nm.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.
415 Fulton Street, Brooklyn.

1 715/H'6!07’.
F. O. CLARK.

Vc’terzmnj' Szujgc’ons.

L. MCLEAN. R. A. MCLEAN.

 




 

 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies and Ge/zllmzm .-

It is with even more than usual satisfaction that I present to
you the Twenty-seventh Annual Report of our Society, because
the old year closes and the new year opens with many causes of
encouragement, which it is my pleasant duty to mention. The day
on which our By-laws require our present meeting to be held
enables me to include in my report a gratifying success by which
we have been encouraged since the new year opened, and to which
I shall presently refer in due order.

In opening my remarks, permit me to observe that a just con-
sideration of our work requires a just View of its whole character
and purpose. This Society is not a merely local society ; it is the
oldest Humane Society in this country, and directly or indirectly
the parent of all other Humane Societies on the American con-
tinent. It is in direct communication with all societies, in this and
other countries, which have for their object the protection of dumb
creatures from the cruelty of man. Its proceedings are closely
observed by humane persons in every State of the Union, and
when its measures are attended with success, they are followed in
many other places. In this way our Society is justifying its ori-
ginal and corporate name of “ The American Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals”; and the cordial kindness with
which it is regarded by all kindred societies, both in this country
and abroad, may fairly be attributed to the zeal with which our
work has been done, the success which has attended our efforts,
and the cordiality with which we have encouraged and assisted
the cause of humanity everywhere.

At no time in the history of humane endeavor has this Society
enjoyed so large a measure of public sympathy as now. When
Mr. Bergh began his noble crusade he was the laughing-stock of
witlings ; not a few men of sense regarded him as a mere enthusi-
ast ; legislators were unfriendly ; courts were disposed to protect
the rights of property to an extent which virtually abolished the
God-given right of man's dumb servants to immunity from need—

 




 

 

 

7

forget what our ideal is, nor must we forget the nature of the
work which our advance toward that ideal has imposed upon us.

At the session of the New York State Legislature last january,
a bill was introduced which would have entailed serious and
partly unintended consequences. I refer to the so-called Glan-
ders Bill, which provided for the compensation of the owners of
animals killed according to law, when infected with glanders. The
killing of such animals is humane, since glanders is a painful,
incurable, fatal, and infectious disease, because the killing of the
infected animal simply anticipates the painful death to which it
is already doomed, and prevents the spread of the same fatal
disease ; but the proposal to compensate the owner was no more
reasonable than it would be to compensate the owners of other
animals that die of other diseases ; and, among other objections,
its effect would have been to induce dishonest owners of old and
disabled animals to expose them to glanders, so as to secure the
proposed compensation. The bill was therefore opposed by the
Society, and failed to become a law.

Another bill was introduced to legalize the mutilation of
horned cattle by the cruel operation of dishorning. It was
asserted by the mover of this atrocious bill that its passage was
demanded by all the farmers and agricultural societies in the
State. Before the very able and impartial Judiciary Committee
of the Senate, to whom the bill was referred, I emphatically
denied the truth of this assertion; and the committee, after a
protracted hearing, reported unanimously against the bill, which
accordingly failed.

A third bill introduced in the Legislature was the so-called
Anti-Pinkerton Bill, one of the purposes of which, though most
ingeniously concealed, and altogether foreign to the main purpose
of the bill, was to deprive this Society of some of the police
powers which it possessed under the law. This bill was unfor-
tunately passed and received the signature of the Governor ; but,
in the opinion of eminent lawyers, the law, as it now stands, will
not bear the scrutiny of the Court of Appeals.

The only other act of the Legislature that requires mention in
this report was an amendment of the general Act for the Incor-
poration of Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 




 

 

8

It was intended to meet certain requirements not provided for in
the original act.

During the year past, the work of the Society has been con-
tinued with energy. ()ur ambulances have been of great and
constant service, and our arrangements for the rescue of horses
that fell into excavations or the water were so efﬁcient as to
receive generous recognition from the press, and not a little corn-
plimentary mention in foreign journals. Our Canal Patrols, which
visited all the canals of the State for the purpose of securing
humane treatment for the animals used in hauling canal-boats,
were so successful in their mission that the State engineers and
inspectors have pronounced the condition of those animals to be
unprecedentedly good. This success was not accomplished with-
out opposition ; but its educational value has been almost, and
perhaps quite, as great as the good immediately done.

In spite of all efforts to prevent it, the useless and abominably
cruel practice of docking the tails of horses has not been sup-
pressed; but I am glad to have reason to believe that it is
decreasing, and that public opinion is setting against it. Public
opinion is the only power that will ever suppress this abominable
practice. It exists only through the whim of a senseless fashion,
and can gratify none other than an utterly depraved taste. Dock-
ing is emphatically a mutilation, not an adornment, of the unfor-
tunate animal which is subjected to it. This senseless and Wicked
fashion the gentlewomen of New York could abolish, if they
would, in one month ; and unless the gentlewomen of New York
require some further education in aesthetics as well as in humanity,
they will abolish it.

I have now to speak of one of the most useful departments of
our work; I mean the monthly magazine called OUR ANIMAL
FRIENDS. I never entertained a doubt that this magazine would
be of service to the Society ; but I am compelled to admit that in
advising the Board of Managers to undertake it, I had no expec-
tation of the Widespread and really remarkable inﬂuence it
has actually had. Its circulation is not so large as I believe it
will be after a while, since the increase during the past year has
been over four hundred per cent. But its inﬂuence has been far
beyond my most sanguine hopes; as a ﬁnancial venture it has

 

 




 

 

9

repaid the cost of its publication many times over, and the respect
paid to its utterances has been out of all proportion to its modest
pretensions. Humane journals both at home and abroad have
quoted freely from it and commented on its articles, and I have
received letters concerning it not only from England, France,
Germany, Holland, and Spain, but from all parts of British North
America, and from San Domingo, Venezuela, and other parts of
South America.

In the treatment of the difﬁcult and delicate subject of Vivi-
section I cannot but think that the position we have taken has
been eminently judicious. In England the misfortune of the situ-
ation is, that nearly the whole medical profession is apparently
arrayed against the anti-vivisectionists in a bitter and irreconcil-
able conflict ; but in this country, and particularly in this State,
no such conflict exists. Our own position has been approved by
men of eminence in the medical profession whose names I do not
feel at liberty to publish ; and I am not without hope that a satis-
factory act, which the acknowledged heads of the medical profes-
sion will unite with this Society in recommending, will yet be
passed by the Legislature of this State. Such an act may not,
perhaps, be all that anti-vivisectionists would desire ; but, on the
other hand, it will be more than the English anti-Vivisectionists
can hope to carry; and it will carry all that public opinion, in-
cluding, of course, scientiﬁc medical opinion, will justify at this
time. We desire, above all things, to gain the cooperation of the
medical profession in securing the utmost reforms that a conscien-
tious man of science must concede to be required.

I will only add that OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS has been so happy
as to gain the approbation of some of its contemporaries which
are devoted to ﬁeld sports. It would have been possible, by
sweeping denunciations, to put thousands of persons who take
their recreations with rod and gun into antagonism with our cause.
In OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS we have deliberately chosen a different
line of policy. Personally, most of its writers are opposed to all
sport which takes the form of killing ; personally, therefore, they
do not practise nor encourage it. But they are obliged to recog-
nize that every true sportsman denounces cruelty as essentially
unsportsmanlike; and their endeavor has been, as it still is. to

 




    

 

IO

induce sportsmen themselves to discountenance cruelty. I have
some reason to hope that this policy may have the effect of in—
ducing leading clubs of sportsmen to unite in abolishing the
useless and horribly cruel amusement of pigeon shooting as an
offence against the humane code of genuine sport.

As I look at our present position, I see before us a work of
education; and if education is to be effectual, it must be begun
early. It has taken twenty-seven years to educate the public
mind to its present kindly, but partial and largely unintelligent,
interest in our cause. For the future we must endeavor to work
more directly on the rising generation. Our best work will be
the teaching of the young in such a way that when they are old
they will not need to be restrained from cruelty. I have there-
fore prepared a “ Manual of Kindness to Animals," for the use of
youngchildren in day schools, Sunday schools, and families. Its
plan is simple, and I think I may say it is original. I believe it
will be useful.

Who is not willing to sow good seeds of which generations yet
unborn shall eat the fruits? In the sowing of all seeds a time
of expectancy—yes, and of apparent failure—must precede the
time of fruition. 'It is the law of God in things spiritual, as in
things natural, that “except a corn of wheat fall into the ground
and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much
fruit.” The glory and beauty of our whole work, as it strikes
me, most happily is that it is seminal ; and though I do not look
for immediate results from the small matter of this Manual, I
believe that rich results of goodness will come frOm it not many
years hence.

In looking back upon the work of the past year, I ﬁnd ample
cause of satisfaction and encouragement, and I cannot close this
brief re’sume’ without expressing the cordial thanks which are due
to those by whom the success of last year’s operations has been
so kindly promoted. It is impossible to name them all, and the
particular mention of one might easily be interpreted as the in-
tentional exclusion of another. Sufﬁce it, then, to say that your
thanks have been well deserved by members of the Legislature
who have lent a kindly but impartial ear to the statements of your

 

 




 

 

 

II

representative, manifestly desiring to prevent errors in legislation
which might be injurious to our cause, and to promote useful
legislation in the interest of genuine humanity ; next, to the
courts which have honored themselves and vindicated the honor
of the State by just decisions and just interpretations of the law ;
next to the members of the bar who have been always ready to
assist us in the prosecution of our cases in the courts ; next to the
police, by whom our work has been loyally and faithfully seconded
and sustained ; next to your many unpaid special agents through-
out the State, whose ofﬁcial connection with our Society has given
strength and power to all our efforts, and whose active work has
been of very great practical assistance; ﬁnally, to the individual
members of the Society we owe hearty thanks for the encourage-
ment of their sympathetic support. Though the work of the year
has been successful to a gratifying degree, there have been many
hours of perplexity, and sometimes of discouragement. Atsuch
times the entrance of a member of the Society with words of cheer
and courage has given more than comfort: it has given fresh
strength. To the many friends to Whom I am personally indebted
for such kindness I cannot here refrain from personally expressing
my sincere and cordial thanks. To each and all of those whom I
have mentioned, and to many known and unknown friends whom
I cannot mention, I wish a happy New Year. Happy in this
respect, at least, it must be, that their good works have dimin-
ished, and are still diminishing, the needless sufferings of so many
of God’s poor creatures.

We enter on the new year in the conﬁdence of hope—a hope
which the ﬁrst days of the new year have already justiﬁed, since
within those days we have had the happiness to secure from the
courts another judicial decision that the shameful cruelty of dis-
horning is a punishable offence against the law. Let us hope
that, before the year has passed, that bad practice will have ceased
in this State. If so much can be done in 1893, it will be in a fair
way to be abolished wherever civilization is known.

JOHN P. HAINES,
1’ resident.

 




 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee, in presenting its report, refers with
pleasure to the satisfactory reports of the Treasurer and Superin-
tendent, which give in detail the character of the duties pertain-
ing to their several ofﬁces.

Growing public interest in the cause of animal protection may
also be noted, as evinced by the election of 174 new members to
the Society during the past year.

Requisition has been made to the Managers of the Columbian
Exposition, for space to exhibit the character of the work in which
the Society is engaged, and some of its practical results.

Twenty-three additional special agents have been appointed by
the President during the past year, the effect of which has been
most beneﬁcial in preventing cruelty in places heretofore not
ofﬁcially represented. ‘

Sixteen devoted members, earnest workers in the humane cause,
whose names will be found inscribed in the obituary record, have
died during the past year.

GEORGE G. DEWITT,
Sea’ez‘m‘y.

    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, famzary 1, 1893.

To 7726 American Sorz'ezjy for #26 Prevent/072 of Cruelty to
A ”finals .-

The Treasurer begs leave to report that the balance brought
over December 31, 1891, was $9,301.79. The receipts from all
sources during the year ending December 31, 1892, were
$266,528.26, $159,000 of which was derived from sales of real
estate owned by the society, making a total of $275,830.05. The
sum expended and invested during the year was $184,370.57,
leaving a balance of $91,459.48. The following ﬁnancial state—
ment will show the sources whence the revenue has been derived,
and also the accounts under which its funds have been disbursed
during the above-mentioned period.

Respectfully submitted.

CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

 




 

I4

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 Account wit/z THE AMERICAN

1891 DR.

Dec. 31. To Cash Bal. on deposit in Union Trust Co. $7,719 19
“ " Balance in Safe . . . . . . 1,582 60

$9.3m 79
“ “ Bequest Estate C. H. Radcliffe, ﬁnal
dividend Metropol-

itan Insurance Co. . . . . 30 00

“ " “ “ C. B. Russak . . . . . . 250 00
“ “ “ “ I) D. Wright . . . . . . 1,010 00
“ “ “ “ Ida M. Ingersoll . . . , . I00 00
“ “ “ “ Olivia J. Meeks . . . . . 2,692 88
“ “ “ “ Abby R. Layton . . . . . 300 00
“ “ “ “ Elizabeth Fogg . . . . . 10,000 00
“ ‘ Trust Thomas G. Hodgkins, de—

ceased . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64,500 50
‘ “ Members’ Subscriptions and Dona—

tions to date . . . . . . . . . .- . 5,625 52
“ ‘ Fines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,411 88
“ “ Sales Real Estate :

100 East Twenty-second Street . . . . 90,000 00

641 and 643 East Twelfth Street . . . . 24,000 00

22 and 24 Mulberry Street . , . . . . . 45,000 00
a .

From other sources . . . . . . . . . 20,607 48

./I

 

 

$275,830 05

 

Dec. 31. To Cash Balance on deposit in Union Trust Co. . $91,459 48

 

h.-_¥. .

We, the undersigned, have this day examined the accounts of
as exhibited to us by book and vouchers, and ﬁnd them correct

 




 

pt

1:

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUEL'I‘Y '1‘0 ANIMALs.
1892 CR.

Dec. 31. By Cash Disbursements from January 1st to date, for
Maintenance of Society, Salaries, Rent of
Headquarters, Printing, Stationery, Postage.

Fuel, Light, Rewards, Gratuitous Distribu-

tion of Humane Literature, Publications of

the Society other than 020' Animal Friends.
etc.,except as stated below . . . . . .$34.348

\1
U|

“ “ Expenses removing Headquarters to 10 East
Twenty-second Street, including repairs and
alterations to Building, Telephones. Gas Fix—
tures, etc., etc. . . . . 3.698 30
“ “ Ambulance House Expenses . . . . . . 1,042 07
“ “ Brooklyn Ofﬁce . . . . . . . . . . . 4,812 56
“ “ Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . . 8,124 77
“ “ Our/411mm! Flz'mza’ir . . . . . . . . . 12,972 ()2
“ “ Furniture Account . . . . . . . . . . 129 97
‘ “ Library Account . . . . . . . . . . 270 35
“ “ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . 49 04
“ “ Ambulance House Equipment . . . . . . 1,633 50
“ ‘ Taxes and Insurance . . . . . . . . . 1,833 50
“ Repairs and Improvements to Real Estate . . 4.935 15
“ ‘ Bond and Mortgage, W. H. Fogg Fund . . 10,000 00
“ “ “ “ “ Mrs Flora Marks . . . 35,000 00
“ ‘ Thomas G. Hodgkins, deceased, Fund :
517 shares Consolidated Gas Co. . . . . 64, 500 50
" “ “ Commissions,
Fees. etc. . 710 99
“ “ Estate Amelia G. Ullmann . . . . . . . 250 00
“ “ “ Frances Clifford . . . . . . . . 52 50
" “ Balance on deposit in Union Trust Co. draw- 4
ing interest . . . . . . . . . . . 91,459 48

 

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
and in accordance therewith.
BENJAMIN D. HICKSJ

A ”([2717ch C 0722 mittee.
GEO. G. HAVEN, i

 




 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

The following brief statement of a year’s labor in mitigating
suffering and preventing abuse of animals cannot fail to convince
all right thinking people that, owing to the Society’s vigilance, the

i physical burdens of many of mankind’s speechless servants have

been lightened. .

Tender feelings need not be shocked, however, by a recital in
detail of all the cruelties which have been detected, but a few
selected cases are herewith presented to show the character of the
offences.

Indifference to animal suffering is to a marked degree passing
away, and now all Classes of society are inclined to help on the
good work in one way or another. An element exists, however,
in the community, which, whether prompted by instinct or its
social surroundings, is always opposed to law and order, and no
matter whether it is a case of abusing an animal, or infraction of
a city ordinance, the same opposition is manifested, even to the
extent of personal violence, which has on several occasions be-
fallen the ofﬁcers of the Society while engaged in the discharge
of their onerous duties.

LIVE STOCK.

Owing to the presence of our ofﬁcers at the several receiving
depots for live stock, the cruel practice of keeping “milch cows for
many hours without milking, in order to enhance their value, has
been almost entirely stopped. All animals after being unloaded
are provided with food and drink. The use of iron-spiked poles
by drovers is not permitted, and everything consistent with
humanity and decency is insisted upon. From the stock yards

 




 

 

 

 

18

discovery was followed by an examination of all the live stock
belonging to the corporation, by the Society's veterinary surgeon,
which resulted in ﬁnding over one hundred hOrses suffering from
the disease, all of which were immediately shot. Several unscrupu-
lous persons have been severely punished for exposing and offer-
ing for sale horses and mules diseased as above.

])OG-, COCK-FIGHTS, AND RAT-BAITS.

Several of these brutal exhibitions have been interrupted by our
ofﬁcers, and the promoters prosecuted, convicted, and punished.
It is most difﬁcult to discover such contemplated violations of the
law. for the reason that the instigators fear arrest and consequent
forfeiture of the animals and all paraphernalia pertaining thereto ;
hence the utmostisecrecy is maintained. In spite of the pre-
cautions taken, however, the ofﬁcers of the Society discovered a
well—appointed dog- and cock—pit located in the woods, a short
distance from the Long Island Railroad, in Queens County. So
secure in their seeming isolation did the proprietors feel, that the
usual precaution of keeping several ferocious dogs on the premises
to give alarm was omitted.

Inside the building, seats in amphitheatre form were erected
to accommodate three hundred persons. On the night of the
28th of December last the place was crowded with rufﬁans
who had assembled to witness a ﬁght between dogs. Two of the
Society’s most experienced detectives were present inside, while a
force of ofﬁcers under cover of darkness had surrounded the
building on the outside. Some delay occurred in settling the pre-
liminaries for the ﬁght, which was taken advantage of by the
crowd to patronize “the bar.” From drinking, ﬁghting among
themselves soon followed. Several of the gang becoming dis-
satisﬁed left the building, and then discovered the presence of the
ofﬁcers. The alarm was given, and in a short time the entire
assemblage had disappeared. No overt act having been commit-
ted, no arrests were made, but the pit, dogs, and implements were
seized. It is safe to say that no more dog- or cock-ﬁghts will
occur there again. Several other small places were raided with a

 

 




 

 

19

like result as above. It is necessary to exercise continual vigil-
ance in order to prevent the brutal so-called sport.

AMBULANCE, PATROL, ANI) DERRICK SERVICE.

These important departments of the Society’s work have been
of incalculable beneﬁt to animals of all species. Provided with all
known remedies for rendering ﬁrst aid to the sick or injured, the
patrol is ever ready for immediate service, and its opportune
arrival has been the means of relieving the sufferings of hundreds
of helpless dumb creatures found prostrated from the heat, or
suffering from other ailments, The ambulances, equipped with
every comfort and convenience which skill and ingenuity can
suggest for the transportation of sick or injured large animals,
are always ready for service, any hour of the day or night. The
small ambulance is ﬁtted out with suitable arrangements for com—
fortably carrying small animals, such as dogs, cats, etC., and can
be summoned at any time.

The derrick, specially constructed for raising large animals out
of excavations, sewers, or rivers, into which they may fall, has
been the means of saving many horses and cows from prolonged
suffering and possible death.

DOCKING.

The cruel practice of docking is still carried on in spite of the
severe punishment imposed upon several persons who have been
prosecuted during the past year by the Society for thus mutilating
horses. The operation is performed in secluded places, with none
present but the cruellist, his assistant, and the victim ; hence the
difﬁculty of obtaining legal evidence necessary to convict the per-
petrators of this barbarous whim of fashion.

To give a detailed statement of the various phases of seeming
or actual cruelty in which the Society's ofﬁcers have been called
upon to exercise their authority would take up too much space,
which cannot be accorded in this report. Some idea may be had,
however, of the magnitude of their duties by the following few

 

 




   
 

 

 

 

 

  

20

items: Over ﬁve hundred shoeless and smooth- shod teams sent.
to blacksmiths , as many more relieved of check reins, broken and
ﬂapping blinders, and improperly ﬁtting collars; several bushels
of nails, pieces of sharp-pointed iron, broken bottles, and other
dangerous substances, which might maim or wound animals, have-
been picked up from the streets; and numerous drivers have been
instructed how to properly adjust the harness.

In addition to the above, places of amusement where animals.
are employed, likewise horse markets, sales stables, night and day
hack stands, markets, railroad depots, ferries, race tracks, dumping '
grounds, and excavations have received ofﬁcial attention from
time to time, and everything possible with the limited force of
ofﬁcers employed has been done to mitigate suffering and pre-
vent abuse to animals.

LOCAL AGENTS.

Special Agents, resident throughout the State, have been most,
active, as their several reports indicate. The knowledge that the
agent is always ready to prosecute cases of cruelty to animals has
a restraining inﬂuence 0n the cruelly inclined.

BROOKLYN.

The Brooklyn department of the work has been vigorously
conducted, and, considering the few ofﬁcers that are engaged
there, it is marvellous what a large amount of animal suffering
has been mitigated and abuse prevented.

SUMMARY.

The following tables show in a concise form the character and
magnitude of the work that has been accomplished during the
past twenty-seven years :

Cases prosecuted 1n the courts ............................. 18,927
Disabled animals temporarily suspended from work ....... . . . 53,986
Horses, disabled past recovery, humanely destroyed .......... 37,629
Small animals destroyed ............................. 19,321
Disabled horses removed from the streets in the ambulances. . . 12,998

Complaints investigated .................................. 51,253

 

 

 

 




      
  
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

91

l
a ‘
l
l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1892.
Summary for the past six years :
__ a __ 7 , , a Q . 1,___.., , _
1887 l‘ 1888 1889 1890 1891 i 1892
I
‘ l
, _ |——-~.__..
1
'Cases prosecuted in the courts. . . . 797 991 i 949 1 986 , 1,071 1,080
Disabled animals temporarily sus— !
pended from work ............. 3,456 1,749 ‘1 2,357 4,180 5,725 4,868
Horses, disabled past recovery, '
humanely destroyed ........... 3 2,546 2,455 2,812 1 2,284 2,620 3.365
Small animals, disabled past re-; , 1
covery, humanely destroyed . . . .i 1,202 1,281 l 705 1 1.347 2,212 3,060
Disabled horses removed fr 0 m: i
streets in the ambulances ....... " 522 495 407 ' 520 578 618
Complaints received and investiw ‘
gated ........................ 3,773 3,052 2,793 3,609 6,891 7.301
\ ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

In conclusion, the undersigned refers With pleasure to the
uniformly neat appearance of the ofﬁcers under his command,
likewise to their intelligence, discretion, courage, and zeal, dis- ,
played on all occasions while engaged in the performance of the jg)"
duties pertaining to their ofﬁce. i ‘

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

S11 [mink/2 c/e’m‘.

 

 




 

‘1'
MM
l

 

 

1892.
Jan. 4.

Jan. 5.

Jan. 7.

Jan. 8.

Jan. 9.

 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE IM-

 

PORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING
THE PAST YEAR.

Jacob Kanton, employed by Jacob Cohen, was found by one of the-
Society’s ofﬁcers standing beside a most miserable—looking horse, which
had fallen in the street from exhaustion. The body of the animal was
covered with welts, showing that in addition to its physical inﬁrmities.
it had been subjected to additional punishment. “ I was told to drive
the horse,” said Kanton, “and here is the owner now,” pointing to a
man, who surlily demanded to know what was the matter with the horse.
The Society’s veterinary surgeon made an examination of the sick
animal and pronounced it past recovery, whereupon its further suffer-
ing was mercifully ended. Kanton (driver) was ﬁned one dollar, and
Cohen (owner) ten dollars, by the Court of Special Sessions, for abusing
the poor creature as described.

“ I’ll do as I please,” said James Kelly, when asked by one of the
Society's detectives why he beat his horse with a piece of inch board.
He changed his mind, however, when he found himself under arrest,
and humbly asked to be “let up on.” He was subsequently ﬁned
ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, for cruelty to the horse.

Abraham Greenberg, for compelling a weak, feeble, and exhausted
horse to pull a wagon loaded with thirty-six cases of glass, was ﬁned ten
dollars by Court of Special Sessions. The poor creature, although

vwilling, was hardly able to go a step further when stopped by the So—

ciety’s ofﬁcer. Greenberg, however, thought the animal was “ lazy.”

and should be made to go. It was unharnessed and taken to a stable-
for rest and food.

James Higgins, for cruelly beating and otherwise abusing a horse, was,
ﬁned ten dollars, or ten days in the county jail, by Justice of the
Peace F. C. Williams, of Corning.

As one of the Society’s ofﬁcers approached an excavation, he heard
some one exclaim with an oath : “ I'll kill you ! ” Looking down, the
ofﬁcer discovered that the object threatened with death was a horse;
attached to a cart loaded with. dirt, and which appeared uneasy from
some cause or other, to the great annoyance of the driver. The prac-
tised eye of the ofﬁcer detected the trouble, and he at once had the
saddle removed from the horse’s back, when, behold, a sore several
inches in diameter was found, into which the heavy harness was press—
ing. The driver, John Denison, was arrested and arraigned before
Justice Goetting, who ﬁned him ten dollars.

 

 

 




    

”)3
“J

Jan. 13. " Your horse is very lame," said an ofﬁcer of the Society to Frederic
Massoth, who was urging a distressed-looking animal to drag a wagon
up Third Avenue. “ Oh. there's nothing the matter with the horse,”
was the unfeeling reply. Unfastening a dirty rag which bound the
nigh fore fetlock, a horrible quittor was found to be the cause of suf—
fering. Massoth was fined five dollars for cruelty by Court of Special

Sessions, and the animal mercifully disposed of.

Jan. 27. “ I want a porterhouse steak for my breakfast," said l’hilip Unkel-
hauser to his wife one morning. after a night‘s debauch. “ I have no
money to get it with,” was the reply. This exasperated Unkelhauser,
and he vented his anger on his children's pct cat by killing it in the
presence of his family with a baseball bat. Justice Goetting, of

Brooklyn, sentenced him to prison for twenty-nine days.

Jan. 29. Max Felsder, in spite of his veterinary surgeon's advice to the con-
trary, compelled a very lame horse to walk a long distance. He was
told he could have the Society’s ambulance to transport the animal,
but in order to save time and inconvenience to himself made the
wounded horse walk. He and the owner were arrested, and fined five

dollars each by Court of Special Sessions.

Feb. 4. Thomas Nicolo was driving a horse attached to an ash-cart. the ani-
mal suffering at the time from a sore on the body, and too weak to pull
the load. The same horse had been sent home the day previous, but
the owner ordered the defendant to get another day‘s work out of the

animal. Fined five dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Feb. 4. Leonard Dietz, for shooting a setter dog and wounding it in the leg
and breast. Tried by Justice Faber and jury at Jamaica; verdict,
“ Not guilty." “ If ever justice miscarried, it did so in this case. for
the defendant acknowledged everything he was charged with doing."

Feb. 5. H. Taylor, neglecting to provide food for sixteen cows. four horses,
and a number of hogs. He demanded jury trial, was found guilty, and
fined twenty dollars by Justice 1’. M. Smith.

Feb. 9. John Kelher was arrested for overdriving and cruelly beating a team
of horses. The animals were harnessed to a loaded wagon, and were
completely exhausted when stopped by the Society’s ofﬁcer. Kelher
made light of the cruelty, and not until his conviction and ﬁne of ten
dollars by Court of Special Sessions did he fully realize that his horses
had rights which he was bound to respect.

Feb. 9. Charles Price, for maiming and mutilating a dog. Fined twelve dol-
lars by Justice Cooper, of Babylon.

Feb. 25. Bernard Reizman, for beating horse over head and kicking him in
the belly. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

 

 




 

 

 

  

24

Feb. 26. Michael Gordon, driving lame, sore, and emaciated horse. The poor
creature was in a pitiable condition when stopped. The owner, Jacob
Gordon, could not see anything the matter with the animal, besides
“being a little lame and sore, but that was nothing.” Defendants
were ﬁned ﬁve dollars each by Court of Special Sessions.

Feb. 28. Pasquella Quenna, Cardina Leanna, and Toney Leanna were
arraigned before Justice Walsh, and charged with having buried the
body of a live chicken up to its neck in the ground, and each defend-
ant being blindfolded in turn, for a wager, striking at the help-
less creature’s head with a baseball bat. The offenders’ only defence
was, “ We done it in Italy; it is sport.” Justice Walsh, in passing sen-
tence, said: “ If that is the kind of sport you have in Italy, you can-
not carry it on here, for I shall do all I can to stop it ; and if you come
before me again charged with a like offence, I will impose the full
penalty the law prescribes, viz.: ﬁve hundred dollars ﬁne and one year
in the penitentiary. In this case, each of you is ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars and committed to prison until the ﬁne is paid. Now I want
you to remember what I have said, and you had better repeat it to
your Italian friends.”

March 4. Pincus Fenner, for seizing a chicken by the legs and violently dash-
ing its body against a wooden coop. Fined ﬁve dollars, after being in
jail four days, by Court of Special Sessions.

March 5. Michael Boll, for driving a team of horses attached to a truck, while
suffering from sores on the breast and back unprotected from the har—
ness. Fined ﬁve dollars.

March 8. Frederick Bruemer, for unjustiﬁably shooting his neighbor’s chi‘ck-

ens with a riﬂe. Fined three dollars and costs by Justice Pen-
dexter.

March II. Rasimo Depalo, of I70th Street and Railroad Avenue, for.beating
a miserable-looking horse attached to a loaded wagon, was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. He was an Italian and
unable to speak the English language. but through an interpreter
simply excused himself on the ground that he did not know he was

hurting the horse. The animal was mercifully disposed of by the
Society.

March 12. George W. Burnett, for driving a horse suffering from a large
tumor. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

March 12. Samuel Metzner. for driving a very lame horse, suffering from a
diseased heel. The horse was condemned as unﬁt for further use, and

destroyed, and the offender ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special
Sessions.

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

26

March 25. Henry Dilg, 1922 Lexington Avenue. This defendant was arrested
and charged with abandoning a horse, having the disease known as
glanders, at the foot of 123d Street and the East River. Dilg stated
that he was employed by one A. Rothschild to take the horse to the
place mentioned, and there leave it. Rothschild was arrested and
charged with causing and permitting the horse to be abandoned, and
on the testimony of Dilg, who was a witness for the Society, Roths‘
child was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars.

March 26. Gustave Knoblauch was convicted, and ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by
Justice Connelly, for compelling a horse, while in a disabled condition.
to pull a truck heavily loaded with lumber. '

March 29. Jacob Minsky, for carrying poultry in a cruel and inhuman manner
——namely, their wings “ locked,” and heads hanging downwards—was
ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

March 31. Joseph Monaghan pleaded guilty before Justice Walsh to having
compelled a horse to haul a heavily loaded cart while suffering from a
sore on its back, unprotected from the harness. The magistrate sus-
pended sentence, but imposed a ﬁne of three dollars on the owner of
the horse, one Michael Hosey, for permitting the cruelty.

March 31. Adam Hurlich was arrested while cruelly beating his horse over
the head with the lash of a whip. He declared the horse was balky
and required beating, for which he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice
Connelly.

April 1. Charles Daniel was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions
for driving a horse lame and unﬁt for use, but which was at the time
compelled to draw a heavily loaded furniture truck.

April I. Joseph Merkel was arrested and charged with driving a horse while
in a disabled condition. The poor creature was suffering from a
quittor, and was compelled to pull a truck loaded with beef. Fined
ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April I. Dennis J. Cuddy, for beating a horse on the body with a bale-stick,
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Hutchinson.

April 2. For compelling a horse to pull a wagon heavily loaded, while the
animal was in a lame, weak, and feeble condition, James Donohue was
ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April 4. David Teob was found driving a horse so badly knuckled in the
near forefoot as to make the horse appear to be walking on its knee.
'l‘eob was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions. .

 
  

 

 

 




 

 

April 5.

April 5.

April 5.

April 5.

April 5.

April 6.

April 7.

April II.

April II.

I)»
~/

John Stenecke was driving a team of horses attached to an express.
wagon, one horse being lame in all four legs. and with two sores on
the breast unprotected from the harness, while the other horse was in
a weak, feeble, and sore condition. He was lined ﬁve dollars by Court
of Special Sessions. and the owner, John Smith. ﬁned two dollars for
causing and permitting the animal to be worked.

Andrew Behrans, for striking a horse in the face with his clinched
ﬁst, then with a feed bag, then with the end of the lines ; for which

he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

James Loder, for cruelly beating a horse with a whip, and jerking the
lines, thereby causing the check piece of the bridle to lacerate the
animal‘s jaw, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Walsh.

For carrying calves in a cruel and inhuman manner; to wit, with
their legs tied, William Crofut was discharged from custody by the
Justice of the Peace upon his payment of the costs of the prosecution.

Abraham Hirsch, for twisting the wings of and carrying poultry in a
cruel and inhuman manner, was lined ﬁve dollars by Court of

Special Sessions.

Charles Eickenhoffer, cruelly beating a calf with a heavy stick.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Cowenhoven.

Sentence in the case of William Lynch. of 142 Butler Street, Brooklyn,
who pleaded guilty to driving a horse while very lame. attached to a
loaded wagon, was suspended by Justice \Vaish, and the owner of the
animal, Henry L. Ughetta, of 30 Clinton Street, ﬁned ten dollars for
permitting the animal to be so ill-used.

Philip Freeman, for driving a horse suffering from sores upon the
back, unprotected from the harness, while attached to a loaded dirt
cart, was ﬁned two dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Henry Platz, for driving a horse attached to heavily loaded ash wagon,
while the animal was in a disabled condition, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by

Court of Special Sessions.

April 14. Benicke Cohen, twisting the wings and carrying poultry in a cruel

April I4

April 18

o

and inhuman manner. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Albert Bohlsen, for driving a very lame horse, caused by a quitth
on the near forefoot, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special

Sessions.

For compelling a horse to haul a loaded cart while suffering from a
large sore on the breast, unprotected from the harness, Frederick
Oetting was ﬁned two dollars by Court of Special Sessions, on his plea

of “ guilty.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

28

April 18. Joseph Brady was charged with driving a horse so lame that it could
hardly put its foot to the ground. Sentence was suspended, but the
owner, one James R. Melvin, was ﬁned ten dollars by Court of Special
Sessions for causing and permitting the horse to be worked while in
the condition described.

April 19. Frank Phipps, for neglecting to supply his horse with food and
water from 8 A.M. until 3 P.M., was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Police Justice
Kirby.

April 19. Vincenzo Varlonna was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Ses-
sions for compelling an old worn-out horse to draw a loaded ash cart.

April 19. Antonio Arnoti, driving a horse attached to a loaded cart. The
animal Was suffering at the time from a large sore on the body, unpro-
tected from the harness; also lame, weak, and feeble. Defendant
pleaded guilty to the charge, and was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of
Special Sessions. '

April 20. John Beekman, for neglecting to furnish food and water to his
horse, was, upon his plea of guilty, sentenced to ten days in jail and
to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars, or in default to serve 20 days longer
imprisonment, by Justice Jaquette.

April 23. Henrico Buglion, for driving a horse while suffering from sores on
the back of the neck, unprotected from the harness. Sentenced to
ten days in the County Jail by Judge Langdon.

April 24. Frank Umbrecht, for unjustiﬁably shooting and wounding a goat.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Cowenhoven.

April 24. Pietre Arcolano, for pouring kerosene oil over a live rat, then caus—
ing it to be set on ﬁre and burned to death. Fined twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars by Justice Walsh. '

April 24. Antonio Felermoe, for kicking a horse in the abdomen, also beating
the animal over the head with a stick of wood. Fined ten dollars by
Justice James G. Tighe.

April 25. Charles Davis, for driving a horse having four sores on the breast
and neck, unprotected from the harness. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court
of Special Sessions.

April 25. Avistino Scraloto, for pouring kerosene oil over the body of a live
rat, and'then setting ﬁre to the ﬂuid, causing the animal to be burned
to death. Found guilty, but, having been in jail three days, sentence
in his case was suspended by Justice Walsh.

April 25. Henry Stock was, for whipping. kicking. and otherwise abusing a
horse, ﬁned ten dollars, and thirteen dollars sixty-three cents costs, or in
default of which to be imprisoned in the penitentiary for sixty days.

 

 

 




 

 

    

39

April 26. Henry \V. Harris, for cruelly beating a weak, feeble, and exhausted
horse. The poor creature was harnessed to a loaded wagon and was
unable to draw the same. This so exasperated the defendant that he
beat the animal most cruelly. He pleaded guilty to the offence, and
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April 20. For over thirty hours Frank Burgess. of Malone, N. Y., deprived a
number of calves of food and water. The animals were, at the time
mentioned, exposed to the inclemency of the weather. Burgess was
charged with cruelty, and ﬁned ﬁve dollars, or five days’ imprisonment,
by Justice Hutchins.

April 27. \Valter Murray, for jerking the lines in a cruel manner, and kicking
a horse several times in the body, was ﬁned five dollars by Justice
Tighe, of Brooklyn.

April 27. George Bates. for compelling a horse which at the time was suffer—
ing from a large sore on the shoulder, unprotected from the harness,
to draw a loaded wagon, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Corbet.

April 28. Albert Garrison was arrested for beating his horse over the head
with the butt end of a whip. Upon his plea of guilty he was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April 29. George Wolff was ﬁned ten dollars and costs, by Justice Acker, of
New Brighton, for compelling a lame horse to haul a heavily loaded
wagon up an incline. The horse being unable to perform the task.
the defendant beat the animal in a cruel manner.

April 30. John McGurk was arrested for beating a horse over the body with a

’

whip. “I lost my temper,’ said McGurk, “because the horse was

balky.” He was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

May I. Witnesses as well as principals to a cock-ﬁght are amenable to the law ;
hence the arrest and subsequent conviction of \Vyman S. Harrington,
Lester King. and James Babcock, for being present at a cock-ﬁght at
{allston Spa. Each of the defendants was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars
by Justice Houghton, of Saratoga.

May 2. Edward Irwin was arrested for beating a horse over the head and body
with a stick. He was convicted in Court of Special Sessions, and ﬁned

ten dollars.

May 3. For knocking a goat’s head against the stone pavement, Edward Mur-
phy was arrested and charged with cruelty to the animal. On his
arraignment before Justice Ryan, of the Fourth District Police Court,
he defended his action on the ground that the goat had “bucked ” his

boy, hence his acting as he did. He was discharged.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

p
5
d

a)

May 5.

May 6.

May 10.

May 11,.

May 16.

May 16.

May 21.

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

30

Peter Engel, exposing meat containing poison with the intent that the
same should be taken by a dog belonging to a neighbor. He was dis-
charged by Justice Divver, of the Second District Police Court, on the
ground of the variance of a few minutes of time as sworn to by two
different witnesses, thereby creating a doubt, which defendant was

given the beneﬁt of.

\Villiam J. Foley, for driving a horse having at the time a sore on the
breast unprotected from the harness, one shoe off the hind foot, ema-
ciated. and entirely unﬁt for labor, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of

Special Sessions.

About midnight an ofﬁcer of the Society’s night force, while patrol-
ling on the East Side of the city, saw a cat, followed by a bull-dog, run
out of a liquor saloon; after the dog came a man, who was inciting
the dog to worry the cat. The dog seized its victim by the head, and
in an instant tore the right eye from its socket. The man, John
Moore, was promptly arrested, and subsequently ﬁned twenty dollars
by Court of Special Sessions. The wounded animal was put on the
Witness—stand as evidence, and its terrible wounds spoke louder than
words of man‘s inhumanity to the dumb creature.

Morris McCauley, for driving a horse attached to a cart while very
lame in hind foot, ringbone and sore above hoof. Fined ﬁve dollars

by Court of Special Sessions.

Thomas Feary was compelling a lame, shoeless, sore horse to pull a
wagon. The poor creature, by the cruel use of a whip, staggered
along under its burden. Feary said he paid a dollar for the horse, and
expected to get his money’s worth. He was subsequently ﬁned ten
dollars by Court of Special Sessions, and the suffering animal mercifully
destroyed.

Henrietta Peterson, for throwing poison on the highway, was sen—
tenced to ﬁfteen days in the county jail by Justice John J. Kellum, of
Newtown, L. 1.

Oscar Heim, without cause, went to his neighbor’s stable and most
cruelly beat a horse with a pitchfork. Fined twenty dollars, or in
default to be sent to jail for twenty days, by Justice Goetting.

Ello. Hassenberg was arrested for cruelly beating a weak, feeble,
and exhausted horse. Every stroke of the lash drew blood, and the
poor creature groaned in, agony. On his plea of guilty, Hassenberg
was simply ﬁned ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Jno. Rogers, for hitting a horse on the head four times with the butt
end of a Whip, the last blow knocking the horse down. Fined ten
dollars and costs of court by Justice Casey, of Tompkinsville, S. I.




  

May 24.

June I.

June 3.

June 4.

June 8.

"\

June 23.

}
June 13.

June 15.

 

31

Thomas Carter, driving a horse attached to a dirt cart while the ani-
mal was suffering from a horrible sore on the body, measuring six and
a half by three inches, unprotected from the harness. Fined five dol-

lars by Court of Special Sessions.

M. S. Underhill was charged with unjustifiably shooting a dog in the

head with a rifle. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

\Villiam Eckert, a blacksmith by occupation, owned a little dog, which
wasa favorite with all the children of the neighborhood. It took
special delight in running in and out of the smitliy, to the annoyance
of Eckert. One morning the little creature entered the shOp as usual,
and Eckert, being in a surly mood, was heard to say : “ I'll get rid of
that little beast right now ”; and picking up an iron bar. he deliberately
heated it in the forge fire, and applied it to the body of the unsuspect—
ing animal. The case was reported to the Society, and the arrest,
prosecution, and conviction of Eckert promptly followed. He was
sentenced by Justice Connelly to six months’ imprisonment in the

Kings County penitentiary.

Georg ‘ and Mary Barker, of Elbridge, were. charged with cruelly beat—
ing a pair of horses over the heads with a club. The defendant
demanded a trial by jury, who rendered a verdict, “No cause for

action,” although three witnesses testified to the cruelty.

Patrick Carr, an ofﬁcial dog-catcher, was arrested for driving a horse
attached to a wagon containing a number of dogs. The animal was
lame, sore, and weak. 1n additlon, the canines were crowded into the
vehicle in a cruel manner. The defendant was discharged from arrest
owing to the absence of complainant (a citizen) when the case was

called for trial.

John Kelly. "for driving a lame, sore, and sick horse before a wagon,
was sent to the city prison for ten days by Court of Special Sessions.

Patrick Brady, for driving to a loaded cart, a horse very lame,
knuckled, unfit for any work. Fined five dollars by Court of Special
Sessions.

“ I was told to sell the horse for three dollars, or as much more as I
could get,” said Joseph Campiglio, who was arrested while on his way
to the horse market with a horse having glanders. “ It is one of the
worst cases I have ever seen.” said the ofﬁcer in his report. The
diseased animal was taken to the offal dock and destroyed. Campiglio
was subsequently convicted and fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by Court of
Special Sessions, for exposing a diseased animal in the public streets.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

June 17.

June 27.

June 29.

July 5.

 

  

”‘0
DH

“ I’ll knock his d—n head off,” said John Green, emphasizing the
oath by striking a horse on the head with a bale-stick- Before he
could raise the club to strike another blow, which he attempted to do,
he was under arrest. He was convicted by Court of Special Sessions,
and ﬁned ﬁve dollars. The cudgel hangs in the Society’s museum.

Two horrible wounds, measuring 4 by 3%; inches, and 21} by 21} inches,
were found on the back of a horse driven by John Landan. The poor
creature was compelled to drag a loaded cart while the heavy saddle
was pressing onto'and chaﬁng the sores. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court
of Special Sessions.

While passing along a country road, a dog belonging to a neighbor
jumped at John Dunnen in a playful manner, and attempted to seize an
umbrella which he carried, and in so doing slightly lacerated his hand.
Dunnen thought he would have hydrophobia unless he killed the
animal, and to that end hastened home, where he kept an old army
musket loaded, with. a bayonet attached. In the meantime the dog
had been chained to its kennel, where it was found by Dunnen on his
return. First shooting the animal in the head, wounding it in a fear—
ful manner, the brutal assailant then attacked the helpless creature
with the bayonet, thrusting the weapon into its body several times.
Dunnen was prosecuted by the Society, and demanded trial by jury.
He was found guilty, and fined ﬁve dollars by Judge Howard.

Samuel and Keeva Pearlman, brothers, of Brooklyn, while on a visit
to their sister, who resides in this city, got into an altercation with
Isaac Gillis, the landlord. The Pearlmans were beaten, for which,
so it was alleged, they said signiﬁcantly to Gillis: “You have a
horse ; look out for him.” The horse referred to was stabled in the
yard of the premises. Early next morning the stableman found
that nearly half of the animal’s tongue had been cut off with some
sharp instrument. Suspicion at once pointed to the Pearlmans as
having committed the act, which, with the threat, other circum-
stances seemed to conﬁrm.

The brothers were arrested, and on the evidence presented by_the
Society, though circumstantial, were put under $1,000 bail to stand
trial at Special Sessions. The most experienced of the Society‘s
detectives were detailed on the case, but no positive proof could be
obtained as to who committed the ﬁendish act.

On being arraigned for trial, the Pearlmans, through their counsel,
pleaded not guilty. One of the witnesses for the prosecution was not
positive in his identiﬁcation, thus creating a doubt, which the
defendants were given the beneﬁt of, and were discharged by the
court. The horse is quite well, but minus half of the tongue, which
does not, however, seem to interfere in the least with his eating.

 

 

 




 

 

34

who commenced to beat the animal with the butt end of a Whip—
stock. Before many blows were struck Niciter was in the grasp of
the Society’s ofﬁcer, who happened along just at the time. The
horse was unharnessed and put in a stable for rest and food, while
the cruellist was taken before Justice Casey, who ﬁned him twenty
dollars.

“ Nothing the matter with the horse,” said Joseph Guilespie, as he
was striving, but in vain, with whip and voice to make a horse, appar—
ently suffering from all the ailments its species could be inﬂicted with,
to haul a truck loaded with heavy stones. For his cruelty Guilespie
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

In addition to suffering from four bad sores on the breast, unprotected

from the harness, Thomas Ward, an employee of the Street Cleaning
Department, was cruelly beating his horse and compelling it to run
while harnessed to a loaded truck. " I want to make time,” was his
only excuse. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

“ You ought to be ashamed of yourself, to strike the horse with such
a weapon,” exclaimed an indignant citizen to Lawrence Crow, an em-
ployee of the Third Avenue Railroad Co., who was beating a relay horse
with an iron switch rod. An insolent reply, accompanied with a threat ,
was the only answer vouchsafed. An ofﬁcer of the Society, however,
had been a witness of the beating, and Crow was surprised to ﬁnd
himself under arrest. He was subsequently ﬁned ten dollars by Court
of Special Sessions. ‘

The physical condition of many of the horses belonging to the Bushwick
and Queens County Railroad Co. was such as to call for the Society’s
interference. An investigation made by its veterinary surgeon showed
that scarcely a single horse employed on the part of the route running
through Queens County was ﬁt for labor, and especially the teams driven
by \Vi'lliam Stevens and Frank Miller, which were, in the language of
the veterinary, “ physicalwrecks.” Miller and Stevens were arrested,
and charged before Justice Schumacher, of Middle Village, with cruelty

to animals. The acting foreman of the stables, Thomas Robb, was

also prosecuted for causing and permitting the animals to be abused-
The counsel for the railroad corporation made a vigorous ﬁght in the
case of Stevens, who stated, in his defence, that he “ was obliged to
drive the horse : it was a matter of bread-and-butter with him.” This
virtually admitted the charge of cruelty. He was convicted, however,
and Justice Schumacher, in passing sentence, said : " Stevens, I have
it in my power to send you to prison and impose a heavy ﬁne, but
President Haines requests me to be merciful ; moreover, my sympathy
goes out to you, and I am sure you would prefer to drive better horses -

)

 




  

Aug. 4.

Aug. 8.

Aug. 9.

Aug. I3.

Aug. I5.

Aug. 15.

35

therefore, I shall impose the nominal ﬁne of ﬁve dollars, but I warn
you not to drive such animals again.” The same ﬁne was imposed on
Miller, but Robb, the foreman, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-
ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for twenty-ﬁve days. The ﬁnes in all the
cases were paid. The prompt and vigorous action in the above case
was a salutary admonition to other railroad corporations.

M. V. Cusick, Mariners’ Harbor, S. 1., was arrested for neglecting to
provide food and water for his horse. Fined seven dollars by Justice
Acker.

Matteo Divito, an Italian, resuling at New Utrecht, L. 1., owned a
horse which, when at its best, was wretched enough, but, falling sick,
its sufferings were intensiﬁed by the brutal treatment it was subjected
to. Ill fed, no medical attention, cruelly beaten—no wonder the poor
creature was hardly able to stand, let alone walk, which it was com-
pelled to do by Divito, as far as a vacant lot, where it was ﬁnally
abandoned to die. Hardly had the cruellist reached his house ere he
was arrested by the Society’s local agent, who had heard of the case.
The sufferings of the horse were mercifully ended, and Divito ﬁned
ﬁfty dollars by Justice Cowenhoven.

Christopher Boneset, Stapleton, S. 1., was arrested for working a
horse with a sore three inches in diameter on its back, with ropes at-
tached to the harness cutting into the ﬂesh. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Langdon.

Driving a team of horses, “ weak, feeble, sore, and diseased with
glanders,” attached to a railroad car half loaded with passengers,
was the charge preferred against a driver of the Third Avenue Rail—
road Co. The appearance of the animals was most deplorable. The
defendant stated to the magistrate that he was forced to drive the

team, which were given him by Patrick Mullane, the starter. A;

warrant of arrest was granted by the justice for Mullane, and he was
taken into custody. Both defendants demanded trial by jury, and
were held under three hundred dollars bail.

Charles Meyer, for cruelly beating a horse because it was unable to
draw too heavy a load, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice E. B. Ingalls,
of Mohawk.

Nicholas Strauss, a farmer from Hempstead, L. I., was arrested for
driving a very lame horse. The poor creature had travelled a long
distance, and the suffering it had undergone was plainly indicated by
its pitiful appearance. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Goetting.

 

 

 

 

 
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  

 




 

36

Aug. 16. George Gammon, of Brooklyn, hired a horse and wagon to take his
girl out for a drive. The animal was in ﬁne condition and of gentle
disposition. Gammon drove to Coney Island, then back to Prospect
Park, then again to Coney Island, up and down the surf road several
times, back to Prospect Park, and home, the whole distance trav-
elled being about thirty—six miles, and during the time the poor crea—

 

ture was not allowed a drop of water and only a few minutes rest.

 

After being a short time in the stable it died from, as the veterinary

7

surgeon said, “being overdriven.’ Gammon was prosecuted and con-
victed of causing the animal’s death. The jury, with their verdict of
guilty, recommended the prisoner to the mercy of” the Court, and a ﬁne

of twenty—ﬁve dollars was imposed.

Patrick Connolly, a groom, in the absence of his employer, under~
took to dock the tail of a carriage horse. The Society prosecuted the
offender, resulting in his conviction and ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, by Justice
Tice, of Mount Vernon.

James Lee, dashing the body of a live dog against a telegraph pole-
Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Samuel Zimmerman, for exposing and selling a horse diseased
with glanders. Fined ﬁfty dollars by Justice Walsh, City Hall,
Brooklyn.

John Knaus, for working to Knickerbocker ice-cart a team of horses
suffering from sores on breast, unprotected from harness. Fined ten
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Jacob Kast, of Brooklyn, purchased for a nominal sum 21 horse
which turned out to be unﬁt for the labor required of it. Now Kast.
feeling much hurt at being, as he supposed, unfairly dealt with, took
the horse back to its former owner and demanded the return of the
purchase money. The innocent cause of the trouble was lame, sore,
and otherwise disabled, but was compelled by Kast to limp through
the streets. The demand was refused. Kast abandoned the poor
creature, which he fastened to the wheel of a cart, and left it to starve,
so far as he cared. He was arrested, and on the two complaints of
torturing and abandonment, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by Justice Goet-
ting.

 

Arthur M. Prine, Flatbush, wilfully wounding a dog in the shoulder
with a pistol-shot. Fined ten dollars by Justice Henry Bornkamp.

Goldberg Friedman ; horse very lame, covered with sores, and 61113.:
.ciated. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

 

 

 




   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

37

Sept. 5. Jacob Schumeyer, beating horse over the body with a curry-comb,
cutting said horse in four different places. Fined ten dollars by Court

of Special Sessions.

Sept. 9. Camino Caggiano ; horse before wagon, lame, weak, and emaciated,
covered with sores ' paid ﬁfty cents for it. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court

V

of Special Sessions.

Sept. 10. \Valter Cottrell, for overdriving and otherwise torturing a horse,
was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Police Justice 1). \V. Mandell.

Sept. 12. Joseph Tomaro, beating and kicking worn—out horse. Fined ten
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Sept. 13. John Savage, riding very lame horse and beating it over the head
with a whip handle. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Justice Acker, New
Brighton.

Sept. 14. James Breen, driving horse attached to dirt cart, suffering with
large sore upon its back, 7x4 inches, ﬁlled with maggots. Sentence
suspended by Justice Walsh. Horse shot, September 16.

Sept. 15. " The horse is as sound as a bell,” said William McMahon, refer-
ring to a horse lying in the street, its body covered with sores. The
suffering beast had fallen three times within a few blocks, having
been overdriven by its cruel driver. No time was lost in landing
McMahon in the station house and taking the horse to the nearest
stable for rest and food. The offender was subsequently ﬁned ten

dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Sept. 17. Abraham and Adolph Reinheimer, owner and driver of a horse
emaciated and lame, which they were urging to pull a wagon partly
loaded. The poor creature could hardly stand, let alone trot. The
offenders were surprised and indignant that they should be arrested
for driving such a “ good horse.” Fined ten dollars each by Court

of Special Sessions.

Sept. 30. Joseph Canto, driving and cruelly beating a dreadfully lame horse.
Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Oct. 4. Patrick Carroll, tying a rope about a cat’s neck, then whirling it
around his head, and, while so tied, set on two dogs to worry it.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Goetting. Third District Court, Brooklyn.

Oct. 5. Solomon Klein, working horses suffering with glanders and farcy.
Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars, Court of Special Sessions.

Oct. 5. John H. Cheeney,\Throopsville, wilfully misusing and illtreating a
horse ; twenty—ﬁve dollars or twenty-ﬁve days in jail.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

IO.

12.

18.

18.

20.

29.

14.

 

    

38

Peter Murphy and Daniel Guran, of Sheepshead Bay, were arrested
for throwing a stone at a St. Bernard dog and breaking its leg. Fined
ﬁve dollars each by Justice Gladden, of Sheepshead Bay.

T. F. Leavitt, Utica, for not feeding twenty horses and mules on

Central track for forty—eight hours. Discharged with admonition, by

judge of City Court, Utica.

Harris Meddlar, for working before an express wagon, a lame, weak,
and emaciated horse. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Philip Schukinemen, for working to licensed-vender wagon, a lame,
weak, sore horse, not ﬁt for use. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of
Special Sessions.

William Krahe, causing and permitting next above. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Robert J. Andrews, of Jersey City, working horse covered with
sores, emaciated, lame, and two shoes off. Fined ﬁve dollars by
Court of Special Sessions.

Bernard Stage, driving three horses to heavily loaded truck, each
animal suffering from sores on breast under collar. Fined ten dollars
by Court of Special Sessions.

Dennis Daley, striking horse four times on head with piece of scant-
ling three feet long and two inches square. Fined ﬁve dollars by
Court of Special Sessions.

Louis Bernstein, Wolf Lowenthal, Louis Goldstone, Harris
Kowalski, all of Utica, N. Y., arrested for cruelly using horses.
Fined ten dollars each by judge of City Court, of Utica.

Thomas Riley, Utica, for working on Erie Canal three mules with
shoulders badly galled. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by judge of City
Court, of Utica.

It is almost incredible of belief that in this nineteenth century a
person could be so cruel to an unoffending dumb creature as here
described. David W. Axtell, after cruelly beating a horse with a whip,
stabbed it with a pitchfork, then put a bunch of hay under its head,
and set it on ﬁre; all because the animal was unable to get up on its
feet. The brutal offender was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice
Palmer.

Eugene L. McGreeney amused himself at the Central Park menagerie
by enticing a bear to the bars of its cage with peanuts, and when the
unsuspecting animal reached for them McGreeney would stick the
blade of a knife into the creature’s nose. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice
Taintor.

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

39

Dec. 6. Oscar Henchley, of Flatbush, “just for fun,” caught a neighbor’s
chicken by the legs, and dashed its body against a picket fence.
Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Sweeney.

Dec. 7. Frederick Schneider, Brooklyn, driver of a team of ﬁne—conditioned
horses attached to a truck loaded with iron, for amusement beat the
animals with a whip. When remonstrated with for his cruelty, he
replied he would do as he pleased, and again struck the unoffending
creatures several vicious blows. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice

Conn elly.

Dec. 11. James Higgins, because his horse could not haul a loaded dray up an
incline, beat it unmercifully with a heavy whip. On being ordered to
stop his cruelty, he only beat the animal the more. When arraigned
before Recorder Williams, of Corning, and charged with cruelty, he
was not so deﬁant, and being convicted of the offence, was sent to

prison for thirty days.

Dec. 19. “ Why, the poor creature hasn’t a sound leg to hold up its body," ex-
claimed an angry spectator. “ Lame ! Why, the leg must be broken,”
declared another. The poor creature referred to was a horse attached
to a wagon and driven by David Mundell. The animal was painfully
lame, and every step it took caused untold agony. Mundell only
laughed at the indignant protests, and kept urging the suffering animal
to greater speed. He did not get far before one of the Society’s
detectives overhauled him, whenhe began to whine and beg for mercy.
The horse was, upon examination, found to have a diseased or what is
known as “ rotten foot.” The hoof was loose, and if the animal had
been driven much further, would no doubt have fallen off! The suffer—
ings of the poor creature were mercifully ended, and its cruel driver
subsequently ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Dec. 21. “ You will choke that horse to death,” exclaimed a citizen to Joseph
Finn, an engineer, who with others was pulling on a rope fastened
around a horse’s neck. It appeared the animal fell from exhaustion,
and the driver, John Dunn, with the assistance of the engineer, beat
it unmercifully with the limb of a tree, because “ the beast is lazy and
balky,” which was the unfeeling excuse for the cruelty. Now, as a
matter of fact, the horse was old and worn out, and totally unable to
draw an empty wagon, let alone a loaded one. After kicking and
beating the animal as described above, the human brutes put a rope
around the neck of the dying creature and actually strangled it to
death. The Society’s ofﬁcer, on being informed of the outrage,
promptly arrested the offenders and arraigned them before Justice
Donovan, who, to the astonishment of all, simply imposed ﬁnes of

twenty dollars and ten dollars respectively.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
    




 

 

 

 

 

. aNE‘N YORK I

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

A/V [LLUSTA’A TED rWOr/VTHLY J/[AGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

“The American Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTTVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

AT HEADQUARTERS COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR, PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, 10 East 22d St., New York.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

    
  
 

42

\VESTCHESTER COUNTY.
Sing Sing Branch of American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Sing Sing.

E. G. BLAKSLEE, President. I MISS M. DUSENBERRY, Secretary.

———————

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
3 Granger Bleeé, Syraeuse.
WILBER S. PECK, President. I JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.
The Onondaga Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
T/zira’ National Bank Building, Syracuse.
HON. D. BOOKSTAVER, President. I GEORGE B. LEONARD, Secretary.

RENSSELAER COUNTY.
The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Troy S auings Bank Buﬂa’ing, Tray.
DR. WM. 0. STILLMAN, President and Secretary.
JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

  

    
     
  
   
    
 
    
    
  
  
  
   
    
   
     

 

 

 

Watertown.
REV. RUSSELL A. OLIN, D.D., I MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK,
President. I . Secretary.

 

BROOME COUNTY.

Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Bing/zamton.

L. D. STONE. President. I C. E. SHORES, Secretary.
ERIE COUNTY.

Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
240 Main Street, Buﬂaio.
E. A. ROCKWOOD, President. I MISS M. F. ROCHESTER, Secretary.

 

___———-—-—

CHEMUNG COUNTY.

The E.1mira Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Elmira.

DR. THERON A. WALES, Pres. | MRS. HORACE FRENCH, Secretary,

 




 

 

 

  

43

ORANGE COUNTY.

Newburgh Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
AE’wﬁurg/J.

GEORGE W. PETERS, President. I A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

 

OSVVEGO COUNTY.
The Fulton Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.
Fulz‘mz.

ARTHUR GILBERT, President. | MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WEBB, Sec.

 

ROCKLAND COUNTY.
Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Nyae/e.
H. C. GILCHREST, Pres. [ire tel/z. | D. DEGRAFF, Secretary.

OSVVEGO COUNTY.
The Oswego Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

.Deelz'z’t/e Home. Oswego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. I MRS. G. M. GARDENIER. Secretary.

 

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Pezegﬁée¢sie
WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES F. COSSUM,

President. Secretary.

ALABAMA.

Birmingham Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

413 Ez'g/zteeM/z See/eel, Bz'MIzz'ng/zam.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. lDR. F. J. TYLER, Secretary.

 

Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
22 3 Damp/zen Street, Meéz'le.
RUFUS DANE, President. ‘ IE. R. QUATTLEBAUM, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44
-ARKANSAs

Arkansas Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Little Roek.
O. S. DIELON, President. | REES P.’_’HORROCKS, Secretary.

 

CALIFORNIA.
Los Angeles County Humane Society.
24 Potomae Blot/e, Loy Ange/es.
HENRY T. LEE, President. I DOROTHEA LUMMIS, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
402 “ j ” Street, Sacramento.
R. C. IRVINE, President. I W. D. LAWTON, Secretary

San Diego Humane Society.
915 Fozirt/z Street, Sam Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. I Secretary.
San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I 1 7o ﬂ/ar/eet Street, Set/z Francisco.

JACOB Z. DAVIS, President. I NATHANIEL HUNTER. Secretary.

Santa Clara County society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
4 5 [Vort/z First Street, Sam fose.
F. R. SHAFTER, President. IC. C. LELAND, Secretary.

__

COLORADO.
. Colorado Humane Society.
1646 Arafat/toe Street, Dew/er.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. I G. H. THOMSON, Secretary.
El Paso County Branch of, the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
E. A. COLBURN, President. |F. B. HILL, Secretary.

 

 




 

45
CONNECTICUT.

Connecticut Humane Society.
Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. I CHANDLER E. MILLER, Secretary.

 

DELAWARE.
Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Wilmington.
WILLIAM CANBY, President. i WILLARD H. PORTER, Secretary.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
1317 “F” Street, N. IV, Wasnz'ngton, D. C.

A. s. PRATT, President. IH. SIDNEY EVERETT, Secretary.

FLORIDA.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

faeksonoz'lte.

O. P. HAVENS, President. IB. H. CHA‘DWICK, Secretary

Humane Society.

Pensacola.

S. S. HARVEY, President. [FRANK MAURA, Secretary.

St. Augustine Humane Society.
St. Augustine.

DR. DEVVITT WEBB, President. IMRS. A. M. MARCOTTE, Sec.

 

GEORGIA.
Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta.
J. F. BURKE, President. IORVILLE H. HALL, Secretary.

Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I M’Intoslz. Street, Augusta.

HENRY B. KING, President. IS. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

The Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Macon.
ROBT. E. PARK, President. |]. R. KENNEDY, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

46

 

ILLINOIS.
The Aurora Humane Society.
Aurora.

MRS. A. K. PERRY, President. | MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD-ALLEN,
Secretary.

Champaign Branch of Illinois Humane Society.
C/zamjﬁaign.

HENRY TREVETT, President. IA. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Illinois Humane Society.
4 3 A uo’iz‘orium Buildiﬂa, Chicago.

(5

JOHN G. SHORTALL, President. | BELDEN F. CULVER, Secretary.

Galesburg Branch of the Illinois Humane Society.
I 33 Earl Mam Siroez‘, Galoréurg.
A. S. HOOVER, President. I]. F. PERCY, Secretary.

Jacksonville Humane Society.

jacksorzoillo.
A. C. VVADSWORTH, President. I WM. PATERSON, Secretary pro tem.
Winnebago County Branch of the Illinois Humane Society. '
Rockford.
W. H. FITCH, President. I MRS. N. F. REW, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. | HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.

The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.
LYMAN MCCARL, President. I MISS LOUISE MAERTZ, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

    

47

INDIANA.
Crawfordsville Humane Society.
Crazofordsoilte.
DAVID HARTER, President. [ A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Women, Children, and Animals.
315 Upper Foart/z Street, anizszritlo.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. I WILL \VARREN, Secretary.
The Indiana Humane Society.
99 East M arket Street, Indianapolis.
DAVID W. COFFIN, President. I DAVID E. SNYDER, Secretary.
The South Bend Humane Society.
Soot/z Bend.
S. L. KILMER, President. | D. S. MARSH, Secretary.
Jefferson County Humane Society.
Madison.
CHAS. C. CORNETT, President. I JOHN W. LINCK, Secretary.

 

IOWA.
The Council Bluffs Humane Society.
Council Btaﬂs.

 

D. C. BLOOMER, President. ~ I V. L. TREYNOR, Secretary.
The Humane Society.
Sioux City.
JOHN C. KELLY, President. l EDWARD CROMWELL, Secretary.
KANSAS.
Kansas Humane Society.
W io/zita.

REV. R. L. MARSH, President.

   

 

l MRS. E. s. EVERETT, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

     
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
 
 
    

48
KENTUCKY.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
L. C. DALLAM, President. I INGRAM CROCKETT, Secretary.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
402 West jefersmz Street, Louisville.

JOHN H. LEATIIERS, President. I MISS WILSON, Secretary.

 

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
57 Caramlelet Street, New Orleans.

. FREDERICK W. YOUNG, President. I WILLIAM E. COOKE, Secretary.

MAINE.
Bangor Humane Society.
Barzgar.

J. F. SNOW, President. I MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Len/231072.

WESLEY BLANCHARI). President. I I“. B. SANDS, Secretary.

Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.
Portland.
STANLEY T. PULLEN, President. I MRS. N. CAVAZZA, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I/Vaterm'lle.

S. L. ABBOTT, President. I JOHN WARE, Treasurer.

._.__—.

MARYLAND.
Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
32 3 Nart/z C/zarles Street, Baltimore.
H. IRVINE KEYSER, President. I JOHN R. DUVAL, Secretary.




 

 

 

50

MINNESOTA.

Duluth Humane Society.
Dutut/z.

WILLIAM S. VVOODBRIDGE, REV. GEO. H. KEMP, Secretary.
President.

Minneapolis Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children;
' and Animals.

Bari/e of Commeree Building, Mz'izrzeapotis.
JOHN DAY SMITH, President. I PAUL FONTAINE, Secretary.

Steele County Humane Society.
Ore/ateiz/za.
B. s. COOK, President. ' | DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.

Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Cor. Sixt/z amt Sibley Streets, St. Pam].
'1). R. NOYES. President. I J. I. JELLETT, Secretary.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
141 East [Virit/z Street, St. Paid.
T. A. ABBOTT, President. I M. L. HUTCHINS, Secretary.

_____.__

MISSISSIPPI.

The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Natekez. '

JOHN P. VVALWORTH, President. I RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

MISSOURI.
The Kansas City Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Huméei’a’t Building, S ixt/z and Mail; Streets, [family City.
ALBERT YOUNG, President. I THOMAS MCGEE, Secretary.

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Room 15, Care/y Block, St. fesep/Z.
HUSTON WYETH, President. I PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.
Humane Society of Missouri for the Prevention of Criielty to Children
and Animals.

_ 421 C/zestmit Street, St. Louis.
CHARLES PARSONS, President. I HENRY WOOD, Secretary.

 




   
  
  
    
 
    
     
  
   
     
  
 
 
    
     
  
  
  
     

51
NEBRASKA.

Nebraska Humane Society.

Oriel/1a.
CHAMPION S. CHASE, President. [ PRESTON H. ALLEN. Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Market Street, Periwrzouz‘lz.
THOS. E. O. MARVIN, President. I JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.
Keene Humane Society.
Keeﬂe.
HIRAM BLAKE, President. I MISS ESTHER HANDERSON, Sec.

NEW JERSEY.

Cape May, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Cape May.
DR. EMLEN PHYSICK, President. | T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

Morris County Branch of the New Jersey State Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Morrz'sz‘mwz.

MISS E. A. GATTER, President. I MISS MAUI) OLMSTED, Secretary.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Room N0. 14, 810 Broad Sz‘reez‘, [Vere/ark.

CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, Pres. | E. s. EDWARDS. Secretary.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
jersey Cz'z‘y.

GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. | WM. E. MCCREERY, Secretary.
Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Vine/and.

President. I SARAH M. BIRD, Secretary.

NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
As/zem'l/e.
DR. A. M. BALLARD, President. | WALTER S. CUSHMAN, Secretary.

North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.
Wilmington.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. | F. A. LORD, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. ......,........-..




 

 

 

 

 

p
OHIO.

Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
At/zens.

D. J. EVANS, President. | MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.

The Canton Humane Society.
Canton.

' W. W. CLARK, President. I CHARLES R. FRAZER, Secretary.

Ohio Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

46 West Nz'nt/z Street, Cincinnati.
JOHN B. PEASLEE, President. | P. G. HURNSON, Secretary.

Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleve/and.
JAMES BARNETT, President. | H. A. GARFIELD, Secretary.

Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Cotmnons. '
ROBERT S. NEIL, President. | FRANK F. HOFFMAN, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

8 Nort/t feﬂerson Street, Dayton.
L. D. REYNOLDS, President. I H. W. SURFACE, Secretary.

Erie County Humane Society.

Sana’mky.
I. F. MACK, President. I C. B. LOCKWOOD, Secretary.
Toledo Humane Society.
313 Adams Street, Tolea’o.
JAMES M. BROWN, President. I L. G. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
The Trumbull County Humane Society.

Warren.
GEORGE P. HUNTER, President. I T. D. OVIATT, Secretary.

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
Portland.
T. L. ELIOT, President.- ‘ I W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

    
 

53
PENNSYLVANIA.

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1627 C/zestnnt Street, P/zi/aeietﬁ/zia.

ROBERT \V. RYERSS, President. I M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
Women’s Branch of Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

I 18 Sont/z Seventeent/z Street, P/zz'taztetn/zia.
MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. I MISS E. R. 13. SIMMONS. Secretary.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
76 S ixt/z Avenue. Pittsburgh
LEONARD H. EATON, President. | SAMUEL DAVIDSON, Secretary.
Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of‘

Cruelty to Animals.
Scranton.

DR. B. H. THROOP, President. I J. H. FISHER, Secretary.
The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of the Penn-

sylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

West C/zester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. I WM. S. KIRK, Secretary.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

W i/tia nzsloort.

MRS. E. L. NICE, President. I MRS. S. M. HERDIC, Secretary.
The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
York.

CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, Pres. IH. W. MCCALL. Secretary.

 

RHODE ISLAND.

Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 5 Westminster Street, Providence.
J. C. B. WOODS, President. I MISS L. P. BUCKLIN, Secretary.

Newport Branch of Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Newton Building, Newport.
I EDWARD R. WHARTON, Treas.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

     
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
     
     
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
   

54

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

C/zezrlesz‘on.
DR. JOHN L. ANCRUM, President. I J. ALVVYN BALL, Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

 

Coley/Mia.
TILMAN WATSON, President. I D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.
TENNESSEE.
Chattanooga Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.
C/zatz‘mzooga.
COL. TOMLINSON FORT, Pres. I PROF. E. P. SEARLE, Secretary.
Knox County Humane Society.
Kezoxw'lle.
J. F. J. LEWIS, President. I REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.
289 Main Sireez‘, Mew/Ma's.
TOM GALE, President. I MINTER PARKER, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and Children.

314% Union Street, Nels/milk.
REV. D. C. KELLY, D.D., President. I M. HOKE, Secretary.

 

TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Galvesz‘ozz. _ '
ALEXANDER UEDEMAN, Pres. IW. H. RITTER, Secretary.

—-———_—

UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
5611! Lake Cz'z‘y. .
‘ | J. w. GREENMAN, Secretary.

 




     

    

55

VERMONT.
Brandon Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Bra/Idol].
13R. C. \Y. PECK. President. IVV. R. BRIGGS, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Bral‘z‘looo roaglz.
The GEORGE F. GALE. President. I MRS. MARY C. VVARDER, Sec.

Vermont Humane Society.
Bristol.
,H. Ii. \VILLIAMS, President. I E. A. HASSELTINE. Secretary.

Vermont Humane Society.
Burlington.
HORACE j. BROOKS, President. I II. P. WHITCOMB. Secretary.
Chester Humane Society.
C/zoslor.
GEO. H. VVALDRON, President. I A. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.
The Randolph Humane Society.
Randolph
DR. \V. S. CURTIS, President. IR. K. WIRES, Secretary.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

. Ratlcma’.
L. N. FRANKLIN,’ President. I I. H. PENNINGTON, Secretary.

VIRGINIA.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
106 Main Strcel, Norfolk.

 

TV- I". IRVINE, President. I W. P). BARTON, Secretary.
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.
Porz‘smoatlz.
31129. A. P. GRICE, President. I MISS M. A. BINGLEY, Secretary.

Richmond society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
8 Norl/z Tenth Street, Ric/zmoml.
TEL JUI). B. WOOD, President. ‘ I IRA MO‘NERY, Secretary.

WASHINGTON (STATE).
Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

20 Gross Building, “ C " and Nz'm‘lz Streets, Tacoma.
, F. COOK, President. | H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

56

WEST VIRGINIA.

Huntington Humane Society.

Huntington. _
MAJ. JAS. M. LEE, President. I E. F. CHAPMAN, Secretary.

West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W/zeelz'ng. 7
JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. | MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE, Secretary-

WISCONSIN.
Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Society.
Manitowoc.
EMIL BAENSCH, President. IP. H. HEWITT, Secretary.
Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 Milwaukee Street, Milwaukee.
JOHN F. BURKE, President. IMRS. I. M. PERELES, Secretary.

Fox River Valley District of the Wisconsin Humane Society.
Oshkosh and Winnebago County Humane Society.
49 [11am Streez‘, Oskkos/z.
CARLTON FOSTER, President. I F. J. WILKIE, Secretary.

Organized Committee of the Wisconsin Humane Society of Ozaukee
County.

Port W askz'ﬂgtmz.
A. A. FARMER, President. | C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.

Sheboygan Humane Society.
S/zeéoygaéz.
T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. [ W. C. ROENITZ, Secretary.

Waukesha Branch of the Wisconsin Humane Society.

Waukeykd.
DR. E. L. BULLARD, President. | GEORGE F. HAWES, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

58

WEST INDIES.
Cuéa, Havmza.
I). J. G. VILLARAZA, President. I

——.——-—-—

MEXICO.
C z'z‘y 0 f Mexico.

VIDAL CASTANEDAY NAJERA, 'EDUARDO L. GALLO,
President. Secretary.

 




KINDRED SOCIETIES.

The following list shows the location of kindred organizations
in North and South America in correspondence with the Parent

Society.

‘4 [gal/1m.—
4-1 faunas.—
Cir/[firmwar—
Colorado.—
C 011 ”Katina.—
DEZU ware. —
F/orz‘a’a.—- ‘
Gem‘gz'a.——
Ida/20.—
Illinois.—
[12 (/z'ana.——-
A’C’IZ tacky.—
Louisiana.—
Jlaz'ne'.—
-117: rylana’. ——
J/(zssac/zusrtts. ——
Allz'c/zzgan. —
J] 272 72650271.—
fliz'ss z’ssz'ppz'. —
1112555021722—
;N’veé raséa. ——
41-76 on da. —

Laws passed and State Society organized.

H 66 s" ‘4 ‘4 66
u u u ‘ H H
(C CC K‘ (s C» ‘
€€ ‘( ¢( 6‘ ‘6 (K
(c (c H (t ‘6 ‘

Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
Laws passed and State Society organized.

No laws.

Laws passed and State Society organized.
“ 6‘ f‘ 6‘ “ “
K‘ “ (K ‘K ‘4 ‘
‘u “ (C C‘ (i K‘
“ “ ‘( K‘ nu (C
on ‘4 ‘€ (4 ‘C (
‘ (‘ 6‘ bu (t {C
6 K‘ “ l‘ {K ‘4
6 £‘ “ 6.‘ K‘ t‘
‘u ‘5 l‘ ‘ {C ‘(
‘h K‘ ‘ ‘4 ‘C K
‘K 6‘ H H ‘£ ‘(

Laws passed.

ngzu Hampslzirc.—-Laws passed and State Society organized.

:V'ef’ZU jersey.—
JXI'gw York—-
-‘Vort/z Carolina.—
0/2127.—
Oregon.—
Pennsylvania.—
[6/200’6 Island.“
South Carolina.—
Tennessee.—

 

5‘ .6 hi £. (6 (L
(( (C 6.’ ‘8 ‘( ‘-
(6' 6‘ .s 6; {c (s
6‘ £5 ‘6 (6 €‘ b‘
“ ‘6 6‘ ‘6 6‘ (s
‘1 ‘6 ‘5 (C ‘¢ “
‘( 6‘ £6 ‘£ (I (C
(‘ 66 6t (6 ‘c ‘6
(l 1‘ ‘6 (‘ 6‘ “

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

60

Texas.—- Laws passed and State SOCIety organized.
(,Yta/l— u s.‘ «c 6‘ (i ‘(
Vermont.—— “ “ “ “ “ “
Ir’z'rgz'nim— Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
L'Vest V z'ro'im'a.— Laws assed and State Societ or anized.
(s P Y
5‘ “ 5‘ “ “ “

”536072.902.—
lVyomz'ng.—— No laws.

TERRITORIES.

A [askm— No laws.

‘6 ‘€

Arizona.—
District of Columéia.—Laws passed and Society organized.
lizdz'an.——— No laws.

H ‘6

xVe w 1” mm.—

BRITISH AMERICA.

l]alzfax.— Society organized.
l]ami/t02z.—- ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘
ﬂiontreaL—

Ottawa.—

Que/Jet.—

St. David’s, Lincoln 07., Ontario.—

St. 70/171.—

Toronto.—

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

Bumos Ayres.——Society organized.
BRAZIL.
Rio de ijc'z'ro.—Society organized.
CUBA.
Havana.—Society organized.
MEXICO.

Manta—Society organized.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

San Domi7zgo.—Laws passed and Society organized.

 




 

AGENTS.

List of Agents of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals in the State of New York.

ALBANY COUNTY.

B.A.\' KS, ROBERT LENOX ................. . ................... Albany
BARNKS, ROBERT LENOX, JR ................................. Albany
BU RDICK, B. W .............................................. Albany
BRUCE, N. H .................................................. Cohoes
BL'NDY. HOBART L ........ Albany
FORD. WILLIAM T ............ . .............................. Cohoes
ALLEGANY COUNTY.
GREENE, MILO B ....................................... Alfred Centre
BROOME COUNTY.
\VILSON, JOHN M ............................................ Deposit.
CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.
[LALLANBAUGIL M.D., CARL W ............................... Olean
GROSS, ARTHUR F ......................................... Randolph
CAYUGA COUNTY.
CLAPP, A. B ............................................... Port Byron
\X'ALLLACE, RICHARD A .................................. . . . .Auburn
CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.
BREVVER, WILLIAM ......................................... Fredonia
1 ENIiS, A. FRANK ......................................... Jamestown
CHENANGO COUNTY.
BRX’ANT, ALMOND R ..................................... Sherburne
ELLSVVORTH, ADDISON ................................... Bainbridge

RORAPAUGH, FREDERICK ................................... Oxford

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

62

CLINTON COUNTY.

Dow, WARREN ........................................... I’lattsburgh
WILKINSON, GEORGE C ................................... Keeseville

COLUMBIA COUNTY.

GANTLEY, THOMAS H ...................................... Hudson
WILSON, DR. THOMAS ...................................... Claverack
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS. ............................... Craryville

CORTLAND COUNTY.
PERRY, AUGUSTUS S ....................................... Cortland

DELAWARE COUNTY.
IIALSTEAD, GEORGE ........ . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. .. . . .Stamford

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE, THOMAS K ................................ Wappinger’s Falls
MOITH, THEODORE A ..................................... Fishkill

FRANKLIN COUNTY.
DONOHOE, M. C ............................................. Malone

FULTON COUNTY.

COLGROVE, \VILLIAM H ................................. ~Jolmstown
ROOT, ERASTUS. . .‘ ...................................... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J ........... . ............................... Gloversville

GREENE COUNTY.

BAILEY, MULFORD T .................................... Tannersville
DECKER, ROSCOE ......................................... Prattsville
HANSON, HENRY ........ . ................................... Catskill
\VILLARD, DR. CHARLES E ................................. Catskill

HERKIMER COUNTY.

CARR, A. J ..................................................... Ilion'
HALL, H. CLAY. . . . ....................................... Little Falls
KLEM, PHILIP J ............................................ Herkimer

KINGS COUNTY.
CORTELYOU, P. L..' ....................................... Bay Ridge

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

HILL, HARLIN H ............................................. Dalton
KILLIP, W. W ................................................ Geneseo.

 




 

    

63

MADISON COUNTY.

BA RLOVV, C. F ............................................. Canastota
EZRYANT. HAROLD ......................................... Brookﬁeld
i- LV‘CELL, JOHN J ........................................... Morrisvillc
LI I’PITT, F. B ................................................ Solsville
I -C’C KMAN, A ............................................... Cazenovia
NASH, JOHN B .............................................. Lebanon
S‘XIEET, EDGAR D ................................. .... . . ..Cazenovia
XXIARREN, JOB A ........................................... De Ruyter'

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

ECLK, BROWNELL C ...................................... Canajoharie-

KLINE. CHARLES ......................................... Amsterdam

)1 ERENESS, CHARLES W. . . .. ............................ Fort Plain
ONEIDA COUNTY.

,ASI'I LEV, THEODORE J ............................. New York Mills

liLRIIKIE, WILLIAM ........................................... Utica

I,E\\'IS, W. D ........................................ \Vashington Mills

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
1’ i’I‘IS, ISAAC C ................................. . ................ Jordan

ONTARIO COUNTY.

BIORGAN, CHARLES B. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .Manchester
XK'AxTSON, WILLIAM D ................................... Canandaigua
3ICPHILLIPS, M. J. W .................................... Canandaigua

ORANGE COUNTY.

311LLS, JAMES J .......................................... Port Jervis
y‘axNY, HARRISON W .................................... Goshen
'I‘ERVVILLIGER, JUSTUS I ................................. Middletown
3y I LLIAMS, N. H .......................................... Ridgebury

ORLEANS. COUNTY.
X'LAN STONE, EDWIN .................... , ..................... Albion

OSWEGO COUNTY.

Tox'CE, WILLIAM ........................................... Oswego
S'EXVIVIAN, E. G ............................................. Hannibal
PESFIELD, W. H ............................................. Mexico

PA RMITER, AMBROSE N ...... - .......... . .......... . .......... Fulton

'''''''

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

64

OTSEGO COUNTY.

LATHROP, CHARLES MCHARG ............. , . . . ......... Cooperstown
SITTS, JOHN H ...................................... Richﬁeld Springs

PUTNAM COUNTY.
YEOMANS, W. B ............... . .......................... Cold Spring

QUEENS COUNTY.

BARTO, HENRY S ........................................... Flushing
BUHLER, JOHN .................................... North Hempstead
BUSCH, ADAM. . . . . ....................................... Woodhaven
CLAPP, IRA M .............................................. Flushing
CLOWES, LEWIS H ........................................ Hempstead
DENLEY, JOHN ............... . ........................... Thomaston
HELMUTH, EDWARD .................................. Far Rockaway
LOSEE, HORATIO ..... Glen Cove
MARVIN, J. R ............................... , ......... Rockville Centre
OLDENBERG, HERMAN ................................... Lawrence
,REMSEN, HERBERT O ......................... - ........... Glen Cove
SCHOLLE, THEODORE ...................................... Winﬁeld
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM .............................. Locust Valley
WALSH, JOHN C ...................................... Far Rockaway

WILSON, SAMUEL ............... .' ........................ Oyster Bay

RENSSELAER COUNTY;

, CLINT, DE WITT ............................................... Troy
CURTIS, LAWRENCE C ............ , ........................ Castleton
JONES, W. FRANK.. .................................... Lansingburgh
LANE, LE ROY C ............................... . ............... Troy
STEVENS, A. L .......................................... Lansingburgh

RICHMOND COUNTY.

BRADY, PHILIP ............................................ Stapleton
ELLIOTT, GEORGE ..................................... New Brighton
JOHNSON, DAVID C ....................................... Tottenville
MATHESON, JAMES C ................................... Green Ridge
RICARD, WILLIAM L ................................. Port Richmond
SHAY, JOHN. . . ........................................ New Brighton
SOFIELD, WESLEY ..................................... Linoleumville

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

CALL, JAMES .............................................. Haverstraw
SPRINGSTEEN, LEONARD ................................... Suffern

 




 

 

 

 

 

66

ULSTER COUNTY.

ELLSWORTH. ELIJAH ...................................... Kingston
MILLER, GEORGE s ........................................ Pine Hill
OSTRANDER, DE WITT w ............................... Clintondale-

WARREN COUNTY.

BEVINS, S. H ............................................ Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H .................................. Queensbury
HARRIS, E. S ........................................ _. . . .Lake George

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

MCFARLAND, W. M ........................................... Salem.
MICKLE, JAMES ............... _ ......................... Fort Edward
SCOTT, GEO. H ............ . ................... . ............ Whitehall

WAYNE COUNTY.
AGETT, WILLIAM W .......................................... Lyons

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
BARR, JOHN H ........................................... Irvington
BAUER, JULIUS ....................................... \Nilliamsbridge
BENNET, MARTIN J ........................... . ....... Mount Vernon
CLARK, HOMER C ........ . ......................... North Tarrytown
CLENDENIN, F. M ..................................... West Chester
COLLINS, HIRAM J. . . .. _ . . . . . . .. ..... . ................ Mount Vernon
FANNING, M.D., THOS. C ........................... . ..... Tarrytown
FARLEY, J. M ........................................... White Plains
FOWLER, GEORGE .................................... White Plains
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ............... J. . .. ................. Yonkers
HARRISON, W. S ......................................... Pelhamville
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS ...................................... Irvington
MCCULLUM. T. DUANE ........................... North Tarrytown
MCGRORY, DANIEL F ................................... West Chester
STEVENS, CHAS. S ........ . ............................... Portchester
TAYLOR, ROYAL E ....................................... Peekskill
TURNER, S. J ............................................. PeekskilI

WYOMING COUNTY.

LONG, REV. JOHN C ......................................... Castile
SMITH, ARTHUR... .......................................... Castile

YATES COUNTY.
ALMY, JAMES E .............................................. Dundee
MCLAUGHLIN. AMOS ...................................... Penn Yan
PECK, MARTIN W ......................................... Middlesex

 




 

LIFE MEMBERS.

'I‘he payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time,
secures a life membership.

A

Anderson, Mrs. E. M.
.Kndrews, C. A.
:\nclrews, Mrs. B. 1,.
.~\rnold, William
-—\stor, William Waldorf
A; very, Samuel P.

B

Beadleston, W. H.
Bergh, Henry
Bonner, Robert
Booth, Edwin
Boyd, J. Gilmour
Brady, Miss Jennie T.
Brown, Lewis B.
Brown, Mrs. Anna E.
Busteed, Richard, Jr.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Campbell, A. H.
(,jlaﬁin, Arthur B.
Claﬂin, John
(flaﬁin, Mrs. H. B.
(,‘lausen, Henry
Clews, Henry
Crapo, John M.

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

DeWitt, George G.

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.

Dilks, George W.

Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleveland
Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry

E

Ehret, George
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F
Faber, Gustavus W.
Faber, Mrs. Angelica l3.

Fish, Hamilton
Foster, James

G
}ebhard, William H.
Gerry, Hon. Elbridge T.
Gilbert, F. E.
Gray, Horace
Groesbeck, David
Gudewill, George

 

 

 

 

 

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

    

     

v\ _

Gunning, William J.
Gunther, Frederick T.

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Robert, Jr.

Holt, Mrs. Francis Elliott
Homans, E. C.
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Alice
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Nannie A.

I

Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, John Taylor
Johnston, J. Boorman
Jones, John D.

K

Kemp, Edward

Kemp, George

Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, John W.

L

Langdon, Miss Anne L.-
Lanier, Charles

Lee, Miss Alleine
Liautard, Dr. A. F.
Low, Joseph T.

M

Marie, Peter

Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
McLean, George W.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, J. L.

Molton, Mrs. F. A.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Murray, John B.

O

O’Berry, Loftus

O’Brien, William
O’Gorman, Hon. Richard
Olcott, F. P.

Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.
Osgood, Mrs. S. R.

P

Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R

Remsen, Robert G.
Reusens, G.
Richardson, G. C.
Rudd, Joseph
Ruppert, Jacob
Russell, Hon. Horace

S

Sanford, Milton H.
Schaefer, Frederick

  

 

 

 

 




 

   
  

Scharmann, H. B.

Sehermerhorn, William C.

Seney, George 1.
Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts
Stevens, Frederick W.
Stieht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, James, Jr.
Straus, Nathan '
Suckley, Robert B.
Suckley, Rutsen
vaezey, Mary E.

T
'I‘iffany, Charles L.
Tuck, Edward

V

V’anderbilt, F. W.
\Tanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.

69

Van Kirk, Miss Lila
Van Rensselaer, Killian
Van Tassel, Emery M.
Van Tassel, Miss Ada

\V

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Watson, George H.
Webb, William H.
Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrst. E.
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.
Wood, Charles B.
VVyman, John H.

Y
Yuengling, David G., Jr.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

IJ
‘5!
I
ll
l
I
ll
It
i l
l
l
I
ll
. ‘
an
H
l I
W
1"
I
I} ‘
it
i .
E .
izyl
9 :
H r
I
ti
5 l
g .
y
5‘“
fl
ﬁll

MEMBERS.

The annual membership subscription is ﬁve dollars.

A

Abbott, W. G.
Abendroth, W. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlmann, Otto
Aldrich, Mrs. Charles
Appleton, W. H.
Aron, A.

Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Bache, Miss Marion
Bachmann, Frederick
Bacon, J. M.

Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, C. C.

Baldwin, H. M.

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Banyer, Goldsboro
Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barlow, Mrs. Francis C.
Barrow, Mrs. J. 'l‘hOmas
Bartlett, E. B.
Battermann, H.
Battermann, Mrs. W.
Bayne, S. G. V
Beers, Edwin

Berau, Henry
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Berns, George H. V. S.
Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Binge, Julius

Blake, Peter

Blunt, Mrs. Eliza S.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.
Brady, Miss M. L.
Bremer, Mrs. Alexander
Brown, Edward H.
Brown, Thomas

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burge, Miss M. L.
Byrn‘es, Rev. James P.

C
Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Callender, Thomas 0.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel
Carscallen, Mrs. K.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, John
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chisolm, Benjamin C).

‘uxggggfgvgm; ;.sm2—::-«g.

aw Lav;

f‘L‘H“ “2.25:3,

:mmm—aa—AVW mama-var -w-va.—~sarn'v«

Belford, William J.
Benedicks, Leonard

Choate, Joseph H.
Christensen, Gen. C. T.

A;;‘;:A‘A‘A"4f‘:;2t a.

___._.—__._.

 




 

    

Clark. Edw. J.

Close, S. B.

Coburn, Miss L. C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Stanley A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Colgate, A. W.
Colgate, Mrs. A. \V.
Colton, Mrs. Lucy T.
Cooper, Charles W.
Corbett, C. H.
Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.

Cox, Smith

Coyle, Miss J. Antoinette
Cramer, L. H.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Crossman, Miss Grace
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Cruger, Mrs. Blanche E.
Cunningham, Geo.
Curran, John J.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtis, Miss E. B.
-Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

I)alley, Henry, Jr.
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.

F)arlington, J. A.

Darrigrand, Alexander A.

IJarrigrand, Miss Fannie
I)arrigrand, Miss Lucie
I)arrigrand, Miss Marie
’If)avidson, Miss Clara
I)awes, Mrs. Martha S.
I)e Cordova, Alfred
I)e Gerlach, Alexander
IJehon, Miss M.
I)ejonge, Louis

I)e La Vergne, John C.
IDernpsey, Daniel

I)e Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.

Desjardins, Miss Louise G.
De Witt, Mrs. George (l.

De Witt, William G.
Dexter, Henry

Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dittman, Mortimer
Dix, Rev. Morgan, l).l).
Dodge, \Villiam E.
Doelger, Peter
Donovan, Dennis
Douglass, Mrs. Byron
Dowd, Timothy
Dowst, John A.
Draper, Mrs. John H.

E
Ebling, Philip
Eckstein, Monroe
Edwards, J-. Pierrepont
Ehrmann, Ernest
Ehrmann, Julius
Elder, Mrs. George W.
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Henry
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fairchild, Mrs. A. V.
Fallert, Joseph

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Ficken, C.

Finck, August
Fischer, Mrs. Charles
Flégenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Flores, Miss Elvira

 

 

 

 

 




6

less suffering; the press naturally represented popular indiffer-
ence to the cause, and winged the shafts of ridicule against its
self-devoted representative. In those days it was sound policy in
Mr. Bergh to challenge and secure public attention at all costs.
Opposition, ridicule, personal abuse—anything was better than.
indifference ; and he courted, rather than avoided, anything, how-
ever painful, that would compel the public to consider his cause
and the fearful evils with which he was battling.

Now all that has been changed. No respectable person is
hostile to our work ; no one dares to ridicule it ; the public con-
science is aroused in our behalf; the Legislature is just and
candid in considering our representations of the effects of pro—
posed legislation; the courts, to a most gratifying extent, have
become effectual schools of humanity, and the gravity of the
bench lends dignity as well as strength to the humane precepts of
our judges. Best of all, perhaps, the press is with us, heartily,
intelligently, and sincerely; and in this age, to have the coopera-
tion of the press is to have a constant, all—pervading, and ultimately
irresistible, intellectual and moral power in alliance with us.

Thus the present position of our Society is strangely different
from that which it occupied a quarter of a century ago, or even
ten or ﬁve years ago. Our practical work has surely not been
neglected, and yet the effects of our unseen inﬂuence have come
to be incomparably greater than the visible results of our work.
This change of position requires a change of method. Hence-
forth our best and greatest work will be to extend our inﬂuence.
It is no longer necessary to challenge public attention or to ask
1 ; for public sympathy, we have both already; and we must now
devote our largest cares to the education of the public mind,
which is predisposed to give its sympathetic consideration to
whatever facts or suggestions we may have to offer. I must
therefore ask you to remember that our chief. work now and.
henceforth must be a work of education; that in this, as in all
true education, the results, though sure, cannot be immediately
apparent ; and that an ideal success would be achieved if we could
so educate the public mind that humane societies should seem
to be superfluous. We have not yet reached that degree of
success—possibly we shall never reach it; but we must not

‘4

 

 

 

 




Tms‘ AMERICAN 80le Lg'L‘Y

PREVENTION ()1?CRUEL’I‘Y’I‘L) Z‘i\.\’l.\l_\l..\‘

I 5§('( )l<l‘( )I(;\’1 Ii! ) I:\' '1 I! IS fVl‘:\'I If ( )IV Fsl-‘\\' \'( )l{ L"

;\IW{II, 1U. IHhh

J.

1.)}iC I? VI] H E R

H15A“(ngR'L‘mr m: 'L‘L-na awn-VH-

10 EAST TWVHNWWVSFFHNL‘STKFLI,

NE “7 YO R K.

m) , a
1590-

 




 

NEW YORK.

, 10 EAST 22d STREET

TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS

 

 

 

 




 

I7

to the abattoirs the animals are under the protection of the
Society, and nothing is left undone to insure them proper treat—
ment while in transit. The abattoirs have been visited daily by
our ofﬁcers, and many improvements with regard to the merciful
treatment of animals awaiting slaughter have been adopted at our
suggestion by the proprietors, and it may be conﬁdently asserted
that the cruelties which at one time were practised are now only
scenes of the past.

The exportation of cattle, sheep, and other live stock to foreign
countries has been quite extensive during the past year. The
absence of clubs and steel-pointed sticks formerly used to prod
and beat the animals is evidence of the vigilance of our ofﬁcers.
The quality and quantity of food and water, also the attendance
provided in case of sickness or accident during the voyage, have
been thoroughly inspected.

Much trouble still exists with regard to the overcrowding of
live poultry in crates. Finding it impossible to reach the con-
Signor, the consignees were compelled to feed, water, and provide
larger coops for the fowls as soon as received. It was found
necessary to prosecute several express and truckmen for carting
the fowls away in the crates in which they were originally
shipped.

CANAL WORK.

A thorough inspection of the horses and mules employed on
the several canals of the State was made during the towing season,
and while it was found necessary to prosecute several drivers and
owners for using animals physically unﬁt for labor, the majority
of the stock was found in better condition than it has been for
' many years past.

GLANDERS ANl) FARCY.

These terrible diseases, fatal to human beings as well as ani-
mals, have been summarily dealt with when found, as will beseen
by the prompt action taken in the following case. One of a team
of horses attached to a street passenger car, in addition to its
other inﬁrmities, was found to be diseased with glanders. The

2

 

 




 

25

March 12. Robert Wheeler and Sherman Jorden were arrested while witness-
ing a cock—ﬁght. Each of the defendants was ﬁned ten dollars.

March 16. Moritz I’ollock, for twisting the wings of geese and carrying them
in a cruel manner, also forcing corn down the animals' throats with a
stick, was ﬁned ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

March 17. “ \Vhat are you striking those mules for?" said one of the
Society's detectives to Logan Palmer, who was heating a team of
mules over their heads with the butt end of a whip. " What the h—l
is it your business?” replied Palmer, emphasizing the oath by a blow
on one of the animals’ months with his clenched ﬁst. He soon found
out, however. when informed he was under arrest. \Vhen arraigned
for trial his defence was : “I lost my temper.” Fined two dollars by
Court of Special Sessions.

March 18. Jacob Cohen, for beating his horse over the body with whip, also
jerking the reins in a cruel manner, thereby cutting the animal’s mouth.
Fined ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 18. Benjamin Clark, for driving a horse attached to wagon while suf—
fering from a ﬁstula sore on side of back, unprotected from the har-
ness. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

March 18. Louis Yates, ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justice Corbett for neglect-
ing to provide medical attendance and proper sustenance for a sick cow.

March 19. Thomas P. Riley, for driving a sore, weak. and emaciated old horse.
Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

March 23. Michael Ruppel, 189 Orchard Street, was driving avery lame horse
attached toaloaded furniture truck. The animal. ﬁguratively speaking.
was walking on three legs, and otherwise disabled. The defendant
was discharged, however, by Justice Taintor, of the Third District
Police Court, for the reason that he “had only been driving the
horse for an hour.”

March 23. William Dwyer, leaving a horse standing unblanketed, exposed
to the weather without food for many hours. Fined ﬁve dollars by
Justice Raney.

March 24. John Corrigan was charged with cruelly beating a team of stage
horses, but was discharged from custody by Justice C. \V. Hignell,
of Wappingers Falls. on account of his youth. and his excuse that

" he meant no harm.”

March 25. Dominico Mari was arrested for driving an old gray horse
attached to a licensed—vender wagon. The animal was so lame and
emaciated that it could hardly draw the vehicle. He was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, and the horse mercifully
destroyed.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  

33

.July 8. Sentence was sLISpended in the case of Thomas Hayes, of Buffalo,
who was arrested by the Society's ofﬁcers at Schenectady for com-
pelling four mules to drag three loaded boats on the Erie Canal.
Three of the animals were very lame, while all four had galled
shoulders, being chafcd by the harness. The mules were taken to
a barn, and put in charge of a veterinary surgeon until in proper
condition for work. Charles II. Starke, the owner of the animals,
was ﬁned ten dollars, or twenty days' imprisonment, by Justice
Eisenmenger. for permitting them to be tortured as above described.

July 12. \Villiam Mullen, for wilfully driving into and throwing to the pave—
ment a horse attached to a car of the Ninth Avenue Railroad Co.,

thereby breaking the animal’s leg. Fined twenty dollars by Court of
Special Sessions.

July 14. Thomas Hall, of Wayne. Wayne Co., for driving three mules
attached to two canal boats, one of said mules suffering from galled
shoulders and covered with black scab, the other two animals badly
galled. The defendant virtually pleaded guilty to the charge of cruelty,
but the justice, Pat. Doyle, ignored the plea, and dismissed the
complaint, as well as the one preferred against the owner of the
animals, one Harvey J. Blair.

July 25. John Huffman, Dutch Farms, S. L, for stabbing a horse with a pen-
knife, was ﬁned the costs of the court by Justice Acker.

July 25. John Hankhurst, Canarsie, L. 1., for driving two lame and weak
horses attached to farm wagon. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Justice
Sutherland, of Coney Island.

July 25. Edward F. Lynch, 34 Bayard Street, thought it a good joke when he
set his ferocious bull-dog on a pet cat belonging to a grocer. The
cat was lying on a barrel when Lynch and his dog entered the store.
“Sic him, Jack,” said Lynch, and in an instant the feline was
seized by the terrier and almost torn apart. Lynch was convicted
and ﬁned ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

July 26. Hariis Simons, 0f Coney Island. for driving to a heavily loaded
wagon a horse so lame, sore, and weak that the poor creature was
obliged to stop in the middle of the roadway from sheer exhaustion.
Both owner and driver were charged with cruelty, and ﬁned ten
dollars each by Justice \Valsh.

July 26. N. Niciter was compelling a tired and. worn-out horse to pull a loaded
wagon up a steep hill at Stapleton, S. I. The weary creature was
doing its very best, which was not enough to suit its brutal driver,

3

 

 

 

 

  




     
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
      

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

ORGANIZED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE PARENT
SOCIETY OF AMERICA.

NEW YORK.

“THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.”

HEADQUARTERS, IO East 22d Street, NEM/ YOEA’.
[izeoiyﬁorateo' m I 866.
JOHN P. IIAINES, President. lGrEO. G. DEWITT. Secretary.
BROOKLYN OFFICE.

415 Fulton Street, Brooklyn.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester.

Roeﬂester.
REVJAMES H. DENNIS, President. I MISS E. P. HALL, Secretary.

 

ULSTER COUNTY.

Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to ‘Animals.
Rondout.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. \W. D. HALE, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




    
   
    
 
    
 
    
   
   
  
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
     

49

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
19 Mill: Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL. President. | JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Secretary.

Lowell Humane Society.
98 Central Street, Lowell.
JAMES BAYLES, President. | FRANK P. PUTNAM, Secretary.

 

Newburyport Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 1.
Newonrjport.
E. S. MOSELEY, President. I SAM. E. SARGENT, Secretary.

Taunton Humane Society.

 

Taanton.

REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, MRS. E. L. MORSE, Secretary.
President. g

MICHIGAN.

Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit. . fl

T. w. PALMER, President. | FORD STARRING. Secretary.

Kent County Humane Society.
Grana’ Rapids.
CHAS. FLUHRER. President. I A. C. TORREY. Secretary.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.

Kalamazoo.

FRED. HOTOP, President. | SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary.

St. Clair County Humane Society.
Port Huron.

B. C. FARRAND, President. I MRS. HELEN W. FARRAND.
Secretary.

 




 

57

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

9 3 Hollis Street, Halifax.
J. L‘. MACKINTOSH, President. I JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.

Hamilton Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Hamilton.
:XDAM BROWN, M.P., President. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
Bagot Street, R’ingston.
I JAMES MASSIE, Secretary,
Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
196 St. fairies Street, Montreal.
President. I GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.

Ottawa.
THE MAYOR OF OTTAWA, Pres. I W. C. BAKER, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ferry Building, Water Street, St. fo/zn.
President. I E. J. VVETMORE, Secretary.
Toronto Humane Society.
103 Bay Street, Toronto.
\V. R. BROCK, President. I J. J. KELSO, Secretary.
Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fredericton.
[CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

 

SOUTH AMERICA.

Argentine Republic, Buenos A yres.
IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, Pres. I FERNANDO BERGHMANS, Sec.
Brazil, Rio a’e faneiro.
A. NI. N. GONCALVES, President. IJ. ALBINO DA CRUZ. Secretary.
Dominican Republic, San Domingo. ‘
RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC, Pres. | CESAR N. PENSON, Secretary.

 

 




55

SARATOGA COUNTY.

GILBERT, D. S ........................................ Saratoga Springs
NL'GENT, D. F ............................................. Waterford
RICE. GEORGE A ....................................... Mechanicsville
\VOODVVORTH, H. J ................................... Mechanicsville

SCHOHARIE COUNTY.
BECKER, W. H ................................................ Gilboa

SCHUYLER COUNTY.
ROGERS, ROBERT P .......Burdett

SENECA COUNTY.
BAKER, ARTHUR SSeneca Falls
CLARY, JOHN ............................................ Seneca Falls
STEUBEN COUNTY.
BURKE, THOMAS W ........................................ Addison
DUDLEY, J. C ................................................... Bath

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

:XNDERSON, THOS. S. VV.... Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L ....................................... Babylon
C ABIPBELL, ARCHIBALD H ............................. Huntington
COLLINS, JOHN G. . . . ............................... East Hampton
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P ................................... Elwood
31 ORISON, GEO. W ................ . ..................... Ronkonkoma
)1 LT LFORD, HENRY D ...................................... Northport
PENNY, ROBT. \V ........................................... Flanders
REEVES, DETMOLD ..................................... Greenport
I<ENVVICK, S. C ............................................ Amityville
5 BIITH. CHARLES F ....................................... Cutchogue
SQUIRES. EDWARD N. ................................ Good Ground
gUY’DAM, WALTER L .................................... Blue Point
TERRY, HENRY.........................................Southampton
TOTTEN, JOHN C ............................... Cold Spring Harbor
XZAIL, A. R ................................................... Southold
\YELLS, GEORGE B .................................... Baiting Hollow

SULLIVAN COUNTY.
DIZCKER, A. A ....................................... Mountain Dale

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Foller, Nicholas
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia de
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Mathias N.
Frankenberg, D.
Frauenstein, Dr. G.
Freel, Edward
Freeman, Mrs. L.
Freeman, W. D.
Frese, Charles
Fries, Frederick
Friedman, Leonard
Froehl 1ch ,Joseph J.
Fuller, William H.
Fuller, Mrs. \V. H.

G
Gager, Mrs. O. A.
Gallatin, Frederick
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.
Gibb, John
Gibbons, Francis J.
Gilbert, Clinton
Godwin, Parke
Goodrich, Geo. Selden
Goodrich, Mrs. Thos. F.
Gregory, Dudley S. '
Gregory, Mrs. Dudley S.
Gregory, Louis
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H

Hackett, Jeremiah.
Haffen, John

Hagerty, M. H.
Haight, Mrs. D. H.
Hamilton, Henry
Harris, Isaac

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.

Hart, Cornelius A.
Hart, Patrick

Haven, G. G.

Haviland, S. W.

Hecht, Aaron

Heins, John L.
Henderson, Mrs. Harriet
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry

Higgins, Charles S.

Hill, Warren E.
Hinrichs, C. F. A.
Hinton, Miss H. M.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Charles W.
Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, Isaac E.
Holbrook, Miss Lillian
Holland, P.

Hollins, Mrs. H B.
Holmes, Mrs. J W.
Holt, C. T. _
Holz, Bernard .
Holz, Mrs. Bernard
Hopkins, Miss Josephine
Hopkins, H. C.
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M‘
Hopt, Max G.
Horrmann, August
Horton, James M.
Hosey, Michael

Hower, Frederick
Huber,vOtto

Huerstel, Edmond
Huntington, A. M.
Hupfel, J. C. G.
Huyler, Mrs. A. L.
Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret'A.

-I

Ibert, Frank
Ingersoll, Robert G..

 




 

    

I ge ersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Inge rsoll, Miss Maud
I “-gr raham, Mrs. B F.
Is e1 1'11. C. Oliver
I

Jeffery, Dr. George C.
Jennewein, Valentine

J erz 111anowski,Baron Ezaram J.

Jewell, George S.
Johnson, Dr. S. K.
Johnson, Joseph
TC>I111ston, Mrs. Mary
Tones Mrs. F. R
:3Tn11es— Floyd, Mrs. George
Stanton
Jurgens, W. B. A.

K

Keller, George
Kellogg, W. A.
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana

Kensett, Miss Gertrude W.

Kent, George H.
Iiiefer, Henry
Knapp, John M.
Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knobel, Mrs. Emma
Knowlton, E. F.
Knox, Thomas'W.
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Kraus, Benjamin
Krowder, Miss Alice

L

Laimbeer, Richard M.
I aw rence, Mrs. S.
Leavy, Bernard

I eggett, Francis H.
I eslie,1 Miss Gertrude
Lex y, Isaac

Levy, Aaron

 

Lewis, Percy Pyne
Liebmann, Charles
Liebmann, Joseph
Linckla a,en Mrs Iedvard
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus

Livingston, Miss Annie L

Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John 'I‘.
Lockwood, John E.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L., Jr.
Lotto, Frederick
Low, Abiel A.

Low, Hon. Seth
Low, Mrs. Seth
Lowell, Mrs. C. R.
Lowell, MissC. Russell
I owery, Mis. John A.
Lyman, E H. R

M

Mackenzie, William
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Maclay, Robert
Manson, Mrs. T. L., Jr.
Marks, Mrs. Nannette
Marks, Selim

Maverick, Mrs. Brewster

May, Moses
Mayer, David
Maxwell, HenryW.

McClellan, Miss Mary Malle-

ville
McEwen, Mrs. D. C.

McFarlan, Mrs. Edward

McGahie, John
McGee, James
McKane, Hon. John Y.
McLean, John
Mercer, Miss, Margaret

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Mercer, G. H. H.
Mergle, Anton

Merritt, Miss E.

Mertz, Miss M.
Meserole, A. V.

Meyer, Henry
Michelbacker, S.
Minck, Henry

.iN‘Iinturn, Mrs. Robert B.
Minturn, Miss Mildred
.VIinturn, Hugh
Minturn, Miss Eliza '1‘.
Mintz, Dr. Frederick
Mogk, \Villiam

Moller, Mrs. S. Adelina
Monahan, Thomas
Monnot, J. B.

(Morris, Lewis G.
Morrison, Mrs. George Austin
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Moss, Hiram

Muller, Edward M.
Munch, Ferdinand
Mustoe, V.S., Dr. J. F.
Myers, George L.

N

Natrass, Mrs. Frank E.
Neidlinger, Adam

Neilson, Howard S.

Nelson, Mrs. W. H.
Newcomb, Mrs. Marie Guise .
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine

O

Ochs, Ernest
Ockershausen, Henry A.
Olcott, George M.
Opperman, F.

Orr, John C.

Orvis, F. H.

O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.

Ozioni, “Mrs. Anna

Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Palmer, Master George
Palmer, Master Frank
Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parsons, W. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pell, J. H.

Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Piffard, Miss N. H.
Pirie, S. C.

Plate, Carston
Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Pope, N. Q.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.
Purdy, J. H.

R
Rader, Gustavus W.

Raisch, Julius
Raymond, Charles H.
Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Renault, Louis
Reynolds, C. H.
Richardson, William
Robinson, Dr. S. A.
Roosevelt, J. A.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Thomas F.

S

Schaefer,’ Charles
Schakers, P. G.
Schloss, Alexander P.

 




 

  

Scinnadeke, John F.
:‘cEimitt, George
Scnrader, George .
Schultz, Carl H.
ScEiurz, Miss Marianne
Segcmnl), Mrs. E. A.
512 earman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Miss Anna E.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Siieperd, Dr. A. \V.
Shntwell, H. T.
Shults, John H.
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Alfred
Siegman, Richard
Silver, Mrs. C. A.
Simon, George A.
Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.

Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.

Slocum, Henry W., Jr.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.
5111ith, C. C.

Smith. H. A.
Sznith, W. H.

Snow, E. Gr.

Spencer, Mrs. Lorillard, Jr.

Squire, Newton R.
Stacie, F. W. von
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stanton, Edmund C.
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stark, Philip
Stein, A. M.
Stein, Conrad
Sterling, Theodore W.
Stern, Benjamin
Stewart, David
stewart, H.
Stewart, Thomas J.
Stillman, Thomas E.
5t(-;kes, Anson P.
Stone, Edwin
StOfYaJrR
St()ut, VVllllam V.
5trauss, Mrs. Jacob

  

 

Strauss, Samuel
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore
Swords, Miss P. C.

,1.
Tamke, Mrs. Henry
Tappenbeck, F. W.
Taylor, Thomas F.
Thomas, Miss M. L.
Thompson, Fred. F.
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Trask, Spencer

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tully, Matthew S.
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrichs, Thomas E.

\f

Van Allen, G. W.

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Ness, J. Newton
Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Vogt, Henry

Voislausky, S. P.

W
Wade, William I).
Walser, Dr. Wm. C.
Ward, Mrs. F. A. B.
Ward, L. B.
Waters, Dr. E., V.S.
Webb, H. Walter
Webber, Joseph

 

 

 

 




Weil, Charles M.

Welz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Weston, Miss Emily J.
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Edward R.
White, Miss Julia B.
White, S. V.
Whitehouse, Edward, Jr.
Whitewright, \Villiam
Whyte, Bryce A.

Wicke, William
Wickham, William Hull
Wickham, Mrs. William Hull
Wilcox, David

Wilcox, William G.
Wilhelm, Mrs. Amelia
Wilkins, Morris
Wilkinson, James A.
Williams, R. C.

Wilson, Charles H.
Wilson, Miss Grace M.

76

Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Wilson, John M.

Wing, L. Stuart

\Ving, Mrs. L. Stuart
Wissel, A.

\Vood, Mrs. Duncan
\Vood, Mrs. H. G.
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, G. H.

Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Work, James Henry
Work, Mrs. James Henry
Wright, Harriet
Wyckoff, Peter

\Vyeth, Dr. J. A.

Wyeth, Mrs. J. A.
Wyman, Miss Esther

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry

 




 

 

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING THE
YEAR

1892.

__.'_.‘._____—.__.__—_—-_.

A
A- B. . . . . . . . . $5 00
:Xbendroth, W. P. . . . . 5 00
Acker, Merrall & Condit . . IO 00
.Ackennan, Charles F. . . . 5 00
:Xnderson. Mrs. E. Milbank . 100 00
:prleton, 1)., & Co. . . . IO 00
.Arnold & Constable . . . 5 00
:thantic Avenue RR. Co.,
Brooklyn . . . . . . 5 00
:thantic & Paciﬁc Tea Co.
(The Great) . . 5 00
B
Baeder. Adamson & Co. . . 5 00
Bates, Mrs. A. F. . . . . 2 00
Behr, H.. & Co. . . . . . IO 00
Benedict, Miss Julia . . . 5 00

Birmingham. Mrs. John J. . 2 00
Bliss, ‘Mrs. Jeannette Dwight. 25 CO

Blunt, Miss Eliza S. . . . I 00
Bolen 8; Byrne . . . . . IO 00
Bossert. Louis . . . . . 5 00
Braidich, A. F. (special) . . 50 00
Brooklyn City RR. Co. . . 25 00
Brooks, G. W. . . . . . 5 00
Browne, Mrs. Anna E. . 100 00
Browne. Mrs. E. L. . . . I 00
Buchenberger, F. A. 5 00
Budweiser Brewing Co. . . IO 00
Iﬁunce, John . . . . . . 5 00
Burden, Mrs. Henry . . . 2 00

Burger & Hower Brewing Co. 10 00

Burnett, S. O. . . 5 00

Burnham, L. S. . . . . . 5 00
C

Cabble, Elijah . . . . . 5 00

Campbell, Geo. W. . . . 5 00

Canﬁeld,H.Y. . . . . . 1000

Card, Miss Zora L.

Carscallen, Mrs. K.

Carson, Henry .

Cash,H.L.M.. . . ..

Cash (For the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals) . .

Cash (A Living Friend to Our
Animals) . . . . . .

Cash, E. T. E.

Cash, C. R. B.

Cash, Mrs. C.

Cash, S. A. W.

Cash, Miss I. E.

Cash, R. . . . . .

Chamberlain, Miss F. S. . .

Children of the Orphan House,
sale of articles made by them

Chisolm, Mrs. W. E. . . .

Chisolm, Benjamin Ogden

Chrome Steel Works .

Chrystie, W. F. .

Clements, I. U. .

Costa, H. A. .

Coster, C. H. .

Cowperthwait Co.

Cross, Austin & Co.

Cross, Mrs. Frances E.

Cross, Joseph A., & C0.

D

Dahn, John A.

Daly, Henry F. .
Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Darrigrand, Mrs. F.
Dehon, Miss M.
Delaﬁeld, Maturin L.
Derenthal & Schalk
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Destin, Lottie Y.
Dickey, Charles D.
Dunphy, Julia K.

U'l
OUINDJ
O
O

N
O
O

H
O
O

mmmux
O
O

4 oo
25 00

IO 00
10 00
IO 00
4 IO

25 oo
37 00

 

 

 




    

E
Ehrich Bros . . . $5
Ellison, Mrs. S. T. . . . 5
Embury, Miss K. . . . . IO
Ennis & Sons, Thos. . 5
Export Lumber Co. (Limited) 10
F
Fairbanks, Mrs. Leland 25
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M. . . I5
Fink, John . . . . . . 5
Flint, Mrs. C. R.‘ . . . IO
Flores, Miss Elvira . . . I
Flores, Miss Floria M.
Ford, James B. . . 25
Frank Brewing Co., W H. . 5
Frothingham, J. W. . . . 5
G
Gale, Nellie . .
Gallatin, Frederic 5
Gallatin, Miss Louise . I
Gates, Miss Charlotte G. 2
Gignoux, Mrs. Charles C. 5
Giligan, M15. ‘. . 2
Gleason Mfg. Co. E. P. . 2
Goodridge, Mrs. Fiﬂedeiic IO
Goodyear, W. . . . 2
Gralfhs, Herman 5
Greason & Howard . 5
H
Haight, Mrs. A. I
Ham, James M. . . . . 5
Hammersley, Mrs. J. Hooker 25
Hard, Miss Laura W. IO
Haidy, Voorhees & C0. 20
Harrison, W. H. . 5
Hawley, Miss Jessie 0.5
Hecla Iron Works . . 5
Hegemen, Joseph, & Co. 5
Heissenbuttell & Nearing 5
Hoffman, Mrs. W. B. . 5
Hoffman, MissD. W. . 5
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M. 5
Hosch F. . 5
Howell, Hon. James 5
Hughes, P. G. 5
Hunt, Miss Nannie 35

88

00
OO
00

oo
oo
75
oo
oo
50
oo

00

25
00
OO
00
CO
00
50
00
00
OO
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
00
00

OO
00
OO

27

 

I

Ilsley & Co., S. A. . .
India Wharf Brewing Co.
Indig, E.
In Memoriam Mrs. Jeremiah
Milbank . . . .
Iron Clad Mfg. Co. .
Iselin, Miss Emilie E. .
Itgen, E. H. . .

J

Ja1ves, Miss (from a little
bank)

Jerzmanowski, Baron E. J.

K

Kelsey & Loughlin .

Kendall, Miss Georgianna
Kenyon & Newton
Kimball, Misses

Lulu . . .

King & Adams .
Kipling, Miss Adeline M. .
Klots & Bros. Sons, Walte1 T.
Korber, Albert .

Alice and

L

Langdon, Mrs. Woodbury

Langlei & Sons, N. .

Lanier Mrs. J. F. D.

Latourette, Miss

l. C. A .

Leibinger & Oehm Brewing
Co. .

Leupp, Miss A.

Leupp, Miss M.

Lewis, Jr., Mrs Geo1ge

Lewis Miss Mabel.

Lewis & Co., S. W. .

Lewis & Fowler Mfg. Co.

Lins & Sons, H. .

Livingston, Miss Annie L

Lockitt & Sons, George

Long Island Breweryb .

Low, Edward A.

M

McAdam, Mrs. Phebe J.
McAlpine Sz Co., D. H.

$5
IO
I

. 200

S
20

5

10

b.)
H 0 1-1 L» H
mmmOUIOUINCUImo OUIOUI

H

88

OO

00
OO
00
00

3O
00

00
OO
00

OO
00
00
OO
00

00
OO
00
OO
00

OO
00
()0
OO

00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO




31 cShane 8; Co., Henry . . $5
liaitland, F. A. . . . . 5
312116, \V. H. . 5
)Iali. Charles 5
Blarcks, L. H. 5
312113th 8: Son 5
llartense, A. V . 5
\Iasury & Son, John W. . IO
Blatthews. The ﬁrm of John . 10
3121}, Levy & May IO
316:: eiole. Mrs. J. V. . 25
\Ii Ibank. Mrs. Joseph . 50

\Iollenhauer Sugar Reﬁning
Co- .
\quuin & Offerman

5
. . 5
31011011 8: Sons, John . . 5
\Iott Iron Works, T.heJ L. 5
\Ioulton, Mrs. F. A. . 100
N
N :3 VV X'ork Condensed Milk Co. 25
Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine . 5
Noyes. James S. 25
O
C?) kford, Miss Ellen 7
(Jrferinan & Heissenbuttel 3
P
‘ Paris " (special donation) . 100
Pa rsons, J.C. 5
Parsons, Mrs. Mary Lewellyn 10
E’Iant. S. &H.——92 and 93 . Io
Pomroy, Mrs. A. F. . . 20
Porter, Mrs. Frank B. IO
Ports William . . . . . 5
Po“ ell, D. B. . . 5
P}ne, :NIrs. Moses 'laylor 15
R
avmond, Charles H. 20
Renault, Louis . . . . . 5
R106. VII'S. G . . . 2
E:idley & Sons, Edwaid 10
Robinson, M18. E. A. . . 5
Rogers, Mrs. M. S. . . . 5
Rudd, Joseph ,. . 45
Rﬂgppert Jacob . . . IO
Rushmore, I. W. . . . . 5

888

00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00
00

OO
00
00

OO
00

OO
00

00
OO
00
00
00
OO

00

00

88'

OO
00
OO
00
OO

79

S
Schaefer Brewing Co., F. & M. $5
Seitz, M. . . 5
Seward, Miss S. . 4
Sheperd Dr. A. W. 2
Skidmore, William L. 10
Standish Mrs. Myles 25
Stokes, Anson Phelps . 20
Stranahan, J. S. T. 5
Stutz, Louis . 5
Suydam, VValterI. 5
T
Taylor, James R. 5
Thimig, Herman 5
Thompson, James 5
Thorn, G. R. H. 5
'I horp,J. H. 5
Tibbals. Henry H. In mem—
ory of . 5
T om and Jim . . . IO
Totten, G. I. . . . . . 5
Travers Bros. Co. . . . IO
Tuttle’s Son & Co., S. . . . 5
U
United States Bung Co. . . 5
United States Express Co. . IO
V
Valentine & Sons . . . . 5
Vanderb‘lt, F. W. . IOO
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W. 100
Van Winkle, Edgar B. IO
Vogel & Bros., William . . 5
W
Wallace, W. H. . . 5
Waterbury 81 Force . 5
VVeil. Lemuel . . . . 5
Welshoefer, Mrs. Iucy . . 80
Westcott Express Co. . . . IO
White, Edward I). . . . . 5
White, Miss Susan E. . . . 50
\Nilde’s Sons, Samuel . . . 5
Willets, Miss Maria . 25
\Villiams George G. 10
Williamsburg Brewing Co.10
Wolf & May . . . . . . 5
Wood, Mrs. George . 5
Worthington H y d r a u 1 1c
Works . . IO
Wright, Miss Harriet IO

00
OO
00
00
00.1
00
OO-
00
00
00

00
OO
00
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
OO

00
OO
00
()0
OO-

00
OO
00
00
CO
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
OO

 

 




CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BROOKLYN
BUILDING FUND RECEIVED DURING
THE YEAR 1892.

A. A. M. . . .
Boody, Hon. D. A.
Canty, Daniel
Carscallen, Mrs. K.
Cash . . . . .
Cash, C. A. ‘C. . .
Cash, Mrs. C. C. A. .
Continental Iron Works
Corwin, Halsey
Darrigrand, Miss F.
Delmar, John P.
Heutschel, Chas.
Hester, W. V.

Low, A. A. . . ~.
McLaughlin, H. .
Manning, James .

Maxwell, H. W.
Monahan, Thomas .
Orr & Co., john C.
Palmer, Lowell M. .
Renault, Louis
Schaeffer, Charles
Schermerhorn, G. F.
Searles, Jr., John E.
Small, Miss B. D. .
Smith, H. A. . . .
Taylor, Thomas F. .
Thornton, Samuel
Ughetta, H. L. .
White, S. V. .
Wolff, A. & J.
Wyckoff, P.

 




 

(IBhituurg gamma.

     
   

  

The Society mourns the loss of the following

members, who have died during the year:

 
 
      

hhw.ANNA BERGHAUS,
STEPHEN G.CONOVER,
MmaFANNYIMHUUGRANH
AHA HNJA D.DA“%ON,
JOHNiMCHLEK
THIWMHSCLiHODGRJNS
JOHN HOEY,

MMLJOHN T HOFFMAN,
GEORGE E HOLT,
IMHVARDEiJAFFRAY,
WILLIAM E. LAIMEEER,
DAVH)(1 LYALL,

hM$ MHNHE MORGAN,
MRA:MARY'R,1WHJ,
11 A.SECCONHL
JACOB O.VERNHLYE,

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
     
   
   

 




 

 

To Z/zose w/zo may feel disposed 2‘0 a’mzaz‘e 5y LVILL 2‘0
Z/ze émzevo/em‘ oéjecz‘s of Z/zz's Sawﬂy, Z/ze fol/owz'ﬁg

2's szzémzﬂea’ as a form .-

Form of Bequest of Persmm/ Properly.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ......................................................................................... dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Dem’se of Real Profen’y.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property], together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor—
poration, its successors and assigns, for ever.

 




         

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

   

 

 

         

   

 

       

 

 

   

 

 

   

 

     

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

       

     

 

 

 

 

. , ‘ . V ‘ ' , r - _ : t - - A -o_ l
a:
. ‘ ‘ n;
‘ ' "J"
V , ta
. V“
\‘1
‘
_ » «I
‘ A A.
‘ ‘ 7
, ' . ' l
‘ A ‘ ‘ , '1
5‘ , \ ﬁ
, '
. T ‘ 2‘ \
} ‘
, . < /
7 , ‘ , ‘
5' , ‘ ‘ “”
. ¥ ‘. m V
I ‘ ‘ .€’~
. ‘ v ‘ ‘ ~ , ‘ . ‘ r ‘
J ‘ ‘
y ‘
‘ ‘ ‘ y !
‘ ‘ ‘ ‘4 .r ‘j
x. ‘ I '
‘ s
‘ ‘ <
. r g
. ‘ . \ , .
.
, 5 ‘ A
x , ‘ \ t
, ‘ ‘ I (I
g ‘ h ,
5
, ' 1
' C
, ‘ F
, ~ . VA
\ ,
i , ‘
, 1 K-
v ‘ . u S11
‘ y ‘ w
‘ H"
. 1“
‘ g,
‘ I \
‘ V ‘. ‘ H , ‘
‘ .
> ‘ f
. \ ,
x n ‘ , \
. ‘ . ,. : >
‘\
‘ ‘ \ ‘. " ‘ ‘ "
‘ l‘ ‘ ‘ .‘ , ‘
4 \ I V
) 4
e‘ v “
‘ u. i ‘ v ‘ 5
‘( ’ ’ ‘
x V ‘ .
1‘ ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

     
 

 

 

 

   

 

     

.A
i ‘
a ‘ ‘ .
7‘ i ‘
: ‘ V
r _
f n
i
; ‘
. .1 g 1 . ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘
_ 1, z r . 0
4. B._ ‘ ‘
H a
. I V ' ‘ ‘ ”v;
‘ . ‘ ll
‘ g ‘ . ‘
l 2‘ ‘
, y ‘ ‘ A . ,
/ . .n
‘ 1 n p. ‘5‘ 'c,‘A Us"13’W‘W‘W'ﬂ”'*7’"n*""'t w A '
M R ,> n, v t ‘ ’
‘4' V‘ L ‘
A ‘ 7 1 , v
. . a

                  




