Incorporating eThe \Vinged Messenger’

 

VOLUME XLIX N 0 9 THREEPENCE SEPTEMBER 1954

 

Photo by courtesy] Australian News and Information Bureau

FINE FEATHERS

Songbird and mimic, the lyrebird lives in the upland districts of South-eastern
Australia, where this photo was taken. This is the male bird

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

 

AW‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘A‘AAAAAAAAAAAA‘A‘AAAAAAAAAAH
v 'vv'v'vvvvvvvv‘vvvvvvv'vv'vvvvvvvv'vvvvv‘vvvvvvvvv‘vv'vv'vv

(Please send stamped addressed envelope to RSPCA, 105 Jermyn St., London S. W.I for Order Form.)

AAAAAAAAAAAA-
v'vv'v—rvvvvv'

 

 

 

Ref. 12

1 ll
8:

1Z6

Actual s

Ref. 10

d.

Mounted on strong boar

 

EACH

PRICE ZS.

Envelopes

luding

1716’

Post Free

for one dozen or over

per dozen .

21/—

 

Ref. 11

 

 

1i

 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
'v'vvvvvvvvvvvvv" v'vvvv

AAAAAAAAA
vvvvv'v'v

 




 

 

 

September 1954

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD ’ 105

 

Rotherham and District A successful jumble sale was
organized by Mrs Mann, of Tennyson Road, Rotherham,
and the proceeds were given to branch funds. Mrs Gilbert
Lodge, branch vice-chairman, presented the prizes. Alder-
man Mrs Green, branch chairman, was present.

Somerset South Lt-Col H. C. Gould, branch chairman,
took 'the chair at the branch annual meeting held at St
Andrew’s Vicarage, Taunton, by kind permission of Pre-
bendary and Mrs Lance (the latter of whom is Taunton
auxiliary hon secretary), Mrs W. F. Dickinson, branch hon
secretary, reviewed the year’s activities. Wing-Comdr Hillier,
branch organizer, addressed the meeting. Senior Inspectors
Newbury and Bonam presented their reports.

Capt W. F. Dickinson was re-elected president; Lt-Col
H. C. Gould chairman; Mr G. G. Elliott hon treasurer,
and Mrs W. F. Dickinson hon secretary.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Inspector
Coles judged the pets entered in the Chinley Boy Scouts pet
show. The Whaley Bridge auxiliary had a stall at the show.

The Branch Carnival Committee organized the annual
carnival and pet show at the Rectory Field, Stockport.
Judges were, Messrs Maben and Newton and Mesdames
Thompson, Newton and Broad. Inspector Coles presented
the awards to the winners.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham This branch has been
continuing its centenary celebrations, and has held several
functions during July.

For the third year in succession the Clapham Conservative
Association kindly offered facilities to the Clapham auxiliary
to have exhibits and literature at the Annual Conservative
Fete. This was organized by Mrs Williams and Mrs Searle,
hon aux secretaries, with help from Inspector Jones. The stall
aroused much interest, and in spite of very bad weather
nearly £3 was taken from the sale of leaflets.

Mrs Williams and Mrs Searle also held a jumble sale in
Clapham Parochial School, which was well attended, and
brought in a proﬁt of £28. ’

At a meeting at the house of the branch hon secretary,
Miss Tamplin, prizes were presented by Mrs Dowdell,
Group Representative on the Council, to the winners in the
es'say competition, open to schools within the branch. The
prize—winners, Bruce Harding, Gillian King, Brian Gover
and Jennifer Cope, each received a book, and Mrs Dowdell
gave them some helpful advice on how to help animals.

Miss Margaret Hughes, Principal of the Margaret School

of Dancing, very kindly gave the branch the proceeds of a
delightful entertainment by her young pupils, which was well
attended by a very enthusiastic audience. Miss E. M.
Henderson (branch chairman) said a few words in appre-
ciation of Miss Hughes’ help, and the branch received a
substantial sum as the proceeds of this.
Surrey—Guildford and District The branch chairman, the
Rev A. C. B. Bellerby, took the chair at the branch annual
general meeting held at the Trinity Hall, Guildford. Reports
were submitted by the branch chairman and the branch hon
see, Mr R. H. C. Townson. Inspector Hawxwell presented
his report. All ofﬁcials were re-elected for the coming year.

A successful pet show was organized by the branch in the

Cattle Market, Guildford. .
Wiltshire—North Inspector Hussey organized a pet show
at Ivy Lane School. He had the permission of Mr Robby, the
headmaster. Judges were a veterinary surgeon and Senior
Inspector Senior.
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Mrs L. E.
Palmer, Henley in Arden aux hon secretary, with the help of
the auxiliary committee, organized a jumble sale and raised
£15 for branch funds.

A bring~and-buy sale raised £28 for Bromsgrove auxiliary
funds. The sale was held, by kind permission of Dr and Mrs
A. J. Rae, at their home, ‘Fownhope’, College Road,
Bromsgrove. Mrs J. Nussey Booth, aux president, introduced
Lady Vernon, who opened the sale.

Yorkshire, Barnsley and District A garden party which was
held-at Hall Bank, Hall Bank Lane, Barnsley, by kind per-
miss10n of Mr T. Fox, raised £60 for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District At the branch annual
meeting Miss G. Hall, branch secretary, reported that more
children had shown interest in the Society’s work. The ofﬁcial
statement was presented by Mr R. Gillgrass, branch hon
treasurer. Inspector Cole reported that he had investigated
109 complaints of cruelty. The speaker was Lt-Col Coventry,
branch organizer.

Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs Gray,
branch hon secretary, reports that a successful garden party
was held at ‘Priestley Green’, by kind permission of Mrs
Thornton-Varley, and £57 10s. was raised for branch funds.
Yorkshire~—Harrogate and District Mr E. Tempest Wether-
by, auxiliary hon secretary, organized the annual pet show
held at Hall Orchards by kind permission of Mrs Rawson,
and the proceeds of over £60 were given to branch funds.

Senior Inspector Jackson spoke to students of the Police
Training College, Panel Ash, on cruelty to animals.
Yorkshire—York and District Mrs Winsor, Pocklington
aux hon sec, organized an afternoon tea party and bring-
and-buy stall, and £21, ZS. 10'. for branch funds was raised.

Miss Stanley,
Topsham aux-
iliary hon sec-
retary, sends
this picture
which shows
Topsham Group
of Animal De-
fenders setting
out to sell wild
daffodils—an
activity by
which they
raised £l 3s. 6d.
for branch
funds

L-.-..«.W

' FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was e d and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Rye Park, Mrs Barnes, aux hon sec, £11 115.; Chesteiu
ﬁeld, £140; Wareside, Mrs Parrott, aux hon sec, 195. 1d.;
Towcester, £29; Welwyn, Miss M. Thomas, aux hon sec,
£11 153. 8d.; Monmouth, Miss C. Probyn, aux hon sec,
£45; Suffolk East and Ipswich (Rural Areas), £211 15. 5d.;
Sevenoaks, Mrs A. L. Smith, £114 145. 5d.; Fareham, Mr
W. R. Walker, aux hon sec, £71; Abergavenny, Mr A.
Boucher, aux hon sec, £97 23. 361.; Cumberland West,
£422 163. 6d.; Bryn, Mrs A. J. Canton, aux hon sec,
£4 25. 961.; Norwich, Mr S. Reed, hon sec, Norwich Area,
£369 75. 1d.; Whittlesey, Mrs Hunt—Pain, aux hon sec,
£41 85. 1d.; Colsterworth, Mrs I. C. A. Bland, aux hon sec,
£6 45. 6d.; Bridlington, Mrs Gray, branch hon sec, £76;
Ramsgate, Miss D. M. Lawrance, branch hon sec, £33 185. 7d. ;
Hoddesdon, Mr S. Venis, aux hon'sec, £15 185. 11d.; Ponty—
pridd, Mrs O’Dee, aux hon sec, £107 55.; Aberdare, Mrs
Protheroe, aux hon sec, £52 175. 2d.; Caerphilly, Mrs Stone,
aux hon sec, £25 15. 4d.; Alnwick, Mrs Middlemas, aux hon
sec, £46 153. 261.; Llanwern, Mrs R. Snowball, aux hon sec,
£2;'Thorne, Mrs Branton, Division hon treasurer, £62;
Aberkenﬁg, Mrs D. M. Raikes, aux hon sec, £41 13. 461.;
Kendal, Mrs Coward, aux hon sec, £80; Westmorland
County, Mrs Perrett, branch asst hon sec, £316 123. 6d.;
Llanbradach and Ystrad Mynach, Miss Mary Thomas, aux
hon sec, £18 25.; Porthcawl, Mrs V. L. Hands, aux hon sec,
£131; Kingswinford, Mr and Mrs J. F. Parker, branch co
hon secs, £61 15. 10d.; Kinver, Mr and Mrs J. F. Parker,
branch 60 hon secs, £10 183. 2d.; Ecchinswell, Miss Hol—
man, aux hon sec, £6; Leckhampstead, Mrs D. Matthews,

 

 




lg;

 

 

 

ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol XLIX No 9 New Series .

 

MYXOMATOSIS: A TEST

In a world where expediency is too often the only
criterion of conduct the value of a powerful and
influential society with higher standards is of
primary importance. This was demonstrated only
recently when the RSPCA declared, with the
backing of its numerous members, supporters
and well/wishers, that it would loppose with all
the power at its command the practice of
artiﬁcially spreading myxomatosis

Within a few days, not less than three Ques’
tions had been tabled in the House of Commons.
Members of Parliament, taking the view advo—
cated by the RSPCA, sought to know whether
the Government would introduce an Order mak~
ing it illegal to spread this disease by artiﬁcial
means. Questions were also asked in the House
of Lords.

Authenticated cases were known to the
RSPCA in which farmers had taken dead or dying
rabbits from infected areas and placed them on
their own land.

At the time of going to press, we must admit
that the practice is not against the law of the
land. Let us hope that this will soon be changed,

SEPTEMBER I 9 54

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

Found on a grass
verge in Sussex,
this rabbit was a
myxomatosis
victim. Regional
Supt Brown put the
animal out of her
misery. Notice the
swollen head and
the eyes completely
covered by raw and
swollen eyelids

but whether it is or not, there is a higher law
to which such an action is gravely offensive.

The man who infects rabbits in this way will
argue: ‘They are a pest. Therefore I am justified
in getting rid of them by any means!’

He will admit that the infected animal becomes,
in effect, blind, that swelling occurs in the region
of the face, ears, lops and nostrils. ‘But,’ he will
add, in complacent selfrjustiﬁcation, ‘this epia
demic wipes out rabbits entirely!’

Without reminding him that rabbits have sur—
vived periodical epidemics for centuries, or
pointing out that the absence of rabbits might
very well encourage marauders even more voraa
cious, the RSPCA asserts that many humane
methods of rabbitrcontrol exist. (Anyone inv
terested in the practical problem is invited to
write to the RSPCA )

What we are at pains to expose is a wrong
attitude Surely, in this century, a civilized man
should say: ‘Rabbits are too numerous! How
can I reduce their numbers without making them
suffer unnecessarily?’

The RSPCA knows that many who earn their
living on the land approach the question in this

 




””””"””}”}”"

 

 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘AAA
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'

vvvvvvvv'v

A‘AAAAAAAA‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
vvvvvvvv'vvv'vvv'vvv'vvvv'vvvvv'vvv

A

105 JIERMYN STREET ° LONDON ' SW1

 

 

Please apply to the above address for descriptive pamphlet and order form

BSPCA

 

CHRISTMAS

Cal‘ZOI’l

li

dly enclose stamped addressed envelope with app

Kin

““{“““““{‘“““““‘

 

ightful

These four del

STUDIES OF ANIMALS

Ref. 1

illustrated

black and wh
Actual size 421;” X 5%” Fly leaf

available as

 

te

i

In

t

S
n
.0
U
a
r
t
S
Ha
I
e
.V
H
C
a
r
t
t
A
1a
n
a
S
g
.n
U
0L
6
r
G
I”
.U
W

PRICE 5d. EACH.

“

4/- per dozen for one dozen or over

free

ed

Envelopes suppli

Ref. 2

’-}}’,”}”””’
“““‘ ““““

 

 

‘

A

4

Ref

- ‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘AA‘A‘AAAAAA‘A ‘AAAAA-
vv'vvvvvv'vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvv'vvvvvv

A

Ref. 3

 

 

“

” - ’l’”"
”””}’ ’}”>”"’,”,}”’,”””"}b'”
“{“““““““““{““““{“A“““““ ‘{“““““““““

 




 

 

 

September 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 101

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

JULY I954

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,668 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Offenders imprisoned.
74 Oﬂenders ﬁned.
41 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

843 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

 

 

 

l-IORSE—-—W/0Tklng in an unﬁt state 1
CATTLE——Neglecting 1
SHEEP Neglecting 1
PIGS—Neglecting, injuring with pitchfork 2
DOGS Neglecting, starving, shooting and wounding,
killing in improper manner, kicking, etc. 22
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, malici-
ously wounding, kicking 10
EOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner...
DUCKS—Injuring with missle, beating 12
JACKDAW—Injuring with knife 2
WILD BIRDS—Killing in improper manner, throwing
into furnace .. 2
TORTOISE—Sl10()tlng and wounding 1
OPEENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OE BIRDS ACT, 1933:
Selling other than a close—ringed specimen
bred in captivity 2
Offering for sale other than a close—ringed
specimen bred in captivity . 2
OEEENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 5
VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel—tooth traps set in open 6
Laying poison 2
Assaulting Special Market Inspector ' 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVIC'I‘IONS 76

.9

During jULY, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed ELEVEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for two years; ONE for three years; FIVE for ﬁve years;
ONE for ten years; ONE for twenty years; TWO for Life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 17,334
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 542
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 5,892

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 5,693 Dogs, 4,614 Misc., 649 Total: 10,956

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,190

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 28 Dogs, 102 Misc., 4 Total, 134

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 2,044
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls, 2,203

. No. of animals rescued, 6

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeons, 250

NORTH WALES UNIT
F irst—aid cases:
Cats, 8 Dogs, 38 Misc., 9 Total, 55
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 108 Dogs, 36 Misc., 39 Total, 183
N0. of miles covered by Unit during month, 1,875

AWARDS

Cases considered 34
Silver Medal 1
Bronze Medals 10
Bar to Bronze Medal l

Certiﬁcates of Merit . . . . . . 13

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS 27,686
' CONVICTIONS 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross...
Silver Medals
Bars to Silver Medals .
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10
Merit Certiﬁcates 121

NO\'—‘

 




 

 

September 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD ‘99

 

ROUND THE ISLANDS OF ROMANCE
BY w. A. SIBLY, MEMBER OF RSPCA COUNCIL.

Cattle and
coconut palms
in Grenada

 

Photos
by the
Author

 

 

 

 

I spent the winter months of 1952—53 wandering
through a part. of the Western Hemisphere.
Beginning in British Guiana in South America,
I roamed round the lovely islands which fringe
the Caribbean Sea. It is historic land and water,
this region of the Spanish Main where lordly
galleons and treasure—ships once sailed, where
Drake raided the Spaniards and Raleigh explored
Trinidad’s pitch lake, where John Hawkins ﬁrst
brought slaves from Africa, where Rodney and
Nelson later fought the French. So it was that
I stayed in Trinidad and Grenada, Barbados,
Antigua and St Kitt’s, Jamaica and the Bahamas,
where Christopher Columbus ﬁrst landed on
American soil. Except for coral Barbados and the
Bahamas, these islands are mostly mountainous
and volcanic, and their rich soil grows the sugar~
cane—a sort of gigantic grass—in abundance.

I had three main purposes, to visit old friends
and pupils, to see some of the principal schools
and universities of this region and also of the

 

The usual form of transport in British Guiana

 

-Atlantic States of the USA, and to make contact

with animal welfare work and workers. It is of
the fulfilment of this last purpose that the Editor
has asked me to write.

Excluding the USA, the population of these
regions is very largely coloured, and descended——
with varying degrees of white admixture—from
the tens of thousands of black slaves who were
brought from Africa during two and a half
centuries, to work on the sugar and other plantaa
tions. In Trinidad and British Guiana there are
a large number of East Indians, who came in the
first place from India, after slavery was abolished,
to work as indentured labourers on these planta—
tions. By and large, they are more industrious,
frugal and proliﬁc than the descendants of the
African negroes.

Public Indifference

These coloured people are not actively cruel,
but they are often heedless and indifferent to the
needs and sufferings of animals, and they need
education and imagination. As a result the lot
of the countless donkeys and dogs, many of
them strays, is sometimes pitiable.

Scraggy tropical sheep in British Guiana

In British Guiana there are donkeys every—
where, and a great work to be done. I was wela
corned there by Mr and Mrs H. S. Wilson, and
shown over the new Clinic, then arbuilding, and
opened last July. I found them and the President
and other members of the Committee most
grateful for the generous help which had been
sent from England and Scotland towards the
costs of this Clinic.

A Terriﬁed Little Pig

One of the saddest sights I saw in Georgetown,
the attractive capital of ‘BG’, was in the little zoo
in a corner of the beautiful Botanical Gardens.
Here was a large caged enclosure containing some
little trees, in the branches of which were two or
three anaconda snakes, a South American

 

 




1e it

. l

}

 

September 1954

THEANIMALWORLD 103

 

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Mr R. A. Pritchard, husband of hon sec of
Sutton Coldﬁeld Auxiliary; Miss Knott, a sup»
porter; Mrs S. Corbally, hon sec, Avon Dassett
Auxiliary; Mrs J. R. Clare, hon sec, Newhaven
Auxiliary; Miss H. C. Macmillan, hon sec of
Castleton and Danby Auxiliary.

The death of the Rev Wilton N. McCann is a
grievous loss to the NSPCC, whose Director he
was for the last six years of his life, as well as to
all humane causes that exist to prevent suffering
to helpless creatures. His was a compassionate
and loving spirit and his whole life was spent in
showing mercy and pity, after the manner of St
Francis of Assisi. Like that great saint, he cared
passionately for all God’s little ones and though
he devoted his life to the needs of friendless

AL

children, there was a place in his heart, too, for
those other children—the animals and birds——
and he prayed for them with a very moving sin;
cerity as the Feast of St Francis came round
each year. .

A memorial service at St MartinainrthevFields
was attended by the Chief Secretary, representing
the RSPCA.

ANIMAL SUNDAY

The feast of St Francis of Assisi falls on October
4th. The nearest Sunday, which is October 3rd,
will be celebrated in some churches as Animal
Sunday.

The RSPCA has an attractive booklet, price
2d., giving a short form of service containing
hymns and prayers.

Anyone requiring copies of the booklet should
send postage as well as a stamp or postal order
to pay for copies.

 

BRANCH NEWS

Carole Hallet and Michael Reade of the Upton Cross School

Group, Upton Manor, El3, are pictured showing their pet

tortoises to other members of the group. Carole afterwards
gave a very good lesson on the care of tortoises

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
Mr Croft organized a concert at the Guide Bridge Conserva—
tive Club, Ashton-under-Lyne, and £12 was raised for
branch funds. Among those present were: The Mayor of
Ashton, Alderman Farnsworth, Mrs W. S. Schoﬁeld and
Mrs F. Rawson Schoﬁeld, branch co hon secs.

‘ An exhibition was held in the foyer of the Palace Cinema,

Stalybridge, by kind permission of the Manager, Mr Farrall. ‘

*

Inspector Blaylock judged entries in the Denton Cricket

Club and Romiley Boy Scouts pet shows.

Balharn and Tooting Wandsworth Common Auxiliary. Mrs
Granwlle Stott, aux hon sec, reports that a very enjoyable
and successful dog show was held on the Wandsworth Prison
Green. for the staff. It was organized by Mrs Hillier and Mr
Shaw and, £6 5s. was raised for branch funds.
Berkshire—Newbury and District Miss Ingledew of New-
‘fbury1 organized a successful fete and raised £51 for branch
un s.

Buckinghamshire Mr Ian Watson, hon secretary of the
Wheeler End Animal Defender Group, reports that a home
and garden produce sale raised £14 for branch funds.

Cardiganshire Chief Constable W. J. Jones presided at the
branch annual meeting at the Belle Vue Hotel, Aberystwyth.
The annual report submitted by the hon secretaries (Miss
Shirley Geddes-Smith and Mrs D. Evans) showed that the
work of the branch continued to grow. Mr E. T. Evans,
hon treasurer, presented the balance sheet.

Eleven convictions of cruelty to animals were obtained by
the branch, said the report of Chief Inspector Gilvarry. The
Mayoress of Aberystwyth (Mrs E. W. Roberts) presented
prizes and certificates for the school essay competition.

A collection was made at the Coliseum Cinema, Aberyst-
wyth, by kind permission of the proprietor, and £8 14s. 5d. '
was collected for branch funds.

Carmarthenshire Mr A. C. Mitchell reports: At a civic
service at St Peter’s Church, Carmarthen, part of the collec-
tion was for the RSPCA. Branch funds have beneﬁted
by £6 10s. Councillor J. J. Lewis, Mayor, attended and the
service was conducted .by the Venerable Archdeacon J.
Richards.

Cleveland and Tees Side Mrs Hart, Saltburn auxiliary hon
secretary, organized a coffee morning at her home and raised
£12 for branch funds.

Derbyshire—Derby and District Mrs R. A. Loten, branch
hon secretary, reports that the branch held its Animal De-
fenders’ pet show at Ashbourne Town Hall. Senior Inspector
Barrett and Mr Broadbent judged the entries. Mrs Tyack

presented the prizes.

Mrs Broad, Wyaston auxiliary hon secretary, sold her
own home-made sweets.
*

Miss Vaudrey, Ashbourne auxiliary co hon secretary,
organized a rummage sale and raised £35 5s. for branch
funds.

S/Inspector Barrett opened and judged the Gladstone
Street Boys’ School, Ilkeston, pet show. He also judged the
entries of the ‘Best Kept Pet’ contest held at the Hall, St
Peter’s Churchyard, Derby. ‘

Dorset—North Miss Janet Card of Penny Street, Stur-
mingter Newton, organized a dance and raised £8 for branch
fun 3.

Essex—Colchester and District At the branch annual meet-
ing, held at Colchester Town Hall, Lady Whitmore, wife of
the Lord Lieutenant of Essex, Col Sir Francis Whitmore, pre-
sented RSPCA medals to persons who had shown bravery in
the rescue of animals during the East Coast ﬂoods. Dr Agnes

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 . Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHIR
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR ()F CONNAL‘UHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARbPNT, HON LLD, l) Mus, FRCM. IRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. I’()\\'i l l , l)\'()

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE' RT HON LORI) MER'I‘HYR, [)l., Jl’
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

AGIUS,‘,THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA GASKOIN, C. J. B., ESQ., MA 1 POW“ I . H H R. \1.. mm
:ALLIBERT. MRS GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, Itso. MA, MI’ RAI IR -\\'. R. I . HI), \1\, I’H.l‘.

3;.ng 3:233:43? THE,:191HAO;C¥ISTEH:IISCOUNTESS *HARVEY’ MRS 1‘ w., MA ‘RH ”\3 H- 11.. W.)

’ *HOCKIN . OWE E . _ - ~ ; ‘

BRANSOM, MISS L. G.,FRSA HOGG SC ES N, SEQ C SIIAI HSIH In. Illl RI HUN IIII. LOUNTESS 0P
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS *HUNTE ' “"5 0’ D ’ M smug \\'. \.. ISI), .\1\, JP
a: ' R, MIS

COOPER, ALDERMAN 1' D" JP SNH I. IIII RI \' I'Rl HI NDART L. J. 8., MBE, TD, JP
DAWES’ CAPTAIN H' W" CBE’ MRCVS LEE, MRS sow-Rs IIII- R I In )\' I ()R l)

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, 0813, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, 'I'I), MP A. ' _ ‘ ‘
*DOWDELL, MRS ( ) LONGMAN, MRS w. IAII, MRS, HA

ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB LOND , DPH . IIIINI I I I II l'l-( «IMMANDI R II. L. MA RN

MOORE LT-COL SIR THOMAS CRE, M . ' “ ‘ ’ ’
(CANTAB), DOMS * ’ ‘ ’ I ‘WALIORD, MRS I)ISIR)ROI'<;II

*EVANS. MRS DAVID, BA PARKER’ MAURICE 0" ESQ, M‘SAC ‘WIIII‘L, HARRY. ISO, I('~\

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL ‘\\’l.\'('HI SH R. I . J.‘ [50‘ [(‘IS. I-SS

"' Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL .I. C. LOCKWOOD. JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA

Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ., FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COU'I'I‘S AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

 

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS. Iso. MRI, ACIs

Assistant Secretary—I). A. I.. (‘AMM, I-SQ, RA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

. Chief Veterinary Olﬁcer MAJOR R. C. (I. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

 

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

USED &TRIISTED THE WORLD OVER

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

um» .

I! "(Hf
Ll" ‘

4h

     

 

SIMPLE..«\
SAIL.

.. SURE 715?“:ng

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS- BONIO - MIXED OVALs - WEETMEET

, / b
ICCHS no SHELVOKE no - BIRMINGHAM - 5 . Eucuun “an ‘ PUPPY BISCUITS DOG CAKES

SPRATT’S not scraps

is what a dog
needs for nourishment!

    
     

5465 Spratt’s Patent Ltd., 4l/47 Bow Road, London. 5.3

 

 




 

 

 

98 THE ANIMAL WORLD

September 1954

 

 

way, and it is the aim of the Society, by ceaseless
education, to bring nearer the day when no person
will consider he has a right to ignore the feelings
of any creature in pursuing his own ends.

THE EDITOR

As we go to press we learn that, in answer
to a Question from Lord Semphill, the Ministry
of Agriculture’s spokesman said that the Govern,
ment did not recommend any legislative action in
regard to the spreading of the disease by private
individuals.

MYXOMATOSIS MERCY PATROLS

As myxomatosis surged through the country, the
RSPCA introduced mercy patrols, their object
being to put an end to the sufferings of infected
rabbits.

Patrols, recruited locally and comprising ex,
pert shots, are still operating wherever necessary.
Volunteers are provided with cartridges at the
expense of the RSPCA.

There have been statements made that the anir
mals go into a coma. Inspector Foster of Holy;
head writes: ‘I have never been so terribly
sickened and disgusted, and I am still haunted by
the sight . . . these creatures without any shadow
of doubt suffer intense agony and misery for at
least ten days . . .’

‘Made for Water’ A

Inspector Silcock of Lincoln, said that a large
number of rabbits made for water. He waded
down a number of streams and was able to catch
them with ease. He said: ‘This work is the most
pitiful I have been engaged in for some time.’ In
saying this, he spoke for the RSPCA itself. The
Society is always reluctant to take animal life
and does it only as a means of sparing suffering
where other methods of relief are impracticable.

The extent of the problem is such that within
the first week or two, Inspector Adams (in
Gloucestershire) with his patrols had humanely
despatched over 400 rabbits, Inspector Butﬁeld
(Cheltenham) with his patrols nearly 1,200 rab«
bits. Both found farmers very helpful. These
numbers are now much higher. Over fifty Inspecv
tors have organized patrols.

*

As we go to press we learn that the hundreds of
mercy patrols organized by the fifty—seven
RSPCA Inspectors now involved in thi
task have given a humane and misery,
to hundreds of thousands of m
infected. rabbits.

5 unhappy
sparing end
yxomatosisv

‘_

DARTMOOR ANIMALS

Welcoming the Dartmoor Commoners’ As’sociav
tion plan for improving the lot of animals on
Dartmoor, the RSI’CA says the adoption of the
plan follows reports made by the RSPCA, who
urged upon the Association the need for reform.

The View of the RSl’CA is that in winter the
animals are liable to suil‘er. particularly when
conditions are hard; much of the hardship is
caused to the animals by oyeiustocking of the
moor.

The RSPCA suggested a choice of three meaSa
ures of reform that might be adopted by the
Dartmoor Commoners’ .~\ssociation:

l. The rerestablishment of the limitation of
numbers of animals pastured on the moor under
the old law of Leyancy and Couchancy. (This
law lays down that the number of animals pas!
tured on the moors during the summer shall not
exceed the numbers which can be accommodated
on home pastures during the winter.)

2. The imposition, either by Ministry of Agriv
culture regulation or by legislation. of a total
clearance of the moor between November and
April.

3. The closer supervision of the moor animals by
the provision of properly equipped Moor
Wardens, or Rangers.

The Plan

The plan approved by the Commoners’ ASSO'
ciation is as follows:

The commoners should continue to breed ponies
of such type as suits them individually, pro;
vided they are able to withstand the climate.

Ponies should be looked after in seyere weather;
owners should see they are properly fed, and
when the weather is icy pay attention to
drinking water.

More and closer attention should be paid to
stallions, which should be of good type and
limited in number. Unsuitable horse colts
should be gelded and every effort made to
prevent inrbreeding.

Old cows and unthrifty cattle should be dis;
posed of. -

Calves should be weaned at a reasonable age SO
that cows can be wintered free.

Adequate food, according to conditions, should
be provided.

Wherever possible keepers of hill cattle should
press on with voluntary attestation, as it was in
the interests of all concerned to get Dartmoor
declared an attested area before the demand
for unattested stores ceased.

Old ewes should be disposed of.

All hill sheep should be given an approved winter
dip in the autumn. The Moor should be cleared
for this purpose for one day early in November.

 

 




 

 

 

 

100 r H E A N 1 M A L W o R L n A sealants. 1954

 

a.“

 

 

SPCA vans and crews at Police Headquarters in Barbados

variety of the python or boa—constrictor. In this
cage was a frightened little pig, awaiting its turn
to be eaten. I spoke to the keeper about this,
and he replied that these snakes would only eat
live prey, but subsequent inquiry from the
London Zoo seems to show that this is incorrect.

In Trinidad most of the horses and donkeys
are owned by the 100,000 Indians, who work
from dawn to dusk on their small holdings. Very
picturesque are some of their farm vehicles, but
these, either unlighted or carrying only a small
ﬂaming torch, are often a positive menace to
motorists when ‘at one stride comes the dark’.
Here too I met the President and Hon Secretary
(Mrs Roxburgh) of the Trinidad SPCA. The
Society has inﬂuential friends (including the
Govenor and Lady Rance) and it had been left
some property on the outskirts of Port of Spain,
but the locality is a poor one, and our friends
there were finding it difﬁcult to guard the
Society’s possessions against the depredations of
their neighbours. ~

, Brigadier
Pickthall
and
Mrs Pickthall
and their dog
in Grenada.
Brigadier
Pickthall is
Chief of Police
and
Vice-President
of the new
RSPCA branch
in Grenada

 

 

,,,ci,,___n_.-___ _ .

Grenada is sometimes called the Pearl of
the Antilles, and is a most beautiful island, with
luxuriant vegetation, which includes the mace and
nutmeg tree.

Until quite recently there seems to have been
little animal welfare worle in tirenada, but the
need is great, for animals are numerous, and
motoring along the narrow twisting roads is
made more perilous and L xciting by the numerous
dogs, pigs and fowls straying on the highways.
On one occasion I was being driyen by a prom;
inent ofﬁcial and we ran into a dog, which was
left yelping. ‘Aren't you going to stop?’ I said,
but he replied ‘lt's not badly hurt‘, and drove
on without slackening speed.

Active Leadership by the Police

Fortunately in Brigadier l‘ieltthall, the Comr
missioner of Police, and Mrs l’icltthall. Grenada
possesses two ardent htu‘nanitarians, and under
his leadership not only is the whole of the
Island’s Police Force enrolled on the side of
mercy, but during 1953 the local Society became
the first fully—fledged \V'est l ndian Overseas
Branch of the RSPCA.

In Barbados, too, the support of the Police has
proved quite invaluable. l found that Colonel
R. T. Michelin, the thimmissioner of Police,
was one of the chief driving forces behind the
local Society. At Police Headquarters in Bridge—
town I was privileged to attend the monthly
meeting of the Executive of the Barbados SPCA,
and I saw there two smart yans, each with a
uniformed Inspector and assistant, which do the
Society’s work throughout this populous sugar»
producing coral island, where there are more than
1,200 people to the square mile. At Bridgetown,
too, I saw the drinking trough which had been
built by the persistent effort and earnings of an

elderly lady, Mrs J. M. Forster.

 

Colonel R. T. Michelin (Chief of Police) and other members
0f the committee of the Barbados SPCA
[Continued in next month's Animal World.]

 

 

 




 

102 3 THE ANIMAL WORLD

September 1954

 

 

PROTECTION OF ANIMALS
AMENDMENT ACT, 1954

Two reforms for which the RSPCA has long
Campaigned are given effect in the Protection of
Animals (Amendment) Act, 1954, which comes
into force on lst January, 1955.

The ﬁrst reform: many people say that the
present maximum ﬁne for causing unnecessary
suffering to animals is inadequate. Under the
Protection of Animals Act, 1911 (the Act under
which the RSPCA takes most prosecutions), the
maximum ﬁne is £25; the new Act increases it to
£50. The maximum term of imprisonment re—
mains at three months. This punishment may be
inﬂicted in addition to the ﬁne.

Reform number two: at present, anyone who
has been accused of cruelty to animals may con—
tinue to keep them. Under the Protection of
Animals (Cruelty to Dogs) Act, 1933, however,
a person convicted of cruelty to a dog may be
disqualiﬁed from owning one or holding a dog
licence. The period of the disqualiﬁcation is in the
discretion of the magistrates. '

The new Act gives the court the power to (118’
qualify a person on a second or subsequent
offence from keeping animals of a particular
type, or all animals in general, once again at the
discretion of the magistrates.

PESTS BILL

Readers will be aware that the RSPCA is strongly
opposed to Clause 8 of the above Bill, which
would not give the Minister of Agriculture power
to abolish the use of the gin trap for catching
rabbits until the end of July, 1958. It was anticir
pated that the Measure would come up for
second reading before the summer recess. This,
however, proved to be impossible, and if the
Government decides to proceed with the Bill, it
will have to pass through its remaining stages in
the House of Commons during the comparatively
short period between the reaassembly of Parliav
ment and the end of the session. Should this be
the case, the Society will continue to ﬁght to have

Clause 8 of the Bill amended before it reaches the
statute book.

IN 'A HURRY
When one of the RSPCA school lecturers en—

tered a certain classroom many of the children
left their places and approached him in their
hurry to ask questions.

Since the last report 174 lectures were given in
schools in Montgomeryshire, Devon, Wiltshire,
Scarborough, Wetherby area, Ewell, Tilbury,
Oxford, Gillingham (Kent), Bradford and the
London area.

Thirtyvfour new Animal Defender Groups were

formed. 395 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

NEWS FROM THE MARKETS

Improvements have been brought about at vari’
ous Markets owing to the efforts of the local

RSPCA Inspectors.

At CAMBRIDGE, alterations have been made to .

the cattle pens, with the result that animals are
able to enter the sale ring direct from a feeding

pen instead of by confusing alley ways, as hap»

pened previously. This new arrangements pre—
vents much needless terror and consequent rough
handling. .
At HEREFORD CATTLE MARKET all dairy cows
must be milked out within an hour of purchase.
'At SLEAFORD, LINCOLNSHIRE, shelter has now

been provided for the pigs, after ceaseless repre— '

sentations by the Inspector over a long period.

From YORKSHIRE come reports of improve;
ments to markets at BOROUGHBRIDGE, RIPON,
WETHEREY, and KNARESBoRouoH; whilst matters
are progressing steadily at ROCHFORD,‘ ESSEX,
although Chief Inspector Pope is still far from
satisﬁed.

TRANSPORT OF SHEEP

For some time past, the RSPCA has been
gravely concerned at the abnormal length of time
involved in the transit of animals from Liskeard
in Cornwall to Petersﬁeld in Hampshire.

Inquiries revealed that much of the delay was
caused by the animals being sent by a circuitous
route, Via Exeter, Taunton, Salisbury and East’
leigh, and often being delayed for several hours
at the latter station before going on to the
slaughterhouse at Petersﬁeld. Further investigaw
tion elicited the fact that only one goods train
runs from Eastleigh to Petersﬁeld during the day
so that if sheep arrive there at 2 pm. they cannot
continue their journey until the following mornv
ing when the train for Petersﬁeld leaves at six
o’clock, making a long ordeal for the helpless
animal passengers.

The matter was taken up by RSPCA Head—
quarters with British Railways, with the result
that animals from Cornwall will travel to Hampe
Shire via Reading in future, with a consequent
saving of much suffering.

OVERSEAS RES CUE

The‘Municipal Fire Brigade of Mombasa rescued
Toby, a dog, who had been lost for three weeks
and was found in the bottom of a 30 ft. deep pit
near the general post ofﬁce, Mombasa. Toby,
who belongs to Dr C. D. Rosenwald, was left
with friends. Toby was given ﬁrst aid by Mrs
A. Hollingsworth, Secretary/Inspector of the
RSPCA Mombasa Branch...

I
‘r; ,5, i921?




 

104 THE ANIMAL WORLD

September 1954

 

 

 

Miss F. Osborne
(left) Rochdale
Branch Secre-
tary, and her
sister, make
friends with two
lambs in York-
shire. Photo sent
by Miss K. M.
Westaway

 

Estcourt-Oswald, branch hon secretary, reviewed the year’s
activities. A report was submitted by Inspector Archer.
Essex—North-West Branch Inspector Cooper judged the
pets in a show at Bocking Church Street Primary School.
Exeter East and West Devon Mrs Eden Phillpotts, branch
chairman, organized a successful garden fete, in aid of Exeter
clinic and animal shelter, at Kerswell House, Broadclyst, and
raised £142 18s. 7d.

Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District Mrs Camp-
ling, North Finchley auxiliary hon sec, organized a jumble
sale in aid of East Finchley Clinic and raised £27 10s.
Hertfordshire—West With other helpers, Mrs R. G. Stan-
bridge', Harpenden auxiliary chairman, Mrs Marshall Gott,
Harpenden auxiliary hon secretary, and Mr V. J. J. Griﬂiths
Roberts, Harpenden auxiliary hon treasurer, organised a
saledat Harpenden Public Hall and raised £385 for branch
un 3.

Isle of Wight Mrs Jesty, branch hon secretary, reports that
a successful garden fete was held in the grounds of Farnley
Close, by kind permission of Sir Edward and Lady Rouse-
Boughton. The fete was opened by Lady Lloyd, who ad-
dressed those present, and the excellent sum of £190 was
raised for branch funds.

Kent—Canterbury and District Miss V. Slingsbury, Whit-
stable auxiliary hon secretary, organised a jumble sale and
raised £50 15s. 6d. for branch funds.

Kent—-Folkestone and District Miss A. Wright, branch
hon secretary, reports that pupils of Miss Elizabeth Glass,
Priory Hall School of Dancing, gave a show entitled ‘Seren-
ade to Summer” at the Folkestone Town Hall, and the pro-
ceeds were given to branch funds.

*

- Miss A. Wright also reports: The annual pet show was
held at the cricket ground, Cheriton Road, Folkestone, and
the Mayor of Folkestone assisted in judging entries in the
fancy dress competition. The show was opened by the
Mayoress, Mrs C. E. Neate, supported by Sir Godfrey and
Lady Fisher.

*

Inspector Wolfenden addressed the No. 6 District Police
Training Centre on Animals and their protection.
Kent—North West An animal service was held by the
Vicar of St James’s, North Cray, those present including
Lady Hart Dyke, branch president; Mr W. Honess, branch
chairman; Mrs Honess, branch hon secretary; along with
Chief Inspector Stephens.

Mrs Beaumont, of Chatham, gave a talk on the work of .

the RSPCA.
*

Miss M. James, Bexley Borough auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that a garden party raised £32 129. for branch funds.

Kent—West Senior Inspector A. L. Smith was one of the
judges at the Sevenoaks County Secondary School pet show.

Miss Goldsmith, Sevenoaks auxiliary hon secretary, re-
ports that eight young supporters organized a sweet and cake
sale in the garden of Hilder’s Field, Sevenoaks, by k1nd
permission of Dr and Mrs Blackwood. They raised the sum
of £3 ls. 10d. for branch funds. _
Liverpool Miss E. M. Harding, hon lecturer and organizer
for education, secretary and treasurer for the Animal
Defenders, Liverpool branch, gave an address at the annual
prize distribution at the Picton Hall, Liverpool. The Lord
Mayor of Liverpool (Alderman W. J. Tristram) presrded, and
the Lady Mayoress (Mrs F. E. Vyvyan) presented pr1zes.
London North East With their leader, Mrs Rowell, the
Jackdaw Animal Defenders visited Edmonton Clinic.
Loughborough and North Leicestershire Miss Marion
Harridge—Cayless, branch hon secretary, organized a garden
fete and raised £118 ls. 6d. for branch funds. By kind per-
mission of Mr S. C. Potter and Mrs Pearl Chattield the féte
was held in the grounds of ‘The Cottage’, Forest Road,
Loughborough. The Mayor (Councillor L. W. Hull) at-
tended and spoke. Lady Crawshaw, branch chairman, pre-
sided and the féte was opened by Mrs Wykes, Quorn
auxiliary hon secretary. Major Chapman, branch organizer,
who gave an address, was thanked by Mr Potter and Mrs
Chatﬁeld.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Miss B. M.
Satterthwaite, Buxton auxiliary hon secretary, reports that
a successful coffee party and bring-and-buy sale held in the
home of Mrs Cowtan, Buxton auxiliary hon. treasurer,
‘Greenacre’, Green Lane, Buxton, raised £53 13s. 6d. for
branch funds.

Montgomery Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch hon
secretary, reports that weather was bad for the "Royal
Show, but thanks to the efforts of all helpers over £9 was
raised for branch funds.

Norfolk West Miss Ann Lambert, Magdalen aux hon
secretary, organized the third Magdalen annual pet show.
Mrs Robson, King’s Lynn auxiliary hon secretary, was pre-
sent to open the show. Mr C. Hart, Magdalen auxiliary hon
treasurer, Chief Inspector Morrison and Mrs Morrison
attended. A total of £45 was raised for branch funds.

Col Robson and Mrs Robson, the latter being Kings’
Lynn auxiliary hon secretary, organized the West Winch.
pet show which was opened by the Hon Mrs R. Scott. Mrs
A. J. L. Durham distributed the awards.

At the interval Mrs Hardy, branch hon secretary, pre-
sented the RSPCA’s Certiﬁcate of Merit to Mr Arthur
Harwin for rescuing a cat from a 60 ft. tree. Chief Inspector
Morrison acted as MC and helped to judge with Messrs
H. C. Swarm and B. Russell.

Oxford Mrs F. N. Lund, branch hon secretary, sends this
report: About 40 Enstone children were given practical
demonstrations at Litchﬁeld Farm of an electric milker,
the care of fowls and tame rabbits, and the handling of
horses. They went at the invitation of Mrs I. M. Godman,
and the arrangements were made by Mrs G. Packer of
the Chipping Norton auxiliary. Inspector C. H. Heath
was in attendance. Afterwards they had tea, at. which
Mrs Godman and Miss Hope Godman were the hostesses.

A successful jumble sale was organized by Mrs F. N.
Lund, branch hon secretary, in the garden of her home,
which raised £46 for branch funds.

Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey aux
hon secretary, reports that £13 was collected for branch funds
at the Agricultural Show.

Richmond and District An auction organized by Mrs
Jones, of London Road, Twickenham, raised £10 for
branch funds. '
Rochdale Miss Osborne, branch secretary, reports that the

1lcaragch held its annual thrift shop and raised £150 for branch
un s.

 

 




 

106

THE ANIMAL WORLD

September 1954

 

 

aux hon sec, £6 55.; Eastbury, Mrs Stuart—Menzies, aux hon
sec, £5 195. 661.; Thorney, Mrs Crawley, £6 25. lid; Rad—
cliffe-on—Trent and Keyworth, £28 125. 661.; Strood Rural,
£64 85. 161.; Newbury, Mrs Waites, branch hon sec, £115;
Cumberland—North and East Branch (County Day), Lt—
Col H. Levin, branch hon sec, £193; Berrynarbor, Mrs du
Sautoy Newby, £5 65. 961.; Blackhall and Trimdon Col—
lieries, Miss McAuslan, branch hon sec, £22 15. 361.; Cam-
bridge Cattle Market, £26 55. 1061.; Keighley, Miss H. Stell,
aux hon sec, £62 155. 561.; East Ilsley, Miss E. A. Wells,
aux hon sec, £5 45.; Neath, Mr A. J. Knight, aux hon sec,
£131 05. 961.; Wellington, Salop, Miss H. Woodward, aux
hon sec, £100 75. 1161.; Skenfrith, Brig G. C. B. Buckland,
£6 165. 961.; Urmston, Mr J. Green, Manchester and Salford
branch sec, £75 185. 461.; West Bridgeford, £43 05. 861.;
Nuneaton, Mrs D’Arcy Tremlett, aux hon sec, £263 65. 361.;
Yattendon, Miss C. Juniper, £11 15.; Stanford Dingley,
Mrs E. Stringer, £1 165. 661.; Harwell, Mrs Freeman, aux hon
sec, £10 105. 361.; Wantage, Miss A. M. Hoare, aux hon sec,
£51 65. 261.; Oxford, Mrs P. N. Lund, branch hon sec, and
Miss Grifﬁn, branch asst hon sec, £382 05. 261.; Aldershot,
Col R. M. Powell, Vice—President RSPCA, and Miss
Routley, aux hon sec, £154 115. 661.; Hungerford, Miss
P. M. Peart, £23 135.; Teignmouth and Shaldon, Mrs
Cracknell, aux hon sec, £69 45. 161.; Portscatho and Gerrans,
Mrs E. Upham, aux hon sec, £19 105. 6%61.; Hunstanton,

‘ Mrs J. Mudie, aux hon sec, £40; Whissendine, Miss

Horne, Oakham aux hon sec, £4 75.; Brynmawr, Mrs M. J.
Barroll, aux hon sec, £19 45. 761.; Merthyr Tydfil, Miss
Geraldine Lewis, branch co hon sec, £66 65. 261.; Cefn
Coed, £14 175. 661.; Chester, Mrs McConnell, branch hon
sec, Mrs Beswick and Miss Moreton, asst hon secs,
£285 85. 1161.; Rhyl, Mrs Ernest Black, branch hon
sec, £98 165. 1061.; Tredegar, Mrs L. L. Salmon, aux hon
sec, £57 55. 761.; Higham Ferrers, Mrs Perkins, aux hon
sec, £19 185. 561.; Bridgend, Miss Stockwood, aux
hon sec, £3 85. 661.; Balsall Common, £11 75. 3d.; Bed—
fordshire, £613 175. 9d.; West Ilsley, Mrs Clarke, aux
hon sec, £1 195. 661.; Middlesbrough, Mrs Hart, Cleveland
and Tees Side branch hon sec, £150; Laugharne, Miss G.
David, aux hon sec, £8 165. 161.; Berwick, Miss Turnbull,
aux hon sec, £43; Ammanford, Mrs Muriel A. Evans, aux
hon sec, £29 75. 761.; Fleetwood, Mrs E; Clark, aux hon
sec, £66 195. 1d.; Bedworth, £17 65. 261.; Dordon and Dis—
trict, Mr W. Pass, Atherstone and Wilmcote aux co hon
sec, £47 145. 161.; Meriden, Mrs Godling, £5 115. 461.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to-
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Aldingbourne, Mrs Court, £1 105.; Midway, Mrs and
Miss B. M. Deakin, aux co hon secretaries, £8 185. 361.;
Devizes, Miss R. A. Goddard, Wiltshire—Mid branch hon
sec, £7 125. 1061.;Newhall, Mrs lllsley, £13 175.; Newhall,
Mrs B. A. Perry, £15 145. 1161.; Bath, £309 35.361.;Wolver—
ton, Mrs Chappelle, aux hon sec, £28 85.; Cwmavon, Mrs
A. Hughes, aux hon sec, £8 35.; Resolven, Mrs Hadley, aux
hon sec, £17 75.; Winterbourne, Miss A. Bayliss, aux hon
sec, £1 55.; Downham Market, Mrs Bird, £24 05. 761.;
Leeds, Mrs J. W. Harvey, branch hon sec, £2 65. 461.; Que’
bec, Cornsay, and Hamsteels auxiliary, Mrs Wakerell, aux
hon sec, £8 15.; Bloxham, Mrs E. L. Bolton, aux hon sec,
£10 15. 4d.; Bourne, Mrs J. Fitzsimmons, aux hon sec,
£2 25.; Dymchurch, Miss A. Wright, Kent—Folkestone
and District, branch hon sec, £11 195. 4d.; RAF, Marham,
Mrs Fennell, Swaffham auxiliary hon sec, £15 45. 4d.;
Rainford, Mrs Beresford, aux hon sec, £11 15. 1061.; Tadley,
Mrs Howard, aux hon sec, £34 15. 461.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Seahouses, Farnham, Willesden, New
Radnor, Wandsworth, Berwick—on—Tweed, Salford, Aln—

mouth, Gresford, Coggeshall, Chislehurst, Longbenton,
Carnforth, Wolverhampton, Wadhurst, Newquay, Ports—
mouth, Notting Hill, Manchester, Paddington, Hereford,
Preston, Victoria, Walthamstow, Hammersmith, Wood-
mansterne, Gateshead, East Ham, Clapton, London Docks,
Totnes, Linton, Edgbaston, Dagenham, Sale, Bletchingley,
Nutbourne, Brigham, Stalybridge, Teignmouth, Waterloo,
Henley—on—Thames, Margate, Burnham—on—Crouch, Settle,
Reading.

 

 

In loving memory of Sunny, a silver tabby
cat, a wonderful friend and companion for
nineteen years.

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL' for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY ‘7 _+
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

'1-9 Birkbeek Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

  
  
 
   
  

 

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.v”’-- ”-”"’ ”’}””} "” ’ ’} -”"’}-’}””}’ ’}"”’,””"“ ”” {‘ “ “‘ I
““““ {{‘ { ‘{“‘ “ ‘ I!
u" ’>”
Av “‘
Av {‘
Av “
Av “
Av ”
M" “‘
Av “‘
Av “
z u a T r 0 D
Av }’
Av ”
Av “
Av ‘{
Av ”
Av “
Av ’}
Av “‘
Av ”
Av {‘
Av “
Av “
Av ‘{
Av . “
. “
R ( a N u A 0n 0 0 A U H
, , “
mm , ”VA 0 ““
u" uni/H v u "”
‘v , . ~/~ “‘
‘v - / o .. “‘
Av , .
Av . o “
0 I
= R
A. 1“
u" 1 E . A
Av - .v
A. . z
.. - H A.
z z
z . z
{“‘ - “Av"
(“ . u"
“ Av M
‘{ v ,,
I?’ v
“‘ M" _.
“‘ z w
“ _

 

 

 




 

 

 

@MHE‘CCDIRMS

M anufacturers 0f

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
Allenquiries m descrlptlon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

 

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LON DON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A_=

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by\Vill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

 

 

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other. “I

Printed by Shenval Press, Simeon Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Ietmyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




