 

 

 

 

2 2 a“?

EQUIPMENT

Provincial Organizers are asked to be good
enough to return flag day materials as soon

as possible after the date of the collection to

 

the British Legion Poppy Factory, Petersham

Road, Richmond, Surrey, at the same time
informing Headquarters of the approximate
. number of emblems used—an approximate
figure is all that is required. The prompt
return of equipment greatly facilitates the
relabelling of tins, etc., for future collections

in other parts of the country.
Organizers are reminded that orders for
flag day equipment should be submitted to

Headquarters at least FOUR weeks before

the date of the collection.

 

Subscriptions under Deed of Covenant

Did you know that by Signing a Deed of Cove—
nant you can almost double your subscription to
the Society at no additional cost to yourself, pro,
viding you are paying income tax at the standard
rate—at present 95. in the £?

Many subscribers have already signed Deeds
and all annual subscribers are asked to do so, if
they are paying income tax at the rate of 93. in the
£, since the Society is able to recover tax on the
actual subscription: thus, for example, an annual
subscription of 103. becomes 18s. 2d. upon re
covery of tax, and a subscription of £1 becomes
£1 16s. 4d. Proportionate recovery of tax can be
claimed on all other subscriptions under Deed of
Covenant. ,

Branch subscribers who wish to give additional
SUpport by subscribing under Deed of Covenant,
should contact the local branch on the matter.
SUpporters, who send their gifts direct to Head;
quarters and who wish to give additional help on
the lines indicated, should write to the Chief
Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London,
SW1.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
' GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS——

SUGGESTED SALE OF TOKENS

A Branch Organizer has suggested it might add to the
popularity of house—tOvhouse collections if a token could
be handed to donors in the same manner as an emblem is
used for street collections (ﬂag days). There are objections
to the use of the Flag Day emblem for house—to-house
collections, unless such collections are being made in con—
junction with a Flag Day, when the emblem is quite in
order. The Council has approved the use of the token,
which is quite attractive—the coat of arms is the centre—
piece, with a surround bearing the words RSPCA——
House to House Collection. There is no pin, as in the case
of the Flag Day emblem, since the token is not intended to
be worn, but is exactly what it is called, i.e. a token for a
gift received on behalf of the RSPCA. A specimen of the
token will gladly be forwarded to Branches contemplating
the organization of a house—to—house collection.

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 




 

 

 

August 1954

BLIND CHILDREN LEARN
ABOUT KINDNESS

Among the most touching of the experiences of
RSPCA school lecturers are those of speaking
about kindness to animals to children who are
in some way deprived of faculties that make life
pleasant. At one school for blind children after
a talk one child sat down and wrote a letter in
braille in which she spoke of how much she and
her colleagues enjoyed the talk.

Since the last report 134 lectures have been given
in schools in Devon, Surrey, lMonmouthshire,
‘Wiltshire, Buckinghamshire, Dorset, Bedfont,
Petworth, Crayford, Edgbaston, Worcester, Old—
bury, Bradford and the London area. The Hale
Animal Defenders were also addressed.

Thirty~nine new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 504 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

RSPCA LONDON ESSAY COMPETITION
The RSPCA recently announced the results of
the London Essay Competition. Thomas Savage,

THE ANIMAL WORLD 87

a blind boy aged 16, of Linden Lodge Special
(Blind) School, Battersea, SW11, won first
senior prize; Margaret Anderson aged 8, of
Hither Green ].M. & I. School, SE13, won the
junior prize. ’

The competition was open to all. LCC schools
and 80,032 essays were written by children over
8 years of age in 438 schools.

Thomas Savage and Margaret Anderson receive
book prizes, and consolation book awards
go to 896 runners—up; certiﬁcates go to another
860 second runners-up.

OBITUARY
With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Mrs E. Elford, a supporter; Mr H. P. Smith,
husband of Kings Newton aux hon sec; Miss
F. A. Newitt, hon sec of Chipstead auxiliary;
Mrs T. B. Johnstone, former hon sec of South
Anston auxiliary; Rev Wilton McCann, Director
of the NSPCC; Miss Emma Meynell, former

hon sec of Derbyshire Branch.

 

Perseverance Rewarded

Thanks to the unremitting efforts of Inspector
Adams, fences have now been erected round
disused mine shafts in the Forest of Dean, so
that it is now impossible for any animal to be,
come trapped in such places.

Shelter for Pigs

Senior Inspector Jackson has persuaded the
authorities to build eighty pig pens at Boroughv
bridge Market, Yorkshire, and he reports that
all pigs entering the Market are now warmly
housed and provided with straw bedding. He
adds that the alterations in question have cost

more than £2,000.
EXPORT OF HORSES

The last quarterly statement reCeived from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is given
below:

January to March 1954

Port of Shipment France Hola Nor; Ger; Total
land way many
London incl.

 

Tilbury ‘ . . . ~— —— 5 —— 5
Folkestone . . . 81 ~——« *— - 81
Harwich . . . __ 5 —-— —— 5
Hull . . . . . . —— 2 —— 1 3

81 7 ' '5 1 94

 

In addition, 172 thoroughbred horses and
ponies, valued from £50'to £1,000 and over,
were shipped to the Continent‘after examination.

RSPCA
PHOTOGRAPHIC COMPETITION

Prizes of £1 15., 153. 6d. and 103. 6d. are offered
each month, August to October inclusive, for
the best photographs of animals or birds excluding
cage birds and animals in zoos and circuses.

Final prizes of £3 33., £2 23. and £1 15. will be

awarded at the end of the competition.
Conditions

Entries must be unpublished and the original
work of the entrant.

The RSPCA reserves the right to publish any
prizewinning photograph without additional fee,
and to reproduce any other entry on payment of
10s. 6d., the author retaining the copyright in
each case.

Prints must be size 6 in. by 8 in. or larger,
glossy, unmounted, with name and address on
the back.

A stamped addressed envelope should be sub
mitted with each entry for its return; photographs
not accompanied by a‘stamped addressed enve’
lope cannot be returned.

No correspondence can be entered into on the
subject of this competition, and no responsibility
accepted for photographs accidentally lost or
damaged.

Address entries to:
Photo Competition, RSPCA, 1.05 Jermyn
Street, London, SW1.

 




August 1954

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 95

 

RSPCA’S home in Norwich and to Mrs Thaxter. The report
of the committee was presented by the branch chairman,
Sir Richard Barrett Lennard. During 1953 there were 14
convictions of cruelty to animals, said the report of the
branch Inspectors. Chief Inspector J. McCluskey, Senior
Inspector S. C. Green and Inspector H. Gunton. Reporting
on the work of the home Miss P. Harbord (hon secretary for
the home) said the number of stray dogs received was 85
fewer than 1952. Mrs T. E. Wisken, hon secretary for the
clinic, said that 220 animals and birds were treated. Mrs
Hardy presented awards for gallantry to Mr D. C. Saunders
and Mr H. Hagan who had rescued cats. An address on the
work of the RSPCA was given by Mr Roland Ampleford,
Parliamentary organizer.

Norfolk West Rev Dr D. W. G. Bartlett (Rector of North
and South Wootton) and branch president presided at the
annual meeting of the King’s Lynn auxiliary. Mr and Mrs C.
Freestone, Deputy Mayor and Mayoress of King‘s Lynn,
were present. The ofﬁcers were re-elected en bloc with Mrs
Robson as hon secretary. The report of the auxiliary hon
treaSurer, Mr C. R. Hart, showed a balance at bank of
£66 19s.

Capt E. Murray-Harvey, branch chairman, opened the
branch annual meeting at the Town Hall, Kings Lynn; he
apologized for having to leave soon afterwards. The Mayor,
Mr B. E. Bremmer, took over the chairmanship of the
meeting. Among those present were Lord Fermoy, Mrs K.
Hardy, branch hon sec, Mr Arnold Jones, branch hon
treasurer, and auxiliary branch ofﬁcials from Downham
Market, Hunstanton. Barton Bendish, Fincham and King’s
Lynn. Major Chapman, branch organizer, gave an address.
Richmond and District The Mayor of Richmond, Alderman
Mrs Lynn Dade, presided over the branch annual meeting
at Matthiae’s Restaurant, Richmond. On the platform with
the Mayor were: Miss Freya Courtenay (Mayoress), Mrs
Dowdell (Council Member), Mrs Williams (Branch chair-
man), Mrs Noel-Hill (branch hon secretary), Major Williams
(branch hon treasurer). Mrs Dowdell (Council Member),
was guest speaker and a report was submitted by Senior
Inspector Ruck. Branch ofﬁcer were re-elected en bloc.
Shropshire RSPCA Inspector Watt attended and judged
the pet show section of the Shropshire Federation. of Young
Farmers’ Clubs Annual Rally held at The Farm Institute,
Baschurch.

Somerset—South When Senior Inspector 'Newbury ad-
dressed the Women’s Section of Wellington Toc H, a col-
lection of 153. was taken for branch funds.

Stockport—East Cheshire and West Derbyshire In con-
Junction with Whaley Bridge carnival, the auxiliary organized
a pet show.

Sunderland and North Durham A bring and buy sale was
organized at the home of Mrs E. B. Coatsworth, Cedars
End, The Cedars, Sunderland. Miss Naomi Jacobs opened
the event. Lt-Col Coventry moved a vote of thanks to MISS
Naomi Jacobs and to Mrs Coatsworth, who placed her
house and grounds at the disposal of the branch. Mr H.
Freedman, branch chairman, was present. .
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Mrs J. C. Sainsbury, branch secretary, reports that the annual
horse show and gymkhana, held at the Royal PaddockS,
Hampton Court (by gracious permission of Her Majesty
the Queen) was a great success.

Surrey~—Sutton and District Mrs Allibert (branch hon
secretary and council member), reports that the St Dunstanjs
youéig players gave a show and raised £9 10s. for clinic
un s.

SllrreY—Weybridge Mrs Martin, branch hon secretary,
reports a successful dog show, ,
Walsall In the absence of Mr L. J. Brockhurst, chalrman,
who was unable to attend, Mr S. Long, hon secretary,
presided over the branch annual meeting at the Chamber
Of Commerce, Walsall. All oﬂicers were re-elected. .

At the Central Hall, Walsall, prizes were awarded 1n the
branch essay competition; The Mayor and Mayoress of
Wallsall were present, and Mr K. A. Rowlands, Director of

Education, attended; Mr L. J. Brockhurst, branch chairman
was one of the principal speakers. '
Warrington and District Mrs Beaman, Newton-Ie-Willows
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a bring-and-buy sale
raised £32 for branch funds.
Warwickshire South and East Miss D. Lake, Organizing
secretary, reports that a collection of £4 18s. 2d. was taken
at the Warwickshire County Show, for branch funds.
West Bromwich and Wednesbury At the branch annual
meeting Mr H. W. Dawes. branch chairman, criticized
people who abandoned dogs when they are due to pay the
licence. A report was submitted by Inspector Downes.

Ofﬁcers elected were Mr P. J. Hawkes (vice-president),
Mr H. W. Dawes (Chairman), Mr W. J. Tetley (hon trea-
surer), and Mrs F. Haywood (hon secretary).

Mr Philip Drabble, the well known-broadcaster, afterwards
gave a talk on pets.

A vote of thanks to him was proposed by Councillor
Mrs M. Evitts, a committee member.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mrs Butler,
Slough auxiliary hon secretary, reports that Lady Howard-
Vyse opened her garden to the public as a way of help-
ing Slough clinic. Sir Richard and Lady Howard-Vyse
took people over the house. There was also a bring-and-buy
sale and a total of £22 19s. 4d. was raised.
Wolverhampton and District Mrs Hartill, branch co hon
secretary, reports that a jumble sale, held recently, raised
£82 73. for branch funds.
Worcestershire—East and West Warwickshire Mrs W. F.
Hedges, who, by organizing whist drives, has raised the
money to pay for erecting a suitable hut for an animal wel-
fare centre for the Bromsgrove auxiliary, performed the
opening ceremony.

 

Photo by courtesy of the News of the World
CAT THROWN ON THE RAILWAY IN A SACK

An RSPCA Inspector is shown with a handsome cat, who
was found with stones in a sack on the main railway line
near Queens Park Station, London. The RSPCA suspects
that someone threw the sack over the railway embank-
ment from a bomb-site. When found by the RSPCA, the
cat was uninjured apart from a bruised nose, and was
taken to the RSPCA Mayhew Home to be treated for shock.
The cat made a good recovery and was placed in a good
home. Every effort is being made by the RSPCA to find the
person responsible for this deed

 




Incorporating eThe Winged Messenger’

 

VOLUME XLIX N0 8 THREEPENCE AUGUST 1954

[Courtesy of OPe‘tsevrr RoBi-nsen
KINDNESS IN SINGAPORE
(see story in these pages)

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

 

 

 

August 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD ' 89

 

 

An article for the bi’centenary of the birth of
Richard Martin. ‘

‘BENEATH THE DIGNITY OF
PARLIAMENT——

until Richard Martin campaigned

(Reprinted from ‘The Ark’, with acknowledgments.)
Two hundred years ago, in February 1754,
Richard Martin, pioneer of the ﬁrst Animals’
Protection Act ever to be placed on a nation’s
statute’book, was born at Ballinahinch Castle,
Connemara, heir to a large estate that extended
for some thirty miles round. Like many young
lrishmen of his day, he was sent to England for
his education; but happily, unlike so many of
them, he was not lured into settling there and
deserting his own motherland.

Never was Richard Martin an absentee rackv
renting landlord: he was known and loved as
the friend and helper of all his people, both
humans and animals. If any of his poorer tenants
could not pay their rent, he readily relinquished
his right to it, and tried to help them from his
own greater wealth. As one of his employees,
Ned Bodkin, warmly testiﬁed to Sir Jonah
Barrington, ‘God bless him! He was a good
master to us all.’

‘Mere’ Animals

Long before he had to cross the Channel to repre—
sent Galway constituency in the Westminster
Parliament, Richard Martin had been working
for years, heart and soul, to free his own nation
from the dark stigma of cruelty to her animals,
and to make a glorious reality that Covenant of
Love and Peace between humans and their animal
brethren so vividly described in the legend of

St Colmcille. He was fortyasix when the Act of
Union, 1800, obliged him to spend much of his
time in England. But it was to continue his ser’
vices to his own County Galway people by‘ repre’
senting them there that he went; and there, too,
he continued his crusade for animal welfare,
entering it upon a new phase.

He had come to realize that the efforts of
individuals were inadequate to cope with the
whole nation’s treatment of its animals, and that
nothing short of legiSIation by the nation’s Parlia’
ment was necessary, and urgently necessary. But
the idea that an august legislative assembly
should concern itself with the welfare of ‘mere
animals’ was such a novel one that most of the
MP3 were indignant, hostile and disdainful—
‘This subject is beneath the dignity of Parliament’,
they said. So they threw out, with much ridicule
and abuse, all the ﬁrst Animal Protection Bills
brought in by Martin and his colleagues. They
were far from being able to see that the moral
and spiritual progress of humanity (including
their own) was intimately bound up with right
relationship to, and treatment of, God’s animals,
their own brethren.

So it took twentyltwo years’ heroic, undaunted
campaigning on the part of Richard Martin and
his colleagues before Parliament could be won to
accept even the most limited of Animal Proteca
tion Bills. Then during the spring and summer
of 1822, at very long last, ‘Humanity Martin’s’
earnest, eloquent speeches won over a sufﬁcient
number of MPs to bring about his well—deserved
triumph—the enactment of the ﬁrst Animals’
Protection Bill ever to become law in any
Parliament.

FRIEDA LE PLA

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT

Wood Pigeons Destruction

SIR A. BOSSOM asked the Minister of Agriculture
if, in order to reduce the wood pigeon pest, he
will consider making a payment in respect of
each pair of wild pigeon’s feet delivered to his
department, as is being done already in the case
of squirrels’ tails.

SIR T. DUGDALE: This suggestion has practical
disadvantages. It has been considered by my
Land Pests Advisory Committee and their advice,
which I am accepting, is that the present scheme
under which half price cartridges are made avail,
able for the shooting of wood pigeons is working
satisfactorily and is to be preferred.

Imbra Rabbit Trap Report

WING COMMANDER BULLUS asked the Minister
of Agriculture whether he is now able to report
on trials with the lmbra humane rabbit trap.

SIR T. DUGDALE: Reports have now. been received

by myself and my right honourable friend the
Secretary of State for Scotland on the use of this

trap by county agricultural executive committees

in England and Wales and on trials carried out
by the Department of Agriculture for Scotland
during the past trapping season. In the trials a
fairly high proportion of the Imbra traps set
caught rabbits on most locations after experience
in handling the traps had been gained and the
rabbits were nearly always killed outright. The
trap appears to give best results in unobstructed
burrows and on dry soil. In‘ the comparative
trails in Scotland, fewer rabbits were caught with
the lmbra trap in its present form than were
caught in gin traps.

Dogvlovers

We have received a copy of No. l of the Dog
Lovers’ Newsletter which is issued by Mrs Stow
of Weathersﬁeld Hall, Braintree, Essex.

 




August 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 91

 

CAT STONED, CHASED INTO RIVER

After a group of boys had stoned a cat in a tree,
one of them sawed off the branch and the ‘wretch—
ed animal’ was chased into the river. This was
said by a solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA
at Durham Juvenile Court.

‘Two of them had sticks and poked the cat in
the water, determined to kill or drown it.’

Five boys, aged between twelve and ﬁfteen
admitted illatreating the cat and were given a
twelve months’ conditional discharge on pay—
ment of £1 14s. 3d. costs.

Blinded in one eye

The case against a ten—year»old boy was dis—
missed. -

The solicitor said that the owner of the cat
let her out one afternoon, and she was returned
the following day ‘in a pretty disgraceful condia
tion’. The animal was badly bruised, her face was
swollen to twice its normal size and the sight of
one eye had been lost.

‘Killed rabbits’

The cat was covered in mud, said the owner, when
she was returned to her by a small girl.

Questioned by the mother of one boy, she de—
nied asking the boys to destroy the cat because it
was a stray.

One of the boys told the court that the tree
branch overhung the river and when it was sawn
off the cat fell into the water. Another told the
solicitor that he tried to chase the cat out of the
village because it had killed nine of his rabbits.
(A8252. lnspector Spencer.)

 

DEVOTED TO CATS by Frank Crew. Frederick
Muller Ltd., 63 pp., price 53. A book of essays in
miniature, and each essay with its own photo»
graphic study, this is a book cat lovers will want
for their shelves—or as a present for their
friends. In all, there are twentyaeight pictures and
each is full of character. The picture illustrating
‘Feline Frolics’ is the least pleasing. As for text,
it seems ‘a pity that the writer, in discussing
‘Collared Cats’, did not remind his readers that
a collar is not a good thing for a cat and that if
one must be worn it should be of halfainch
elastic. (This book is available through any book,
stall or bookseller; it cannot be supplied by
the RSPCA.)

 

BOILING WATER THROWN OVER CATS

A housewife, seeing two bedraggled cats, exclaimed:
‘Oh! look at those cats—all wet!’

The neighbour said: ‘I have just thrown a bowl of hot
water over them to shift them.’

A veterinary surgeon, to whom the cats were taken by
lnspector Downes, found both cats to have large raw areas,
or areas partly covered by a thick scab three to four inches
wide on their left sides. The male cat had a raw place on
the left side.

In the opinion of the veterinary surgeon the sores were
caused by scalds. He added, when giving evidence before
the magistrates at Aldridge, that the cats must have
suﬂ'ered considerable pain. The neighbour who admitted
having thrown water over the cats was ﬁned £5 and ordered
to pay £5 l9s. 6d. costs on a charge of unlawfully causing
unnecessary suffering to two cats by unreasonably injuring
them.

The defendent expressed sorrow and said she did not
realize the water was so hot (A.8049).

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAEHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol XLIX No 8 New Series

AUGUST I 954

PRICE T HREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

RSPCA ‘OUR INSPIRATION’

Said Dr Eric Hansen, President of the Massav
chusetts SPCA, when he addressed the RSPCA
Annual General Meeting in London:

I hope you will appreciate it when I tell you
how difﬁcult I ﬁnd it to choose the right words
to tell you what is in my heart. You must rev
member that every humane society we have in
America sprang from this body. It is fromthe
Royal Society here in London that we received
our inspiration. Henry Bergh was a diplomat in
St Petersburg. He came back to America by way
of London and it was here that he learned of
your great work and visited ofﬁcials of your
Society. He had seen so much cruelty in St
Petersburg, especially to cab horses, and he was
determined to build up a Society similar to your
own in America, and that he did in 1866. Two
years later, Mr George T. Angell of Boston
formed the Massachusetts Society, of which I
have the great honour of being President.

 

Having pinned the RSPCA Queen Vl
Dr Hansen’s lapel, Mrs Wallis Power hands him the
Certiﬁcate of Merit

We have in Massachusetts what is probably
the largest society of its kind in America but
we owe it to your great Society. It was here we
took our inspiration; it was here we obtained
our ideas for legislation we have secured in
America—and you must remember how difﬁcult
it is to legislate in the States where we have to
get through 48 legislatures. It has to be done
over and over again and each legislature chooses
laws to suit itself. You cannot get one general
law to cover all your States—that can only be
done by Congress. But Congress itself has passed
laws for animals, especially in regard to transporv
tation, due to our great distances, over 3,000
miles from coast to coast. It has passed legislation
that calls for the unloading, feeding, and watering
of animals in transit for more than twentyvfour
hours.

Coming to London and to the RSPCA is
a little bit like the Moslem coming to Mecca.
It is the journey I had hoped to make for
many, many years and I can hardly yet fully
believe that I’ve been here.

I have had so many kindnesses from Members
of your Council. It has been such a wonderful
experience. It has been almost like coming home
for the ﬁrst time, worshipping at the feet of those
who started this work of preventing cruelty to
animals: it has been an inspiring experience for
me.

To instil into the hearts of men, and especially
of children, thoughts of kindness, justice, and
mercy, is indeed the basis of our Society’s work,
and I am sure of your Society’s work.

I hope and prayerfully hope for a brilliant
future for England and for the RSPCA.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE WORK KNOWS
NO FRONTIERS

Speaking at the 125th Annual General Meeting
of the RSPCA in the York Hall, Caxton Hall,
London, SW1, Lord Merthyr, Chairman of the
RSPCA Council, who presided, said:

‘_We have branches in the Commonwealth and
we have a good deal of business in foreign coun'
tries as well.’ ‘

Lord Merthyr was moving the adoption of the
annual report, which, after questions had been
answered, was adopted without dissent.

 

 




 

August 1954

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 93

 

 

nggmgg $2.? .4?
3&3} {sf/21.3%”!

 

This plaque, the design of which symbolizes a flood, has
been affixed to the RSPCA Emergency Reserve Unit vehicle

Clevedon Division Wing-Commander Hillier, Branch
organizer, spoke at the division annual general meeting.
Inspector Raggett presented his report.

Ofﬁcials appointed were: chairman, Mr W. F. Senior;
honsecretary, Mrs Willcocks; hon treasurer, Mr P. R. Lane.
Cornwall—~East Miss Roose, Camelford auxiliary hon
secretary, reports that a ﬁlm show collection raised £5 10s. 7d.
for branch funds.

Coventry and District At the branch annual meeting, the
Lord Mayor of Coventry, Alderman John Fennell, presided.
Major Chapman gave an address. Ofﬁcers re—elected were:
president, Colonel R. J. Cash; hon secretary, Mrs Mocatta;
hon treasurer, Mr F. Morris. The report submitted by
Senior Inspector Newell .and Inspector Davidson showed
that l81 complaints of cruelty had been investigated. .
Derbyshire~Derby and District The branch annual meeting
was held at the Midland Hotel, Derby. The presrdent,.V1s—
count Scarsdale was unable to attend. Colonel Rawllngs,
chairman of the branch welcomed the Mayor and Mayoress
(Councillor and Mrs H. J. T. Russell) and MroHarry White
(Council Member and hon secretary for Nottingham). Mr
F. Lees, hon treasurer presented the Accounts for 1953
which were very gratifying. Major Chapman. from head-
quarters gave a talk on the work of the socrety and was
thanked by Mr T. Hussey. The Mayoress presented three
Animal Defenders with a name plate for a. kennel Wthh
hey have provided by holding a Bazaar raismg £75. Mrs
R. A. Loten, hon secretary, thanked all who had helped to
make the year a successful one. . _ ' .
Dencaster Division Mrs Morrison, dwisron chairman,
sends newspaper reports on the Division annual meeting,

, held at Doncaster. Lt-Col Coventry, branch organizer, WhO

addressed the meeting, described the humane action of
Mr Percy Doxey who drove for four hours through dense
ng to save the life of a dog. Mr Doxey received an RSPCA
certiﬁcate which was presented to him by the Deputy Mayor
Of Doncaster, Ald A. E. Cammidge. Speaking of the anlmal
defenders, Lady Galway, president, said that they were the
People the society was going to deand on in the future._ .
Dorset—South Police students of No. 24 Pollce Training
Centre, Cattistock, were addressed by Inspector Hornet on
Injured animals and cases of cruelty.

Durham—South and North Yorkshire A coffee morning
held at the home of Ald and Mrs H. Sansom raised £38 43. 5d.
for branch funds.

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon secretary, organized a rummage
sale which raised £14 for branch funds. She also Spoke on
the work of the RSPCA at the Stock Branch BritishLegion
and £1 was collected for branch funds.

Major Chapman, branch organizer, attended a small
meeting at the home of Miss Willmot, Fyﬁeld auxiliary hon
secretary, to answer questions on the work of the RSPCA
Mrs Donovan, branch hon secretary, Mrs Tucker, Stanford
Rivers auxiliary hon secretary, Mrs Ponting and Mrs Morse,
Ongar auxiliary co hon secretaries, were present.

Sister Kathleen of the Baptist Church, Harold Hill, ex-
pressed appreciation of the help she had received from the
staﬁ" of Harold Hill RSPCA clinic in dealing with a road
casualty (a cat) when she welcomed Mrs Campbell, Harold
Wood auxiliary hon secretary, to her Young Women’s
Fellowship meeting. The work of the RSPCA and the clinic
was the subject of a talk by Mrs Campbell; 14s. 4d. was
collected for clinic funds.

Mrs Taylor, Ardleigh Green auxiliary hon secretary,
organized a rummage sale with the help of Mrs Stevens,
and raised £12 10s. for clinic funds.

Essex—North-West Branch Pets entered in a competition
held at Earls Colne Primary School were judged by Inspector
Cooper.

Essex—South, Southend and District Mrs Underhill,
Canvey Island auxiliary hon secretary, reports that an
orchestral concert raised £5 for branch funds.

Exeter—East and West Devon Dr Wills, auxiliary chairman,
presided over the annual meeting of Sidmouth auxiliary,
Mrs Phillpotts, branch chairman, spoke about the branch
clinic and Wing-Commander Hillier, branch organizer,
gave an outline on the RSPCA’s general work.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Addressing the branch
annual meeting at Port Talbot Mrs David Evans, Council
Member, congratulated the branch-on its efﬁciency. Inspector
Cramp reported on his work.

‘It is only due to the hard work of the committee’, said
Miss Rees, branch hon secretary, and the loyal support of
our auxiliaries that we are able to pay our way’. A busy year
at the clinic was reported by Mrs Maran Evans.

The accounts presented by the hon treasurer, Mr D. David,
showed £51 more income than expenditure.

 

This is Wilfrid the neutered ginger Tom cat who was lost

from his basket on a train from Reading to Wolverhampton.

Miss Lee, his owner, of l3 Crawford Road, Wolverhampton,
eagerly seeks news of him

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATH LONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUG HT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND

TI-HE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

SIR MALCOLM SARGEN'I', HON LlJ), l) MUS, FRCM, FRSA
COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS *HOGG’ 5‘ R" ESQ’ DSO’ MC
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP HUNTER, MISS
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. W., CBE, MRCVS LEE, MRS
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP

'DOWDELL, MRS LONGMAN, MRS w.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT_COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP

(CANTAB), DOMs
*PARRER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC

‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA
FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ., MA
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP
*HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ

POWELL, COL R. M., l)S()
RA'FI‘RAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PILI).
‘RIECK. H. H., ESQ
SHAErESBURY, THE R'I‘ HON THE COUNTESS OF
SIBLY, w. A., ESQ. MA, JP .
SNELL, THE REv PREBENI)ARY L. J. E., MBE, TD, JP
SOMERS, THE RT HON LORD
*TAIT, MRS, EA

TUFNELL, LlEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
‘WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

‘WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

l"WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

 

 

‘ Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. c. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP

 

 

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB
Bankers—MESSRS COUTrs AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. Moss, ESQ, MBE. ACIS
ASSIstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, EA
Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

 

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, Mncvs

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 l 7 7

USED &TRIIS'I'ED IIIE WORlDOVERi

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

. “Here is something warmer than a Charm-
ing book. Here is a book of charm.”
COLLIE KNOX

TWO MEN
AND A DOG _

by John Montgomery

(10/6 net)

“A most agreeably entertaining record of
life in a Surrey Village. . . it will appeal
particularly to those who feel that life is not
complete without a dog about the house.”

JOHN O’ LONDON’S WEEKLY

 

c_. .

   

SAFE.
- SURE EECASH 2X?

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

“mum . s . Eucuun g.\EYRE &SPOTTISWOODE—~———-

   

SECOND IMPRESSION

    

 

ICClES AND SHELVOKE [ID

 

 

5465

 

 




 

 

86 THE ANIMAL WORLD

August 1954

 

 

 

Animal welfare work, he continued, knows
no frontiers and he thought it was a good
thing the Society’s work was going on over—
seas as well as at home.

Floods Recalled

He did not Wish to go into details of the East
Coast Floods ‘after this passage of time’, but he
said that many inspectors and other members of
the staff did very noble work in rescuing animals
from those ﬂoods.

‘I should like to take this opportunity of
thanking other societies who helped us on that
occasion, amongst them the Scottish Society,
who voluntarily sent their Inspectors to help ours.’

In Parliament

‘You will agree, I know, that it is difﬁcult,
if not impossible, to relieve suffering to
animals without Parliamentary action.

‘One can do it by education, by propaganda
and by persuasion and so forth, but many of the
major parts of our work can only be achieved by
Parliamentary action.

‘It follows that we have to fight a more or
less continuous battle to try to persuade Parliar
ment in this democratic state that certain forms
of cruelty should be declared illegal.

‘I mention this because in the past year there
has been great activity in Parliament in the shape
of Bills dealing with animal welfare and I would
like to take this opportunity of saying how grate—
ful we all should be to a number of Members of
Parliament for the considerable amount of time
which those busy people have been willing to

The story told by these pictures and the
one on the cover typify the spread of
the RSPCA’s work overseas

 

 

 

give up to deal with problems connected with
animal welfare.’

A Short Summary

The report, said Lord Merthyr, contained only
a short summary of the work of the Society. A
thick volume would be needed to tell all that
had happened.

‘For example, the chapter dealing with our
cases only contains a number extracted from
the total list. When you are reading it I
would ask you to think of all the cases not
mentioned in the report.’

Presentations

Mrs Wallis Power, Vice’Chairman of the
Council, presented the RSPCA Queen Victoria
Silver Medal and Certificate of Merit to Dr Eric
Hansen, President of the Massachusetts SPCA.
Later, Dr Hansen gave an address, which is
reported elsewhere in these pages. A vote of
thanks to the guest speaker was moved by the
Chairman and was carried with acclamation.

After citations had been read by the Chair’
man, awards were presented by Mrs Wallis
Power to four Inspectors. Inspectors R. P. Nairn,
A. L. Williams and G. R. Williams received the
Anderson Award and Certificate and Inspector
M. Harland received the ‘Manor Oak’ Award
and Certificate.

A vote of thanks to the Chairman was moved
by Mr Stanley G. Watson, Hon Secretary of the
Huddersﬁeld Branch; it was carried with
acclamation.

 
 

Below, the patient is examined by the
veterinary surgeon

[Pictures by courtesy of Peter Robinsonl

 

On the left, clinic workers at the V
RSPCA Branch in Singapore are called
out; above, at the scene of the accident

 

 

 

 




 

 

88 ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

August 1954

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

JUNE I954
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,303 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
92 Offenders ﬁned.
27 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
816 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state 4

CATTLE—~Neglecting 2
PIGS—~Neglecting . 2
DOGS——Neglecting, killing in ir11proper manner, kick
i11g, ls100ting and wounding, causing to be
impaled on a stick .. 15
CATS——Neglecting, shooting and wou1iding..3
RABBITS—Starving ... . .. . . .. ... 2
EOWLS—Neglecting, beating, shooting and wounding 4
DUCKS—Injuring with missile, offering for sale in an
unﬁt state . .. 4
SWAN S—Beating . . . 4
MOORHEN———lnjuring with missiles 4
- JACKDAWs—Beating . 6
WILD BIRDs——Killing in improper manner, causing to
be conveyed in container of insuﬁicient size 3

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 5
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:

Selling other than a close—ringed specimen
bred in captivity 5

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds
Being in possession of recently killed birds . ..
Setting pole trap . .
Using instrument for the purpose of taking
Taking Swan’s eggs

whip-1mm

VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel-tooth traps
Laying poison .
Infringement of the Slaughter of Animals

Act, 1933 ..

Causing in an offence
Aiding and abetting in offences
Permitting in an offence

set in open

 

4&0

r—ANr—tr—t

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 92

During JUNE, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed FIVE persons from owning a dog or holding
a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for twelve months; THREE for ﬁve years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 14,666
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 466
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 5,049

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,871 Dogs, 3,857 1\«lise., 657 Total, 9,385

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrstvaid: 1,918

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. ofani111als handled:
Cats, 22 Dogs, 63 Misc., 0 Total. 85

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,833

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,092
No. of animals rescued: 7

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 216

NORTH WALES [IN IT

First—aid cases:

Cats, 25 Dogs, 50 Misc. 4 Total, 79
No. of other ani1l1ia s handled by Unit:

Cats, 120 Dogs, 45 Misc” 2 Total, 167

No. of mil es covered by Unit: during month: 2,400

AWARDS

Award Cases Considered 66
Certiﬁcates of Merit 30
Bronze Medals - 5
Bar to Bronze Medals 1

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS 27,686
CONVICTIONS 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNII
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross” 1
Silver Medals .. 6
Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10

Merit Certiﬁcates 121

 

 

 




90 THE ANIMAL WORLD August1954

 

 

FOUND BY RSPCA FASTENED TO TABLE LEG

 

An RSPCA Inspector found this dog fastened to a table leg. The
animal was in an extreme state of emaciation, the ribs, backbone
and hips showing prominently. A veterinary surgeon who was
called found the dog suffering from distemper. He found a skin
rash over the abdomen and diagnosed both tonsilitis and bron-
chitis. He considered the animal to have been affected with disease
for some months and that lack of appropriate treatment had
caused unnecessary suﬁering. When the owner was brought
before the magistrates at Derby on a charge of causing the
animal unnecessary suffering by neglect, he was ﬁned [IO and
order to pay £3 l25. 6d. costs. He was disqualified for life from
owning a dog or holding a dog licence. The dog was given a

 

 

 

TWO GOATS DIED——ONE TETHERED'

A man brought before the Magistrates at Morton;
hampstead, charged with omitting to give two
goats sufﬁcient food and proper care and atten’
tion, was sent to prison for twentyaeight days and
ordered to pay £7 73. costs.

The solicitor who prosecuted for the RSPCA
said that police ofﬁcers went to a small ﬁeld on
a sloping bank which had no vegetation. They
found the carcasses of two young goats. One was
tethered to a tree stump, and one not. They had
eaten everything within reach.

The owner admitted that he shifted the goats
one day and visited them with water the next day.
Two days later he again visited the goats and in
the words of the prosecuting solicitor ‘did noth—
ing. for them as far as we know’. The next day the

defendant found one goat dead and the other

extremely weak.

‘He did nothing other than release the tether ..

from the goat’s neck so that ,it could die without
being at the end of a chain’.

A veterinary surgeon said there was nothing
for the animals to eat. There was just bare earth
and slate. He carried out a postmortem and was
of the opinion that the goats died from starvation.
(A8146. Chief Inspector Butterworth.)

MOVED HOUSE—LEFT CAT BEHIND

A cat left behind by his owners, who had moved,
was in such a state when found by Chief Ina
spector Stephens that the animal had to be given
a humane end.

A man and his wife, against whom this offence
was alleged, were brought before the magistrates
‘at Dartford, and were charged by the RSPCA for

causing unnecessary suffering to the cat (and

humane end (A.8ll5. Senior Inspector Barrett)

unreasonably omitting to give him necessary care
and attention.

COunsel for the RSPCA said that the defen’
dants had moved and had left the cat to fend for
himself.

When the male defendant was seen he made
a statement to the effect that the cat was left
behind ‘in the hope that his brother might possi«

bly do something for it in the way of food’.,

Senior Inspector Stephens said that the cat was
in a shocking state of neglect, extremely emaci’
ated and suffering from a skin disease. In view
of the animal’s starving condition a humane end
was promptly given.

The veterinary surgeon who examined the
cat’s carcase said that the animal had been neg—
lected and underfed.

The husband told the Bench that they could
not help leaving the cat behind because they had
to move in a hurry. He went back several times
to ﬁnd the animal but was unsuccessful.

The husband was ﬁned £3 33. with £5 53. costs,

and his wife, who was not present, was fined £2.

(A.8124.)

TRAPS SET IN THE OPEN
A farm worker was ﬁned 103. by Lynton Mang'

. trates for setting spring traps in the open for the

purpose of catching rabbits.

Inspector Ambrose said he would like to point
out that no animal was caught or found suffering.

The Inspector had found 101 traps in the open
in ﬁve ﬁelds. The defendant admitted setting the
traps and said he did not know any other method
of keeping rabbits down. There were wire fences
around the ﬁelds but the rabbits were still com—

ing in. (A.8401.)

-;| (.4. o




 

92 V THE ANIMAL WORLD

August 1954

 

OIL ON THE SEA
SHIPOWNERS’ FINED
A British shipping line recently was ﬁned £50
because one of their boats discharged oil ‘directly
into port’.

A harbour launch found a 500vyard trail of
oil 20 to 30 ft. wide behind‘the ship, said pro»
secuting counsel, at Hythe, Hants. ,

He spoke of the damage that oil on the water
did to birds, the ﬁshing industry, the enjoyment
of the shore, and to the paintwork and tackle of
small craft.

The chief engineer of the boat said that the
ship, which was leaving dock, had to anchor
because of engine trouble.

‘ A greaser started a bilge pump without autho—
rity. The water from it passed through a separator
which could not have been working properly,

he said.

Oil Pollution Convention

MR R. ROBINSON asked the Minister of Trans!
port and Civil Aviation whether he will make a
statement on the results of the International

Conference on the Prevention of the Pollution
of the Sea by Oil, and when it is anticipated that
the agreed Convention will come into force.

MR LENNOXcBOYD: The Conference prepared
a Convention providing for the establishment of
zones within which certain oils should not be
discharged. The Convention will come into force
12 months after acceptance by 10 Governments,
including five with not less than 500,000 gross
tons of tanker tonnage. A further Conference
will be held within three years to consider the
question of the complete avoidance of the dis;
charge of certain oils anywhere at sea.

The texts of the Convention and the resolu—
tions adopted by the Conference will be laid
before the House as soon as possible. Her
Majesty’s Government will consider urgently
formal acceptance of the Convention and the
introduction of the necessary legislation. It will
be some years before the effects of this Con—
ference are fully apparent but the adoption of
the Convention will undoubtedly lead to con—
siderable lessening of the evil of oil pollution of
our coasts and waters.

 

BRANCH
NEWS

*

Mickey,
whose picture
comes from
Mrs Odden,
South Harrow

 

Berkshire—Newbury and District Mrs Betts, Hampstead
Norris auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a jumble sale
raised £12 45. 3d. for branch funds.
Birmingham and District The branch annual general
meeting, held at the Grand Hotel was attended by approxi-
mately 150 people. The Lord Mayor of Birmingham pre-
sided, accompanied by the Lady Mayoress. Wing-Com-
mander Hillier, branch organizer, gave an account of the
society’s work today. Ofﬁcers and committee were re-elected.

A bring-and-buy sale organized by Mrs Evans, Hands-
worth auxiliary hon secretary, raised just over £70.
Bournemouth and District At the branch annual meeting
held at the Royal Exeter Hotel, the branch president,
Ald J. W. Moore, welcomed Mrs Wallis Power (branch hon
secretary and vice-chairman of the RSPCA Council), the
Mayor of Bournemouth (Cllr George Smith), and the
Deputy Mayor (Cllr H. P. E. Mears).

Mr Roland Ampleford, Parliamentary organizer, reviewed
the RSPCA’s work in Parliament. Mrs Wallis Power said
that cruelty to animals was often done by children needing

humane education in homes and schools. Regional Superin-
tendent Best reported numerous accidents involving cats and
dogs. He had investigated 171 complaints of alleged cruelty.
Mr J. Brewster, clinic manager, said that 739 animals had
been brought for treatment.

The annual jumble sale organized by Ringwood auxiliary
in the Congregational Hall raised £41 133. la’. for branch
un 3.

Bristol and District The new Lord Mayor presided over the
branch annual meeting and Mrs Desborough Walford,
Council Member, was on the platform. The committee was
re-elected. (The hon secretary of the branch is Mr C. Croxton-
Smith.)

Bromley and District (Kent) Mrs Syer, West Wickham
auxiliary hon secretary, with various helpers organized the
annual pet show at Hawes Down Secondary School. Among
those present were Mrs StOrrar, auxiliary president, and
many members of the auxiliary committee.

Caernarvonshire West and Anglesey The branch president,
The Hon Violey Vivian, presided over the branch annual
meeting. An address was given by Wing-Commander Hillier,
branch organizer.

Cambridgeshire At the branch annual general meeting at
St Catharine’s College Cambridge, Mrs Wallis Power, vice-
chairman of the RSPCA Council, presented to Senior
Inspector Bartlett an RSPCA medal for gallantry. Mr D. J:
Darcy and schoolboy D. W. George also received an
award—Mr Darcy a medal and Master George a book.
The Hon Mrs de Beaumont, branch president, took the
chalr at the meeting and the branch chairman, Dr R. F.
Rattray, commented on the annual report.

A satisfactory ﬁnancial report was submitted by Mrs
Bushe-Fox, hon treasurer. In presenting the clinic report,
Mr W. E. Edscer said it had been more than a successful
year.

Ald Mrs Rackham proposed the re-election of the ofﬁcers
and this was carried. A vote of thanks to the speaker was
proposed by Mrs Law.

Cllr W. Balfour Gourlay proposed a vote of thanks to

the Master of St Catharine’s and to the Hon Mrs de Beau- .

mont for presiding. (Report received from Mrs Scratton,
branch hon secretary).

 

 




 

 

 

August 1954

 

94 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

 

On duty at Lidfield Cattle Market, Inspector L. ]. jones
was asked by the police to look after a ewe. The animal
had been found straying on the main road near the Trent
Valley Railway Station.

The Inspector placed the ewe with Mr Alec Simpkin,
farmer, son of Mrs Simpkin, hon secretary of Netherseal
Auxiliary.

The picture shows Mrs Simpkin who is holding the lamb
to whom the ewe has given birth. The stray ewe looks on.

Great Yarmouth and District Miss Muriel Castle, branch
co hon secretary, reports: A. recent whist drive held at
Loddon and organized by Mr George Sherman realized
£3 18s. 10d. for branch funds.
Grimsby and District Mrs M. Yare, Scunthorpe auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that clinic funds gained £4 10s from
a whist drive organized by Mrs M. Morgan, a committee
member. The whist drive was held at the Tudor restaurant,
lent free of charge by the proprietor, Mr M. Parton.
Hampshire-New Forest At the branch annual meeting held
at the Community Centre, Lymington, the chairman,
Capt Lindsell, who presided in the absence of the president,
Lt-Col Sir Dudley Forwood, paid tribute to the work of
Lt-Col Tyndale-Biscoe, Milford aux hon see, who was
retiring after 30 years’ association with the RSPCA. Mr Allan
Joiner, from headquarters, spoke on some of the tasks
before the Society and he was thanked by the Mayor of
Lymington, Alderman J. W. Beagley, who was present with
the Mayoress, Mrs Beagley. Mr J. A. Hornby, hon treasurer,
submitted a report which showed a balance in hand of
£48 19s. 4d. Capt Lindsell remarked on the work of the
branch hon secretary, Mrs Alexander. Thanks to the Mayor
and Mayoress were extended by Mrs Frank Perkins. Inspec—
tor Williams submitted a report.
Hants and Surrey Border Rain interfered with the garden
party arranged by Mrs Day in her delightful garden at
Heath House for the children of Upper Hale School, near
Farnham. But, despite the weather, most of the 170 children,
en holiday at the time, turned up and enjoyed an excellent
talk,"- ‘by Mr Hardman. ' '

Afterwards many good things were provided and con-
stimed under the shelter of various trees'about the grounds.

R. M. P.

HerefOrdshire At the branch annual meeting the chairman,
Rev Prebendary Snell (Council Member), reportedthe out-
standing event of the year was the purchase and adaptation
of a house as an animal welfare centre. Appealing to mem-
bers to intensify their efforts, the hon treasurer, Mr G.

 

 

Williams, stated that expenditure had exceeded income.
Mrs Brown, Hereford City auxiliary hon secretary, pre-
sented a report on the welfare centre.

Presentations were made at the meeting. Four members
of Hereford Fire Brigade received certiﬁcates for the part
they played in rescuing a cow and calf. Master John Preece
and Master J. Wilks received books for rescuing a dog. It
was reported that the Anita Knight award would go to a
Cathedral schoolboy, Robert Edwards. All the ofﬁcers of
the branch were re-elected and the Mayor of Hereford,
Mr A. E. Farr, who was making his last public appearance
in his year of ofﬁce as chairman at the meeting, was elected
vice-president of the branch. Mr A. Edwards proposed a
vote“ of thanks to the Mayor and Mayoress. After the meeting
a lantern lecture was given by Chief Inspector Evans.
Hertfordshire—West Miss Micklethwaite, St Albans aux
hon'secretary, reports that an exhibition of drawings and
crayon work done by animal defenders was held recently.
Kent—Canterbury and District A bring-and-buy sale and
coffee morning party organized by Mrs Dance, branch hon
secretary, at the home of Mrs Briscall, raised £19 73. 30’. for
branch funds.

A whist drive held at the Old Coffee House, Canterbury
raised £3 Os 6d. for branch funds. During the evening the
branch chairman, Mr E. J. Mount, presented Inspector
Rhodes with a bronze medal which had been awarded to
him while with the Hereford branch for the rescue of a cow
and calf from an island in the ﬂooded River Wye.

A sale of home-made cakes and sweets organized by the
Ivy Leaf Club held in the orchard at Orchard End, Cherry
Avenue, Canterbury, raised £2 11s. 6d. for clinic funds.
Kent—Dover and District R/Supt. Webb acted as judge
at the Barton Secondary School Pet Show.

Lancaster City Division Chief Superintendent H ogg, divi-
sion chairman, presented the ﬁrst prize to Miss Margaret
Wall, winner in the animal photography competition orga-
nized by the Palace Cinema management and the division.
Judges in the competition were Miss E. Pattinson, division
hon secretary, and Mrs Chirnside and Miss Jackson, com-
mittee members. Mr M. L. Bonnick, manager of the cinema,
was compete at the prize-giving.

Macclesfield—South—East Cheshire and Buxton Mrs Cowtan,
Buxton auxiliary hon treasurer, organized a coffee morning
at her home in aid of branch funds.

Manchester and Salford Mrs M. Johnson, Northenden
and Wythenshawe auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a
jumble sale held in the Church Room, Northenden raised
£18 18s. for branch funds.

The Northenden and Wythenshawe auxiliary held a
Whitsuntide display of photographs; a large begging dog
box collected £10 3s. 6d. for branch funds. This was held
at the Woodside Cafe by kind permission of Mr Faulkner.
Montgomery A fairly successful ﬁnancial year was reported
by Mr R. Ashford Davies, branch hon treasurer, at the
annual meeting which was held at Newtown. A report was
submitted by Inspector Rees. The Hon Ralph Beaumont,
branch president, attended. Mr F. J. Winchester, Council
Member, spoke of the great diﬂiculty of proving cruelty 1n
many cases. The following ofﬁcers were elected: branch
presrdent, The Hon Ralph Beaumont; branch hon treasurer:
Mr R. Ashford Davies; branch hon secretary, Mrs Andrew
Hughes.

A successful dance organized by Mrs Phyllis Williams
of Pool Quay, aux hon sec, raised £4 10s. 6d. for branch funds,

Newcastle-on-Tyne All members of the Amble auxiliary
committee attended a ﬁlm show for animal defenders in the
Memorial Hall, Amble. The sum of £2 12s. 6d. was raised
for branch funds. The same committee organized a jumble
sale and raised £31 for the branch.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Mrs Ruth Hardy, Deputy
Lord. Mayor of Norwich, presided over the branch annual
meeting held at the Noverre Cinema, Norwich. The Chief
Constable of Norwich, Mr A. F. Plume, spoke well of the
work done in the city and county by RSPCA Inspectors.
He also paid tribute to Mr L. S. Thaxter, manager of the

9

 




 

 

96 THE-ANIMAL WORLD

August 1954

 

 

This was presided over by Mr R. Bartlett (chairman of
the auxiliary), and others who attended included Mr J. B.
Harris (vice-chairman), Mrs B. O. Lazenby (hon secretary),
the Vicar of all Saints (Rev J. A. Crofts, who dedicated the
hut) and Inspector Nurse.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Senior Inspector Jack-
son addressed the No. 3 Police Training College, Pannal
Ash, on cruelty to animals.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible the, place at which the Flag day was
held and the names of the organizer or organizers.)

Leigh, Mr and Mrs J. C. Boydell, £99 75. 10d.; Rushden,
Mrs Webber, aux hon sec. £33 75.; Pudsey, Mrs K. M.
Mitchell, aux hon sec, £65 55.; Malton, Mrs P. M. Pye—Oli—
ver, Vale of Derwent Div hon sec, £111 65. 11d.; Swindon,
Miss R. Barlow, aux hon sec, £281; Slough, Mrs D. B.
Butler, aux hon sec, £110 35. 4d.; Tamworth, Miss C. B.
Tomlinson, aux hon treasurer, £71 185.; Newport Pagnell,
Mrs Tew, aux hon sec, £50; Framlingham, Mrs Barry
Phillips, £25; Macclesﬁeld, Miss A. M. Wain, branch hon
sec, £186 135. 4d.; Holbeach, Mrs J. Asprey, aux hon
sec, £21 105.; Gateshead, Mrs G. K. Lawton, Low Fell
aux hon sec, £104; Barnoldswick, Mrs F. Worrall, aux
hon sec, £32 35.; Hexham, Mrs J. Hanna and Miss D.
Bradley, branch hon secs, £115 95. 3d.; Corby, Mr H. B.
Grout, aux hon sec, £20; Broadstairs, Mrs Crook, aux hon
sec, £59 55. 3d.; Halifax, Mr C. S. Homer, branch hon sec,
£272 175. 261.; Lancaster, Miss E. Pattinson, Division hon
sec, £122; Farnworth, £76 185. 7d.; Westhoughton, Miss J.
Tonge, aux hon sec, £22 25. 10d.; Whitstable, Miss V.
Slingsbury, aux hon sec, £100 25. 8d.; Cambridge (Joint
Flag Day) Mrs Scratton, branch hon sec, £314 195. 6d.;
Congleton, Mrs Pirie and Mrs Solly, £55 ld.; Wellin—
borough and District, Miss A. E. Masters, aux hon sec,
£53 145. 11d.; Brinsworth, Miss Hill, Mrs Turner, Mrs
Hubbard, £10 15. 7d.; Catcliffe, Mrs Brelsford, aux co
hon sec, £10 85. 9d.; Treeton, Mrs Lowe, Catcliffe aux co
hon sec, £6; Sunnyside and Dalton. Mr T. W. Green,
and Mrs Knight, £4 18s. 9d.; Whiston, Mrs Grindrod, aux
hon sec, £5 65. 3d.; Wickersley, Mrs Peck, aux hon sec,
£6 85.; Dinnington, Mrs Haynes, aux hon sec, £32 135. 4d.;
Thurnscoe, Mrs Graham, aux hon sec, £24 65.; Hawkshead,
Mrs Reed, aux co hon sec, £13 195. 1d.; Shepton Mallet,
Miss K. Burnell, aux hon sec, £65 115. 8d.; Eastleigh,
Mrs Cook, Mrs Richins, Mrs Clarke, aux hon secs,
£52 105. 2d.; Tettenhall, Mrs P. Hartill, branch co hon
sec, £49 35. 3d.; Willenhall, Mrs Holt, £24 Os 273d; Cannock,
Miss Scarlett, aux hon sec, £24 45. 9d.; Wombourne.
Mrs Slacke, aux hon sec, £14 35. 10d.; Durham City,
Miss G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon sec, £104 45. 2d.;
Sunderland, Miss M. F. Woodruff, branch hon sec,
£269 195. 5d.; Letchworth, Mrs G. M. Wood, aux hon sec,
£106 75. 2d.; Hormead, Mrs F. Ginn, aux hon sec, £6 155. 6d.;
Newport, Mon., Mrs H. Pughe-Evans, branch hon sec,
£259 55. 5d.; Louth, Mrs E. Hodgekins, aux co hon sec,
£33 85.; Windsor, Miss M. Ormrod, aux hon sec,
£142 55. 1d.; Doncaster (West Riding collection) Mr
and Mrs Morrison, £66 195. 9d.; Dalton—invFurness,
Miss Stephenson, aux co hon sec, £29 145. 1d.; Heck—
ington, Mrs M. A. Ward, aux hon sec, £5 1.15. 6d.; Pucke-
ridge, Mrs D. Mills, aux hon sec, £14 85.; Chatham,

Mrs E. F. Barrett, Division hon sec, £197 15. 10d. Bunt—'

ingford, Mrs G. S. Morris, £9 55.; Presteigne, Mrs
King, co aux hon sec, £1 35. 10d.; Cottered, Miss M.
Hearne, aux hon sec, £3; Kington, Miss F. E. Powell,
£22 135. 4d.; Grimsby, Mrs D. M. Clapham, branch hon
sec, £112 185. 11d.; Guisborough, Mrs Hart, branch hon
sec, £36 25. 6d.; Darlington, £186 135. 1d.; Blackburn,
Mrs E. Tomlinson, aux co hon sec, £355; Kettering, Mr W.
J. Harris, aux hon sec, £172 165. 9d.; Stoke—on—Trent, Mrs
Berry, aux hon sec, £301 175.; Knebworth, Mrs Bell, aux
hon sec, £18 35. 10d.; Ware, Miss D. Wilsher, aux hon
sec, £33 35. 11d.; Wraysbury, Mrs Batham, aux hon sec,

£17 75. 6d.; Chipping Campden, Mrs James, aux hon sec,
£30 125. 2d.; Stevenage, Mrs Dockerill, aux hon sec,
£84 25. 3d.; Nottingham City, Mr Harry White, branch
hon. sec. and Council Member, £86803 5d.; Ashford
£191 85. 9%d.; Alcester, £13 145.; Henley—in-Arden, £15 35.;
Blyth, Mrs Sills, aux hon sec and Mr Alan Wells, £69;
Aberystwyth, Miss S. Geddes—Smith and Mrs W. J.
Lewis, co branch hon secs and Miss Bowen, over £150;
Rochdale, Miss Osborne, branch sec, £173 45. 10d.;
(in the borough) and £86 in the county areas; Hemel
Hempstead, Mrs Fielding, aux hon sec, £109 165. 3.}d.

SURREY JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY
RSPCA collections:—

£ 5. d.
- Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District 95 17 9
Hants and Surrey Border 230 15 3
Surrey, East 356 8 11
Surrey, Epsom and District 145 15 8
Surrey, Guildford and District 71 0 1
Surrey, Kingston, Surbiton, District and
South Middlesex 21 15 1 ]
Surrey, Purley and District 73 8 O
Surrey, Weybridge 86 16 4
Surrey, Woking and District... 136 13 2
*Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge 21 5 7

Total ...£1,239 16 8

* Surrey portion of Branch only

HOUSEvTO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers.)

Dorset South, Mrs Wyatt, Beaminster aux hon sec,
£251135. 8d.; Northamptonshire and District, Miss R.
Watson, Daventry Town, aux hon sec, £34 55.; Barnet
and District, Miss B. Bowes, Hatﬁeld, aux co hon sec,
£12 195. 11d.; Sussex .West, Mrs Court, Barnham, aux
hon sec, £1 155.; Horsforth, Mrs Hume, aux hon sec,
£50 45. 7d.; Cornwall West, Portreath, Mrs Pawson,
aux hon sec, £3 55.; Lincolnshire South and Grantham,
Barrowby, Miss Pim, branch co hon sec £42 105.; Dorset
South, Bridport, Mrs M. Chown, aux hon sec £5 165.
Burton—on—Trent branch, Armitage, Mrs Hudson, aux
hon sec, £23 105.; Breconshire, Mrs H. V. Bagshawe,
branch hon sec, £49 75. 6d.; Dorset South, Swanage,
Miss Collingwood, aux hon sec, £45 35. 7d.; Dorset South,
Charmouth, Lyme Regis and Morcombelake, Mr K. T.
Graham, aux hon sec, £40 165. 1d.; Gerrards Cross, Mrs
Carter—Ruck, aux hon sec, £51 75. 8d.; Swansea, Mr
A. N. Parkes, aux hon sec, £140 195. 10d.; Lichborough,
Miss Grant, aux hon sec, £6 85. 10d.; Leek, Mrs Worthing—

ton, aux hon 'sec, £71; Spilsby, Miss M. A. Purey—Cust,

aux hon sec, £16 85.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Teignmouth, Aberystwyth, Downham
Market, Preston, Abergavenny, Aberkenﬁg, Canvey Island,
Willesden, Wentworth Woodhouse, Longbenton, ‘Roth—
bury, Limpsﬁeld, Caversham, Doncaster, Morpeth, North
Finchley, Gresford, Gateshead, Highams Park, Chard,
Hexham, Clapton, N. Kensington, Wandsworth, Hindv
head, Sevenoaks, Reading, Whitehaven, Barton’on-Humber,
Henley—on—Thames, Kirkby—in-Ashﬁeld, Barry, Leeds,
Woodmansterne, Mablethorpe, Sheerness, Nutbourne,

Whitehaven, Pegswood, Eglwysbach, Chatham, Westcott, V

Dagenham, Dalton'in—Furness, Maidstone, Bletchingley,
Alnw1ck, Belford, Chislehurst, Eastcote, Stockport.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

BENEFQDTRMS

‘ Manufacturers of
UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A=

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals Who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested :—

‘l bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall

be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two Witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London ,SW1

 




