 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

ﬂ

 

 

 

. .l.‘ t ‘ . . Air»: J CHM... ,
\ , Nina». H
K x. ‘ ‘ A
7 \\ d
W. .
,_
~ e A
. I
I H d .—
‘ n _
U
R
m D. , a .
H .
w W . 7
_ [ ._V
.
_ .
, V»
x J
./ ‘ .. .
w‘ .- .M .. 1 l:w-1x,,
‘ x ‘
r)? . .4
I ‘ . \
_ w
A m.
m , . w
_
. L .
. wu)xa..‘i a) kart»!
ilh. NH? 1.. - .
i
, > _
.u . I rail}!
1 ‘ x
4 J4
. I ) H .. .w... .\I11\...|n~ I?! J» i Wv .L\/,
gﬂillxu. uvu‘tﬂﬁljwk). \{ 1‘ IX \ ‘q‘ I H ‘. {L 1. . )HI. _I ,.
m: ‘ ‘ : ..u.li«l|lw'x1.)1tl\.\.bl.\rl§xltu‘ y hr\ .,\l ‘ ‘ , ‘
r. r _ . V , ,
t a
V ‘ .. ‘ u ‘ ., - ,
9/ ‘ . V. . .. .H _ A . ‘ v ,
aliw .vlfl, Z \,. 1 (.7! rl'

 
 

,5“..”. . V3 v.11.
‘ U121... *‘il 40".)

  
  

» ‘61., .. ltp. (I’LL: r‘

‘ brim». 4

 

 




 

September 1957

@bituary

With sincere regret we report the deaths of: Mr T. Jones,
former Hon Sec Oswestry Aux; Mr F. Knight, Hon Sec
Cranleigh Aux; Miss I. Hardwick, aged 100 years, member
of Lincs South and Grantham Committee for over fifty
years; Miss Joanna Parker, former Hon Sec Suffolk E.
Coast Constable Branch; Mr W. E. Raine, Sec Sunderland
Branch for 47 years; Mr ,W. Ward, former Hon Treas
Sunderland Branch; the Rt Hon the Countess of Shaftes—
bury (see separate notice); Mr F. A. Power (see separate
notice).

THE COUNTESS 0F SHAFTESBURY
By THE HON JULIET GARDNER

The animal welfare cause has suffered a sad loss
by the recent death of Constance Sibell, Lady
Shaftesbury. She was a sister of the second Duke
of Westminster, and married the ninth Lord
Shaftesbury in 1899. She thus became linked with
a family which, during the passing centuries, has
produced remarkable men distinguished inthe
worlds. of law and philosophy, not forgetting the
great Lord Shaftesbury of the nineteenth century,
whose genius and inspiration brought into being
Outstanding reforms in the mines and factories,
where at the time so many women and children
were subjected to the grossest brutality and
injustice.

Lady Shaftesbury belonged to an age of grace
and elegance, an older generation of which my
mother, uncles and aunts were contemporaries.
Certain individuals in that period—both men and
women—played a courageous part in dealing
with the vital problems of the day. Most readily
did they assume an active responsibility for the
reform of those deadly wrongs to animals, which
covered so many varying aspects. Lady Shaftes’
bury herself was a valued member of the Council
of the RSPCA. Lord Shaftesbury is still with us,
and our Society is fortunate in having him as one
Of its .Vice’Presidents.

In 1953, the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Bill was introduced into the'Upper House of the
Indian Parliament (the Council of States). It was
a most comprehensive Bill, and I wrote to Lady
Shaftesbury, asking her if she would consent to
add her signature to a letter in support of this
Measure, and which was later published in the
inﬂuential Hindu (Madras) and other papers in
India. Lady Shaftesbury replied from her house
in Dorset on June 17, 1953: ‘I have just returned
from abroad and found your interesting letter and
enclosure. I am in full sympathy with this good
effort in India, and with pleasure add my signa’
ture to any others you may procure’. I know that
this and other letters made a profound impression
in India.

THEANIMAL WORLD , ‘ 105

Perhaps as an instance of one of her last actions
in public life may be mentioned Lady Shaftes’
bury’s support by her presence of the conference
called by the late Mr-Peter Freeman, MP, in one
of the Committee rooms of the House of Com—
mons for the purpose of framing proposals for
dealing with the immense subject of homeless
animals.

All those who knew of Lady Shaftesbury’s
dedicated life will believe that the lovely words
of the first verse of the hymn sung at the memorial
service held at St Paul’s, Knightsbridge, London,
were in very truth the inspiration of her life, both
personal and public:

‘The King of Love my Shepherd is,
Whose goodness faileth never;

I nothing lack if I am his
And he is mine for ever.’

July 28, 1957

FUNERAL

The funeral at Wimborne St Giles Parish
Church was attended on behalf of the RSPCA by
Inspector Abrahams.

There was a memorial service at St Paul’s
Church, Knightsbridge, London, where the
RSPCA Council was represented by the Hon
Juliet Gardner (Council Member) and Mr John
Hall, Chief Secretary.

 

MR F. A. POWER
Condolences are offered to Mrs Wallis PoWer,

Vice—Chairman, RSPCA Council, in the death of
her husband, Mr F. A. Power, a valuable RSPCA
supporter. At the funeral the Council was repre
sented by Mrs W. Longman (Council Member),
who was accompanied by Mr W. Longman and

by Mr John Hall, Chief Secretary.

 

R‘ETURN DATE

Making a visit to one school after long delay and
correspondence, one school lecturer said that
after his talk he was invited to return to speak to
the children again whenever he was in the
neighbourhood.

Since the last report 80 lectures were given in
schools in Cambridge, Wetherby, Clitheroe,
Davyhulme, Ashford and district (Kent), Maidv
stone, Otford, Surrey and Carmarthenshire.

Thirteen new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 377 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

 

 




 

 

September 1957

THEANIMAL WORLD 107

 

CHOKE COLLARS

The RSPCA Council feels that the use of the
choke collar for dogs cannot be universally con—
demned, since it is necessary in certain circum’
stances. The Society however deprecates its use
as a general practice and is strongly opposed to
its use in the case of a chained dog.

Jessa to the Rescue, by Lady Kitty Ritson; Nelson, 85. 6d.
192 pp., 1 colour plate, line drawings.

A story for all pony—loving children, full of real know—
ledge, and depth of feeling for the welfare of horses. It is
only unfortunate that the mistake is made of suggesting
that animals can be taught to perform elaborate and alarm—
ing tricks in public without distress having been caused in
the training. M. E. T.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, whenever possible, the place where held, the type of func—
tion, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by
the sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they
are followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary,
and an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and
oﬁicials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary.)

Bedfordshire Agricultural County Show, photographic dis-
play, £6 11s. 6d.

Coventry and District AM (Branch). Col R. J. Cash
(Branch President) presided. The Lord Mayor (Mrs Alder-
man P. M. Hyde) attended. Speaker: Miss L. G. Bransom
(Council Member).

Dorset—South AM (Branch). Reports submitted by The
Hon Lady Scott (Branch hon sec) and Mr H. L. Morgan
(hon treas). Speaker: Wing-Comdr H. Hillier.
Durham—South, and North Yorkshire AM (Branch).
Alderman A. J. Alsop (branch chairman) presided. Speaker:
Mr Luetchford.

Exeter, East and West Devon Kerswell, Broadclyst, Fete,
Mrs Eden Phillpotts (branch hon sec), £208 in aid of the
Exeter Clinic.

Gloucestershire—Mid Garden Party, Mrs E. M. Porri
(branch hon sec), £40.

Hampshire—Southampton and District Southampton, stand
at Southampton Show, Mrs Daly (Swaythling aux hon sec)
and Committee, £18.

Huntingdonshire and March Area March, bring-and-buy
stall, Mrs Morton (aux co hon sec) and Mrs French (aux
co hon sec), £19.

Kent—Folkestone and District Folkestone, garden fete,
Mr A. E. Grace (chairman) and Mrs Grace (hon see), with
committee and hon secretaries of auxiliaries.

Leeds Horsforth, bring-and-buy sale, Mrs G. Hume
(aux hon sec), £23.

Leicester and South Leicestershire AM (Branch). Mr
Harry E. G. Gee (branch chairman) presided. Speaker: Mr
K. S. Tolhurst.

Lincolnshire~Mid, and Lincoln Gainsborough, coffee
evening, Mrs Fox (aux hon sec) and Mrs Pitchfork (aux
hon treas), £20 2s. 6d.

Loughborough and North Leicestershire AM (Branch), Lady
Crawshaw (chairman) presided; the Deputy Mayor (Coun

S. W. Harrison) presented a book each to Ruth and Martin
Lilley for gallantry; reports presented by Mr C. Jackman,
hon treasurer (ﬁnancial report, and, for Miss Marion
Harridge-Cayless, hon see, the secretary’s report). Mr
Kenneth Tolhurst spoke.

Loughborough, garden fete, Miss Marion Harridge-
Cayless, branch hon see, with Mrs van Nievelt, £94 3s. 10d.
Peterborough and District Whittlesey, stand at Agricultural
Show, Mrs Hunt-Pain (aux hon sec) and committee, £22.
Preston and District Chorley, spring draw and whist drive,
Mrs France (aux hon sec); draw £34 18s., whist drive £12 10s.
Rotherham and District Dinnington, stand at Educational .
Exhibition, Miss Crampton (Anston aux hon sec).

Rugby Rummage sale, Mrs M. J. Prickett (branch hon
sec), £11 2s. 8d.

Hillmorton, bridge drive, Mrs Lucas, £9 10s.

Rafﬂe, last December, Mrs M. J. Prickett (branch hon
sec), £56 2s. 6d.

AM (Branch). Alderman E. P. R. Bates took the chair.
Speaker: Mr K. S. T olhurst.

Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Coffee party, Mrs Cros-
land and Mrs Robert Waller (Lowestoft committee mem-
bers), £24 11s.

Surrey—East Dorking, dog show, Mrs Souter (co aux hon
sec), nearly £60 (ﬁeld for the event lent by Mr T. H. Broom).
Sussex—Mid, and Eastbourne Horam, whist drive, Mrs
Burgess, £2.

Torquay and South-East Devon Torquay. garden fete, Mrs
M. V. Dodds, branch hon sec., function held Oxford. House
by kind permission of Mr and Mrs L. V. Marchant,
£32 5s. 4d. (clinic funds).

Moretonhampstead, stall at the British Legion fete, Mrs
Keane (aux hon see), who kindly lent her grounds, £14 3s.
Westmorland Windermere, Easter fair, Miss C. Wharton
(aux hon sec), £107 5s. 7d.

Worcestershire—Mid, and Worcester AM (Branch), Mr
J. F. Gimson (president) was in the chair; Mrs Desborough
Walford (Council Member) attended; Mr K. Tolhurst spoke;
a bring-and-buy stall, and the sale of teas raised over £20 for
branch funds; the meeting was held at the home of Miss
Thornton, hon sec; Janice Barker received the Wheeler
Award for outstanding kindness to animals.

Wrexham District, and Deeside .AM (Branch), Mr Peter
Turner spoke.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Wetherby, animals’ ser-
vice; collection of over £5 given to branch.

 

CGLLECTlGNS

(We give whenever possible the place at which the collection was made and the name of the organizer or organizers).

1F LAG DAYS

£ 5. d.

Dartford, Mrs Bradshaw, aux hon sec 96 6 3

Heckington, Mrs M. A. Ward, aux hon sec... 5 16 3
Portsmouth, Mr P. L. Coombe, branch

hon sec . . 237 12 11

Gosforth, Mrs A. B. Hoggett, aux chairman 82 7 9

Blackburn, Mrs Tomlinson, aux co hon sec 409 18 11
Redruth, Mrs M. C. Johns, aux hon sec 25 O 0

£ 5. d.

Halifax, Mr R. A. Crosby, branch chairman ,
and Mr C. S. Horner, branch hon sec 389 12 8
Towcester, Miss Turner, aux co hon sec 39 12 2
Dronfield, Mrs Granger, aux co hon sec 37 6 6
Chatham, LtvCol R. D. Hale, hon div sec 107 17 2
Pontypool, Miss Nancy Baber, aux hon sec... 91 13 O
Farnworth, Mrs B. Marshall, aux hon sec 114 O 5
Rugby, Mrs Prickett, branch hon sec 156 O O

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRs WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA GARDNER, HON. JULIET *PRITCHARD,MRS D.
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD *HARVEY, MRS J- W-, MA *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
*ALLIBERT, MRS HOBHOUSE. J- 5- ESQ. RISELEY, MRS R. C.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP HOWLLL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE *RIFCK, H. H., ESQ
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY, w, A” ESQ, MA, 1p
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS I.FE. MRS E. M. SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV pREBENDARY L_ J, [3,
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L.TH. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS LOCKWOOD, LT-CUL J- C-, JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MR5 DESBOROUGH
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MR A. WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH.B *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. 1,, ESQ, FCIS, PSS
GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ
Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 71 77

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibntco Edo’

 

    
      

Animal Welfare
CHURCH SERVICES

Salisbury Cathedral (by kind permission of the Dean and
Chapter), at 2.30 p.m. on Saturday, 21st September.

St. Mary’s, Southampton, on Sunday, October 6th, at 3 p.m.

SIMPL
F SAIL.
; SURE zzzecASII-I XE

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL. ANIMALS

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINCHAM “ 6 ° ENGLAND
. 5456

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HANLITI-I HOUSE

AT THE CLIFFS
CHEDDAR, Som.

*

See the RSPCA EXHIBITION
and unique display of period
dolls and curios

Hanlith House* (kindly presented to the
RSPCA as a permanent exhibition of the
Society’s work by Miss Catherine Ripley)
IS OPEN DAILY, INCLUDING SUNDAYS

ADMISSION FREE

*Five minutes’ walk down the Gorge from
the famous Cheddar Caves

Car Park opposite (l/-)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EWHEORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

AN [MALT HEWORL  

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LII No 9 New Series

SEPTEMBER 1957

PRICE FOURPEN CE

63. per annum. Post Paid

LEST WE FORGET!

As readers of Animal World are aware, there is
no sphere of animal welfare work in which the
RSPCA is not active.

Sufferings of animals of people so needy that
veterinary fees are beyond their means are rev
lieved at RSPCA free clinics and under the free
veterinary voucher scheme; the area in which the
Society operates overseas is extending; education
of children in humane principles is forging ahead.

It is inevitable that a Society doing so much
should rise so high in public esteem that there
should be a few who ask why it is not doing
more. The question is an inspiration to the
RSPCA, a progressive body that ﬁnds satisfaction
in the knowledge that the question is asked.

It means that the public looks to the RSPCA
for action.

As Animal World articles have made clear, the
RSPCA can take most credit for the fact that the
sufferings in the trafﬁc in live cattle to the Cone
tinent were brought to the notice of the authorie
ties and that a Government Committee was
formed for the purpose of studying and reporting
upon it.

Based upon the recommendations of this
Committee, the Government has taken certain
ameliorative steps. As each reform has been ane
nounced, the RSPCA has welcomed it and each
time has reiterated two points. The ﬁrst point is
that the most far—reaching reform that the
Government could introduce would be to name a
ﬁlter price. We should bear in mind that this de
mand from the RSPCA is a practical one, since
the ﬁlter price was mentioned by the Governe
ment Committee as being worthy of cone
sideration. The purpose of these recommendav
tions was to guide the Government in its policy
on this trafﬁc.

The second and most important point
made regularly and consistently by the

RSPCA is that whilst reforms are welcomed,
the Society believes that the trafﬁc should be
abolished altogether.

There is no need for anyone not to be aware of
this, and yet RSPCA workers are blamed for sub;
scribing to a policy that welcomes reforms. The
overvriding principle that the reforms are wele
comed whilst abolition is urgently demanded is
too often overlooked.

This misunderstanding of a policy that has
been made clear in season and out of season is
typical of the attitude adopted by a few good and
sincere people. Where there is cruelty, we can
understand that emotion should colour thinking.
It is right that it should be so.

How can we answer the kind well—wishers who
misunderstand announcements? For, make no
mistake, they are wellewishers of the RSPCA.

Reason, such as will come from a close study
of policy in RSPCA statements and in this magae
zine can accomplish much. Patience is needed.
And if the well—wisher should be carried away
with indignation at the existence of suffering
whilst the slothful law takes its own slow time to
change, let us remind him or her of how much.
good work, in how many different spheres, the
RSPCA is doing.

Above all, let us remember that, despite
every new problem, the RSPCA is facing
daily the hydra—headed monster of cruelty.
This is still the Society’s most formidable task.

Lest we forget the daunting nature of this
struggle, we devote a large proportion of this
magazine to moving pictures and reports. Let us
brace ourselves to study these pages, and, whilst
our hearts are wrung for the suffering animals, let
us be thankful that the RSPCA exists to right a

wrong that might otherwise go unchecked!

EDITOR

 

HORROR!

In accordance with custom, we warn readers who would rather not see harrowing reports and pictures that the
four centre pages of this magazine are devoted to RSPCA prosecutions.

 

 




 

 

September 1957

AGAINST. CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS
by Canon H. F. Bishop

(Brief extracts from a longer article appearing in
THEOLOGY, a monthly review. These extracts are
reprinted by Courtesy of the author and the pub—
lishers, SPCK.)

There are two lines of thought which run through
Holy Scripture which we shall do well to con—
sider. They are the unity of all creation and the
Messianic Age.

By the unity of all creation is meant particularly
the fact that we, with all the other animals, are
created beings. Perhaps one of the chief values of
‘Twenty Questions’ and other such games is to
remind us that we are part of the animal kingdom.
This is a fact which, in the pride of our mechaniv
cal inventions and the boasting of our scientiﬁc
achievements which move us farther and farther
away from the other animals, we tend to forget.
Not only with regard to God, but with regard to
our fellowrcreatures, we constantly need to rev
member our own creatureliness.

The Bible is, of course, quite clear about this
from beginning to end. As created beings it is our
duty to join with all other created things in giving
praise to God in his great glory. This the Psalms
do magniﬁcently over and over again:

‘0 praise the Lord of heaven; praise him in the
height.
Praise him, all ye angels of his: praise him, all
his host.’
‘Beasts and all cattle: worms and feathered fowls;
Kings of the earth, and all people: princes and all
judges of the world.’
(Ps. I48. I, 2, IO, 11)
as does that mighty canticle Benedicite omnia
opera. ’

Community of Feeling

But the Bible expresses a much closer unity, or
one might say community of feeling, between the
life of man and that of the domestic animals. It is
expressed in the commandment regarding the
Sabbath, ‘In it thou shalt do no work, thou and
thy son and thy daughter, thy manservant and
thy maidservant, thy cattle and the stranger that
is within thy gates’. .

The messianic age is depicted in the Bible as
being a golden age embracing all creation, when
even the beasts shall be at peace one with another.
The most famous passage is Isaiah 11, 69: ‘And
the wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard
shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the

THEANIMAL WORLD 99

young lion and the fatling together; and a little
child shall lead them. And the cow and the bear
shall feed; their young ones shall lie down to—
gether; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
And the sucking child shall play on the hole of
the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand
on the basilisk’s den. They shall not hurt nor
destroy in all my holy mountain: for the earth
shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the
waters cover the sea.’ The thought occurs else—
where: ‘And in that day will I make a covenant
for them with the beasts of the ﬁeld, and with the
fowls of the heaven, and with the creeping things
of the ground’ (Hos. Z. 18); and in the book of
Job (5. 23): ‘For thou shalt be in league with the
stones of the ﬁeld; and the beasts of the ﬁeld shall
be at peace with thee.’ The idea of a golden age
with peace even in the brute creation is also found
in pagan literature. In Christian tradition there is
the legend that not only was there universal peace
on the night of the Nativity, but that the very
beasts became vocal, while ox and ass knelt down
in adoration at the Saviour’s crib.

Redemption

St Paul plainly considers that the whole of
creation shares in the fall of man, but that it has
beneﬁted and will beneﬁt by the redemption of
man. ‘For the creation was subject to vanity, not
of its own will, but by reason of him who sub—
jected it, in hope that the creation itself shall be
delivered from the bondage of corruption into the
liberty of the glory of the children of God. For
we know that the whole creation groaneth and
travaileth in pain together until now’ (Rom.
8. 2022).

The idea that the whole of creation shares in
the beneﬁts of man’s redemption has always been
very prominent in the thought of the Eastern
Church and especially with the Russians, while
it is a wellvattested fact that those ﬁrst fruits of
our redemption, the saints, have frequently been
on extremely good terms with animals, both
domesticated and wild. We think of St Francis,
St Giles, St Columba, St Cuthbert and a host
of others.

We human beings occupy a very special place
in God’s creation. Man is made in the image of
God and is the crown of God’s creation. He is
intended to have authority over all living things
(Gen. 1. 26). Yet man is under the dominion of
God and owes Him both obedience and worship.
The beasts are under our authority and we are
under God’s. But authority always carries with it
responsibility to those over us and for those
under us.

It is perfectly true that man is the crown of
God’s creation, and man has not been slow to
realize that fact. Only too often have we exploited

\

 

 




 

September 1957

 

THEANIMAL WORLD 101

 

 

 

 

 

WARNING

 

ANYONE LIKELY TO BE UPSET BY PICTURES

AND HARROWING DETAILS OF RSPCA PROSE-

CUTIONS IS WARNED THAT THIS PAGE AND

THE THREE PAGES FOLLOWING ARE DEVOTED
TO THIS MATERIAL.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DOG’S LEGS LOWERED INTO

BOILING FAT

The hind legs of a small mongrel dog were dipped
into the scalding fat in a ﬁsh shop, Eastleigh
Magistrates were told.

A solicitor, prosecuting for the RSPCA, told
the Bench: ‘A number of witnesses would have

said the screams of this dog were the most fearful '

things they had ever heard.’
A labourer pleaded ‘Guilty’ to ill—treating the
dog by immersing its hind legs in scalding fat.
He was ﬁned £30, with £20 costs.

Blamed 'Drink

The defendant was alleged to have told the
police: ‘I remember picking up a dog somewhere,
I don’t remember where. I don’t know much
about it at all. I had so much to drink. If I did
scald the'dog, I am sorry.’

The solicitor said that three weeks after ‘this
appalling incident’, the dog was still unable to
put its right hind leg on the ground, and a large
portion of the leg was still raw from the scalds.

Since then, the dog had made a complete
recovery, and had been returned to its owner.

At about a QUarter to eleven one evening, the
defendant went into the ﬁsh shop, ‘and in the
shop at the same time was this unfortunate dog.’

Defendant often used the shop, and knew the
layout of the place well. There is a high counter,
behind which there are pans of boiling fat’, said
the solicitor. ‘

By Scruff of Neck

‘This man takes this dog by the scruff of the neck,
and holds it over the high part of the counter
behind which are these pans of scalding fat. Then
he proceeds to lower the dog.’

The solicitor said it was only fair to say that so
far as the prosecution were aware, the man did
not deliberately lower the dog into the fat, but
the point was that he knew the pans were there.

The hind legs and part, of the rear of this
wretched animal were lowered into ., a pan of
scalding fat.

Had it not been for the prompt action of the
shop owner’s wife, the whole of the dog would
have gone into the fat. ‘She dropped whatever
she was doing at that moment, and knocked the
dog out of this man’s hand and on to the ﬂoor.

‘ Callous and Bestial’

‘A number of witnesses would have told you that
the dreadful noise that this dog made was a thing
that they will never forget. Indeed, the whole
thing is appalling to imagine.’

The solicitor recalled that defendant had said
he was drunk, adding: ‘That is the explanation
this man gives for this completely callous and
bestial behaviour on his part. It is all too common
for defendants to think they have only to men—
tion drink for there to be a readyvmade excuse
for them.’

The defendant told the Bench: ‘1 was under the
inﬂuence of drink. I am very, very sorry it
happened.’ (B1436; Senior Inspector Hallam.)

SCHOOL ESSAY EXPOSED
CRUELTY TO FROGS

A twelve—yearaold girl was asked at school to
write an essay on what she saw of interest over
the Easter holiday, and her essay revealed that
she saw two boys, aged 16 and 17, placing two
live frogs on burning logs, which were red with
heat. They did it in front of younger children.

Another twelveayearrold girl told Reg Supt J.
McCluskey that she saw both the boys taking
turns at throwing a dart at the frogs. Two frogs
died as the result of the injuries receiVed. The
dart was removed from the body of one frog,
wiped, and replaced in the boy’s pocket. Later
the sixteenvyearrold boy kicked the dead frogs
back into a dyke.

Brought before Bloﬁeld magistrates’ court by
the RSPCA the two boys were each ﬁned £5 with
£1 113. 6d. costs for cruelly torturing four frogs.

(8.1059.)

FINED FOR SLAUGHTERING PIGS
IN SIGHT OF OTHER ANIMALS

Two men who killed pigs which had got among
cattle were ﬁned at Consett, County Durham, £3
and £1 respectively, with costs totalling £3 35.
For the RPSCA it was stated that it was the ﬁrst
time the prosecuting solicitor had come across
this type of offence—slaughtering pigs in sight of
other animals. It was stated that two pigs got

‘ amongst some beasts by mistake at Consett

slaughterhouse. It would have been very difﬁcult
to separate them so the defendants killed the pigs
on the spot with a humane killer. (Case No.
B2073, Senior Inspector Spencer.)

 

 

 




September 1957 THE ANIMAL WORLD 103

EYE SEVERELY INFECTED—
WOUND NEGLECTED

A farm bailiff was brought before
Hurst Green Magistrates’ Court, Sus-
sex, for causing unnecessary suffering
to a cow by omitting to give proper
care and attention when in a suffering
state. He was fined £5 and ordered to
pay £l0 5s. costs. '

An RSPCA Inspector reported that
her right eye was severely infected and
had become a mass of raw flesh pro-
truding about two inches from the
socket; there was a heavy discharge.

A veterinary surgeon considered that
the eye had been grossly neglected for
at least a month and that a very con-
siderable amount of suffering had been
caused.

The cow’s eye responded to treat-
ment after RSPCA intervention.

(B.l828)

(Photo left, courtesy of the Chief Constable, East
Sussex, Constabulary)

 

 

 

BEGGING FOR FOOD

A farmer who withheld food from this boar pig was
prosecuted by the RSPCA at Abercarn Court and was ﬁned
£5 and ordered to pay £5 costs. Chief Inspector Godley
found the animal filthy, the eyelashes caked in dirt. He
could put his fingers under the pig’s shoulder blades.

The doorway had been eaten through and boards ripped
up and chewed by the pig. The RSPCA Inspector saw that
food was prepared for the pig who sucked it up, licking the
trough and squealing for more.

Chief Inspector Godley checked on the condition of the
animal afterwards and saw a great improvement.

(Case 8.736)

(Photo right, courtesy of Chief Constable, Monmouthshire.)

 

 

CAT’S HEAD lNFESTED WITH MAGGOTS

Inspector Foster found the pitiful sight (left) in
a greenhouse. The cat’s head was matted with
dried pus; the throat had two puncture wounds;
the front of the head was suppurating and in-
fested with maggots. The man and wife who
owned the cat were brought by the RSPCA before
the Magistrates at Ashton-under-Lyne, charged
with neglecting the cat in a suffering state. They
were each fined £l l0s. 0d. and had to pay
£5 4s. 0d. costs. The cat was given a humane end
by Inspector Foster, who, when he asked for an
explanation of the cat’s condition, was told by
the woman defendant: ‘We don’t see it often-—
it goes out at night!’ (B.l478)

 

 

 




 

 

98 THEANIMALWORLD

September .1957

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

JULY 19 57
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,569 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Oﬁender imprisoned.
98 Offenders ﬁned.
21 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
828 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state, beat—

ing, etc. 6
CATTLE—Neglecting ingrowing horn Z
SHEEP—Neglecting . . . .. . . . . . . 1
PIGS—Neglecting, injuring with missile 5
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, malici—

ously killing, etc. 11
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, maliciously

killing, etc.... 8
EOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,

beating 10
DUCKS—Beating ... ... . . . 1
BABOON—Burning with lighted match . . . . . . 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OE BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Being in possession of recently taken birds... 6

Conﬁning birds in small cages . 5

Taking .. 3

Using bird lime 1

Using traps for the purpose of taking 3

Setting spring traps 1

Killing 7

Injuring 4

Taking Wild Birds’ eggs 17
VARIOUS OEEENCES:

Layingpoison 1

Infringements of the Transit of Horses Order, 1951 2

Failing to dress cattle for warble fl 2

Causing in an offence . .. 1

Permitting in an offence 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 99

During JULY, 1957, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed SIX persons from owning a dog or holding a dog
licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for 2 years; TWO for 5 years; ONE form years; ONE
for Life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 15,165
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 463
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 5,352

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 5,155 Dogs 4,121 Misc. 1,172
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,417

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Dogs 26 Cats 81 Total 107.

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,361

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 7

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 273

No. of animals rescued: 10

No. of Inspection complaints: 14

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,503

NORTH WALES UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 25 Dogs 61 Misc. 6 ’ Total 92
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 242 Dogs 119 Misc. 16 Total 377

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,790

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT

First Aid cases:

Cats 76 Dogs 105 Misc. 18 Total 199
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 194 Dogs 126 Misc. 23 Total 343

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,045

,SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First Aid cases:

Cats 89 Dogs 177 Misc. 17 Total 283
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 396 Dogs 205 Misc. 21 Total 622

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,006

AWARDS

AWARDS CASES CONSIDERED DURING JULY 1957: 57

SILVER BAR 1
BRONZE MEDALS... 6
BRONZE BAR 1
CERTIFICATES OF MERIT 20

RECORDS FOR 1956

, INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS ...... 26,508
CONVICTIONS 1,029
CAUTIONS 8,979
HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 145,471

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,267

 

 

 




 

 

 

100 THEANIMALWORLD

September 1957

 

 

nature for our own immediate purposes and to
our ultimate harm. Yet man is not the freeholder
of this earth, but God. We are but his tenants
and, moreover, his tenants at will. We have
responsibility for how we treat his property which
we inhabit, and our tenancy is, as it were, subject
to or conditional upon the under—tenancy of the
animals. It is possible for us to exploit them. They
are in our power. But we are in God’s power. Our
behaviour to them should correspond, mutatis
mutandis, for they are not made in our image as
we are in God’s, with God’s behaviour to us. If we
believe in a cruel God and that God is cruel to us,
then doubtless we have every right to be cruel
to them. If, however, we believe that God is
merciful, then we should be merciful towards the
animals. We surely learn from Holy Scripture
that God’s mercy and lovingvkindness is part of
His perfection, and we are bidden by our Lord
to be perfect, even as our Father in heaven is
perfect. Wherefore even if we only learn inci’
dentally that God cares for the ravens and the
sparrows, we should do the same. To be cruel is
natural to man in his fallen state. It is not con—
gruous with his redeemed state, in which he and
all creation are brought into a new relationship
with God. That is to say, it is not proper for a
Christian. .

 

SERVICE FOR ANIMAL LOVERS

It is fitting that Canon Bishop’s article should
appear in Animal World this month, when it is
customary to remind readers that the RSPCA
has, in pamphlet form, ‘Suggestions for the 0b
servance of Animal Sunday’. Anyone sending a
stamped addressed envelope to RSPCA Head—

quarters may have a copy free.

Animal Sunday is held on October 4, or the
nearest Sunday. Many churches hold services.

In London, as was announced last month, a
special service is being held on October 2, and
these are the details, for readers who wish to
attend or to send their friends:

SERVICE FOR ANIMAL LOVERS, OCTOBER 2, 1957

ST JAMES’S' CHURCH, PICCADILLY, LONDON (by kind per—
m1s51on of the Rector, the Rev]. S. Brewis).

Preacher: Alderman the Rev Prebendary L. J. B. Snell,

MBE, TD, Hon CF (Hereford), Member of the RSPCA
Council.

CHoiR. Soloists: Dorothy Donaldson, Monica Bransom.
Serv1ce begins: 6.30 p.m.,WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1957
ALL ARE INVITED—NO TICKETS NECESSARY

Take the bus or tube to Piccadilly Circus.

A FINE HORSE
By Mary Shelton

Reprinted from ‘Woman’, with acknowledgments.

As a land girl I spent four years in the stables,
working with the carter and his three ﬁne cart—
horses.

My favourite was Captain. He was very affec—
tionate, but nervous and highly strung.

During the winter some of the tracks became
mud ponds, with deep ruts and holes into which
the cart wheels and the horses’ hooves always
sank.

Sometimes a horse pulling a cart would stumv
ble, so I was told to ride well inside the cart to
avoid being thrown off and perhaps trampled on.
Captain, the most temperamental of the three
horses, used to work himself into a terrible state
if he slipped.

One day I was sitting on the front of the cart——
and Captain went down in a slippery patch. I was
thrown into the mud. My head went under the
cart not more than three inches from Captain’s
hooves, and the heavy iron wheel pressed tightly
against my arm and chest.

It didn’t seem possible that I could escape
death. The moment Captain moved, his iron’shod
feet Would smash my head, and the wheel would
pass over my chest.

But for the only time in the years I knew him,
Captain didn’t panic. He hardly moved a muscle,
but waited in an awkward position, on his knees.

Shaking, I crawled out and collapsed on the
bank. Only when I was clear of hooves and wheel
did Captain scramble upright again.

A LESSON FOR DAD

Some time ago (writes Mrs Marshall, Streatham
Ii-Iill aux hon sec), I answered a knock on my
oor.

Outside stood an untidy but well—clad little
boy of about nine years old, or maybe younger.

‘You are the animal lady?’ he challenged me,
suddenly.

‘Yes! Can I help you?’

‘Well,’ he said, ‘my dad’s a stinker!’

Taken aback, I waited for him to continue: ‘He
kicked our dorg!’

‘Oh, dear!’ I exclaimed. ‘That was wrong of
him, and very unkind! What did you do about
it?

‘Oh, don’t worry lady! He won’t do it any
more. I ticked him orf good an’ proper. But I
thought you’d better know!’

And off he ran, without another word. I had
not seen. him before, nor have I seen him since. He
is not one of my animal defenders, but he must
have heard of our work through a talk at school.

 




102 THE ANIMALWORLD September 1957

 

PUPPIES STARVED TO DEATH

 

Inspector Thelwell saw, when opening the door of a shed, the carcases of three emaciated puppies lying on top of
each other in some straw. Their bodies were covered with sores and were badly infested with fleas; they con-
sisted of nothing but skin and bone. The RSPCA brought the owner of the puppies before Dolgelley Magistrates’
Court for causing unnecessary suffering. He was fined £5, ordered to pay £5 ls. 6d. costs and disqualiﬁed from
keeping a dog for five years. By his neglect, he had allowed the puppies to starve to death. (B.l867.)

‘A HORRlBLE SlGH T’

 

A horrible sight met the eyes of an RSPCA lnspector when he
found 37 dead pullets (between six and ten weeks old) on a
chicken enclosure. lt appeared on examination that all of them had died from starvation. Ten live pullets were
very weak and staggering about. After examining some of the dead chickens, a veterinary surgeon stated they
had died as a result of starvation and had endured much unnecessary suﬁering. The owner of the poultry farm
was prosecuted by the RSPCA at Newark Magistrates’ Court for causing unnecessary suffering to 47 fowls by
not providing proper care and attention. He was fined £l0 with £7 7s. 0d. costs, and his young assistant, prose-
cuted on a similar charge, was fined £5. (Case No. B.5l0.)

 




 

 

 

 

 

104 THEANIMALWORLD

September 1957

 

 

BOYS KILLED BIRDS,
STONED KIT TEN

Two boys were said at Ashington to have killed
a kitten by taking turns at throwing stones at it.
The kitten had refused to eat a bird they killed.

After killing the kitten, said the solicitor prosev
cuting for the RSPCA, they turned on the kitten’s
mother.

For causing unnecessary suffering to the cats
a boy, aged 15, was ﬁned £4 and £1 13. costs.

The second boy, aged 17, was placed on pro;
bation for three years.

Armed with Catapults

_ Both boys pleaded guilty. Giving details of what
he called a ‘sadistic case’, the prosecuting solicitor
said that the boys, armed with catapults, found a
young kitten under the stairs of an old farm—
house. They killed a young sparrow in a nearby
hedgerow but the kitten refused to eat it and
started to go upstairs.

‘Theythen took it in turn to throw stones at
the poor animal, striking it on the head, back
ribs and legs. One leg was broken and they left
it for dead.’

Afterwards, he added, they ﬁred at the mother
cat striking it on the head and above the eye.
(B.1381.)

KITTEN LEFT
WITHOUT FOOD

A married couple who left a three months old
kitten in an empty house without food for three
days, were each ﬁned £1 with four guineas costs
at Atherstone Magistrates Court for causing
unnecessary suffering to the animal.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
Inspector Davidson and a Police Constable went
to the defendant’s house, which was secure.
Through the front window they saw a small
black and white kitten.

They climbed into the house through a small
bathroom window and found that the kitten was
conﬁned to the front room and kitchen. There was
a saucer and plate on the ﬂoor, but there was no
suitable food or drink for the kitten.

That the kitten was ravenously hungry was
evident when the Inspector gave it something to
eat and drink.

The defendants were traced and were seen by
an RSPCA Inspector and they elected to make
statements.

The woman said that she had gone away on
the Saturday. She left food and drink for the
kitten when she left. Her husband joined her on
Monday, but he was due to go back onWednes—
day. Unfortunately he was taken ill and the
doctor would not allow him to travel and he
CQuld not return until Sunday.

The man added that if he had known what

state the kitten was in he would certainly have
gone back to attend to it. (B.1585.)

DOG DESTROYED IN
WATER BOILER

A man who held a thirteenayearaold terrier dog in
a boiler of water until it was dead was ﬁned £5,
with £5 33. costs, at Littledean Magistrates’
Court.

He pleaded not guilty to killing the dog in an
improper manner and causing it unnecessary
suffering. ‘

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that when a Police Constable called on the
defendant about the dog’s licence the man was
out, but the next day when the ofﬁcer called he
found that the dog had been destroyed.

The defendant said he had destroyed the dog
by putting it in a water boiler in an outhouse.
When the dog was exhumed by Inspector W. J.
Adams it was found to be 23% inches long. The
size of the boiler in which it had been held was
17% inches by 14% inches. '

In a statement the defendant said, ‘I held the
dog under the water for about three or four
minutes. I was not aware that I could not do this.’

A veterinary surgeon said the dog was bruised,
and it must have suffered when being held under
the water which would have called for considera
able force. There were humane means of destroy;
ing animals locally. (B. 1565.)

UNFIT HORSE
ON ROAD

For permitting one of his horses to be cruelly
ill—treated, a marine store dealer was ﬁned £30,
with £7 23. costs at Rotherham.

The driver of the horse was ﬁned £7 for illo
treating it. A Police Constable saw him driving
the horse very fast. Later, he saw the horse
ungeared and lying in the road. It was in very
Ipolor condition and unable to rise, even with

e p. . .
Chief Inspector Young said he found the
horse, which was about 25 years old, com—
pletely exhausted. It should never have been
on the road. He had to have it destroyed on
the spot.

A solicitor for the ﬁrst defendant, who pleaded
‘Not guilty’, said his client had exchanged
another horse for this one four days before.
When he was told the horse had collapsed he
went to the district where it had happened. He
could see it was exhausted and had obviously
been driven very hard. It was only twelve years,
not twenty—ﬁve. (B. 1370.)

 




 

 

 

September 1957

 

106 THEANIMALWORLD

 

Cattle to the Continent

The RSPCA would prefer to stop altogether the
trafﬁc in live cattle to the Continent.

This is the keynote of a statement made to the
Press on July 1 when the RSPCA nevertheless
welcomed the Minister of Agriculture’s state
ment as far as it went.

Whilst demanding a cessation the RSPCA
is strongly of the opinion that the recommen—
dation of the Balfour Committee for the
introduction of a ﬁlter price should be imple—
mented. This at least would eliminate the old
and unﬁt animals.

The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food when he was asked in a Parliamentary
Question whether he would make an announce—
ment on the discussions with foreign Govern—
ments about the export of live cattle, replied:

‘This matter has been considered by a Working
Party of experts set up by the Council of the
Western European Union. The Council has ap
proved the Working Party’s recommendation
that their conclusions should be forwarded to
the Governments of the Western European
Union for any necessary action. The conclusions
are that there should be adequate veterinary in,
spection at ports in this country to ensure that
only those cattle that are fit to travel are exported
to the Continent; that there should be no re—
export of British Cattle imported for slaughter by
member countries; that the journey on the
Continent should be as short as possible; and
that there should be suitable lairages and
arrangements for feeding and watering at
slaughterahouses. The authorities of the coun—
tries cOncerned will endeavour to ensure that,
where it is not already general practice, all
British cattle will be slaughtered by electric
stunning or by captive bolt pistol.

‘My Right Hon Friend the Secretary of State
for Scotland and I have decided that the export
of cattle for slaughter will be permitted only to
those countries which undertake that the con,
clusions of the Working Party will be complied
with, that the journey after disembarkation will
be limited to 100 kilometres, and that the cattle
will be slaughtered by one of the methods men,
tioned. These restrictions will have the same
effect as those recommended by the Balfour
Committee. They will be introduced as soon as
the necessary arrangements can be made which I
hope will be by about the end of the month.

‘We are grateful to the European countries
which have so willingly cooperated with us in
seeking a solution in this difﬁcult matter.’

***

A second statement issued by the RSPCA in July (on
23rd) reads:

The publication today of the Order amending the
Export of Cattle Order, 1957, although including
most of the recommendations of the. Balfour
Committee of Inquiry, must still be regarded as
being merely a palliative. Public anxiety remains
as to the fate of the exported cattle when they are
rive in the foreign countries concerned. When
announcing in Parliament that the export of cattle
for slaughter would be permitted only to those
countries which undertake to comply with certain
conditions, the Minister of Agriculture stated
that such countries would be asked to ‘endeavour
to ensure’ compliance.

As this country can have no jurisdiction out—
side its own territorial limits, an assurance should
be sought that the foreign countries in question
will definitely set up effective machinery to. enr
force compliance with any regulations they may
make to meet the wishes of our own Government.

The RSPCA reiterates that the only completely
effective way of allaying public anxiety is to pro,
hibit the trafﬁc entirely. If this cannot be done
then a Minimum Values Order should be made
(as already applies in the case of horses), elimin’
ating from the trafﬁc old and potentially unﬁt
animals.

 

BULL-FIGHTING BUSINESS
Some statistics printed recently in the
Sunday Graphic:

Numb er of bull rings in
Spain 287
Total capacity 1,400,000
Number of ferias
(‘meetings’) per annum" 230
Number of bulls killed
p.a. (fully—grown) 1 ,500
Number of professional
matadors 5,000
Cost of each bull £4,000
Top matador’s fee (per
performance) £5,000
(estimated)
Cost to promoter for
one corrida £30,000
Estimate of ‘gate’ (at
Madrid) £50,000
”A loss on the day is not infrequent.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

108 THE ANIMAL WORLD September 1957
£ 5. d. ROTHBURY: £9 95. Gel. on Flag Day.
Abergavenny, Mr A. Jackson, aux hon sec 76 18 8 REDCAR: In one month, £12 175. 0d.
Northampton Borough (share of joint KNARESBOROUGH: In four weeks, £16.
collection) 147 0 O COLWYN BAY: In two weeks, £19 75. 0d.
Ramsgate, Miss D. M. Lawrence, bianch
Nhon 86C M M 1H. P h E 91 9 0 LONDON STORE COLLECTIONS
ew ort, on. ., rs u e— vans,
brgnch hon sec g 310 0 0 (made by Mrs JOhn)
Prescot Miss R M Evans, aux hon sec ANIMAL RESCUE LEAGUE: £9 55. 6d. collected at
(COTICC’CIOD) 43 11 5 Jones Brothers, Holloway Road.
Shefﬁeld, Mrs G. Collier, branch 111011 sec 2,0163 8 8
Haverfordwest, Mrs Harries, aux on sec 4 1 “
Bingley, Mrs Whitehead, aux hon sec 30 6 0 H©USE ’11 (C) H©USE d
Otley, Miss Mercer, aux hon sec 25 10 9 5' '
Sunderland MrsH Freedman . 300 3 0 Coppull and Eccleston, Mrs France, aux
New Forest Rural District, Mr W. T. Boots, hon sec ' 21 1? 6
Nafferton, Mrs Robinson, aux hon sec 12 13 8
branch hon sec .. 96 19 9 ,
Leiston, Mrs D E Place, aux hon sec . 8 15 0 Leeds, Mr A. O. Futrell, branch hon sec 5 3 6
Stockport, E Cheshire and West Derbyshire Coundon Mrs 011“” “ 9 2 3
Branch (East Cheshire auxiliaries) 145 8 8 East Grinstead, Mrs Gasson, co aux hon sec 76 12 9
Kidderminster, Miss F. E. Osborne, branch Kintbury, M155 131123176111 H Hume, aux _
hon sec .. . 100 1 o hon sec 13 12 I
Thornaby on Tees Mrs Davidson auxhon sec 52 3 8 Dunchurch, Mrs Gardner Hill, aux hon sec 18 16 3
Dartmouth, Miss 1. Walker, aux co hon sec 41 2 3
Hatﬁeld Rural District, MrD. A. J Wilshire, FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS
branch hon sec .. 67 4 10 Notiﬁed up to July 18
Gainsborough, M15 D M FOX aux hon 56C 46 7 6 Abbots Langley Sat., Sept. 7
Holbeach, MrsE. E Shepherd, aux hon sec 31 1 6 Bangor Sat., H 28
Skegness Mrs] M Manger aux hon 36C 91 4 9 Bedworthn ' Sat., Oct. 12
Tiverton, Miss S. Arthur 67 10 1 Coventry Sat., ” 12
Cambridge Cattle Market ~ 23 5 O Dordon (Warw ickshire) Sat., ,, 12
St Helens, Mrs F. Sims, entertainments hon Henley on Thames Sat., H 5
56C ~ 293 12 9 Hythe . Sat., Sept. 14
Bolton, Mrs B Baxendale 213 0 2 Leicester Sat., Oct. 19
WESTMORLAND COUNTY FLAG DAY Loglrfﬂimugh and N011: 161??”16151‘1? Sat., Sept, 7
The Westmorland County Flag Day result has been notiﬁed Niton (Isle of Wioht) , ,, Sat., Oct. 19
by Mrs Boyle, branch hon secretary, and is made up as Oxhey Sat., Sept. 7
follows: £ d Reading Sat., ,, 7
s. ' Rh 1 Sat., ,, 7
Kendal Borough, Mrs Coward, aux hon sec 102 4 9 Roifnsey Sat., ” 28
Ambleside, Mrs Mair, aux hon sec 80 O O St Albans Sat., Oct. 12
Patterdale, Miss Moon, aux hon sec... 3 15 0 Swansea Fri., H 11
Milnthorpe, Mrs Forrest, aux hon sec 9 12 11 Wakeﬁeld... .. Sat., Sept. 7
Carr Bank and Storth, Mrs Goultert, Watford Borough Sat., H 7
aux hon sec 9 7 6 Watford Rural District Sat., ,, 7
Staveley, M155 Muschamp, aux 11011 sec 3 5 O Welwyn Garden City Sat., Oct. 5
Shap, Mr G. Langhorne, aux hon 56C 10 5 2 Whitwell (Isle of Wight) ' Sat., ,, 19
Appleby, Mrs Wharton, aux hon sec 15 0 0 Yeovil Fri , Sept. 20
H316 Mrs Nickel aux hon sec 14 0 An appeal 18 made to any readers who are able to assist
Kirkby Lonsdale M153 Martin aux hon 56C 25 3 9 these collections to communicate with their local Hon
Windermere, Mrs Boulivant. ' ~ 34 4 O Secretaries whose names and addresses will gladly be
Arnside, Miss P. Fairbank, aux hon sec 17 1 0 provided by RSPC A Headquarters.
£310 13 1

 

l

HAILSHAM RURAL DISTRICT FLAG
DAY

Results of the collections organized on behalf of the
Sussex—Mid and Eastbourne Branch are as follows:

£ 3. .
Herstmonceux, Miss K. Gough, aux hon sec 14 15 1
Hailsham and Hellingly, Mrs Adshead, aux
hon sec 14 10 9
Heathﬁeld, MrsD. P. Lloyd Jones, aux hon sec 37 6 4
Polegate, Mrs Haslett, aux hon sec .. 17 11 9
Horam, MrsD. M. Watson, aux hon sec 25 14 11
£109 18 10

SPANIEL DOG COLLECTIONS
RUGBY: £11 25. 8d. on Flag Day.

FLAG DAYS IN 1958

Branch ofﬁcials are reminded that the majority of Local
Authorities receive applications for Street Collections
(Flag Days) in the autumn of each year. It is therefore urged
there should be no delay in submitting applications to the
Authorities concerned. .

Headquarters are only too pleased to advise any Branch
ofﬁcials who may be in doubt as to procedure.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Heywood, Middlesbrough, Elgin, Newbury, Bradford,
Birmingham, Stroud, Malvern, Stamford Hill, Helston,
Llanbradach, Stratford, Brentwood, Cleckheaton, Wands
worth, Willesden, Nottingham, Liverpool, Yeovil, Hex
ham, Streatham, Bristol, Salford, Risca, Borough Green,
Canvey Island, Plumstead, Epsom, Tilbury, Pitsea, Milford
Haven, Bromley.




 

 

 

 

R. SOP. GOA—3

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, for the
general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free of all duties
payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a suﬁicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex’
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

CAUTION
By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* ATTRACTIVE ANIMAL STUDIES *

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

SOLD IN AID OF THE RSPCA

ALL STUDIES IN
For fully illustrated pamphlet, please complete the form below and send to: BLACK AND WHITE ONLY

RSPCA, 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1 *

 

________________________ mum----.----_-_-___.._-____- CARDS

2/6 per packet of six
assorted

 

(Please complete in block letters and aﬂix 2d. stamp, which will
save RSPCA expense)

Mr
NAME Mrs .........................................................................................
Miss

Two or more packets
ordered, price 2/3 per packet

 

 

 

CALENDARS

 

ADDRESS ...............................................................................................

2/- each, or 21 /- per dozen

(Suitable envelopes for cards
and calendars supplied free)

-——-—CUTHERE-——————--——-——-

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 




