 

m
,
w
.r

 

 

31 W* 1'1 x

. (‘E‘X

3'.-

a
n . r...

7'

 

 

 

nlm

 

 

[Mrs. Chappel

XL.

 

 

 

A guest at the bird table

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

N (member 1954

——7

Kent——Folkestone and District Inspector Wolfenden ad-
dressed Probationers at the No. 6 District Police Training
Centre on the protection of animals and their welfare.
Kent—Tunbridge Wells and District Miss Hayes Newington,
Branch District hon sec, reports that Miss Reader, Hors-
monden aux hon sec, organized a gymkhana and raised £15
for branch funds.

Lincolnshire—Mid, and Lincoln Miss Joanna Bergne-
Coupland and Miss Virginia Meagher organized a Bring
and Buy Sale and raised £11 for Skellingthorpe aux funds.
Monmouthsh‘ire A successful stall was arranged at Mon-
mouth Show. Takings for the day, including collections and
various efforts, amounted to £65 14s. for branch funds.
This is reported by Miss C. Probyn, Monmouth aux hon

sec.

Norfolk—Mid. and Norwich Miss N. Begbie and friends
organized a party with a White Elephant Stall and raised
£11 for branch funds.

Norfolk West Mrs Bird, Downham Market aux hon sec,
with the help of committee members and Mrs Stratton,
hon show sec, organized a pet show, by kind permission of
the Head Master of the Grammar School, in the garden
of his home. Chief Inspector Morrison acted as Master of
Ceremonies and the proceeds were given to branch funds.
North Tees Division Mr W. V. M. Kelly, division co hon
sec, reports that Senior Inspector Peacock presented an
RSPCA merit badge to Mr Ridge for the best-kept and most
humanely-treated horse (Lassie) in the district.
Northumberland West Mrs Hill, Matfen aux hon sec, held
a pet service and presented £10 to branch funds.

Oxford Miss Barbara M. Barton, Witney aux hon sec,

reports that a jumble sale raised £42 8s. for branch funds; a .

bring and buy sale held earlier raised £8 123.

Mrs Lund, branch hon sec, reports that Miss Breakspear,
Kidlington aux hon sec, organized a jumble sale at Kldlmg-
ton and the sum of £22 10s. was raised for branch funds.
Preston and District Lt-Col Coventry, branch organizer,
addressed the branch annual meeting over which the Deputy
Mayor, Alderman T. Singleton, presided. A report submitted
by Mr Alick Plant, branch chairman, said that 193 com-
plaints of cruelty had been investigated. The ﬁnanc1a1 report
was submitted by Mr F. Y. Oulsnam, branch hon treasurer.
(Report received from Mrs H. Kay, branch hon secretary).
Scarborough Mr Norman Beanland, branch hon sec, was
presented with the RSPCA’s certiﬁcate of merlt for ‘hls
courage and humanity in rescuing a dog from a ﬁssure 1n
Mempton Cliffs’ by Canon F. E. Ford, Vicar of Scarborough
and branch chairman.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch Mrs
S. Nabb, branch sec, reports that at an informal dinner the
MayOr of Stockport presented the Margaret Wheatley
Cross to Mrs Cartwright who accepted the award on behalf
of her husband who lost his life in an attempt to save hIS
dog from drowning. Lt-Col Coventry, branch organizer,
spoke at the ceremony. The Mayor and Mayoress were
welcomed by Mr G. R. Leah, chairman of Stockport aux,
and by Mr A. Baxter, branch chairman. .
Surrey——Guildford and District Mrs Merritt, Merrow aux
hon sec, organized a jumble sale at her home and ralsed
£23 for branch funds. . _ , ,
Warrington and District Mrs Pullen, Widnes and district
aux hon sec, reports that a successful dog show was held
1n aid of branch funds.

Westmorland Mrs Wilkinson, Appleby aux hon sec, re-
ports that a jumble sale, at which help was given by the
Appleby and District Animal Defenders, ralsed £22 for
branch funds.

Wiltshire—Mid Miss Goddard, branch hon sec, I‘CPPNS
that Mr S. Dowse organized a dance in Dev12es and ralsed
£11 for branch funds. Lady Anne Cowdray, branch premdent,
presented the prizes at a children’s pet show, Wthh ralsed
£7 18s. 5d.

Wiltshire—North Mrs Wheeler, branch hon sec, reports
that Miss Pound, Calne aux h'on sec, and Mrs Burgess
organized a Rummage Sale and raised £25 for branch funds.

THE ANIMAL WORLD , ’ 7 129

Yorkshire—Bradford and District Miss G. Hall, branch
sec, reports that Miss Pamela Wright organized a gymkhana
at Balldon and raised £27 10s. 9d. for branch funds.

 

Children in the fancy dress competition at a garden fete
organized by Mrs Eden Phillpotts, Exeter Branch Chair-
man, at Kerswell House, Broadclyst

ENTHUSIASTIC WELCOME ‘

‘I received a most enthusiastic welcome from the children
at this school’, says one of the RSPCA school lecturers
in a recent report. ‘When they Saw my car pull up outside
they ran into school and sat in their desks without any
command from the teacher.’

Since the last report 90 lectures were given in schools
in Monmouthshire, Montgomeryshire, Devon, West—
houghton and Tadworth. The Croydon Animal Defender
group members were also addressed.

Twenty—eight new Animal Defender groups were formed.
533 children joined the Headquarters group. ‘

Photo by courtesy of the Derby Evening Telegraph

RSPCA Animal Defenders have tea in the Mayor’s Parlour
at Derby

(Local groups of Animal Defenders held a bazaar and raised

the money to buy a kennel for Derby and District Branch)

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing since the last report: Hexham, Henley—on—Thames,
Swanage, Sittingbourne, Harlech, Liverpool, Reading,
Whittlesey, Willesden, Highams Park, Dalton—in—Furness,
Seaford, Gronant, Morley, Smethwick, Shotton, Hudders-
ﬁeld, Macclesfield, Gt Yarmouth, Hereford, Kendal,
Piccadilly, Preston, Dorchester, Shefﬁeld, Whalley, Nut-
bourne, Gateshead, East Grinstead, Sparshott, Stanmore,
Chislehurst, Queensferry, Connahs Quay, Altrincham,
Llangollen.

 




 

v

'vvvvv'vv'v'vvvvvv'vvvv

I .AAAAAA‘AAAAAAAAAAA‘

 

2e 4” X 3”

i

available in BLACK & WHITE
Actual s

The Christmas Cards illustrated are

5

Ref

 

 

 

 

 

lOI”lS

Fly Leaf with Greetings and Illustrat

PRICE 3d. EA CH

2s. 9d. dozen for one dozen or over

Ref. 6

Envelopes supplied free

ALL CARDS SENT ASSORTED UNLESS

Ref. 7

OTHER WISE ORDERED

 

f.9

Re

 

 

 

 

Ref. 8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
1
f
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

 

"’

””””L””’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

November1954 THE ANIMAL WORLD 123

THE R.S.P.C.A. HELPS SOME BIRDS

 

Photo by courtesy of D. G. Davis. Orpington, Kent

Chief Inspector Stephens was taken out in a boat at Brook-
lands Lake, Dartford, to feed this swan. The swan had been
deserted by her mate and, refusing to leave her eggs to go
in search of her own food, she was nearly dead through
starvation. The Chief Inspector made daily visits to the
swan. It is very unusual for a swan to abandon the mate
. , , and, in fact, it is thought that this bird’s mate was shot.
Photo by courtesy. of the Hertfordshire Mercury Boys are suspected

 

inspector Watts performs an unusual rescue. The swan was

discovered trapped in a deep well at the Old Dicker Mill,

Hertford. Rescuers were unsuccessful, until the RSPCA

was called. After rescue, the swan received first aid for
minor wing injuries and was released

. . . AND AN
ALLIGATOR

The alligator is seen under the
X-ray at the RSPCA Putney
Clinic. A ‘foreign body’ was
suspected but the veterinary
surgeon diagnosed a sore throat

 




N olvember 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

 

All enquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

@MHE’ORMS ‘

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS oF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

LARGE BEGGING DOG COLLECTION
BOXES

Macclesﬁeld: lvliss A. M. Wain, branch hon sec, has stated
that at the Macclesﬁeld Agricultural Show on September 1
the begging dog box collected £11. ,

Enﬁeld: Thousands of people Visited the branch stand
at the Enﬁeld Show (Rabbit Section) and the large begging
box collected £16.

Porthcawl: Mrs Hands, aux hon sec, writes that the box
which had been placed outside a cafe brought in £13 in
ten months. i

STORE COLLECTIONS
(COllections arranged by Mrs John, assisted by Mrs Butler.)

West London Branch £ 5? d'
HMV of Oxford Street. 5% days 49 6 4
Woolland Bros Ltd. of Knightsbridge 4 9 0
Jays of Oxford Circus 11 10 4
nimal Rescue League
.At Animal Rescue League, City Road 1 O O

Slster Mabel’s Dispensary
Russells (Drapers) Ltd. of Denmark Hill 3 O 7

LondonaSouth East Branch -
Co—operative Society Stores of Lewisham 1 14 8

The Neighbours, an animal anthology compiled and il—
IUStrated by Fougasse. Methuen. 75. 6d. pp. 117.

It is pleasant to encounter old friends and to make new
a.CQUaintances in this collection of verse and prose quota‘
t1OHS. The Fougasse pictures embellishing the pages give
them a light and-attractive appearance.

This book is not available from the RSPCA but can be

obtained from any bookseller.

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

?

 

!——

 

 

_—¥

131

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




q.“

“I”

 

November 1954

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 127

‘r

Emaciation ‘Worst Ever’

‘The worst case of emaciation he had ever seen’ was
how a veterinary surgeon characterized the condi-
tion of this dog, a whippet bitch. He was giving evi-
dence in an RSPCA prosecution at Exeter. The owner
of the dog was fined £2 and had to pay £3 35. costs.

The animal had the greatest difficulty in keeping
her balance. She was weak through shortage of food
and took no notice of a bowl of boiled potatoes under
the sink.

The defendant maintained that the animal was
fed on a normal diet. ,He first observed that she was
losing weight about three months ago. He tended
it, but about two months ago, as the dog was getting
thinner, he told his wife they would have to have it
destroyed, but no action was taken ‘because we all
liked the dog.’

., The dog was given a humane end.

An application, made on behalf of the RSPCA, for
the defendant to be disqualified from owning a dog
or holding a dog-licence, was rejected. The Chairman
of the Bench turned down the application as the case
did not involved a deliberate act of cruelty. (The
charge was that of causing unnecessary suffering by
neglect.) (A.8364.)

 

DOG HELD UNDER LORRY

While a man held his injured golden Cocker
Spaniel under the back wheels, a lorry driver
twice reversed over the dog’s body. This was the
‘Worst possible way’ the owner could have chosen
to kill the dog, aveterinary surgeon told Doncaster
West Riding Magistrates.

The dog had been accidentally run over by the
lorry and its back appeared to be broken. In a
case where the back legs were paralysed, said the
veterinary surgeon, there would be no feeling in
the hindquarters. ‘The dog would only be
frightened and want to be comforted,’ he added.

‘The thing it was frightened of most was the
lorry that had run over it.’

It was possible that the dog would have recov—
ered completely but that would depend on
whether its back was actually broken or not.

Before the court were the owner of the dog
and the lorry driver.

They pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary
suffering to the dog by killing it in an improper
manner and were each ﬁned £2 and ordered to
pay, between them, a total of £9 ls. costs.

A witness said he saw the owner hold the dog
down behind one of the back wheels of the lorry,
and the driver reversed. When the owner released
his hold the dog squirmed free.

He got hold of the dog again and the driver
reversed over its body a second time. Then the
owner got some kind of shovel and buried it in
a ﬁeld beside the road. Later the dog, which was
not Properly buried, was discovered by the RSPCA
and the police.

In a statement the owner said: ‘I was very

attached to the dog and I could not bear to see it
suffering as it appeared to have its back broken.
I wanted to put it out of its misery.’ (A8506;
Inspector Waddleton.)

SLAU GHTERMAN
‘REVERTS T 0 OLD PRACTICE’

A slaughterman was ﬁned £5 and ordered to
pay £4 14s. 6d. costs at Aberystwyth Petty
Sessions for what was described by the prosecuv
tion as ‘one of the most calculated acts of bruta—
lity that had been heard of’. The slaughterman
was charged with killing a calf without having
ﬁrst stunned the animal to such a degree as to
render it insensible to pain. The charge against
him read that he killed a calf, ‘by tying the calf to
a wooden beam by its hind legs and then cutting
the head off with his right hand whilst holding its
right ear with his left hand . . .’

Chief Inspector T. E. Gilvarry said that he
visited the slaughterhouse and saw the defendant
who made a statement in which he said he usually
stunned the beasts with a mechanical stunner
but at the time he could not ﬁnd it.

The defendant, giving evidence, said he had
been slaughtering since he was 13. On the day in
question they had moved into a strange slaughterv
ing room and he was unable to ﬁnd the mechani—
cal stunner. He stated that before the 1933 Act
animals had been stunned with iron bars, and he
had only reverted to the old practice. He main«
tained that it was not a cruel method and did not
cause any pain. He denied killing two calves
without using any method of stunning. (A.8234.)

 




 

 

 

ANIMArHEW O R, \

OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

THE

 

 

Vol XLIX No II

New Series

 

._>_/

“I E . ii’ﬁlMisESI 21mg;

THE NEW PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT

The Protection of Birds Act 1954 comes into
force on the lst December. It is a consolidate
ing Act which repeals wholly or in part some
twenty’seven previous Acts and contains in one
measure the piecemeal legislation of more than
a century.

The Act is complicated, but a brief examination
shows that its effect is to ensure a wider protec’
tion for most wild birds, their nests and eggs. The
first section forbids the killing or taking of birds
or the destruction of nests or eggs at all times,
but this general prohibition is subject to various
exceptions. Appended to the Act are a number of
schedules, the third of which may be a matter of
some controversy. This contains a ‘black list’
of certain birds which may be killed or taken at
all times in the year by authorized persons, such
as occupiers or owners of land. Included in
’this list are rooks, jackdaws, jays, magpies, star~
lings, gulls, and sparrows.

In contrast to this, the First Schedule protects
certain other birds, spoonbills, quail and plover,
for example, by special penalties, and a fine of £25
with imprisonment for three months may be
imposed.

As originally drafted, the Act contained no
reference to the offence named in the Wild Birds
Protection Act of 1880 of ‘having in possession’
recently taken wild birds. Such an omission
would have had a grave effect on the war which
the RSPCA has waged for many years against un~
scrupulous bird catchers and dealers. Thanks to
the efforts of ”the RSPCA, however, and the most
welcome help of those promoting the measure,
the omission was rectified and by the provision
now inserted, the detestable traffic in wild birds
may, it is hoped, be kept within even more
stringent limits.

In a brief notice of this kind a detailed analysis
of the Act cannot be attempted. It is interesting to
remark, however, that in incorporating the pro»;
visions of previous Acts some of the restrictions
imposed thereby have been considerably strengv

NOVEMBER

PRICE THREEPENCE
4:. 6d. per annum. Pou Paid

1954

thened. For example under the Protection of
Birds Act 1933, it is an offence to sell, offer for
sale or have in possession for sale a British wild
bird other than one close ringed and bred in
captivity. Again and again at fairs and markets
vendors, in an attempt at evasion of the Act, have
offered birds ostensibly as prizes or in exchange.
The RSPCA in its prosecutions has successfully
contended that such prizes and exchanges are in
fact sales. Any doubt in the matter is now fortune
ately set at rest by Section 6 of the new Act,
which states that ‘any reference to sale shall be
construed as including references to barter and
exchange.’

A. G. J.

RSPB COMMENTS

(The following comments on the new Act are re,
printed from ‘Bird Notes’, the journal of the Royal
Society for the Protection of Birds, whose courtesy in
allowing this reprint is acknowledged.)

That this new legislation makes for muchvneeded
simplicity can be illustrated by the fact that no
less than fifteen previous Acts have been repealed,
their provisions being embodied in the new one.
The basic principle that all wild birds, including
their eggs and their nests, should be protected
has at last been conceded. The exceptions are
ﬁrstly the twentyathree species listed in the Third
Schedule to the Act and nine species listed in
Part 2 of the First Schedule, all of which maybe
killed or taken outside the closevseason; secondly
twenty species, known or presumed to be ”harm;
ful, included in the Second Schedule, which may
be killed or taken at any time by authorized persons
and, thirdly, the eggs only of certain common
species included in a list which is to be approved
by the Home Secretary. The object of this last
proviso is avowedly to avoid turning the egg;
collecting schoolboy into a ‘criminal’. The inten—
tion may be good but good intentions are often
unrealistic and it seems probable that this pro—
posal will have unfortunate results. Small boys
seldom know to what species the eggs that they
are taking belong: only afterwards (if at all) do

they identify them, when it is too late to rectify

any mistakes.
The presence of the Rock—Dove in Schedule
Two (birds which may be killed or taken at any

 

~




November 1954

THE ANIMAL woRLD , 125

 

 

 

 

HORSES
IN THE
NEWS

 

A BOY’S CLYDESDALE FRIEND

(From an article in the ‘Manchester Guardian’,
in which Artifex reminisces of ﬁfty years ago.)

A few weeks after coming to Lancashire I was
walking down John Dalton Street from Albert
Square to Deansgate when I heard a noise behind
me and turning saw a poorly dressed .boy, of
perhaps ﬁfteen, walking down the middle of the
street followed by a huge and magniﬁcent
Clydesdale. The horse let the boy get ten or
twleve yards ahead and then cantering after him
and putting his head over the boy’s shoulder
rubbed the boy’s cheek With his own nose. The
boy would then duck under the horse’s neck
and run on ten or twelve yards. Down the whole
street boy and horse were as obviously playing
a game as a boy might play with a puppy or a girl
with a eat. It was a pretty sight, so when we all
reached Deansgate‘l beckoned to the boy and
when he came to me gave him two halfvcrowns,
saying: ‘I always like to see a boy who is kind to
an animal.’ He took my meaning at once, saying,
‘I could not be cruel to this horse. He and I are
friends.’

Reprinted from ‘The Times’ with acknowledgments

AWKWARD HORSES
Evil of Solitary Conﬁnement
by our Racing Correspondent

Hardly a day passes on the racecourse without V

some runner showing reluctance to race, either
at the starting post or at the ﬁnishing end. To an
owner who has bred the horse or paid for it, it‘ is
perhaps the most disheartening trait of all,

especially if it occurs-—as it often does—in any

animal of undoubted ability. ’
This trend of softness, cunning, and wayward—

ness unfortunately is transmissible, and signs of ‘

it can make the whole stock of a stallion or mare
suspect, with heavy loss to their owners. A gen
eral increase in any country could frighten away
buyers. Relying, on the startling accounts given
by historians and writers on furious and tameless
horses in the past, there would seem to be a not
able decrease in truly violent cases in training
stables and studs.

Maiming of lads and even the killing of them
by their charges was not considered extraordinary

in the early days. The horse—breaker was much in
evidence, one trick in his repertoire being to shut
himself and the recalcitrant horse into a stable
and to lay into him with a whip, shouting all the
while, until the animal was so terriﬁed that it was
ready to dash out through the walls. There is
little doubt that savage methods of this sort,
coupled with the system of constantly leaving
difﬁcult animals chained up in their boxes, pro;
duced the real killers. Enlightened minds direct’
ing training have altered all this, and I have seen
the late Fred Darling run across the yard to strike,
not a horse but one of his stable lads for raising
his voice to a horse in his box.

It is possible that mental kinks in bloodstOck
could be reduced still more by increasing thought
for their well—being. The thoroughbred horse is
by nature high—mettled, courageous, charged with
energy, and affectionate to his friends. Extreme
restlessness, bad temper, and cunning are foreign,
though the tendency may have been inherited.
There is no more fruitful environment for the
development of mental peculiarities in all crear
tures than solitary conﬁnement.

Natural to Roam

The natural habit of horses is to roam thexopen
spaces in herds. The life of a horse in training is
to be out with his fellows for an hour or two a
day under the strict discipline of the lad on his
back, and then to be returned to solitary cone
ﬁnement for twentyvtwo or twenty—three hours.
Many stallions are just as badly off. Their energy
turns against them, and it must. be feasible to
suppose that the outlook of the four closely con—
ﬁning walls, and the lack of companionship,
breeds neurosis. The use of the whip in racing
in this country has diminished steadily during my
time and a race of awakened and humane trainers
is arising who see that it is used still less on their
horses. ‘

The most fruitful ﬁeld for improvement of
the breed thus may be the granting of a much
greater measure of freedom to them. It is no
easy matter. Labour is expensive. Trainers’ pro’
ﬁts are almost negligible from the large weekly
fee which the owner has to pay. Trainers who
train at public heaths like Newmarket, Epsom,
and Lambourn have few or no paddocks. Colts
naturally cannot be turned out in company, and
need a paddock each. Yet much can be done once
the idea of freedom is accepted, and it is being
tried in America with remarkable results.

One of the prerogatives of a racing correa
spondent is the licence to prophesy, so I say that
generations to come will have the stable door
open much of the day, and that they will regard
the present system as cruel, uninformed, and
injurious to a horse’s racing and stud career.

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC ,COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POWELL. COL R. M.. Dso
*ALLIBERT, MRS GASKOIN, C. J. 13., ESQ, MA RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ. MA. PH.I)
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP *RIECR. H. H.. ESQ '

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON "I‘HI COUNTESS OF
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ SIBLY. W. A.. ESQ. MA. JP

BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 13.. MBE, TD,‘JP
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP *HUNTER, MISS SOMERS. THE RT HON LORI)

DAWES, CAPTAIN H. W., CBE, MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT. MRS. BA

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP TUENELL. LIEUT-COMMANDER R. R.. MA. RN
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN. MRS W. *WAL FORD. MRS DL‘SBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE. HARRY. I'SQ.. ECA

(CANTAB), DOMS *PARKET, MAURICE G.. ESQ, MISAC *WINCHESTER, E. J.. ESQ. ECIS. ESS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT. THE RT HON THE EARL

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C- LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS. ESQ. MBlf. ALIS
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assstant Secretary—I). A. L. (‘AMM, ESQ. BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, IISC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 TeIephonc~Whitehall 7I77

MISSING DOGS

Missing from Pear Tree Cottage, Harlow Grange,
Harrogate (Phone Harrogate 3281) since Sop—
tember 19: valuable black and tan Airedale dog,
4 years Old, and answers to the name of Major.
The dog has the distinctive mark of an umbi»
lical hernia. Information, please, to the owner,
Mr Paul Shimmins, at the address given.

.................................

 

Whisky, Cocker Spaniel, black and cream,
_ with a little brown on his feathers; aged about
_ TMTTTT-"r- two years; missing since September 4, owner,

' ' W Mr George COX, The Institute, Mundesley.

 

  

.1?“ Send 3d. now for
\ ‘NATURE-GIFTS’

-\\ ‘ thelllustrated [6 pp. Catalogue of Xmas

.. l . \ ‘ . . Glfts for Animal-lovers. (Ready Nov.)
SAFE. .
~ SURE Tami-i X”?

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

AND SHELVUKE lID -. BIRMINGHAM ° 6 - ENGLAND
5465

     

Best TOILET SOAP with pictures which do NOT WASH off.
Blrd, Flsh, Cat and Dog Series: per box 3 tablets 4/3; (3
boxes l2/3). SCARF RiNGS. with coloured miniature of
Horse or Dog, 5/6d. Animal LITANY, beautifully worded,
2/9d. NEST-BOXES. Tit or Robin, lO/9d. Rustic Peanut
Feeders, 9/9d: small size 7/9d.
DEPT. 8, GREENRIGG WORKS
WOODFORD GREEN, ESSEX

  
    
      

    

 

 

ccus

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

122 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

November 1954

 

 

Photo by courtesy of the Evening News

This young owl was found on the ground in a London Park.

Handed into the RSPCA he was photographed at Head-

quarters before going into the country where a good home

was provided until he regained his strength. The bird has
now been freed.

time) is astonishing. This withdrawal of pro’
tection applies to Scotland only, but there are
no true Rock’Doves left in England and Wales;
the species has ceased to breed in Scotland on
the east side south of the Forth.

It is also singularly unfortunate that, on the
insistence of the House of Lords (only Lord
Hurcomb seriously contested the proposal) it was
decided to legalize both the taking and the sale
of Lapwing eggs up to April 15. The argument
upon which this proposal was based was that
since the passage of the Lapwing Act in 1928,
giving full protection to the eggs, the numbers of
the species have declined due to the fact that early
clutches were unsuccessful. No evidence worth
serious consideration was advanced and the fact
that Lapwings have been decreasing since before
the present century was completely overlooked.
What evidence there is suggests that Lord Bucka
master’s Act giving protection to the Lapwing in
1928 slowed up the decline. It is true that the
present proposal is introduced for an experimental
period of five years to see what its effects will. be.
The Government, having discarded ornithological
advice on this matter, should now recognize its
responsibility by taking immediate steps to
, ascertain the consequences of its action. But only
I the most wildly optimistic will believe that the
. Government will do anything about the matter at
all, particularly in View of the evidence which
they were Willing to accept in launching the
experiment.

Certain disappointing aspects of the new legis~
lation must not, however, blind us to its many
virtues. There are at last fully adequate provisions
to prevent exploitation of birds through the use

of traps, snares, springes and similar anachron—
isms. The sale of the eggs of British wild birds,
including blown eggs, is made illegal except in
certain very limited instances, and there are
similar safeguards regarding the sales of skins or
phimage. Penalties can at last be made to fit the
crime. At present the penalty is set at a maximum
of one pound per egg or bird, with an overall
maximum of five pounds. The maximum has
now been removed. For rare species included in
the First Schedule to the Act (Avocet; Bittern;
Chough; Blackvthroated Diver; Red—throated
Diver; Dotterel; Golden Eagle; Greenshank;
HenaHarrier; Hobby; Kite; Marsh«Harrier; Mer—
lin; Montagu’s Harrier; Peregrine; Red—necked
Phalarope; Little Ringed Plover; Black Redstart;
Stone Curlew; Roseate Tern; Bearded Tit;
Crested Tit; Dartford Warbler; Marsh Warbler;
Whimbrel; Wryneck and some two dozen more
species which have bred or might breed. in Britain)
the maximum penalty is £25 for each egg or bird
or a term of imprisonment not exceeding one
month for a ﬁrst offence or three months for a
subsequent offence, or both the fine and im«
prisonment. For the commoner species the
penalty is up to £5 per egg or bird.

With the regrettable exception of the Common
Snipe, which can be shot (as hitherto) after
August 11, the shootingaseason for the twenty’
three game and sorcalled quasiagame birds listed
in the Third Schedule and nine species listed in
Part II of the First Schedule does not begin until
September 1, three weeks later than at present
and Woodcock cannot be shot in England and
Wales until October 1. The shooting season ends,
as at present, on February 1, except for ducks and
geese on the foreshore below high water, ordinary
spring tides. This extension already exists in some
maritime counties but not in others. It has cer—
tainly been one of the most controversial points
in the passage of the Bill through Parliament.
It is satisfactory to find that the Dunlin, Sander’
ling, Ringed Plover and Turnstone have been
excluded from the Third Schedule, but easily one
of the most important provisions of the Act is
that it will give complete and long overdue
protection to the Brent Goose.

Timothy (Timpy) born April 30, 1938
Fell asleep September 3, 1954
The dearest and best cat in the World
His living our joy‘His Sleeping our sorrow

X—RAY APPARATUS FOR SALE

,The Rochdale Branch of the Society has an X—ray apparatus

for sale, full particulars of which can be obtained direct

from the Secretary, Miss F. Osborne, 4 Kilnerdeime
Terrace, Rochdale

o

 

 




 

.-
V

'124 ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1954

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK.

SEPTEMBER 19 54

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,076 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
78 Offenders ﬁned.
51 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in
writing.
744 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, mali

ciously wounding .. 7
DONKEY—Neglecting . 1
CATTLE—Neglecting, neglecting ingrowing hbrn, ter

rifying
SHEEP—Neglecting . . . 1

PIGS—Neglecting, beating, subjecting to undue violence
when loading into motor lorry, conveying
and exposing for sale unﬁt . .. 6

DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, beating,
wounding with knife, attempting to kill in
improper manner, etc 17

CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing in
improper manner, injuring with garden fork,
injuring with ﬁsh hook, etc

RABBIT—Allowing to be worried by dogs
FOWLS—Neglecting
DUCKS—Neglecting

SWANS—Setting ﬁre to nest . ..
BUDGERIGAR—Injuring with missile

r—ANr—‘r—ANO

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:

Conﬁning birds in small cages 3
Using bird lime 2

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:
Selling other than a close—ringed specimen
bred in Captivity 990 900 '0’ ' 1

DEFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds
Setting pole trap . .

NO

VARIOUS OEFENCES:
Steel tooth traps set in open
' Permitting in offences
Causing in an offence
Infringements of the Transit Of Horses

Order, 195 1

r—tU‘lr—A

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

ISII

During SEPTEMBER, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, Odisqualiﬁed NINE persons from owning a dog or hold

,ing a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows;

FOUR for 5 years, TWO for 10 years; THREE for Life

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 21,359

Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 692

Total number of. CAUTIONS from January lst . 17,298.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:

Cats, 4,769 Dogs, 4,879 Misc, 527 Total, 10,175 "
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst-aid: 2,424

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 25 Dogs, 104 Misc, 2 Total, 131

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,658

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,115
No. of animals rescued: 5
N o. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 314

NORTH WALES UNIT

First-aid cases:

Cats, 27 Dogs, 65 Misc, 2 Total: 94

No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 127 Dogs, 34 Misc, 16 Total: 177
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,725

AWARDS I

Recommendations Considered 50
Bronze Medals 13
Bar to Bronze Medals 2
Certiﬁcates » 25

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS ... ... ... 27,686
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No.0f calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals 6
‘ Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze, Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10
Merit Certiﬁcates 121

 

 




 

 

 

126 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1954

 

 

Experiments on Living. Animals

The Home Ofﬁce Return for 1953 has just been
published and from it we learn that during the
year 4,671 persons held licences and there were
492 places on the Register at which experiments
on living animals might be performed. These
ﬁgures compare with 4,491 persons and 482
places in 1952.

The total number of experiments during the
year was 2,195,958; an increase of 78,046 over
the previous year’s total.

The number of experiments conducted under
anaesthesia throughout was 37,010; about 1.7 per
cent of the total.

In 224,696 experiments operative procedures
were carried out under anaesthetics from which the
animals were allowed to recover. This represented
10.3 per cent of the total.

The number of experiments performed entirely
without the use of anaesthetics was 1,934,252, or
88 per cent of the total.

11,358 experiments were performed on domestic
animals (cats, dogs and equidae) the detailed
{Ziggres being cats, 8,000; dogs, 3,108; equidae,

Experiments in illustration of lectures accounted
for 949 cats and 89 dogs.

Included in the total of experiments performed
entirely without the use of anaesthetics were
647 cats and 1,309 dogs, and included in the list
of experiments under anaesthesia from which the
animals were allowed to recover were 738 cats

and 670 dogs.

RSPCA PHOTOGRAPHIC
COMPETITION
Winners for September are:
lst Prize: Mr P. D. Corser, 112 Rock Avenue, Gilling-
ham, Kent. (Subject: cat’s head).

2nd Prize: Mrs Molly Jones, Inverkip, 47B Batten Avenue,
Hermitage Estate, Woking. (Subject: donkey and foal.)

3rd Prize: Mrs Jessie Eaton, 14 Cole Bank Road, Hall
Green, Birmingham, 28. (Subject: cat.)
All competitors are thanked for having submitted entries.

As the competition has now closed no more photographs
can be considered.

it

The Town Dog, by James R. Kinney, VMD, with Ann
Honeycutt. Published by Harvill Press, London. pp. 193.
Price 155. Illustrated by James Thurber, and exhaustively
indexed, this book is intended for the pet owner wishing
to keep the town dog healthy and happy.

R. C. G. H. writes:Whilst the book is written in a semi-
facetious style, it contains so much horse sense and so little
foolishness that I am prepared to forgive the authors and
cordially recommend this book.

The Town Dog cannot be obtained through the RSPCA.
Booksellers will supply it.

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND
CALENDARS

Do not delay in ordering the cards and calendars advertised
in these pages! Demand is brisk, and supplies limited!

 

Animals ‘Dead in Filth’

Counsel prosecuting for the RSPCA at
Stratford, London, said that at a piggery
on a farm there were ‘dead and neglected
animals on every side, amid appalling filth’.
(The picture, taken at the time, gives some
idea of the awful scene.)

RSPCA Senior lnspector Edwards and
lnspector Sale also found dead cows and
calves, and animals in an emaciated state.

The owner, who pleaded guilty to caus-
ing unnecessary suffering to pigs and bulls
on his farm by omitting to provide them
with proper and necessary care and atten-
tion, was ﬁned £25, the maximum fine.
The Chairman of the magistrates said:
‘We very much regret it cannot be more.’
The defendant was ordered to pay £49 Zs.
costs.

One RSPCA lnspector went to the farm '
and found a number of pigs running loose.
just inside the gates was a large tank con-

taining some foul material and a cow which was dead and decomposing.

 

of swill and in another a dead cow, two dead calves and a decomposed sow.

In all, there were I87 pigs on the farm sixteen of which were dead. Six oth

inspector found that the ‘whole of the drainage of the arm was blocked u and th h l d lth’.
For the defence it was said that the farmer had had great difficulty in g; e w ° e place was full of water an ﬁ

at the farm had now been radically changed. (A.8033.)

In another tank a dead calf was found on a pile
ers had to be humanely destroyed. A sanitary

ting labour to help him on the farm. Conditions

was” Airs-nos

 




 

Q
‘

 

 

Ha“j—‘A” ‘4 .

 

128 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1954

 

 

t r stem”

OBITUARY

With sincere regrets we report the following
deaths: Miss P. Thomas, former hon sec of

Buxted auxiliary; Mrs E. G. Thody, hon sec of '

Buntingford auxiliary; Miss Higgins, hon sec of
Turvey auxiliary; Miss Atherden, a supporter;
Mrs Green, hon sec of Ashington auxiliary;
Lady Cunliffe, President of Essex—Mid Branch;
Mr E. E. Ingram, a supporter; Miss Marion
Green, hon sec of Stowmarket auxiliary for very
many years.

KNOWING Doc

Mrs Pullen, Widnes auxiliary hon sec, writes:
Colin Wareing is a little Skye Terrier, Who is
generally unapproachable—especially by children.
I took the ﬂags on our Flag Day down to Mrs
Wareing, who put them on the seat outside the
door. Straight away, Colin jumped on the seat
at the side of the box. To Mrs Wareing’s horror,
a child put some coppers in the box and stroked
the dog, who continued to sit still until the ﬂags
had all gone and then got down and scattered the
children in all directions!

*
BRANCH
NEWS

*

Angela Bartram
with ‘Spinney—
lodge Zelda’,
who collected
for the RSPCA
at Kimpton Hoo
Flag Day

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District—
The branch organlzed a display at the Romiley show and

. £3 63. 4d. was collected for branch funds.

Bedfordshire Mrs C. M. Babbage, branch hon treasurer
and hon sec, presented to Mr Frederick Trussell an RSPCA
certiﬁcate for his courage and humanity in rescuing a cat
stranded in the top of a poplar tree. The presentation was
made at Stotfold Parish Hall. Mr F. Gentle, chairman of
the Parish Council, presided at the ceremony, and Inspector
Dowling described the rescue. Mr Babbage spoke on the
work of the RSPCA.

Berkshire—Newbury and District Mr Pirouet organized a
dance at Newbury and raised about £20 for branch funds.
Birkenhead and Wirral Senior Inspector Perry judged
entries in the pet section of the Newton Village Country Fair.
Blackpool Nat J ackley (comedian) presented Mr Tom
Davies with the RSPCA ‘Donkey Charter Cup’ for the
best conditioned stud of donkeys on the sands at Blackpool.
Inspector Heyes was presented at the presentation.
Carmarthenshire Mr A. C. Mitchell, branch hon sec,
reports that Mrs Mitchell and the ladies of the committee
organized a Bring and Buy Sale and raised over £30 for
branch funds.

 

 

1954 CHRISTMAS MARKET—
Appeal for helpers

As many readers will already know, the Annual RSPCA
Christmas Market will be held at the Seymour Hall,
Seymour Place, London, W1, on November 17 and 18,
from 12 noon to 8 pm. It has been suggested that if addi—
tional helpers are required, some of our readers might be
prepared to volunteer for one or other, or even both days.
We anticipate helpers will be required particularly for the
second hand clothes section and if, therefore, any reader
has had experience of such sales and would care to volun-
teer, it will be appreciated if he or she would get in touch
with the Appeals Dept., RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street,
London, SW1, mentioning on which day help can be given.
It is emphasized that it is readers with experience in this
type of sale whose services may prove of considerable
value.

FLAG DAYS IN 1955

Branch ofﬁcials are reminded that a number of Local
Authorities consider the applications for Streets Collec—
tions (Flag Days) in the autumn of each year. It is, there—
fore, suggested you should not delay the submission of
your application to the. authority concerned. If you are in
any doubt as to procedure, please do not hesitate to com—
municate with Headquarters. Headquarters is pleased to
advise on this matter when necessary.

 

 

Chesterﬁeld and North Derbyshire Mrs Granger, Dronﬁeld
aux co hon sec, reports that Miss Helliwell organized a
dance show and raised £3 12s. 6d. for branch funds.
Cleveland and Tees Side Mrs Hart, Saltburn aux hon sec,
reports that long service certificates have been presented
to Mr Dickinson Starkey and Miss M. Law Smith. ‘
Essex—North-West Branch Mrs Cooke and Mrs Smith,
Braintree aux co hon secs, organized a rummage sale at the
Animal Welfare Centre, Braintree, and raised £9 103. for
branch funds.

Fylde Ofﬁcials and helpers present at the Poulton aux
garden party at Croft House, Poulton-le-Fylde included:
Mrs E. M. Catterall, Mrs H. Singleton (hostess), Mrs
Poole, branch president, Mrs M. R. Royds, Miss M. W.
Singleton, Mr D. S. Wadsworth, branch hon sec, Mrs M. M.
Forster, Mrs R. Brunner, aux chairman, and Mrs W. Lee.
Fifty pounds was raised for branch funds.
Hertfordshire—East Capt Ronald C. W. Oliver reports
that the Japanese Gardens at Cottered were opened to the
public in aid of branch funds by kind permissmn of Mrs
Goods. Over £50 was raised.

Hertfordshire—West Mrs Micklethwaite, St Albans aux
hon sec, and helpers organized a children’s pet shOW-
S/Ins Slater, Mrs Standish King and Mrs V. Saunders
acted as judges. Sweets were given by Mr E. Stevens to the
successful and unsuccessful competitors. .
Kent—Ashford and District Inspector Coles Judged pets
at the Woolreeds Social Club pet show at South Ashford.

Alsatian Animal
Defender Group
garden party:
Mrs Thompson,
Blackburn
Branch joint
Hon Sec, who
opened the
party, is at the
back of the
group, with Mr
H. Rothwell,
Group Leader

  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

1

FLAG DAYS

(We give wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers).

 

FLAG DAY AT ALDERSHOT

Col Powell, Vice-President of the RSPCA, with (on the
Colonel’s left) Mrs Powell

Hartlepools, Miss McAuslan, branch hon sec, £41 45. 1d.;
Parkgate Works, Rotherham, Mrs Young, £13 85. 6d.;
Stubbin, Mrs Young, £7 115.; Hailsham Rural District,
Miss I. Middleton, branch hon sec, £105 195. 5d.; Henﬁeld,
Mrs E. Sturt, aux- hon sec, £11; Doncaster, Mrs E. M.
Morrison and Mr J. Morrison, branch chairman and
branch hon sec, £228 85. 6d.; Brading, Miss E. M. Corbett,
aux hon sec, £24; Devizes, Miss Ruth A. Goddard, branch
hon sec, £27 75. 8d.; Christchurch, Mrs Wyatt, aux hon sec,
£50 25. 5d.; Yarmouth and N. W. Wight, Mrs E. Hawkesv
worth, aux hon sec, £30 25.; Shildon, Mrs Allinson, aux hon
sec, £47 115.; Barnard Castle, Mrs G. Harris, aux hon sec,

. £49 185.; Shrivenham, Miss Smith, aux hon sec, £12 155.;

Sidmouth, Miss Melicent Page, aux hon sec, £69 145. 10d.;
Llanwrst, Mrs Harry Jones, aux hon sec, £20; Chirk, Mrs M.
Hughes, aux hon sec, £13 75. 8d.; Tenby, Mrs Forrester, aux
hon sec. £30 135. 10d.; Ashington, Sussex, Mrs E. G. Green,
aux hon sec, £6 115.; Colne, Mr J. N. Smith, £49 105. 9a.;
Combe Martin, Miss H. Preston, aux hon sec, £12 65. 10d.;
Northallerton, Mrs Strother, aux hon sec, £37 145. 3a.;
Gower, Miss Brook, co branch hon sec, £30 45. 3d.; Pontar—
dawe, Mrs ngen Lewis, ‘aux hon sec, £26 115. 10d.;
Penarth, Mrs H. W. Ainsworth, branch hon sec, £56 185. 1d.;
Barry, Mrs W. Brown, aux hon sec, £82 195. 5d.; Newton

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

\

———_—_—__.___—_.——__.._._

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1954

‘
‘

Abbot, Mrs M. V. Dodds, branch hon sec, £67 95.; Ventnor,
Miss Jolliffe, aux hon sec, £26 115. 10 d.; St Mawes, Mr C. F.
Willmore, aux hon sec, £31; Corby, Capt S. E. Appleby,
aux hon sec, £4; Amble, Mrs Lewis, aux chairman, £25 185.;
King’s Lynn, Mrs Robson, aux hon sec, £91 165. 2d.;
Stratford-on—Avon, £68 195. 9d.; Lancing, Miss E. Tebbutt,
£17 65. 5d.; Hastings, Mrs Sletcher, branch hon sec,
£220; Hertford Borough, Mrs Percy llott, branch chairv
man, £66 25. 4d.; Bembridge, Mrs Battersea, aux hon
sec, £37 105.; St Annes—on—Sea, Councillor Hoyle, aux hon
sec, £46 165. 11d.; Watford, Mrs H. J. Jones, aux hon sec,
£156 15. 7d.; Redruth, Mrs M. C. Johns, aux hon sec,
£15; Lurgashall and Northchapel, Miss Murray, aux
hon sec, £7 75.; Portsmouth, Mr P. L. Coombe, branch
hon sec, £150 55. 7d. (joint collection); Ruthin, Mrs
Ernest Black, branch hon sec, £25 65. 1161.; Weymouth,
£225; Shefﬁeld, Mrs Collier, branch hon sec, £10 105.;
Altrincham Show, Mr E. Parker, branch hon sec,
£114 175. 2d.; Sussex—West and Brighton branch (Chailey
Rural Collection), Mr W. C. Brown, branch sec, £12 75. 2d.;
Mansﬁeld, Miss M. P. Cooper, aux hon sec, £144 165. 6d.;
Lincoln, Miss C. May Harrison, branch hon sec, £166 65.;
South Bank, Eston, and Normanby, Mrs Hart, branch
hon sec, and Miss J. Sweetinburgh, aux hon sec, £46 105.;
Swaﬂham, Mrs Fennell, aux hon sec, £20; Wednesbury
and Darlaston, Mrs P. Haywood, branch hon sec,
£162 115. 2d.; Whitchurch, Miss Salmon, co aux hon
sec, £10; Shotton, Mr E. V. Crisp, aux hon sec, £47 105. 3d.;
Retford, Mrs Hurst, aux hon sec, £117 165. 9d.; Hay—
wards Heath, Mr R. W. Fenton, aux hon sec, £64 95.;
Widnes, Mrs Pullen, aux hon sec, £70; Ryde, Mr
Maurice Toms, aux hon sec, £84 105.; Sea-view, Lady
Rose Boughton, aux hon sec, £21 25. 461.; St Helens,
Mrs V. Bullin, aux hon sec, £6 Os. 9a.; Shanklin, Sandown
and district, Mrs PallisterrYoung, aux hon sec, £100 155. 5d.;
New Church and Apse Heath, Mrs Smith, £4 105.; Fresh
water, Totland and district, Mrs Williams and Miss Corbett,
Co aux hon secs, £98 115. 6d.; Cowes, Mrs Haigh, aux hon
sec, £17 105. 4d.; Newport, I.O.W., Lady Lloyd, branch
chairman, £37 Os. 6d.; Sittingbourne, Mrs M. Draper, div
hon sec, £145; Dronﬁeld, Mrs Granger, aux co hon sec,
£36 75. 7d.; Richmond, Yorks, Mrs Bunting, aux hon sec,
£40 75. 4d.; Dunster, Miss Ward, aux hon sec, £28;
Breconshire, Mrs Bagshawe, branch hon sec, £95 145. 7d.;
Hythe, Mrs Tooth, aux hon sec, £29 115. 3d.; Stokesley,
Mrs Boyd, co aux hon sec, £77 65. 6d.; Dartmouth, Miss
Walker, aux co hon sec, £50 15. 4d.; Hull, Mr G. H.
Jacobsen, branch sec, £258 15. 2a.; Ilfracombe, Mrs du
Sautoy Newby, aux hon sec, £56 85. 5a.; Woolacombe,
Mrs du Sautoy Newby, £45; Bishop Auckland, Miss
Baines, aux hon sec, £49 95. 4d.; Wrexham, Mr Arnold
Davies, branch hon sec, £425; Dover, Mrs Price, branch
hon sec, £188 195. 11d.; Silsden, Miss Stell, aux hon sec,

£17 95. 9d.; Torpoint, Mrs Knott, £28 05. 7d.; Polzeath,
Mrs Le Bailey, £9 05. 10d.

HOUSE-TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to-
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer 0T
organizers. )

Drifﬁeld, Bridlington and district branch, Mrs H.
Blakeston, aux hon sec, £39 195.; Barnham, Sussex West
and Brighton branch, Mrs Court, aux hon sec, £2 125.;
Halesworth, Suffolk East Coast, Constable, Mrs ConnorS,
aux hon sec, £9 25. 11d.; Burwash, Sussex East branch,
Miss Maude Roxby, aux hon sec, £15 25. 5d.; Gravesend,
Kent N.W. branch, Mrs Pollen,branch hon sec, £116 0s 1d.;
Hyde, Ashton and district branch, Mrs Blaylock, £5 55. 9d.;
Leeds branch, Mrs Harrison, £1 165. 2d.; Chilworth, Hamp-

shire—Southampton branch, Mrs Drake, aux hon sec,

£15 25. 1d.; Lostwithiel, Cornwall East branch, Miss Pease,
aux hon SEC, £10 175. 1d.; Rochester Division, Kent Med.

27137? ﬁowns branch, Mrs Goldthorpe, co division hon sec,
5.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Please apply to the above address for descriptive pamphlet and order form.
Kindly enclose stamped addressed envelope with application.

CHRISTMAS
CARDS

These four delightful
Re“ STUDIES OF ANIMALS

available as illustrated

 

in black and white

Actual size 4%” X 5%” Fly leaf
with Greetings and Attractive Illustrations.
PRICE 5d. EACH.

4/— per dozen for one dozen or over.

Envelopes supplied free.

 

Ref. 4

   

Ref. 3

AAAAAAA-AAAAAAAAA
-‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA
‘AAAA‘A 'vvvvvvvvvvvv' -vvv'vvvvvwvvvvvvvv'vv AAAAAAA
'v'vv‘vv-_ 'vv'vvv

 

“SPCA i105 JERMYN STREET - LONDON - SW1

‘AAAAAAAAAA“AAAA"—v k

vvvvvvv'vvvvvv'v'vv'v

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

vvv"vv'vvvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvvvvv'vvvv‘vvvv'vv'vvvvvv'vvv

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA--A--- --- .---h---------“AAAAAAAA
vvvvv

AAAA

AAAAAA‘AAAAAAAA‘AAA
'v'vvvvvv'vvvvvvvvvvvvvv

 

 

 




A

vv'v'vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvv'vvvvvv'vvv‘

* RSPCA CALENDARS *

 

IN BLACK AND WHIT

 

i (Please send stamped addressed envelope to RSPCA, 105 Jermyn St., London S. W.1 for Order Form.)

‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAMAAAAA

A
vv'v'vv'

AVA

Actual size 8%” X 6%”.

 

Mounted on strong board.

 

Post Free including Envelopes.

21/— per dozen for one dozen or over.

v'vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvv'vvvvvvvvvvvv

AAA“AAAAAAAAAAAAA-AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘AAAAAA‘

vvvvvvvvv'

A

k ; . . . ' -i_ PRICE 2s. EACH.

'm

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermvn Street, London, SW1

 




