 

ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol LII No 4 New Series

APRIL I 957

PRICE FOURPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

Cattle Traffic
The Beginning of the End?

 

Photo by courtesy of the ‘Yorkshire Post’

At Victoria Dock, Hull, cattle for France go on
board the German ship, ‘Kornerwall’

As was brieﬂy mentioned in March Animal
World, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food has announced that a committee on this
trafﬁc has been appointed under the Chairman
ship of Lord Balfour of Burleigh.

The full terms of reference are:

To enquire into the export trade in live cattle from
Great Britain to the Continent for slaughter, the
considerations aﬂecting the continuance of this trade,
and steps to avoid any unnecessary suffering of the
cattle at all stages of their journey; to consider
whether slaughter before export would be a desirable
and feasible alternative; and to make recomv
mendations.

Government Action

In recent months the Press has been active in
helping to bring to light the likelihood of suffering

in this trafﬁc. Much credit must go to newspaper
Editors for the public agitation that has helped
to inspire the Government to take some action,
but the long and sustained pressure applied by
the RSPCA has undoubtedly been the greatest
single factor contributing to this decision.

At the time when he announced the appoint—
ment of the committee the Minister said that an
order had been made under the Diseases of Ani—
mals Act, 1950, requiring cattle to be rested for
ten hours and to be provided with food and
water at or near the place of embarkation. The
Order came into effect on Feburary 26. This is a
step forward, and recalls this paragraph from a
statement issued to the Press by the RSPCA in
the middle of January:

Pending the substitution of a trade in carcases, the
RSPCA recommends at once that resting for periods
of ten hours should be obligatory at all ports—in
England and on the Continent. (Cattle imported
into this country must be rested for this period and
fed and watered.) Proper enclosures should be PTOv
vided with food and water. The rest period would
allow the cattle to settle down long enough to have
the heart for taking food and water.

Early Efforts

Whilst acknowledging the valuable help of the
Press, the RSPCA points out that it has been
investigating this trade since its inception in May,
and has actually been in touch with the Ministry
of Agriculture direct since September. A letter
from RSPCA Headquarters to the Meat and
Livestock Division of the Ministry of Agricul’
ture, written in September last, pointed out the
likely distress caused to animals involved in the
trade.

The fact that such a letter had been written was
included in a statement, reviewing the traﬂic,
distributed to the Press on October 18. The full
extent of the trafﬁc was there outlined, the ports
involved were mentioned and the possible
Continental destinations were given. All this, it
was hoped, would induce newspapers, in the

 




 

April 1957

THEANIMALWORLD 43

 

PﬂNlES » EXPDRTED

Sea—voyage Conditions

Mr Amory, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food, declared in the House of Commons,
that ‘apart from the ﬁrst consignment’ four
ponies out of 500 shipped from the United King—
dom to Canada have died on the voyage. He
agreed with questioners that ‘even that position’
was not satisfactory.

As the ponies have been exported through
Glasgow, the RSPCA had asked its sister Society
——the Glasgow and West of Scotland SPCA—to
watch the trafﬁc and do all in its power to mini;
mize the risk of suffering during loading. The
RSPCA has of course done its best to ameliorate
conditions for the ponies in loading in England
and on the journey to Scotland.

QUESTIONS

The Minister of Agriculture expressed his Views
following a series of questions initiated by Mr
Chapman, who asked:

(1) Whether the Dartmoor, and similar pone
nies, now being exported to Canada from
Glasgow and other ports, are examined india
vidually by his veterinary ofﬁcers and rested
beforehand; and if he will give an assurance
that none will be exported in an unﬁt con—
dition;

(2) whether he will prohibit the eXportr-to'l
Canada of any pony likely to foal while on
board ship; -- :;

' (3) whether, in order to avoid the necessity?
of using his statutory powers, he will institute
discussions with the commercial interests con-\
cerned to get voluntary agreements to prevent
the export of ponies via the long Atlantic
crossing during the worst winter months, to
secure separate penning in the ships, and to
arrange, if possible, shipment from other ports
than Glasgow in order to save the long over?»
land journey beforehand. - ' ~
Sir F. Medlicott asked whether the MiniSter
was satisﬁed as to the conditions under which the!
ponies were exported, and if he would take all
steps necessary to ensure that none should be"
exported unless in a ﬁt condition to undertake.
the journey across the Atlantic.

Closely Supervised

MR AMORY: Discussions have been held with the;
shipping companies, and with their cooperation.
this trafﬁc is being closely supervised. The ponies
are inspected by veterinary ofﬁcers who satisfy
themselves that each pony is ﬁt to travel before.
it is shipped. Any pony likely to foal on board.

 

A STRAY COMES HOME
A phone call from a groundsman at the Bloom—
ﬁeld Road Football Ground, Blackpool, to In—
spector Heyes was the ﬁrst step to the reunion of
a cat, lost for seven months, and his worried

  
 
 
  
   

Photograph by courtesy of
Blackpool Evening Gazette’

veterinary assistant,
with the lost cat

Miss Susan Mallinson, .

The telephone call was to the effect that a'
strange black and white cat had been seen limping.—
under the grandstands. ‘

Inspector Heyes immediately collected the cat,
who had shoved his front leg through his leather
collar, which had cut into his right leg to the
bone, inﬂicting a severe injury. , ,, , _

The Inspector removed the leg from the collar
and obtained veterinary attention for the cat,
whose name he learnt from a disc on the collar,

'was Johnny, and whose address was shown as

Burnley.

The Inspector wrote the Chief Inspector at
Blackburn, who went to the address shown on the.
collar, and Inspector Heyes soon had a call from'
Johnny’s owner, who was now living in Burnley. _

Johnny had disappeared seven months previa
ously, whilst with his owners on a caravan'holiv '_
day, and they had been looking anxiously for him~
since. The owners paid all the expenses incurred’
by the Society, and eXpressed their delight." ' '

Johnny’s loss was an accident, but there is a~
moral to this story. Had his collar been of elastic .
his plight would not have been so serious, as he,
would have been able to extricate his leg. The
RSPCA does not advocate collars for cats, but
says that where they are felt to be needed they
shcgluld be of elastic not less than half an inch
W1 e. “ “

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. GOA—e

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

@NETORMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD
» Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Animal World

Incorporating ”The Winged Nlessenger’

 

VOLUME LII No. 4 FOURPENCE _ APRIL 1957

 

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

 

 

 

April 1957

tail caused us, in order to hold off pneumonia
for one more year. And it does not cause dis—
pleasure for long, for anyone who spares his dog’s
tail will ﬁnd, as I have found, that any distorted
taste is quickly corrected, so that one can learn
a little of the manifold beauty of nature from the

dog.

Self-conscious

None of us can easily judge except from our own
experience, but would it not be fairer if, before
we allow this deprivation to be inﬂicted upon a
dog, we should think how we should bear any—
thing similar done to ourselves. Is not any form
of disﬁgurement felt acutely amongst human
beings? And must it not be certain that dogs
whose tails have been amputated feel as self—
conscious about their disﬁgurement as we should
about the loss of one of our limbs. I believe that
if a plebiscite were to be held among dogs (or
should we call it a caniscite?) there would be a
hundred per cent vote against amputation. And
the thing is not so impossible as it seems, for I
have devised a method that would give us a
quite similar test. Since dogs cannot vote, I
suggest that a plebiscite should be held among
men, about a similar thing, the amputation of a
limb, supported by all the arguments that are
used against .dogs. For instance, if a stump
an inch or so long looks so much nicer than
a graceful tail, how much nicer a row of stumps
would look on our hands, instead of ﬁngers.
Or shall we take noses? Shall we say that they
are as ugly as a corgi’s tail, and that they also
should be removed? Shall we say that they are all
in the wrong place, and should be down at the
end of the face and look absurd where they are?
And remember that it would be most unfair to
take our human view of them, since we judge a
dog by our own standards, and so for the pur—
pose of this plebiscite we should judge a nose

by the dog’s. It is only gristle. And, mind you,

this is true when said of a nose; but arguments
need not be true when uttered against a dog, for
he cannot answer, and they seldom are. And then
a nose can be removed perfectly painlessly,
especially if taken off when very young. Is not
that a convincing argument for cutting off our
noses? It is usually so regarded for amputating
dogs’ tails. And then, when walking into a wood
one usually goes nose first, so that the risk of a
thorn in the nose is far greater than the risk of one
in a dog’s tail. And that lump between the eyes
must make it so hard to see, just as the dog of my
grandson’s nurse would be tripped up by a tail
getting between his legs.

d then human beings cannot follow a trail
even when it is only a minute cold, so that their
noses are no use to them, and what is no use it 1s

THEANIMALWORLD* 41

only a kindness to take away. And they are so
much easier to keep clean when only a stump is
left. Look how human beings are always blowing
their noses. Should they not be docked for hy—
gienic reasons? And, ﬁnally, you must admit that
they look much nicer that way.

But perhaps a better parallel to twelve
or fourteen inches of bone would be the
docking of our left arms, on the grounds
that human beings never use their left arms,
and that, therefore, it is only a kindness to
take them away, when it can be done per—
fectly painlessly. And remember again
that, as at this game no answer can be
allowed, the assertion need not be true.
Again, they would look so much nicer
and, again, they would be saved from
thorns.

But perhaps we have had foolish arguments
enough. Once more I. appeal to your reason, and,
when that has overthrown the old witch—
doctrines of fashion, I know that I can rely on
your humanity to say that dogs should share the
mercy that has at last been given to horses. Is
amputation so beautiful that we should inﬂict
it on these defenceless creatures? Should we not
be as intelligent as I am sure they trust us to be?

 

 

This hedgehog fell into an ornamental pool belonging to

Mr C. Pugh, hon treasurer, Ludlow Auxiliary. Exhausted at

ﬁrst he gradually revived in the warmth beside the ﬁre, and

ﬁrst took warm milk, and later tiny pieces of mutton. He is

now ﬁt, and has his own little home in the garden. Flook,

as he is called, is now, of course, free to come and go, as all
such wild animals should be

 




 

 

 

April 1957

——

KINDLY SERVICE
A letter published in the ‘BexhillvonvSea Observer’;

reprinted with acknowledgments.

Sir,—Walking along the front I saw two
representatives of the RSPCA trap a black—
throated diver by throwing a net over it. Placing
the bird carefully in a basket, they took it by van
to the surgery, hoping to free it from the clogging
oil on its body. One could not help feeling both
proud and grateful to belong to a nation that
spends time, money and petrol on one small bird
in distress.

Was it this characteristic attitude of kindness
towards creatures—both human and animal—
rather than territorial conquests that earned
Britain the title of Great?

JOHN C. NOBBS

TERRORS SUBDUED

‘The boys were terrors’ reported one RSPCA
school lecturer after a visit. She was doubtful
Whether her talk was a success, but when she
showed posters and told stories there was quiet
ness and she really took the children to her heart.

Since the last report 152 lectures were given in
schools in Lancashire, Montgomeryshire, Mon;

THEANIMALWORLD 47

mouthshire Carmarthenshire, Shefﬁeld, Little~
hampton, Arundel, Leatherhead, Brighton, South’
ampton, Port Talbot, Ashford area (Kent),
Chatham, Gillingham and the London area.

Thirty—three new Animal Defender groups
were formed; 211 children joined the Head
quarters Group.

@bituary (

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mr
H. R. Tate, former chairman of Dorset North
Branch; Lady Flora Poore, Vice—President of
Dorset North Branch; Miss Gibb, a supporter;
Mr R. McFarlane, chairman of Stockport
Branch; Mrs B. Sowter, hon sec, Waltham Cross
auxiliary for ten years.

At the meeting of the RSPCA Council in
February, the Chairman, Lord Merthyr, an—
nounced the death of The Rt Hon Lord Erskine
of Restormel, who was hon treasurer of the
RSPCA from 1935 until his resignation in 1953.
Up to the time of his death, Lord Erskine was
president of the Northamptonshire Branch. His
age was ninety’one. A letter of sympathy was
sent from the Council to his son and heir, LtvCol
The Hon Donald Cardross Flower Erskine.

 

CGLLECTTGNS

(W9 give wherever possible the place at which the collection was made and the name of the organizer or organizers)

HGUSE TG HGUSE

£ 5. d
Surrey—Sutton and District, Mrs Reader,

branch hon secretary 672 2 5
Gloucester City and District, Mrs M. V.

Nash, branch hon secretary 135 15 0
Forest of Dean, Mrs K. Riddleston, division

hon secretary 85 14 8
Newcastle—upon—Tyne, Mr A. L. Wilson,

branch secretary 66 4 4
Leamington Spa, Miss D. Lake, branch hon

secretary 17312 3
Wilts——Salisbury and District, Miss G.

Wormell, branch hon secretary 216 13 10
Bournemouth and Highcliffe 246 15 O
Ringwood, Mrs Pelling, auxiliary hon secre—

tarv . .. 77 16 2

 

LARGE BEGGING BOX

TEIGNMOUTH, 1956, £108 95. 8d.
CORNWALL EAST BRANCH. Details supplied by Mrs Kendall:

£ 5.
Jamaica Inn 19 6 3
Mr Burnard, Boscastle aux 25 O 0
Mr Libby, Polperro aux 38 O 0
Mrs Pengelly, Hannafore, Loo 25 O 0
Mrs S. Clements, E. Looe—2 boxes 80 O 0
Miss Walker, via Mr Olde’s Cafe, Tintagel... 25 9 3

A HINT

Following a suggestion in a recent issue of Animal World
that cellophane bags make good containers for loose em—
blems when there is a high wind, an hon secretary has
pointed out that ladies’ stockings are frequently sold in
such transparent bags which might be saved for this pur—
pose. In addition, it is believed a number of ﬁrms specialize
in making cellophane bags in various sizes for reasonable
prices.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we

give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of

function, and the name of the organizer or organizeI’SfOllOWed
by the sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting;
they are followed by the word branch, or the name of the
auxiliary, and an indication, where possible, of the person
presiding and of oﬁicials presenting reports; other information
'3 given as necessary.)

Buckinghamshire Beaconsﬁeld, pet show, £5. This show

was organized by Miss Sally Thompson, who at the time
was aged only 15 years.

Burton-on-Trent Christmas draw, Mrs Simpkin (Nether-
seal aux hon sec), net proﬁt of £234 10s. 9d.

Cleveland and Tees Side Saltburn, dance, Mrs Hart (aux
and branch hon sec) and Mr and Mrs Roberts, £8.
Cornwall—East Lostwithiel, presentation by Mrs G. G.
Fortescue (president) to Inspector Grinnall of RSPCA
bronze medal and certiﬁcate, and Sergt Toms of an RSPCA
certiﬁcate, for their part in rescuing a sow from a disused
mineshaft at the old Latchley Consols mine, near Callington.
The sow fell through the cover of the shaft and came to rest
on a ledge about 40 feet down.

 

 

 




 

 

 

April 1957

—'

Pit Ponies at Grass

As it has been suggested that ﬁghting often occurs
between pit ponies when they are brought to the
surface for grazing, a letter was sent to the Coal
Board, whose Secretary answers:

It is quite true that one of the possibilities
that have to be watched if ponies normally stabled
below ground are brought to the surface and
turned out to grass is that the high spirits of a
young and ‘fresh’ pony sometimes take an
aggressive form which leads to ﬁghting with other
ponies. The remedy is, of course, to separate the
high spirited animal from the others, in a separate
paddock or otherwise, and you may rest assured
that the people responsible are on the alert to do
this where necessary.

DONKEYS’ CHARTER _

Wherever donkeys ply for hire, the RSPCA asks-

for conditions to be laid down for their welfare.
The conditions are embodied in the RSPCA
Donkeys’ Charter. Few authorities are without
some body of regulations, and the latest to adopt
the Charter is Port Talbot Town Council, who
control Aberavon Beach. This means that the
donkeys and ponies employed on the beach will
not work more than eight hours a day; they will
have one—andaa’half hours off duty for feeding and
watering and their saddles will be loosened at
threerhourly intervals. The use of sticks and
whips will be forbidden and no person over six;
teen years of age or over seven stone in weight
will be permitted to ride any donkey. Good
news, indeed, for many animals on Aberavon
Pelach, Who hitherto have been exploited to the
u I

STAG HUNT

The RSPCA has now investigated the incident
involving the Devon and Somerset staghounds
recently. .

The investigation would appear to show that
the hind, after being hunted for about ﬁve hours,
arrived at the swollen River Barle in the neigh—
bourhood of Northmoor Road, Dulverton. With
six hounds the hind was carried downriver by the
swift tide to the smaller of three river islands.

At this stage the hind was washed ashore on
to the island, but the RSPCA is satisﬁed that it
was then dead, having been drowned coming
down river. ‘

Witnesses interviewed by the RSPCA were
unanimous in their verdict that it was a most dls—
tressing sight to see the hind swimming frantically
downriver assailed by the hounds. There 13 reason
to believe that at times some of the hounds were
actually astride the hind’s back as it threshed
through the water.

THEANIMAL WORLD 45

As the law stands at present wild animals
have no protection unless in a state of cap—
tivity and the RSPCA has therefore no
grounds for legal action, but it is eager to give
the incident the widest amount of publicity in
order to arouse public indignation and to
bring nearer the day when hunting of deer
with hounds is forbidden. So long as these
hunts continue there is a likelihood of such
incidents. '

The RSPCA has supported a bill introduced
into Parliament seeking to ban this form of hunt—
ing and will continue to support the efforts of
any MP prepared to reintroduce the Measure.

DOGS ON ROADS
The Road Traﬂic Act, 1956, allows local authori—

ties after proper consultation, to designate roads
on which dogs must be kept on a lead if their
owners are to avoid prosecution.

Since this was announced, there has been a
marked increase in the number of dogs brought
for humane destruction to RSPCA Clinics.

This would appear to reﬂect a fear on the part
of some dog owners that their animals are likely
to cause them trouble. The RSPCA feels sure
everyone will agree that the ownership of an
animal should not be undertaken lightly. The
extra care that would be required if many roads
were ‘designated’ should not tempt the true dog
lover to sacriﬁce his pet rather than accept added
responsibility.

It has always been the standard advice of the

/ RSPCA that a dog should be led thrOug'h busy

streets. If this advice is followed the dog will
avoid injury to himself and to the public. He
should be given ample and regular exercise in
parks where he is allowed, and in the country—
but not near lambing ewes. A constant life on a
chain is misery to him and must be avoided.

 

Mrs Boswell of
‘ Bathpool, Launceston,
with her goat friends

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

April 1957

THEANIMAL WORLD 39

 

ON CUTTING OFF DOGS’ TAILS

 

 

This is the full text of a broadcastprepared by Lord Dunsany. A slightly shortened version
was broadcast in Woman’s Hour on the Light Programme of the BBC and aroused much interest.

It is published by courtesy of Lord Dunsany and the BBC.

 

 

May I address an appeal to you, an appeal to your
reason against Fashion? Fashion has commanded
that most dogs must have most of their tails cut
off, and that some dogs mus-t have them ampu—
tated altogether, cut off right from the spine, of
which they are part; and those commands are
servilely obeyed. If I may invite your reason to
inspect those commands with an open mind, as
though Fashion had no authority over you, I have
no doubt of the outcome of that inquiry, and
then, when your reason has given its verdict, I am
sure that your humanity will speak on the side of
mercy. What has Fashion to say about this
mutilation? I will give you all the arguments that
I have ever heard on behalf of it, and will leave
you to judge whether any one of them is worthy

of your reason, and however absurd they are, do
please remember before you laugh, that it is no
joke to the dog. .

First of all, you couldn’t have a terrier going
about with a long tail. And do reﬂect for a
moment about where you would like 16 inches of
bone cut off you, in order that you might appear
smarter to the unnatural taste of some other race.
And then: actually it is a kindness, because if you
didn’t cut off a dog’s tail he might run through a
thorny wood and get a thorn into it. And thirdly,
if you don’t cut them off, it’s so hard to keep
them clean. And fourthly, they look so much
nicer. And, ﬁfthly, if a fox terrier were allowed
to keep his tail, a fox might bite it off when he
went down an earth. Sixthly, that it does not

 

SCRUFFY—AND FIFTY MORE

 

Scruffy

The story of Scruffy, a stray, was told by The ‘Star’,
Shefﬁeld, in an article drawing attention to the local
problem of strays generally. Mrs Collier, branch hon
secretary, was reported as saying: ‘And there are 50 other
dogs waiting just like him at the Home. In all my seven years
here I’ve never known it to be so bad.’ During last year
more than I ,000 stray dogs were brought to the Home from
the City alone. Of the strays brought in one in 20 has a name
and address on the collar—if the stray has a collar at all.

‘Many owners,’ Mrs Collier added, ‘seem to find it too
much trouble to claim their pets, or if they do it is usually
by telephone with a vague description which could ﬁt a
dozen dogs currently on the stray list. We try to impress on
owners that they must come here and identify their dogs.’

 

Helping hand for a stray—Mrs Collier (left) and one of her
helpers, Mrs Anne Rhodes, hand-feed one of the strays

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD GARDNER, HON- JULIET *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
*ALLIBERT, MRS *HARVEY, MRS J - W-, MA RISELEY, MRS R. c.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP HOBHOUSE, J. 5. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. HOGG, 8- R-, ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SIBLY, w. A” ESQ, MA, 1p
B'RANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HUNTER, MISS SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.,
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS LEE, MRS E- M- MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
‘COOPER, J. D., ESQ., JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. G., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A. WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH.B. *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

*Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT—COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON

 

Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ
Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams-“WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

USED &TRIISTEDTHE WORLD OVER

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

OILED BIRDS
THE RSPCA has in preparation a pamphlet

giving advice on the best way of removing oil
from contaminated birds—whether sea birds,
swans or ducks.

Anyone who has useful information is
invited to communicate with The Chief
Veterinary Ofﬁcer, RSPCA, IO 5 Jermyn Street,
London, SW1.

      
 

' SAFE..
; SURE ﬁmﬂxg

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL. ANIMALS

     
 

 

 

 

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND
5456

 

 

 




 

 

 

38 THEANIMALWORLD

April 1957

 

public interest, to publish facts and undertake
independent investigations.

. Unhappily at that time the Press did not seem

so much moved by the likelihood of suffering to
animals as was the RSPCA. Only a few news;
papers quoted the statement.

Other proof of the RSPCA’s concern and its
wish to have something done was shown in Pare
liamentary questions inspired by the Society. We
would recall that as early as November 1 one
question was put to the Ministry of Agriculture,
at the suggestion of the RSPCA, by LtvCol
Bromley—Davenport. At that time the Minister
of Agriculture took the View that transit of cattle
to the Continent was governed by regulations
which he thought were adequate to prevent un’
necessary suffering. This was not the opinion of

the RSPCA.

Carcase Trade
As has already been said, the RSPCA welcomes

the announcement of the enquiry.

There are some who are inclined to think
that because an enquiry is to be held every—
thing has been done. The RSPCA does not
share this complacent View. An enquiry does
not represent the end, but the RSPCA hopes
that it is the beginning of the end, and will
strive to make it so. -

We would remind all who have shown concern
at this trafﬁc that much remains to be done.
RSPCA Inspectors are continuing their investie
gations, and a vast volume of telling evidence of
distress to animals in the trade is already avail—
able and has been placed before the committee.
In the final analysis it is this telling evidence that
will bring about real action.

The RSPCA is convinced that the facts it is
able to marshal will show, as it has held from the
outset, that the trade must be' in carcase meat.

We give the briefest possible outline of the
evidence compiled by RSPCA Inspectors. In scan;
ning it, we must bear in mind that these men
patrolled at all hours of the day and night,
wherever these cattle moved, throughout the
length and breadth of this country, on the high
seas and on the European Continent.

These are the facts as brought to light by their
investigations:

Accommodation of cattle assembled in
England for export showed: Fields entirely
devoid of grass and very muddy; facilities for
feeding, watering and resting not adequate to
cope with the number of animals in transit.

Of transport in England, RSPCA Inspectors
report: undue movement of cattle from market
to market prior to arrival at collecting centres;
cattle known to have been sold in Norwich on
.a Saturday, passed through Burton'on—Trent,

Gloucester and Banbury markets during the en—
suing week and reappearing in Norwich the fol—
lowing Saturday; animals found to be down in
trucks on rail journeys; seven out of 58 were
down in trucks at Ashford on January 17,18.

Bad Weather

Ships when loaded have put to sea in bad weather.
On December 12, SS Bestaever put to sea at
Z a.m. from Yarmouth; still at sea, sheltering of
Dover from 4 a.m. that day until 3.30 a.m. fol»
lowing day, arriving Boulogne 7.30 a.m.—nearly
30 hours at sea; SS Hanne Clausen left Hull
10 pm. October 6, but did not arrive at Rotter—
dam until 8 a.m. October 8; the cattle were em«
barked on the ship before 10 a.m. October 6;
they were on board more than 50 hours; watering
facilities aboard ships are improvised and would
be difficult to put into effect in heavy weather.
Buckets used!

Animals were traced to Italy; others have gone
to Switzerland, and, it is reported, to Czechoe
Slovakia; the Anglo—Italian SPCA reported to
the RSPCA that sealed steel trucks are used,
particularly in Switzerland, and cause cone
siderable distress in hot weather; forage placed
in trucks becomes soiled; ventilation insufﬁcient.
All animals have to be reatrucked at Italian
frontier.

Reports made by RSPCA Investigators who
traced a consignment through France showed:
Lack of adequate feeding and watering; straw left
in wagons for feed useless as placed on ﬂoors and
immediately soiled; water not taken by many
cows owing to nervous and bewildered state.

Cows were seen licking bars of wagons in
an endeavour to drink condensation on ar—
rival at destination—hot weather Will bring
increased suffering.

Several cows were found to be in calf on
slaughter in France, 4 to 5 months pregnancy.

Traﬁc in living animals must stop. A carcase
trade is feasible: carcase meat is already being
shipped from this country to the Continent.

If it should be argued that an entire carcase
trade involving refrigerated transport would
mean higher freightage costs, then the RSPCA
says that this must be faced. Arguments Of
economic expedience can never be accepted in
justiﬁcation of animal suffering.

A ROYAL GIFT

Her Majesty the Queen has sent a generOUS
donation from the Royal Mews Fund to the
RSPCA of which she is the Royal Patron.

EDITOR

 

 

 




 

 

 

40 THEANIMALWORLD

hurt if done properly. And seventhly, when
they are young it is only gristle. And, best of all,
what my grandson’s nurse told him once, when
he asked her why it was done: that if their tails
were not cut off they would get between their
legs when they ran, and trip them up.

Mutilation

Others of you will have heard other arguments in
favour of this mutilation, but are any of them any
better, than this? You can answer all of these as
easily as I' can; but I may mention that I have
some personal experience of the one about
thorns in a wood, for I remember that when I
was a small boy I used to go blackberrying with
bare knees, and this very thing happened to me,
I got thorns into my shins; but, even after the
thorns had got in, nobody ever recommended
amputation. Why, then, should we do it to dogs?
Thorns can be got out without the aid of a
surgeon.

Nor is a leg so much more important to a dog
than his tail, as you will see if you watch every
step that a dog with a tail runs, and even every
step as he walks down a ﬂight of stairs. And once
I took a spaniel of mine out to tea, and there were
some children there who had a spaniel of their
own, and it wanted to play with mine, but
couldn’t, because it had no tail, and so was left
yards behind whenever they turned. A greyhound
that loses his tail will never catch a hare again.

How much tidier a ship would look without a r

rudder sticking out at the end! How much neater
an arrow would be without those ugly feathers!
How much nicer a corgi looks without his tail!

Once I asked a lady who owned one why
a corgi in all his life should never wag his
tail, for he, poor dog, had not even a
stump; and she said that she liked to see it
wagging its whole hindquarters at her. I
asked her if she ever thought of giving her
guests a similar pleasure by having her arms

amputated and wagging her head and

shoulders at them instead of shaking hands.
I pointed out to her that modern surgery
could do it quite painlessly. But even that
did not convince her that I was talking
sense; nor was I; but why should we talk
the same nonsense about dogs?

You would not take away from children the
little ﬂags that they wanted to wave in the street
on some festive occasion. You would not leave
them with two inches of stick and say that is
quite enough for them to wave, and looks much
nicer. Then do pause before you allow anyone
you are able to inﬂuence to be so hard on a
terrier. Let dogs show their little rejoicings. A
St Bernard is allowed to wag his tail. Why
shouldn’t a corgi be? '

April 1957

A Warm Wrap

In the merciful county of Cardigan it is per.
mitted, and there you can see what a splendid-
tail a corgi has, a warm wrap, almost a fur rug,
with which the mother dog keeps her puppies
warm. But in all other counties they say that a
corgi does not need a tail, and they cut it off. It
sounds so cruel, when simply looked at like that,
that those who do it put it about that corgis are
born without tails (unless they are born in
Cardiganshire) and many humane people believe
them, and so do nothing to stop that cruel
deprivation.

But the uses of a tail are not only to keep
puppies warm, and to steer and to rejoice. You
can see many other uses as well as I, or even
better, and I should not be so presumptuous as to
try to instruct you in what you can so easily see
for yourselves. I have only noticed about ﬁfteen
uses for a dog’s tail, and feel sure I am ignorant
of many more, but I DO NOT ARM MY IGNORANCE
WITH A KNIFE, and I feel that, while I am guided
and abide by that motto, there is no harm in my
ignorance. Once a lady told me that her dog was
very fond of going into water, but, whenever he
did he sank straight to the bottom, and she asked
me why I thought that this happened. Well, it
seemed perfectly obvious to me that no animal
would be created with a taste that would lead to
its instant drowning unless a lady was standing
by to save it, for such an animal’s race could not
survive. So I asked the lady if it sunk by the
bows or the stern. She thought for a moment, and
said, ‘by the stern’. And then I asked if she had
cut off its tail. And she said, ‘of course’. And it
seemed to me that that must be the answer.

Of course, the deprivation does not affect
most dogs like that; but their tails are their
rudders, and it is obvious that a spaniel could
never work against a current as a retriever can,
whose tail is luckily spared, because Fashion for
some reason (if Fashion ever reasons) has not yet
turned against him. In the winter many puppies
must die for want of the warm wrap that their
mother’s tail should throw round them; and that
mother must feel intensely the loss of her power
to give that protection, even if she doesn’t quite
know what has happened.

And, at the other end of life, most dogS
that have been deprived of their tails 'must
die a little earlier than was what we call
intended, because, as all of you must have
seen, dogs whose tails have been spared Pl.1t
the feathery ends of their tails over their
noses when they sleep, to take the bite from
the cold air.

Even if the mutilated stump is pretty, and even
if the tail that God gave is ugly, it might seem
fairer to put up with any displeasure a natural

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

42 THEANIMALWORLD

April 1957

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

FEBRUARY 19 57
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,027 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Offenders imprisoned.
45 Oﬁenders ﬁned.

28 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
755 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATIONS OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, kicking
CATTLE—Neglecting, injuring with motor vehicle

SHEEP—Exposing in an unﬁt state

NI—LNUJ

PIGS—Neglecting

DOGsmNeglecting, injuring with missile, shooting and
wounding, throwing from upstairs window, etc. 18

CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding
FOWLs—Neglecting
DUCKS—~Neglecting

RABBITS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner

WWI—*WUJ

BUDGERIGARs—Neglecting, killing in improper manner

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages .

Selling other than a close ringed specimen bred in
captivity...
Shooting

N

.00

Injuries
Using net for the purpose of taking

p—Ap—Ap—AH

VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Keeping fowls when disqualiﬁed
Permitting in an offence 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS ... 47

During FEBRUARY 1957, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 3 years; FIVE for 5 years; ONE for 21 years; ONE
for Life.

In FEBRUARY 1957, one person was disqualiﬁed for 10 years

from keeping animals, under the Protection of Animals (Amend—
ment) Act, 1954.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 4,121
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 107
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 1,470

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,526 Dogs 3,675 Miscellaneous 776 Total 7,977

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,912

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number of animals handled:

Dogs 71 Cats 29 Miscellaneous 3

NIGHT STAFF

Number of calls received: 1,091

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 10

Number of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 226
Number of Inspection complaints: 10

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,694

NORTH WALES UNIT

First aid cases:

Total 103

Cats 42 Dogs 44 Total 86
Number of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 151 Dogs 112 Total 263

Number of miles covered by Unit: 2,400

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 46 Dogs 58 Miscellaneous 2 Total 106 ’
Number of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 89 Dogs 73 Miscellaneous 2 Total 164
Number of miles covered by Unit: 1,194
AWARDS
Current awards at present under review.
RECORDS FOR 1956
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 26,508
CONVICTIONS 1,029
CAUTIONS 8,979

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 145,471

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls: 18,267

as“?




 

44 THE ANIMAL WORLD

ship would not be allowed to travel. My right
hon Friend the Secretary of State for Scotland
and I are satisﬁed that the steps we have taken
should prevent any unnecessary suffering by
ponies being exported even in winter.

MR CHAPMAN: Could not the right hon Gentlea
man try to make a little more progress? Is he not
aware that one of the worst troubles is the long
Atlantic crossing in winter? Could he not get the
commercial interests voluntarily to stop exporting
in the worst months? Secondly, could he not do
something about the question of separate pen;
ning? Is he aware that what happens is that the
unbroken ponies do great damage to each other
in their terror during a stormy Atlantic crossing,
and that it would be a help if he could get the
commercial interests to obey at least those two
requests?

MR AMORY: I will pay the greatest attention to
what the hon Gentleman has said, because I know
how interested he is in this important matter of
humanity to animals. On the two points he has
speciﬁcally asked me about, I am doubtful if
much trOuble arises through winter crossings, as
such, but we are in close touch with the shipping
companies.

On the second point of separate penning, I am
assured that separate penning might even be a
drawback. At present the pens are designed to
hold about ﬁve wild or wildish ponies, and tech—
nical advice at present is that these ponies are
unaccustomed to being alone—like Members
of Parliament, I think—and that if they were put
into separate pens they would become even more
alarmed than they are at present.

Further, because I treat this matter seriously,
I want to say that the main trouble occurred

April 1957

over the ﬁrst consignment, and that as under the
present law there was no need for veterinary
inspection of that consignment, it was not made.
Since then, the veterinary inspection has been
done very carefully and the results, I think, have
been reasonably satisfactory.

Ponies Died

The Minister commented on the number of dead
ponies when Sir H. Studholme, asking whether
there was adequate veterinary inspection, added:

I understand that in the past this has not
been so and a number of in—foal mares have
died en route. These poor little ponies are
quite wild, and, therefore, it must be a horriv
ble experience for them.

An immediate reform has been obtained as a
result of intervention by the RSPCA and the
Glasgow and West of Scotland SPCA. The ship—
ing line carrying the ponies has agreed, after
April, to make shipping available from Bristol.
Were this port used, it would spare the ponies
the rigours of the long journey from the south
coast of England to Scotland.

In this, as so frequently happens, there is
the likelihood of suffering arising from a legal
trafﬁc. Whilst deploring the existence of the
trade, the RSPCA must advocate practical
reforms, which, whilst having the prospect of
adoption, will ameliorate the lot of animals
involved in it. Reforms for which the
RSPCA is striving are: a prohibition of the
trafﬁc between certain months (to cover the
period when foaling is likely and thus to
avoid the risk of parturition during the voy-
age) and a prohibition of the export of ponies
less than six months old.

 

Veterinary Surgeon
Suspended

Attended Cock Fight

The RSPCA prosecution of several people ‘for
assisting at the ﬁghting of cocks’ Was recalled
when a veterinary surgeon, who was one of those
prosecuted, appeared in London. before a disci—
plinary committee of his own profession. He was
ordered to be suspended from the register of
the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons for
twentyaeight days.

The Chairman said the committee had listened .

with great concern and extreme displeasure, and
added: ‘You have brought your profession into
great disrepute by your conviction on this cock—
ﬁghting episode.’

The suspended veterinary surgeon said to the
committee: ‘I do not dispute the charge against

me at all. I feel I was rather a victim of circum—
stances in this case and I am very sorry it has
happened. I can assure you that it will never occur
again. It is the ﬁrst time I have been before this
committee and I hope it will be the last.’

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS

Thanks to recent appeals by the RSPCA:

* Straw bedding is provided for all calves
brought into Lampeter Market.

* No more pet animals will be sold in
Chichester Market.

* Nottingham Corporation forbade, at Not—
tingham Goose Fair, 1956, the exposure of birds
and animals on stalls, for sale, as prizes, or for
any other purpose. For the 1957 Fair, the clause
will be extended to include goldﬁsh. (Intervention
by Mr Harry White, Deputy hon Treasuer of the
RSPCA and hon sec of Nottingham Branch, is
largely responsible for this reform.) -

 

 

 




 

44.6 THEANIMALWORLD

April 1957

 

 

PARLlAMENTARY N EWS

QUESTIONS
Dog Licences

SIR J. LUCAS asked the Chancellor of the Ex;
Chequer whether, in View of contrary decisions
in the courts, he would introduce legislation
declaring, for the avoidance of doubt, whether a
licence to keep a dog applied to the owner or not,
and whether his agent, servant or gamekeeper
was expected to get an additional licence if he
looked after the dog for him as occasion de—
manded.

MR POWELL answered: The law requires any
person who keeps a dog to have a licence. I am
advised that if the owner of a dog normally

houses and feeds it, an agent, servant or game

keeper would not be required to hold a licence in
addition if his custody of the dog was temporary
only; but that is a matter for the courts. (Note:
The RSPCA will continue appealing to people to
100k after the animals of friends and neighbours
who are away on holiday.)

Humane Traps

MR REMNANT asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food whether a satisfactory trap
had yet been evolved as an alternative to the gin.
He was told the several possible alternative traps
were undergoing trials, but the Humane Traps
Advisory Committee would not be ready to
report until later on this year.

ANIMAL BOARDING
ESTABLISHMENTS

Mr Julian Ridsdale, MP, deserves the congratua
lations of all who have at heart the welfare of
animals for successfully piloting through the
Second Reading Stage in the House of Commons
the Animal Boarding EstabliShments Bill. The
voting was- 515.. to, 577a. resounding victory.

The Bill, drafted by the RSPCA, aims at en—
suring that all animal boarding establishments
should be licensed and inspected. ,

As the law stands at present, said Mr Ridsdale,
moving the Second Reading, anyone might start
the business of boarding dogs and cats, irrespeCa
tive of whether the premises were suitable. This
had been a matter of grave concern to the
RSPCA for many years.

There were boarding establishments which
were quite satisfactory, but reports from the
society’s inspectors throughout the country indi»
cated there were many others which were quite
unsuitable. Some lacked facilities for exercise and
had inadequate supervision, poor ventilation,
and many other defects. Each year there were
reports of overcrowding, lack of cleanliness, poor

4'

drainage, and no proper precautions for pre—
venting the spread of disease. Some owners ran
the business purely for proﬁt with no thought for
the wellbeing of the animals. ‘I am glad to say
that the Association of Municipal Corporations
has expressed support for the Bill.’

Licences

Under the Bill licences issued by local authorities
would remain in force for twelve months. The
authorities would be empowered to appoint one
of their ofﬁcers or a veterinary surgeon to inspect
boarding premises. Power would also be given to
the local authorities to close premises in the event
of an outbreak of infectious disease. He would be
glad to consider the question of greyhound
racing kennels in committee.

Mr A. W. J. Greenwood seconding, said:
‘The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, I
understand, has misgivings about some of the
provisions of the Bill, and I think there may be
some force in the criticisms it makes. But these
are essentially committe points.’

Better Light

Mr R. S. Russell said: ‘There are some coun-
tries still practising slavery and others that
practise brutal torture of human beings.
Therefore it shows us up in a still better light
when we think of cruelty to animals.’

Mr J. E. S. Simon (UnderrSecretary at the
Home Office), intervening in the debate, said
that the 1911 Protection of Animals Act made it
a punishable offence to cause unnecessary suffering
to any domestic or captive animal. On the face
of it, that largely covered the purposes that the
promoters of the Bill had in mind. If the House
decided that there was a case for the Bill, it was
the Government’s View that it would provide an
apt way of dealing with the problem, and if the
Bill received a second reading, he undertook to
give such help as he could at the later stages to
shape the Bill into a proper intrument.

 

A sad sick dog arrives by private ambulance for treatment
at the RSPCA Putney Clinic and Convalescent Ward, London

 

 

 




 

. Durham City ..

48 THEANIMALWORLD

 

April 1957

 

 

 

Photo by courtesy of ‘Sheﬁield Telegraph and Star’ Llimited

The RSPCA kindness to animals badge goes to Michael

Carrigan, for rescuing a dog. Whilst Mr D. ]. Haggie, '

branch chairman, looks on, the Manager of the Odeon
Cinema pins the badge on Michael Carrigan’s lapel

Lancashire—East, and Blackburn AM (Burnley auxiliary).
Montgomery Arddleen, whist drive, Mr Pryce Bebb,
£16 12s.

Llandysilio, dance, P. C. Davies, £8 17s. 9d.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Diss, ‘New Picture House’,
collection, Mrs Butler (Long Stratton aux hon sec),
£16 153. 9d.

Nottingham and Notts AM (Retford auxiliary); Lucia,
Viscountess Galway, Council member, presided. Mrs Collier
(Sheﬂield branch hon sec) gave a talk on the activity of her
branch.

Sittingbourne Division Football Ground, collection, Mrs
M. Draper (div hon sec), £15 ls.

Surrey—Purley and District Caterham, dance, Miss V.
Keppel (aux hon sec), £14; whist drive, £11.

Sussex—Mid and Eastbourne Eastbourne, bridge and
Canaster afternoon, Miss Ida Middleton (branch hon sec),
£79 145. 9d.

 

FLAG DAYS—A Reminder

Branches organizing Flag Days are reminded it is advisable
to order their equipment at an early date, preferably at least
four weeks before the Collection is to take place. Early
ordering not only assists Headquarters, but also helps
branches in distributing supplies to collectors and allowing
sufﬁcient time in which to obtain additional equipment if
it is required.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to meet
late orders, but it will be appreciated in such case there can
be no guarantee that supplies will arrive in time.

Provincial Flag Day organizers are also asked to be good
enough to return their materials after the collection with
the least possible delay to facilitate relabelling of tins, etc.
for further use.

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS
Notiﬁed up to time of going to Press on February 28:
Andover Saturday, April 6
Bexhill—oneSea Saturday, May 11
Brigg (Lincolnshire) Saturday, May 18
Bromsgrove Saturday, April 13
Buckinghamshire (County Collection) Saturday, May 18
Chipping Norton Saturday, April 6
Chorley and District Saturday, April 13

Cirencester Saturday, May 4
Congleton Saturday, April 20
Crediton Saturday, April 20
Dover Saturday, April 13

Saturday, May 11
Saturday, April 20
Saturday, April 27
Saturday, April 20
Saturday, May 18

Farnborough (Hampshire) . . .
Fleet and Crookham (Hampshire)
Instow (Devon)
Irthlingborough (Northants) .. .

Llangollen Saturday, May 11
London... ‘ Saturday, May 11
Northumberland—West Branch (Rural

Areas) Saturday, May 18
Norton (Yorkshire) Saturday, May 11
Okehampton Saturday, April 20

Richmond (Yorkshire
Sevenoaks (Rural District)
Sevenoaks (Urban District)
Shipley (Yorkshire)

Saturday, April 6
Saturday, April 27
Saturday, April 27
Saturday, April 13

Sittingbourne Saturday, April 20
Stockton—oanees Saturday, April 6
Stourbridge Saturday, May 4
Tetbury Saturday, April 13
Tiverton Saturday, May 11
Warrington Saturday, April 13
Wellingborough Saturday, May 11

An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with the local hon secre—
tary, whose name and address will gladly be supplied by
RSPCA Headquarters.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

This Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Norwich, Gunville, Trowbridge, Halifax, Broadstairs,
Brighton, Heath and Reach, Didcot, Kingston—upon—Hull,
March, Penshurst, Letchworth, Leek, Llanelly, Stonebroom,
Queensferry, Salford, Worthing, Leeds, Reading, Berk—
hamstead, Redditch, Bristol, Barrow, Ipswich, Colchester,
Wolverhampton, East Bergholt, Langton Green, Shrews—
bury, Coulsdon, Great Gaddesden, Whitby, Potters Bar,
Wealdstone, Longton, Shefﬁeld, Lane End, Sale, Penn,
Dalton—in—Furness, Plymouth, Itchingﬁeld, Rochdale, Thun—
dersley, Sheerness, Holyport, Blandford, Shipley, Iver
Heath, Headington, Lymington, Bexleyheath, Llandudno,
Leicester, North Cadbury, Gillingham, Ireleth, Loughton,
Stanmore, Cheltenham, Fairford, Leyton, Charlbury,
St'James’s, Burnham—on—Sea, Middlesborough, Hunstanton.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS
Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY
II MAY

with
HOUSE-TO-HOUSE COLLECTION
From 5 MAY—II MAY (inclusive)

HOW TO HELP

. By making a street collection in the Metropolitan
Police Area (London and Suburbs) on II May.

By making a house to house collection in London
(and Suburbs) between 5 May and II May (in-
clusive).

. By placing tins and emblems in shops and busi-
ness premises.

. By making a private collection among relatives
and friends, eveﬁ if you do not live in the London

area.
[Photo by courtesy of G. E. Buncombe

‘I’ tt' ' ll t h l th RSPCA’ . .
m 10” mg m a ca 0 ep 6 . By send1ng a donation.

By sending the names and addresses of friends

NB—No one under the age of 18 is permitted to collect Who are prepared to COlleCt'

either in the street or from house to house in the
LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes pos—

sible for young people to make private collections
amongst relatives and friends.

Offers of help, please, to:-
RSPCA, Appeals Dept,
105 Jermyn Street, London SW1

‘Thank you! Well done.”

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




