 

 

May 1953

greatly assisted in its work if the Ordinance
could be more widely publicized. A translation
into Kiswahili would be of inestimable value.

The Society placed more faith in propaganda
than prosecutions, and had proved the value of
their policy of eradicating ignorance.

Propaganda

Over 50,000 pieces of propaganda material had
been distributed throughout the Territory during
the year, and, even then, there was difﬁculty in
keeping up with the demand.

There were now over 5,000 members of the
Society in Tanganyika, and a great number on the
roll were Africans.

Mrs Slater paid tribute to the help given to her
on safari by the police and veterinary ofﬁcers. She
commented that without the cooperation of
those officers the work of the Society would be
much more difﬁcult.

BRANCH NEWS

Birkenhead and Wirral Mr F. Willmer, branch chairman, at
the annual meeting said that the work of the branch locally
was very necessary, and it was a pleasure to see it so well
done. Mr W. H. Munday, secretary, said that during the
year three awards were made for animal life saving. The
clinic superintendent, Mr Henry Little, reported that 1,614
animals were brought to the clinic for treatment during 1952.
The Mayor of Birkenhead, Alderman J. Miller, presided,
and the Mayoress presented prizes to winners of awards in
the essay competition. Mr F. J. Winchester, Council mem-
llger, attended. Tribute was paid to the work of Inspector
erry.

Birmingham and District At the quarterly meeting of the
Dudley auxiliary held in the Central Police Station, Dudley,
Mr C. W. Johnson (Chief Constable), auxiliary hon secre-
tary, reported on the anti—gin—trap campaign, and on the
committee of inquiry into the slaughter of horses.
Blackpool At the branch annual meeting held in the Town
Hall, reports were submitted by Mr F. S. Nicholson, hon
secretary, and by Mrs E. M. Jordan, who gave the ladies’
committee report. Mr A. F. Warner, branch chairman, spoke
of the RSPCA awards to landau drivers. Major Pulleine
spoke about the cruelty of children and a report from
Inspector Heyes showed that 84 verbal cautions for cruelty
were given during the year. Mr T. Bridge, hon treasurer,
said that the accounts showed a credit balance of £307.

Mr A. F. Warner, branch chairman, presented a scroll
and brooch to Mrs C. Gledhill in appreciation of thirty-one
years of service to the Society. Mr F. S. Nicholson, branch
hon secretary, was among those who attended the presenta-
tion.

Bromley and District (Kent) The annual meeting of the
West Wickham auxiliary was held recently at the Lecture
Hall, West Wickham. The chair was taken by Mrs Chamber-
lain, auxiliary president, Who was supported by Mrs Storrar,
auxiliary hon secretary. Mrs Syer was appointed auxiliary
hon secretary in place of Mrs Storrar, who was retlring
for domestic reasons, and Mrs Williams was appointed
to replace Mrs Kennedy as auxiliary hon treasurer. In his
speech Senior Inspector Goodenough expressed regret that
the services of Mrs Storrar and Mrs Kennedy should be lost
to the auxiliary, and thanked them for their services to the
Society as a whole and to the local branch in particular.
Senior Inspector Goodenough gave an account of his work

THE ANIMAL WORLD 57

KINDNESS NOT CRUELTY

One of the RSPCA school lecturers reported that
when he arrived at a school he found one of the
teachers lecturing the children on cruelty to
animals. When I spoke it was not of cruelty but
of Kindness and after my little talk was over the
teacher said ‘Please come back as soon as you can’.

Since the last report 167 lectures were given in
schools in Dorset, Shropshire, Surrey, Essex,
Herefordshire, Suffolk, Oxfordshire, Notting’ ’
hamshire, New Forest, Lancashire, Crewe, Olda
bury, Solihull District, Halifax, Beeley (Derby—
shire), Ellington (Hunts), Aldershot, St Albans,
Ascot, Margate and the London area. Lectures
were also given to a London Parentheacher
Association, a Young Farmers’ Club in Harrow,
and a Young People’s Fellowship in Clapton, E5.

Forty—two new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 599 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

during the ﬂoods and a collection for the Flood Relief Fund
raised £2 14s. 11d.

*

A whist drive organized by Mrs Gibbs, auxiliary hon
secretary, helped by Mrs Moore, at Biggin Hill, raised £12
for the Animal Distress Fund. The Aperﬁeld Hall was lent
free of charge by Mr and Mrs Cox as their donation to the
fund. Mr Hampton, of the Bromley and Kentish Times, was
MC and prizes were presented by Mrs Goodenough. Senior
Inspector Goodenough was thanked for his personal efforts
during the ﬂoods.

The combined groups of Animal Defenders under the
leadership of Mrs N. Hockley gave a concert at St John’s
Hall, Bromley, to help the Animal Distress Fund. The Rein-
deer Group put on a one-act play, the Whippet Group
entertained with songs and solos under the direction of their
own leader, Miss Parnell. The St John’s Youth Fellowship
put on a sketch entitled ‘Waiting for the Bus’. Mrs Hockley
said a word of thanks to Senior Inspector and Mrs Good-
enough. Among those present were Mrs G. Hill (branch
hon secretary), Mrs Walker (asst branch hon secretary),and
Miss Walker. A total of £3 ls. was collected.

Cambridgeshire Mrs Wadham, of Fitzroy Street, Cam-
bright, bought and dressed dolls and sold them for branch
funds. Mr W. Lionel Edscer, clinic hon secretary, who re-
ports this, adds that Mrs P. Hayden, of Long Stanton,
Cambs, raised £13 lls. by a whist drive for branch funds,
and Mrs Jellings, of Swavesey, raised £50 for branch funds
by organizing three whist drives. _
Cirencester At the branch annual meeting held in Ciiren-
cester, reports were submitted by Miss M. Cambray, secre-
tary; Mr H. St G. Rawlins, hon treasurer, and by Senior
Inspector Dadswell. Wing-Comdr Hillier, branch organizer,
gave an address.

Crystal Palace District Speaking at the branch annual
meeting, Mrs Dowdell, a member of the RSPCA Council,
appealed to all to join in the crusade against cruelty to
animals. The meeting was held in St Aubyn’s Church Hall
and all ofﬁcers were re-elected. Mrs Dowdell presented to
Inspector Skinner his medal for twenty-ﬁVe years’ .service
with the RSPCA.

Mrs M. Read, auxiliary hon secretary for Penge, has re-
ceived for branch funds the sum of £8 12s. 9d. collected by a
friend of hers, Mr Rutter, of Musulia, Northern Rhodesia.
Denbighshire West and Colwyn Bay At the branch annual
meeting at Colwyn Bay Hotel, the Mayor of Colwyn Bay,

 

 

 

 




 

VOLUME XLVIII N0 5 THREEPENCE MAY 1953

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo] [Eric Lewis

In mother’s footsteps

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




_~A.i

 

 

 

-1_._._..&-u.~vv;~ W-t» .

~‘<_— ———~——.

 

L‘;»&‘ a .J-
I: A J Lu,

May 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD A 51

GALLEY SLAVEs

 

Photo] '

Mr H. E. Bywater, RSPCA Council Member,
has compared the life of the battery hen to that
of the galley slave. '

On humanitarian grounds the RSPCA is op—
posed to the battery system of henakeeping. As in
all its propaganda the Society seek to prove that
cruelty as well as being wrong morally does not
pay.

Readers of ANIMAL WORLD will therefore read
with interest the following article which is re
printed from the Eastern Daily Press by courtesy
of the Editor.

HIGHEST EGG PROFITS FROM DEEP LITTER

Proﬁts from three systems of poultry manage;
ment and from winter and summer egg produc—
tion are compared in a report from the Farm
Economics Branch of Cambridge University
Department of Agriculture, giving the ﬁrst year’s
results from a costing scheme.

The highest proﬁt, 13s. 1061. a bird, was ob!
tained from production in deep litter units and
henayards. Proﬁt from batteries amounted to
83. 4d. and from birds on free range to 73. 8d. per
head. Production rates were 49, 54 and 41 per

. cent respectively. Food was the largest single item

of expense and was highest for battery birds.
Battery production was shown to be scarcely
proﬁtable in summer, which was of course the

best season for birds on range. From February to

0

[Courtesy of Felix H. Man (Reports)

August batteries made only 9d. per bird, despite
a high egg yield. With deep litter and hen—yards
the return was 43. 6d. per head and with range
birds Ss. 10d.

The report suggests that the high cost of bought
meal, coupled with low summer egg prices, ac—
count for the poor reward for battery birds. Bat—
tery producers are advised either to sell out in
spring or, if summer production is continued, to
cheapen the ration by the addition of cereals.
Only in this way can summer production be made
proﬁtable it is considered.

The feeding of grain and homeamixed meal sub
stantially lowered feed costs in henvyard and litter
units so that a good egg yield was obtained at
relatively low expense and production was proﬁt'
able in winter and summer.

The economic advantages of home rearing are
clearly shown (the cost of rearing a pullet was
183.), as are the proﬁts which result from keeping
the birds after their laying year is completed and
fattening them for the Christmas market. The
report: ‘Some Economic Considerations of Com—
mercial Egg Production, 1951—52’——Which in;
cludes other suggestions to improve manage’
ment based on data from the inquiry, can be
obtained from the Farm Economics Branch,
School of Agriculture, Cambridge, price ls. 6d.
post free. ‘ .

 




.V-_ \1‘
Mr 4
i: <

 

 

 

 

£5 RE WARD. Lost March l 4th in Uckfield (Sussex) District,
‘Donnie’, rough-haired golden lurcher type dog. Com-
municate police or Fisher, Framfield 225.

 

FLAG DAYS

Branch ofﬁcials are reminded it is advisable to order
flag day equipment about four weeks before the
actual date of the collection. The number of such
efforts has increased to a very gratifying extent and it
will assist Headquarters in dealing with ﬂag day
requirements if orders are placed at an early date;
early delivery of equipment to organizers will assist
in the distribution of tins, trays and emblems to
collectors and will allow time in which to order
additional equipment should the original order prove
inadequate to meet late offers of potential collectors.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to
meet rush orders and equipment will be placed on
rail if necessary, but in such cases there can be no
guarantee that supplies will arrive in time in spite of
every endeavour made by Headquarters.

Early ordering and delivery of ﬂag day equipment
does much to assist in making successful collections.

 

 

 

LINNETS BROUGHT TO COURT

Four linnets chirped in Bolton County MagiSa
trates’ Court. They were there in their cage as
evidence in the prosecution against a stoker. He
had pleaded guilty to keeping wild birds—the
four linnets—and to keeping two of them in
cages that were too small for them to stretch
their wings. They were caught, he said, five
months previously.

The solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that the magistrates had power to impose a ﬁne
of £1 a bird for the ﬁrst offence, and £25 or three
months’ gaol for the second.

A police constable saw the birds in cages in a
ﬁeld near the defendant’s home. Inspector C. E.
King, of the RSPCA, said that the two cages
measured 7%- in. X 5% in. X 5% in. The linnets had
a 10 in. wing span. '

The defendant, who told the court that he did
not know that it was illegal to keep the birds, and
that he had only put them in the small cages
temporarily, was ﬁned £1 on each of two charges
and ordered to pay £4 43. costs. (Case No.
A.6661.)

 

OVERSEAS

News from overseas is welcome. RSPCA Branches
abroad, and afﬁliated societies, are invited to send
reports and photographs for publication in ANIMAL
WORLD. Please address material: Chief Secretary,
RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOUSE-TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS—
SUGGESTED SALE OF TOKENS

A Branch Organizer has suggested it might add to the
popularity of house—to—house collections if a token could
be handed to donors in the same manner as an emblem is
used for street collections (ﬂag days). There are objections
to the use of the Flag Day emblem for house—to—house
collections, unless such collections are being made in con-
junction with a Flag Day, when the emblem is quite in
order. The Council has approved the use of the token,
which is quite attractive—the coat of arms is the centre—
piece, with a surround bearing the words ‘RSPCA—
House to House Collection’. There is no pin, as in the case
of the Flag Day emblem, since the token is not intended to
be worn, but is exactly what it is called, i.e. a token for a
gift received on behalf of the RSPCA. A specimen of the
token will gladly be forwarded to Branches contemplating
the organization of a house—to—house collection.

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 




 

 

 

-- THE ,
' THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol XLVIII No 5 New Series MAY 1953 iRgfieliiE‘Egg‘igg

 

 

 

 

A GREAT TRADITION

With profound sorrow ANIMAL WORLD re;
cords the death of Her Majesty Queen
Mary, who, as the last bulletin from Marl—
borough House announced, died while
sleeping peacefully. Her Majesty became a
Royal Patron of the RSPCA in 1911.

The grief of this bereavement had a per—
sonal signiﬁcance for each one in our
nation, and for us at the RSPCA it was alr
most as if a legend had passed from our
annals. In the Society’s ofﬁcial history (A
Century of Work for Animals) we read:

Queen Mary (then Duchess of York)

honoured the Society by presenting the

prizes at the annual meeting in 1895.

Her father, HRH The Duke of Teck, J».
GCVO, was President of the RSPCA; her
mother, HRH Princess Mary, Duchess of
Teck, a Royal Patron.

In 1904, the RSPCA’S present Heada
quarters building in Jermyn Street, London,
after reconstruction, was ofﬁcially opened
by her husband, then Prince of Wales. Once
again, in 1907, Her Majesty presented the
prizes at the Society’s annual meeting,
showing by this gesture the value placed by
her upon the work of humane education
among children“ Many years ago, Queen
Mary followed the example of Queen
Alexandra and made known her views on
the subject of fashionable plumage. Her
Majesty said that she had read letters on
the subject of ospreys and had given special
instructions that nothing of the kind was to
be used in her millinery. (An Act of Parlia’
ment now prohibits the import of such
feathers.)

People whose interest is suddenly aroused
by some sterling effort on the part of the
RSPCA will often exclaim incredulously
‘Never!’ when learning that the Society
has been in existence for 129 years. To us
favourite portrait who are familiar with this fact there is

' something to inspire awe as we reﬂect that
in Her Majesty was one who had known
and helped the work of the RSPCA for

practically half of its long existence!

   

[Photoz Hay Wrightson

 

Her late Majesty’s own

 

 

  
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

May 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 53

 

SOS—A CRY FROM OVERSEAS

We thank donors listed for their generous gifts made in
response to the recent appeal published in ANIMAL WORLD.

£ 5. d.
Mrs Akehurst, Gunnersbury, W4 10 O 0
Miss B. Smith, hon sec, Biggleswade Auxiliary 5 O 0
Miss G. M. Hoyle, Cleckheaton, Yorks 10 0
Mrs I. B. Jackson, Stamford, Lincs 5 O 0
Miss Kerney, Morecambe, Lancs 1 10 0
Mrs H. F. M. Taylor, hon sec, Ilminster Au 1 O 0
Miss G. B. Foster, Sidmouth, Devon . . 2 0
Mr and Mrs George Lomas, Bury, Lancs 1 1 0
Mr M. Gimson, Leicester 1 1 O
Cheshire (Altrincham) Branch 50 O O
Ealing and District Branch 100 O 0
Miss D. Cooper, Lewisham, SE13 10 0
Miss K. M. Salmon, Reading 1 1 O

STILL HELPING AT 83

Miss M. L. Jordan, auxiliary hon secretary of
TanworthainaArden, began collecting for the local
branch of the RSPCA in 1933, when she was 63
years of age. Her collection was then 155. Last
year at the age of 82 she collected £55 105. Now
aged 83, Miss Jordan hopes to obtain the same
sum this year. We wish her luck. Incidentally,
Miss Jordan has collected in, all £369 15-1061. for

branch funds.

REFLECTING DOG COLLAR

Readers will recall that a reﬂecting dog collar has
been put on the market by a commercial firm.
We are reminded that some time ago such a collar
was suggested by Inspector Spencer.

 

 

 

[Photos by courtesy of Glossop Chronicle and High Peak Reporter

The three pictures above tell the story of how the television cameras depicted the story of rescue, work

organized by lnspector E. Coles, of Stockport. Following blizzards in his area the Inspector organized

parties of local hikers who went with him to rescue sheep either buried in the snow or marooned by
. , heavy falls .

 




 

 

Addy 1953

the heifer into getting itself free of its entanglev
ments, whereupon it promptly charged.

Nine ﬁremen on the end of the rope pulled
sharply so that the man was dragged out of reach.
The moment he was safe a bale of straw was
thrown into the spot the heifer had vacated.

This piece of pantomime was repeated until
sixty’eight bales of straw had been dropped.
These raised the pit to ground level; and the cow,
with magniﬁcent unconcern, walked out as
though nothing had happened.

Station’Ofﬁcer L. G. Colborne and Mr C.
Reeve, the two ‘stooges’ of this rescue, both re;
ceived Bronze Medals.

Not always are the heroes of these incidents
men.\X/omen and children ﬁgure prominently in
the list of awards. Take, for instance, that entry
which reads ‘Rescue of Pony at Lyndale Hotel,
Lynmouth, August 15, 1952.’

Unharmed

More than forty Lynmouth people lost their
lives that night when a torrent of water swept

THE ANIMAL WORLD ’ 55’

through the town with uncontrollable force. In
the thick of the ﬂooded area was the Lyndale
Hotel, inside which young Jennifer Pearce was
sitting.

As the ﬂood cascaded by the door Jennifer at
once thought of her pony, marooned on the other
side of the stream. As the ﬂoods'mounted she
started to wade across to the stable, bracing her,
self against the ﬂow of water. By the time she
reached the outvbuildings the water was as high as
her chest.

Inside the stable her pony was waiting. Some»
how she found a bridle, but the stream was
mounting and there was no time to ﬁt it over the
pony. So she threw the reins over the animal’s
neck and urged it forward. Jennifer and her
pony both reached the hotel, soaked but un~
harmed.

Bear in mind that this happened in darkness,
under circumstances which might well have
caused panic. Note, also, that Jennifer Pearce is
only eleven years old.

Never was the RSPCA’S medal for gallantry
more hardly won, or better deserved.

 

‘CALLOUS AND DlSGRACEFUL CASE’
—this is the victim

 

CAT REVIVED
Inspector Morris recently had the pleasure of
seeing a cat revive after he had applied artiﬁcial

respiration for about ﬁfteen minutes. The In;

spector received a call from a Mr Thomas, of
Dalton—in—Furness to the effect that his cat had
been in a room full of smoke and was ‘in a bad
way’., At the home of the caller the Inspector
was told that the family had gone out in the even—

NEGLECTED BULLDOG

At a time when there was three inches of
snow on the ground, this bulldog bitch, in an
emaciated condition, and with a sore on the
head and legs, was seen in the streets by a
police constable. The RSPCA was called and
lnspector Perry was told by the owner: the
dog had‘ had sores on the head and feet for"
two years.

A piece of dry bread given by the lnspector
to the dog was eaten ravenously.

When the RSPCA took the owner before
the Ellesmere Port Magistrates on a charge
of neglecting the dog, he was fined £l0 and
had to pay £8 8:. costs, The dog was given a
humane end. ‘This’, said the Chairman of the
Bench, ‘is one of the most callous and dis-
graceful cases of neglect we have yet heard’
(A6448)

ing and forgotten to remove a pan of fat from an
electric stove which had not been turned out.
When they returned they found the house full
of smoke and in the kitchen the cat was almost
unconscious and gasping for breath. ‘

On his next visit after applying artiﬁcial respira
ation Inspector Morris found the cat almost
normal and little the worse for his unhappy
experience. ‘ ' - . ,

 




 

May 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 59

 

had supported them. Miss Rees, the hon secretary, had with
her attended the Honorary Secretaries’ Conference in Lon-
don last year and had gained a wider vision of the Society’s
work. Wing-Comdr Hillier, branch organizer, thought that
much of the success of the branch was due to tremendous
local enthusiasm. The president was supported by Miss
Ethel Rees, hon secretary; Mrs Sheppard, hon clinic secre-
tary, and Mr Sheppard; Mr and Mrs Herbert Lloyd; Mr
Gordon Grifﬁths, MBE, Borough Surveyor, and Mrs
Grifﬁths; Mr David, hon treasurer, and Mrs David; Mrs
Marion David and Mrs Eleanor Pangos.

Hampshire—-New Forest Mrs Colwill, New Milton auxili-
my hon secretary, organized a jumble sale which resulted in
a proﬁt of £31 including donations for branch funds.

A bring-and-buy sale at Mrs de Mowbray’s house,
Lymington. raised £21.

Hampshire—Winchester Dr E. G. Selwyn, Dean of Win-
chester, branch president, took the chair at the annual
meeting and he was thanked on a proposal of the
Mayor of Winchester, Councillor Miss Doris Edmeades.
Major Chapman described the work of the RSPCA
ofﬁcials in rescuing animals during the ﬂoods, and
he was thanked by Mrs Wallis Power, Vice—Chairman of the
RSPCA Council. Mrs Lombard-Hobson, branch hon
secretary, reported that a house-to-house collection raised
£168, the highest sum ever raised. Senior Inspector Evans,
in presenting his report, spoke of the increase in cruelty
to animals by children. Ofﬁcers elected were: hon secretary,
Mrs Lombard-Hobson; hon treasurer, Capt Sir John
Alleyne, RN; committee, Mr W. P. Dickinson (chairman),
Lady Alleyne, Miss Eileen Brown, Mr L. Fearon, Miss
GilleSpie. Miss Lowth and Mr Frank Warren.

Isle of Wight Mr R. 1. Watson (hon treasurer), presenting
the ﬁnancial statement at the branch annual meeting at the
Royal Esplanade Hotel, Ryde, said that the amount re-
ceived from collections during the year had increased by £62
and ﬂag day receipts had risen by £198. A report was sub-
mitted by Miss Parish, branch hon secretary.

Mrs Wallis Power, vice-chairman of the RSPCA Council,

who represented Headquarters, congratulated the chairman
and hon secretary on the way in which funds had come in
and the general management of the branch. She noted with
satisfaction that they were thinking of establishing a dogs’
home in the Island because it was very necessary. Mrs
Wallis Power spoke of the ﬂood-rescue work‘ undertaken
by the RSPCA.
Kent——Ashford and District At the branch annual meeting
Lady Ritchie, president, expressed appreciation of all the
work done by the branch hon secretary, Mr H. A. Crothall,
by Miss C. Barton, of Smeeth, who had helped with the
clerical work, and by Inspector Coles. Mr Crothall said that
the year under review had been the best the branch had had
since the war. He thanked all secretaries and collectors for
their hard work. The Inspector’s report showed that com-
pliants of alleged cruelty numbered 153. Mr Allan Joiner
from Headquarters, briefly reviewed the Society’s history
and spoke of its local work.

Over £10 was raised for the Animal Distress Fund at a
concert in the Memorial Hall, Ashford. Lady Ritchie, branch
president, was handed ﬂowers, given by Mrs Fielding—Mould,
by Monica Wynburne. Prizes were presented to wmners by
Sir James Ritchie. Organizers of the concert were Mrs
Hopkins, Woodchurch auxiliary hon secretary, and Mrs
Herbert, Bethersden auxiliary hon secretary. Those who
took part were Tenterden Choral Society, Leslie Palmer
(piano), Charles Smith, Margaret Little and Kenneth
Goodall (vocal solos), and members of Bethersden WI
Drama Group. ‘

*

Mr H. A. Crothall, branch hon secretary, gave a talk on
the growth and work of the RSPCA to Beaver Congrega-
tional Women’s Pleasant Hour at the Congregational
Church, Beaver Road, Ashford.

Kent—Canterbury and District Two whist drives held in
Canterbury in January and February raised £3 55. 11d.
and £6 2s. 8d. respectively for branch funds. (Report from
Mrs Dance, branch hon secretary.)

Kent—Folkestone, and District Inspector Wolfenden gave
a. talk on the welfare and protection of animals at No 6
District Police Training Centre, Sandgate.
Lancashire—North, and Borders At the branch annual
meeting in the Empire Cafe, Morecambe, His Worship the
Mayor, Councillor N. P. Edmondson, JP, presided. Reports
were submitted by Miss Shaw, branch hon secretary, and
by Mr G. W. Ashworth, hon treasurer, as well as by Senior
Inspector Oxley. Major F. N. L. Chapman spoke about the
RSPCA rescue work in the flood areas. A collection of over
£9 was taken at the close of the meeting.

Miss Shaw, branch hon secretary, organized a jumble sale
in Sion Church Schoolroom, Morecambe, and raised
£12 10s. for branch funds. Miss Shaw had the help of mem-
bers of the Morecambe auxiliary and of Senior Inspector
Oxley. *

Lincolnshire—South and Grantham As a result of a Police
Ball held recently in Boston, Supt Taylor, of the Boston
Division, Lincolnshire Constabulary, has presented to the
local branch the sum of £20. Senior Inspector Meara, re-
porting this, says that this is the third donation the branch .
has had from the police in the last few years.

Loughborough and North Leicestershire A whist drive
organized by the Misses Cayless (Miss M. Harridge-Cayless
is branch hon secretary), at the Deaf and Dumb Hall,
Loughborough, raised £23 43., half of which went to the
RSPCA Animal Distress Fund.

Monmouthshire At the annual general meeting of the
Monmouth auxiliary held at the Red Cross Centre, Mon;
mouth, Lt-Col C. F. S. Maclaverty, chairman, welcomed
Mrs Pughe-Evans, branch hon secretary. Senior Inspector
Godley’s report showed that he had investigated 129 com-
plaints of cruelty. Lt-Col Maclaverty paid tribute to Mrs
Charles Grifﬁn and Mr F. C. Borrett for the work they had
done for the RSPCA in Monmouth. In the absence of the
hon treasurer, Mr J. G. Meredith, a ﬁnancial statement was
presented by the hon secretary, Miss Probyn.

Montgomery About £20 was raised for branch funds at a
dance» organized in the Community Centre, Abermule, by
Inspector Rees.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne At a meeting of RSPCA honorary
auxiliary secretaries and other oﬂﬁcers held at the Newcastle
Animal Clinic, the chairman, Mr Allan Deans Brown,
presented RSPCA Merit Certiﬁcates to Police-Constable
Alan Batty and RSPCA Inspector Nairn for their joint rescue

 

 

   

.. ,. ~. 9.. .. -.-.‘.-.-.---..-3-\ ..\;.;.- .,,. -.;
[Photograph by courtesy of Daily Herald

judy disappeared for two days. She was seen on a chimney

stack, but would not come down even when tempted by

milk and fish. Michael would .not eat so long as his cat was

on the chimney stack. Finally the RSPCA was called and
‘ lady was rescued

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATH LONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHEss OF PORTLAND SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, IION LLI), l) MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE RT HON THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

 

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, Tl)
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

TAGIUS, THE REv DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA *EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POUII-II. IIII-. Rl ”UN 1111-: mm.
*ALLIEERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POWELL, COL RM, DSO
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP GASKOIN. C- J- Bu ESQ, MA RAI'IRAY, 'I III: RI-v l)R R. P.
EERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA. MP *Rugcx, n, IL, [SQ
*HARVEY MRSJ W MA . ~ _, , . . ,. I . ,
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS : - -, MIAI-IISIIUR». lHIz RI IION IHI: LOUNTESS OF

*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC
*HUNTER, MISS

BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS

SMILY, \V. A., ISQ, MA, JI’
SNELL, 'I’IIIi RI-\" I’RIEN‘ZNI)ARY L. J. 8., MBE, JP

 

 

 

*COOPLR, ALDERMAN J. D” JP LEE, MRS 'IERRING’I‘ON, 'I'HIi RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP ,""““’Mf‘s' “" 7‘" WM“ 1" "59'
*DOWDELL’ MRS LONGMAN’ MRS w. ‘1 UINLLI , I.II‘IJI-(L).5151ANI)ER R. L., MA RN
ERSKINE OF RESTORMEL, THE RT HON THE LORD MURRAY, BRIGADIER C. A., CBE, MRCVS \VALI‘URI). MR5 DI'bUURUUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LON-D), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WIIII‘I:. HARRY. FSQ. H‘A
(CANTAB), DOMS *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC “VINCIIIaSI‘IaR. |-‘. J., ISO, I-‘CIS, FSS
* Denotes Branch Representative T Denotes (‘O-Optcd Member
OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL
\Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP (‘hiel‘ Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, I-SQ, MIJE, ACIs
Deput, H9" Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, 1350. FCA Assistant Secretary I). A. I . (‘A\1.\I, ISO, HA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB Legal Secretaryvrj. HALL, ISO
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Officer ~MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
‘ ’ Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE & GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS ‘ .
Telegrams— CRU-ELTY LONDON. 1 clephone—WhItehall 7177

 

9&1REE WORlD OVER

Here’s a ﬁne

book which
will appeal

to every

Dog Lover!

 

‘SPRATT’S GUIDE TO DOG MANAGEMENT’
88 pages, plus 8 art plates in full colour accurately illus-
trating 4! leading breeds. Subjects covered include:
Training, Management, Feeding. Grooming, Breeding.
and Housing. Obtainable from your usual Spratt’s Stockist,
price l/6d., or in case of difﬁculty, price l/8d. post free»
from Dept. A.W. at the address below.

. . . published by the manufacturers of

// SPRATT’S
“a ) Biscuit

DOG FOODS

SPRATT’S PATENT LTD., 4l/47 BOW ROAD. LONDOELE-S.‘

     

mm M ﬁg
SAFE" *-

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

ICCIES AND SHELVDKE [ID ‘ BIRMINGHAM - 6

        

ENGLAND
5465

 

 

 

‘ .. ALEJPA.




 

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

 

 

MARCH 1953

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,235 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Offenders imprisoned.
85 Oﬁenders ﬁned.

30 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in

writing.

863 Registered Cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state, over—

riding 9
DONKEYS—Overloading ... .. ... 1

CATTLE—-—N€gleCting, travelling when in an unﬁt state,

attempting to kill in improper manner 3

.. 3

SHEEP—Neglecting, kicking .. .
PIGS—Neglecting, conveying and exposing for sale when
in an unﬁt state, beating .
DOGS—~—Neglecting, starving, shooting and wounding,
killing in improper manner 23
CATS—Neglecting, beating, killing in improper manner,
setting ﬁre to tail
FOWLsmNeglecting, beating and stoning

000 to

0“ .00 4

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 5
Using decoy bird 1

too 000

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds

‘0’ 3

Using traps for the purpose of taking 2

Using bird lime . . . .. 1
Shooting . . . . . 1

VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Steelvtooth traps—set in open . . .. 7
Permitting in Oﬁences . . 4
Causing in Oﬁences . 3

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 88

During MARCH 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed THIRTEEN persons from owning a dog or holding a
dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations- were as follows:
TWELVE MONTHS; TWO for TWO YEARS;

YEARS; THREE for TEN YEARS; TWO for LIFE.

THREE for
THREE for THREE

THERSPCA AT WORK

9

0.0 .00 0a. 9

' l “ )MPLAINTS from ,laniiarw ls! 6,514
Tota num er of et .
Total number of CONVICTIONS from Janna .- Is: 223
b“ ‘ ‘AL‘TIONS from: .lIIHHIH x" In: 2,423
Tota mim tr 0 e

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,446 Dogs, 3,907 .\1:'sc.. If: llwzal. 8,575

‘l 'r l "H """'1‘\’ int—ml: 1&3;
I\o. o anmias gain immgue ,7 i

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

N0. of animals handled:
Cats, 16 Dogs, 74 Misc, 0 ll : .l, ”0

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,423
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of it; x 71! calls: 1,370
No. of animals rescued: 12

N0. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: ‘ I _

.....1

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid Cases:

Cats, 44 Dogs, 87 Slim, J, Total, 1 35
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 98 Dogs, 74 Misc, 1 Total. 173

No. of miles covered by Unit (luring month: 3.103

AWARDS

Current awards at present antler reviezi'.

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS .. 10730
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... ”03
CAUTIONS I 1 ,59‘)

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 160,263

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19,839

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,083

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross
Silver Medals .
Bars to Silver Medals
Bronze Medals
Bars to Bronze Medals
Merit Certiﬁcates

6 U1 H
4,;UltJ‘VJr—Ar—d

   

  
     

br~

   
   
   
   
  

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

i

52 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1953

 

 

FUNERAL OF SIR ROBERT GOWER

The funeral service for the late Sir Robert Gower
was held at Holy Trinity Church, Tunbridge
Wells, and was conducted by Canon H. W.
Hedley Thomas, assisted by the Rev Hopkins,
who represented the Bishop of Rochester, the
Right Rev C. M. Chavasse. The principal family
mourner was Lady Gower (widow).

The Council of the RSPCA was represented by
its Chairman, Lord Merthyr. Other Council
members who attended were Colonel R. M.
Powell, ViceaPresident, and Dr W. S. Russell
Thomas. .

From the Kent—Tunbridge Wells and District
Branch were Mr C. H. B. Draper, deputy chairv
man, and Miss Hayes Newington, district hon
secretary. Major C. A. Ogden represented the
Crowborough, East Grinstead and District
Branch, of which he is hon treasurer and hon
secretary. Mrs R. M. Powell represented the
West Malling Auxiliary.

Dr Russell Thomas was accompanied by Mrs
Russell Thomas.

Mr Arthur W. Moss, chief secretary, attended
and the following Inspectors acted as an escort:
RSPCA Senior Inspector A. L. Smith of Seven
oaks, RSPCA Inspector P. O. J. Pigott, of Tun—
bridge Wells; RSPCA Inspector J. H. Coles, of

~« »- Ashford, Kent; RSPCA Inspector W. Checks—

ﬁeld, of Maidstone; RSPCA Inspector W. F.

 

[Picture by courtesy of the Folkestone and Hythe Gazette

 

 

Pennell, of East Grinstead, and RSPCA Inspector
W. Wolfenden, of Folkestone.

Major R. C. G. Hancock represented the British
Veterinary Association.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we .report the following
deaths:

Mrs Mackintosh, hon sec of Borth Auxiliary,
Mrs M. Sayer, member of Suffolk—East Coast
Constable Branch Committee; Mrs Mitchell, hon
sec of Maidenhead Auxiliary; Miss Maclean,
hon sec of Brockenhurst Auxiliary; Mr E. W.
Abbott, hon auditor of Cardiif Branch; Lady
Theresa Cross, vice’president of Loughborough
Branch for 25 years; Mrs E. L. Gillett, member
of Manchester Branch Committee; Miss Buller,
former hon sec and supporter of Surrey—Epsom
Branch for 41 years.

Echo of Lynmouth Disaster

The last animal Victims of the flood to be restored
to their homes were three cats, who returned to
their delighted owners on March 5. This happy
event brings the Lynmouth story to a close,
thanks to the help so generously given by the
Bournemouth Branch. 7

 

The RSPCA publishes leaflets on the care of most animals.

An unusual visitor to Hythe was this badger found in a
house in Albion Villas, Wood Road, Hythe. Inspector
Wolfenden was called and caught the animal, who spent
a little time at the Branch Clinic before being released
in his natural surroundings by the Inspector.

The badger is described by F. Howard Lancum in
Bulletin No. l50 published by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries, as being a model of tidiness, The badger:

he says, does an immense amount of good. He eats rats,

mice, voles and injurious insects.

AA.“ AA.

~ in“; (in. ‘1'"
’4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

54 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1953

 

ﬁ.‘

 

ﬁONlYa 0A .’1 ” 5M

Reprinted from ANSWERS, by courtesy of the Editor.

But it was someone’s pet, and a life to be
saved. Through ﬁre and ﬂood go the rescuers
of our animal friends.

By DAVID LEADER

Note: Previous reports in ‘Animal World’ have de—
scribed some of the ensuing rescues, but the article is
reprinted because of its interesting style and because it
shows how a popular journal recognizes public
interest in this aspect of RSPCA work.

A dog trembled on the ledge of a cliff face, three
hundred feet above the sea at Beachy Head. He
was an old dog, nearly blind, and badly frightened
~~and at intervals the sound of his cries reached
the people above him.

‘You can’t expect anyone to go down there
after him’, they said. ‘Not for a dog.’

But it was someone’s pet, and a life to be saved.
So they sent for the RSPCA Inspector. The In—
spector, as soon as he arrived on the scene, called
for a rope and lowered himself over the cliff. The
crowd above watched anxiously as he began to
descend. ,

Half—way down the rope began to swing, and
the Inspector crashed into the cliff face. Badly
shaken, he crawled into a cave; this fell in,
knocking him out. When he recovered conscious;
ness he climbed down to where the dog was still
waiting, tied a loop of rope round his middle,
and gave the signal to be hauled up.

Day—by—Day Adventures

The Inspector lost consciousness again on the
ﬁnal haul to the cliff top, and woke to ﬁnd the
delighted dog licking his face, ‘

Incidents like this happen nearly every day.
At the headquarters of the RSPCA in London I
saw a ledger containing brief references to hun—
dreds of such cases. Behind every terse entry such
as ‘Cat rescued from tree’ or ‘Rescue of dog from
pit’, there lies a story of humanity and courage.

In all these cases there is danger for the rescuer,
and a frightened animal is anything but co—
operative. But let us look into one of these stories
which has a happy ending—one which is referred
to in the book simply as ‘Rescue of Two Horses
from stables of 2nd Paratroop Lines, Aldershot.’

On an April evening in 1951 these stables

caught ﬁre. Private NewmanaKnott, a groom for
two of the horses inside, heard the cry of ﬁre
raised while he was sitting in a nearby house. He
rushed to the spot and found the wooden buildv
ings blazing.Without hesitating he ran inside, un‘
fastened the horse nearest the ﬂames, and led it
outside.

Another soldier tried to enter the building, but
the smoke and ﬂames drove him back.

Pte Newmaannott ran once more into the in—
ferno. The dry tinder was dissolving into ﬂames
all round him, and great tongues of ﬁre seared his

'face and hands. Then, through the smoke, he saw

the second horse, struggling madly in a panic to
get free. The walls of its box were already burning
as the rescuer reached it. He dragged the fright—
ened animal back through the ﬂames and out of
the stable door to safety.

His reward came some months later, when he
was presented with the RSPCA’s Silver Medal,
the Society’s highest award.

Each case presents its own peculiar problems.
There was, for instance, that classic of rescue
when a heifer fell twenty feet down an ice’pit in
Westerham, Kent.

Panic—stricken

The usual practice in these cases is to set up
lifting tackle, but inside the covered icerpit there
was no room. So how on earth was the heifer to
be got out? Animal rescuers are nothing if not in
genious—they have to be—and they decided that
if they couldn’t get down to the animal it must be
made possible for it to get up to them.

So they deliberately decided to raise the ﬂoor
of the pit by throwing down bales of straw.

A crew of eleven men from the local ﬁre
station, assisted by an RSPCA Inspector, started
throwing down the straw, but as time went on the
work became more difﬁcult. The bales fell unv

evenly, and it was hard to avoid hitting the cow
with, them.

, C'They decided to lower a ladder so that a man

could go down and control the work from below.
But assoon as a man descended the panic—stricken
he1fer charged him like a ﬁghting—bull. That
method was promptly ruled out.

There was a touch of the absurd about the way
the problem was solved. A man climbed down the
ladder with a rope round his waist. He provoked

 

 




 

 

 

56 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1953

 

 

 

RSPCA HAS VAST TASK IN
TANGANYIKA

The following article shows the crying need for
RSPCA work overseas. It is reprinted from the
Tanganyika Standard, but the story it tells will
ﬁnd a parallel in many places where RSPCA
activities are being promoted. Funds are urgently
needed for opening new RSPCA branches OVCI"
seas, through which people can be encouraged to
raise standards of animal welfare in their own
areas. Maintenance of this work in existing
branches is a constant drain on the resources of

the RSPCA’S Overseas Fund.

 

Little cause for comfort on the question of the
treatment of animals in Tanganyika was found
by Mrs I. Slater, Territorial Organizer of the
RSPCA, on a recent safari through the Central,
Western and Lake Provinces.

In an interview, Mrs Slater referred to un’
necessary suffering caused to animals preceding
slaughter, to the slaughter of pregnant animals,
the lack of proper facilities for animals in transit
by rail and boat, and the lack of provision for
rounding—up for humane destruction the ever—
increasing numbers of diseased and hungry stray

dogs invading many townships.

She also referred to the wounding, through
illegal trapping or hunting, of the smaller species
of wild animals, as well as the wounding of ani—
mals by muzzlevloaders.

‘All of which,’ she declared, ‘goes to prove
that there is a tremendous amount of work to be
done to free animals in this great country from
affected indifference by “turning the blind eye”
and by ignorance.’

Bad blots

She added that in several instances she had
come across, bad blots on the fair name of the
Territory, there could be no plea of ignorance.

Regarding the African’s attitude towards his
beasts, it could be said in all sincerity that he
was an admirable student when enlightenment
came his way.

Mrs Slater stressed that Europeans and Asians
could do much to help maintain the African’s

awakened desire for knowledge regarding the wel«_

fare of animals and the prevention of cruelty and
suffering. '

Encouragement > A

She pointed out that of some ﬁfty centres
being established by the Society throughout the
"Territory more than half were being managed
entirely by the Africans themselves.

. .‘In the Lake Province, chiefs were encouraging
the people in such practical measures as the

animals. She observed that the Society would be

 

 

settingvup of dog dips, where goats and sheep
could also be dipped to keep them free from in’
fection, and in establishing small dressingvstations
where wounds and sores could be attended to.

Mrs Slater stressed, however, that millions of
Africans still regarded the teachings of the Society
with suspicion. She had spoken to one African
who became a member of the Society, and he had
confessed that some time ago he cut off a dog’s
leg in a ﬁt of anger. She was conﬁdent nevertheless
that patience in teaching would have the desired
effect of minimizing cruelty and suffering in the
future.

During her safari twenty’ﬁve successful lectures
were given to Africans, who were eager to learn
all they could about the tenets of the Society.

Ofﬁcial help

Mrs Slater emphasized that Government and

_ local authorities could clearly be of assistance in

expediting the campaign for better conditions for
animals. Some places had no pound, which
meant that there was difﬁculty in rounding up
stray and diseased animals for humane disposal.

‘At Mwanza,’ she added, ‘the lack of facilities
at the harbour for the shipping of livestock is
something of which the East African Railways
and Harbours cannot possibly be proud.’

There was a regular trafﬁc in livestock across
the Lake, yet there seemed to be no evidence of
any humane means of loading the animals.

Mrs Slater watched one large drove of goats
and sheep waiting for hours on the hot quayside,
until the order ﬁnally came to get them on board.

Dragged aboard

The animals were then dragged up the gang—
plank by the legs, though Mrs Slater quickly put
an end to that. The animals were carried on
board.

Mrs Slater commented that it seemed incredv
ible that there appeared to be a widespread ignore
ance of the existence of an Ordinance protecting

 

 

 

 

 




 

58 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1953

 

Alderman R. L1. Williams, JP, presided, and was welcomed
by Alderman R. W. Blackburn. The statement of accounts,
presented by Mr J. A. Morris, hon treasurer, showed total
receipts of £252 8s. 10d., including collections, £177 15s. 1d.
There was a balance in the bank of £42 103. 6d., and this year
£200 was sent to Headquarters.

Mrs Evans, branch hon secretary, commenting on the
work done in inclement weather by the collectors, said she
felt these workers were the life blood of the branch. Mrs
Evans pointed out that Colwyn Bay had now attained
branch status and was no longer afﬁliated to Llandudno.

The Mayor, commenting on the healthy nature of the
report, added: ‘There is nothing healthier in this country
than a voluntary organization.’

Inspector Roberts submitted a report on his work. A re-
port on the general work of the RSPCA was given by Wing-
Comdr Hillier, branch organizer.

A vote of thanks to the Mayor and the speaker was car-
ried on the proposal of Ald Blackburn. The Vicar of Col-
wyn Bay, Rev W. Hugh Rees, BA, after proposing a vote
of thanks to all workers, proposed the re-election of all
ofﬁcers. This was carried. Tea was served.

Doncaster and District The Mayoress of Doncaster, Mrs
E. Hubbard, opened the ‘Coronation Kennels’, an extension
of Doncaster RSPCA Dogs’ Home. Mr Davis, who is a
bricklayer, and Mr Owen Darby, hisson—in-law, of Marsh-
gate, a storesman, have erected kennels in their spare time
in the evenings, and at weekends, and Mrs Darby made red,
white and blue paper bunting to decorate them. Among
guests at the opening were the Chief Constable, Mr A. E.
Needham, the branch organizer, Major H. Pulleine, and
committee members Mr V. S. Hill, Mrs F. A. Macalister,
Miss L. M. Otley and Mrs Bennett. (Report received from
Mr J. J. Morrison, branch hon secretary.)

Dorset—North Mr Hugh Ricketts, branch hon secretary,
speaking at the annual meeting at Blandford, said that the
year had been most satisfactory in every way. Wing-Comdr
Hillier, branch organizer, congratulated the various auxili-
aries who, he said, had more than pulled their weight. The
branch chairman, Mr H. R. Tate, thanked Mr Ricketts and
members of the committee and paid a tribute to the work of
Inspector Hancock, who had investigated 133 complaints
of cruelty.

Durham and District At the annual meeting of the branch
in the Dunelm Hotel, Durham, Miss G. S. Wilkinson,
branch hon secretary, reported a highly successful year.
Inspector Spencer said that during the year he had visited
cattle markets regularly and given special attention to the
loading and unloading of stock. ‘I think’, said Mr A. B.
Peacock, hon treasurer, ‘that we shall have no difﬁculty in
meeting our obligations in the coming year.’ He was pre-
senting his report which showed that expenditure had ex-
ceeded income by £40, but that it had been met by using up
part of a £61 accumulated balance. In the absence of the
president, Lord Londonderry, through illness, Alderman
A. J. Alsop, Council member, gave a short address on the
work of the Society. The Hon H. J. N. Vane presided. He
was introduced by County Councillor Mrs H. H. Rushford,
branch chairman, and was thanked by the Deputy Mayor,
Councillor J. R. W. Rae. Major Pulleine, branch organizer,
spoke of the terrible wave of atrocities perpetrated against
animals. The Hon H. J. N. Vane presented a certiﬁcate for
bravery to Thomas Davison, aged 16.

Forest of Dean Division Mrs Farmer, division hon secre-

tary, reports that a jumble sale held at Lydney raised £28 '

for branch funds.

Fylde In the contribution made by the branch to Head-
quarters, Mr H. V. Webb, branch chairman and hon
treasurer, said that credit could go to the ‘old faithful’
members. He was speaking at the annual meeting at Lytham
St Annes, where the Mayor, Councillor E. Hoyle, presided.
Mr C. O. Hockin, RSPCA Council member, addressed
the meeting. Mr D. S. Wadsworth, hon secretary, mentioned
a legacy received recently by the branch. Mrs Poole, branch
president, attended.

w... mn— ,,_,. ~:s._.__ -

From ‘Skin and Bones’ to Show Winner

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Bryn, a stray,
‘nothing but skin
and bones’ when
ﬁrst adopted by
Mrs D. Robinson

    

Six months later,
after care by
Mrs Robinson,
who adopted
her and had the
help and advice
of a veterinary
surgeon provid-
ed by the
RSPCA

Bryn, the dog who was transformed from a miserable stray,

nothing but skin and bones, by the kindness of Mrs D.

Robinson, into a cup winner, seems very aloof as her mis-

tress receives from Mr H. C. Morgan, Surrey—Kingston

Branch Chairman, the cup gained by Bryn in the Branch
Dog Show at Surbiton

Glamor gall—Mid and Port Talbot At the branch annual
dinner held at the Grand Hotel, Port Talbot, Mrs E. B.
Newman, branch chairman, proposed the toast of the
SOClﬁy. They were, she said, proud of many things—their
pres1dent, Mr D. Harold Jones (who presided accompanied
by Mrs Jones), workers, ofﬁcers, clinic managers and all who

 

 

 

 




 

60 THE ANIMAL WORLD

Nlay 1953

 

 

of a kitten from a high ledge on a building in Clayton
Street. Police-Constable Batty and Inspector Nairn had to
climb over high roofs, some of which were rotten, and up a
drain pipe in order to rescue the kitten. The rescue took
almost an hour and was watched by a crowd of approxi-
mately 300 people. At the same meeting a cheque for £2 25.
was presented to Mr James L. Taylor, of Rochester Dwell-
ings, for his bravery in catching a terriﬁed alsatian which,
unfortunately, had to be humanely destroyed. Her two
puppies were adopted by Mr Taylor.

Rotherham and District About 200 people attended the
branch annual ball. Those present included Lady Galway,
branch president, the Mayor of Rotherham, Councillor
Maurice Young, Alderman Mrs Green, JP. Miss Collinson,
branch hon secretary, Mr C. A. Stevens, hon treasurer, Dr
and Mrs Peter Collinson, Dr and Mrs Grifﬁths and many
others.

Mrs B. A. Haynes, Dinnington auxiliary hon secretary.
reports that £6 35. 30'. was raised for the Animal Distress
Fund when pictures were displayed showing the rescue work
undertaken by the RSPCA.

Scarborough Mrs G. B. Garnet, Filey auxiliary hon
secretary, organized a coffee party and raised £12 for
branch funds.

Southport, Birkdale and District The branch annual meet-
ing was held in the Assembly Rooms of the Cambridge Hall,
Southport, and many children as well as adults attended.
Reports were submitted by Miss Richards, hon secretary,
and by Mr H. Brunt, hon treasurer. Major Pulleine, branch
organizer, who gave an address, was thanked by Mr G. E. C.
Eddowes, branch chairman. Councillor J . W. Buckley moved
the adoption of the reprort submitted by Senior Inspector
Coventry. Prizes were presented by the Mayoress, and the
Mayor and Mayoress were thanked on a vote of thanks by

, - .Councillor J. W. Buckley.

Miss Richards, branch hon secretary, attended a talk and
ﬁlm show given to the Young Wives Club at the Methodist
Church Hall, Southport, by Senior Inspector Coventry.
The Chief Constable of Preston lent a projector and Detec-
tive-Sergeant Whatmough operated the machines.
Staﬁ'ordshire—North Mrs Berry, Stoke-on—Trent auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that the Port Vale football ground
collection raised £37 for branch funds.

Stockport and District Mrs Barlow, New Mills auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that a dance held recently raised
£6-15. 4d. and was a great success.

The North—Western Road Car Co Ltd presented a suc—
cessful pantomime in aid of Hayﬁeld auxiliary. Mr M. E.
Matthews produced the pantomime ‘Robinson Crusoe‘
and the script was by Mr G. Howes.

Animal Defenders of the Hayﬁeld and New Mills Group,
.Group, accompanied by parents, Miss Rushby, the group
leader, and Inspector Coles, visited the Manchester Hippo-
drome and saw the pantomime ‘Aladdin.’
Surrey—Guildford and District Inspector Hawxwell gave a
. talk on the work of the Society to members of the Cathedral
’ Youth Club, Guildford.
Sussex—Mid, and Eastbourne Miss MiddletOn, branch hon
secretary, reports that a bridge evening at the Cumberland
Hotel raised £52 105. 10d. for branch funds.
Westmorland A very successful ﬁlm Show was held at
, Ambleside organized by Mrs Hulbert, president and
treasurer of the Ambleside and Rydal auxiliary, and Mrs
Mair, auxiliary hon secretary. Mr Snaith, Kendal, very
kindly gave his services and lent his projector. A silver
collection was taken for the Flood Relief Fund and £17 was
raised.

Mrs Parker, Grasmere auxiliary hon secretary, recently
organized a show of the Society’s ﬁlms which was held ‘in
the Schoolroom, Grasmere. An anonymous friend paid the

expenses for the hire of the projector and a collection taken
in aid of the Floor Relief Fund amounted to approximately
£4.

Worcesterahire—East, and West Warwickshire A concert
held by Miss Balmforth in the Town Hall at Alcester raised
£8 55. for branch funds. Mrs Thornton, auxiliary hon
secretary, spoke on the work of the RSPCA.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Miss G. Hall, branch
secretary, reports that Mr and Mrs R. Batty, of Eccleshill,
organized a dance and raised £20 for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Senior Inspector Barrer‘
gave a talk on the care and treatment of animals and on
the work of the Society to members of the Ripon Central
Guild. °

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Puckeridge, Mrs D. Mills, aux hon sec, £17 125. ld.;
Calne and Chippenham Rural, Miss Livingstone (Chippen—
ham and District aux hon sec, Miss Carrington and Miss
Pound (Calne and District aux hon sec), £43 185.; Waresicle,
Mrs Parrott, aux hon sec, £2 155. 3d.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house‘to-
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Newark, Mrs Aldred, aux hon sec, £12 195. 6d; Grimsby
and District Branch, £112 55. 9d.; Newark, Mrs Aldred,
aux hon sec, £4 45. 2d.; Hants and Surrey Border Branch,
£585 35. 2d.

 

Stall holders at the Coffee Morning organized by Mr and

Mrs Douglas, Branch Co-Honorary Secretaries for Craven

and Upper Wharfdale, are from left to right, Miss E.

Douglas, Miss Redfearn, Mrs Douglas and Mrs Wyatt.
‘Shep’ is also in the picture

RSPCA FILM NEWS
The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Gerrards Cross, Canning Town, Chob—
ham, Rotherwick, Penwortham, Portslade, Wellingv
borough; SOUthpOI‘t, Epsom, Nottingham, Coventry,
Monkseaton, Ashington, Morpeth, Okehampton, Margate,
Warsop, Lowestoft, Peterborough, East Ham, Bexhill—on-
Sea, Bolton, Thorpe—le—Soken, Whitehaven, Cullercoats,
Washington, Rotherham, Birmingham, Southport, Enﬁeld,
Mrnehead, Kineton, Salisbury, Gateshead—on—Tyne, Batter—
sea, Seaford, Middlesbrough, Leek, Manchester, Wolver‘
hampton, Hatherleigh, Lemington, Bedlington, Wadhurst,
Leckhampton, Billingshurst, Wallington, Ryton—on—Tyne.
Crayford, Llanelly, Hastings, Charlton, Eastbourne, Exeter,

West Moors, Leverington, Fareham, Ottershaw, Stockport,
Walpole Cross Keys.

 

 




 

 

 

 

@mﬂaonms

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
Allenquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

 

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l PATTERNS OF CLOTH
. and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A=

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:——

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be we
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the,

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliam nt S H
published by Arthur W. lvloss for the RSPCA at 105 Jerniyn Sill-13:5:Loidfgdfl’swcli

 




