    
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
  

Agent Ryan stands inside cage to inspect dog
ward. Individual dog cages are 3 feet by 5 feet
by 6V2 feet high. There is a wooden bench for
sleeping.

and gastrointestinal tract. A disease such as
myasthenia gravis, for example, involves im-
proper passage of nerve impulses. Cornell
research has done much to clarify under-
standing of the defect in this disease.

Search for drugs

Drugs to alleviate neurological illnesses
are desperately needed. These disorders dis-
able 16 million Americans yearly with ail-
ments like cerebral palsy, epilepsy, Parkin-
son’s disease, brain tumors, strokes, multiple
sclerosis and encephalitis. Patients with ab-
normal heart rhythms can now be helped
With certain new drugs. thanks to neuro-
pharmacologic research.

Dr. Beaver uses cats for his research for
several reasons: the cat’s nervous system is
similar to man’s; most previous research in
the ﬁeld has been with cats; a great body of
feline data already exists; and cats are a
convenient size to handle. Occasionally he
uses dogs when he requires a larger animal.

Animal quarters

The day we visited the pharmacology de-

Collie is exercised on leash on the roof by
attendant. Brick wall is six feet high.

partment ten cats, two dogs and several ro-
dents were under observation in the ﬁfth
floor animal quarters. Sometimes there are
as many as 50 or 60 animals.

The quarters— ﬁve rooms off a wide cor-
ridor—include two community cat wards.
one cat ward furnished with individual wire
cages, a dog ward and a ward for rodents.

The newly painted cat rooms are walled
in ceramic tile overlayed with non-porous
cement painted light green. Dark green
cement ﬂoors slope toward a center drain for
easy hosing. Holes or cracks in the walls
where vermin might breed are plugged up
immediately.

Rooms are painted frequently, according
to Dr. Beaver, not alone for sanitary reasons.
but because proper maintenance serves as a
good psychological Spur for attendants. “If
the room is shipshape, they will keep it that
way.” he said.

Bright lights

Fluorescent lights serve a double purpose:
good lighting is pleasant for the patients and
it helps pinpoint soiled areas immediately.

 

  

 




 

The most dramatic moment comes when Education Super-
visor Diana Henley removes long, non-poisonous snake
from its cage and drapes it around her neck.

learning
about
pets

City children get
on speaking terms with

pets iii ASPCA classroom

Puppies are the attraction here. Miss Henley demonstrates
friendliness of white rat by carrying Ignatz on her
shoulder.

   

“Let’s make friends with Pepi,” Miss Henley tells visiting
Cub Scouts. Squirrel monkey is one of the children’s

favorites.

ASPCA’s Manhattan Shelter is fast becom-
ing a Gotham tourist attraction. In addition,
classes from elementary schools, Girl Scout
and Boy Scout groups come in to tour the
building every day.

Last year more than 13,000 youngsters
Visited the shelter. Among them were many
physically handicapped and mentally re-
tarded children. Lectures and ﬁlms are pre-
sented in a large classroom surrounded by
an assemblage of caged animals including
monkeys, parrots, snakes, mynah birds and
other creatures, large and small, numbering

nearly 200.

“Wish I could take you home,” says Scout to two

appealing kittens up for adoption.

lfphotos by Thomas R. Koeniges

    
      
  
   
 
 
 
  
    




 

 

Letter

V 1 read with interest Volume 14, No. 3,
Winter 1960- edition, particularly the article
entitled: “Dolphins Go to the Head of the
Class.” This article is well written and factu-
ally correct. But, at the very outset, even
after reading the ﬁrst line, it became im-
mediately apparent that the picture over the
caption is wholly misleading and should not
have been used to illustrate the article.

The picture used is that of a marine ﬁsh,
also called “dolphin” but is not the “dol-
phin” referred to in the article, which is
not a ﬁsh but a mammal of the whale family.

Webster’s New World Dictionary deﬁnes
dolphin as follows:

1. Any of several mammals of the whale family,

with a beaklike snout and teeth in the upper

jaw; 2. Either of two swift marine ﬁshes with

colors that brighten and change when the ﬁsh

is taken out of the water.

The intelligent animal referred to in the
article is the mammal dolphin.

CHARLES H. STOLL

Hicksville, L. L.

’33:“ 3?"

   
   

Ed. Note: W e thank Mr. Stoll and the
several other sharp-eyed readers who caught
the error. Here is the mammal dolphin,
photographed at Marine Studios, Marine-
land, Florida.

 

ANIMALPORT FEATURED IN
SATURDAY EVENING POST

The April 22nd issue of the Saturday
Evening Post is carrying an article on
the ASPCA Animalport entitled “Noah’s
Ark in New York” by Robert Christie.
This issue will reach an audience of 24
million readers.

 

 

 

14

 

William Mapel

William Mapel appointed
to administrative post

William Mapel, a former newspaper ex-
ecutive, has been appointed Administrative
Vice President of the ASPCA. He will act
as. liaison between the Society and the Board
of Managers

Since 1958 Mr. Mapel has served as con-
sultant in the educational and charitable
ﬁelds. Before that he was active in the news-
paper ﬁeld, having worked his way up from
reporter on a Missouri paper in 1920 to
general manager of Newsday, a Long Island
paper, in 1940.

During those twenty years he took nine
years out to teach journalism at several
universities, including Washington and Lee,
in Virginia, where he was Director of the
School of Journalism for four years.

From 1942 to 1958 he was executive sec-
retary, Vice chairman and then president of
the Publishers Association of New York City.

A graduate of the University of Missouri,
Mr. Mapel got his doctorate at Lincoln Col-
lege of James Millikin University. He has

received several journalism awards.

 

 

 




WONDERFUL

en often go back to nature for the
M answer to their problems.

Take, for example, the dilemma solved by
atomic engineers in Canada just a few years
ago. A leak developed in an atomi: energy
water shortage dam built on the Chalk River.
Unable to ﬁnd the leak, they brought in a
pair of beavers and turned them loose.

In a few days the beavers found the leak
— and repaired it! Their natural abilities at
hydraulic engineering ﬁlled a gap our best
universities couldn’t handle.

In Nature’s workshop, thousands of crea-
tures——uncommissioned by humans—build,
dig, repair, and keep everything in order.
Man-made projects are often patterned on
their example. This is a world of interlock-
ing dependencies.

Ever see a fellow at an orange-drink stand
swat bees that annoy his customers? Where
to draw the line when your business depends
on the bees? If bees didn’t pollinate plants,
our orchards couldn’t bear fruit! Olive
groves in Sardinia were once sterile for a
whole season when insecticide—spread to
exterminate malaria mosquitos—destroyed
the bees.

A ﬁeld of red clover — beautiful to see ——
thrives until its nectar-gathering bumblebees

fall prey to ﬁeld mice. Mousing foxes kill off
the mice, bring back the clover!

Nothing is useless, nothing independent.

Consider the lowly earthworm. There are
50,000 of them wiggling through any acre
of soil, and fortunately nobody needs that

20

WORLD
OF
NATURE

many to go ﬁshing, for the worms aerate the
soil. In 20 years they carry from the subsoil
to the surface a layer of rich earth three
inches deep! This animal plowing improves
the farmer’s chances of raising prize crops.
The flow of a river can change the sheen
of a fox’s fur! Migrating birds may follow
the curve of a river, feeding on insects along
its banks. Bird life inﬂuences the vegetation
of an area. Rabbits will come to feed on
and a diet of
plump young rabbits is guaranteed to give

luxuriant clumps of grass . . .

the fox a healthier fur coat.

Forest and range conservation measures
may be responsible for that succulent Sun-
day roast on your dinner table.

Healthy trees hold topsoil in place, pro-
tecting uplands against erosion through rain-
fall and Windstorm. These protected uplands
sponge up the rainfall, “feed” it gradually
to the lowlands, preventing ﬂood and
drought. Farmers depend on this even ﬂow
to keep crops and livestock well fed. And
you eat better, because of it.

Life on earth — as we know it— couldn’t
exist without trees.

Forests help stabilize the water supply of
the world. Roots absorb rainwater, ﬁlter it
slowly through the soil to feed underground
water tables. Puriﬁed by passage through
humus and soil, rain and snow will rise
again in a crystal-clear flow from under-
ground streams. And the water keeps men
and animals alive in a continuing cycle of
inter-dependency.

(Continued on page 22)

Wm. J. Jahoda from National Audubon Society

 

 

 




 

 

 

egend has it that the ostrich buries his
head in the sand when he’s scared, be-
lieving he can’t be seen if he can’t see!
But the truth is, the ostrich doesn’t dig in at
all —— he just bends down to eat.

And he’ll eat anything from a bullet to a
tennis ball! Visitors to South Africa’s ostrich
farms have to hide shiny objects — watches,
rings, eyeglasses— and bright-colored scarfs
and buttons, because Mr. Ostrich will go for
them. The ostrich is a vegetarian—or per-
haps a “mineralogist.” He washes down his
meals with stones to aid digestion.

A grown male stands 8 feet tall and weighs
300 pounds. Ostriches ('an—— but rarely do
—— live to the age of 40. An ostrich can roar
like a lion, outrun a horse and store water
for months like a camel. On the sandy plains
of Africa, he runs with herds of zebras and
antelopes. Ostriches have. been clocked doing
50 mph, in 28-foot strides. Properly subdued
and saddled, an ostrich can carry a full-
grown man!

Harvest time

Each Wing of the adult male ostrich pro-
duces 25 top-grade white plumes, much in
demand by milliners and costume designers
in fashion centers of the world. Theatrical
producers are steady customers. The biggest
supplier of ﬁne ostrich plumes is South Africa.

Plume harvesting at the South Africa
ostrich farm provides many eye-openers for
Visitors. Feathers are clipped every nine
months, even from the youngest birds. The
yield ranges from stiff grey feathers to foam-
ing white plumes, with middle grades of
shiny black and soft brown. Plucking is pain-
less. The feathers are actually clipped, not
pulled. For Mr. O, it’s like having a haircut.
And the feathers soon grow again.

It’s good the bird has “money in his
wings” because they’re not good for much
else. This largest of living birds can’t fly!
An ostrich’s wings maintain his balance when

he starts running, help him execute lightning-
fast turns, and are ﬂattened to his sides for
streamliner speed.

The birds breed three times a year. Males
will ﬁght ﬁercely over their choice of a
harem. Tourists at the Highgate Ostrich
Farm in Oudtshoorn, South Africa, never
tire of describing the “courting waltz.”

A male puffs out his long neck, fluffs his
feathers and trips about daintily on his toes.
He runs off at great speed, stops abruptly and
spins until dizzy. Then he flops down on the
ground. The wings are spread like two mag-
nificent fans, and alternately waved back-
ward and forward, while the head and neck
slither in serpentine grace.

Putting yourself in the place of a lady
ostrich, you would respond to this display
with a dainty two-step of your own. And
from a throat that is usually voiceless you
would produce a faint clatter like castanets.

Nests aren’t built—they’re kicked into
shape by Papa Bird. Each hen may lay 16
eggs in one nest. The speckled brown
mothers take turns sitting on the nest in the
daytime, nicely camouflaging the location of
their brood. At night, the coal-black father
babysits. He stretches his long neck forward,
head resting on the ground. To a passing
beast out egghunting the huge feathery body
looks no more worth investigating than a
mound of earth.

After siX weeks of incubation, the chicks
break out of their own shells. Their delicate
brown fuzz is soon replaced by wiry feathers.
When hungry, the baby ostrich will merrily
chase bugs and gobble pebbles for a chaser.

An ostrich egg weighs about three pounds.
If it isn’t destined for incubation, it makes
good eating. Allow an hour’s boiling time,
add a dash of salt, and you —-— and 11 other
gourmets— can polish off the egg in no
time. Its contents actually measure about the
same as 24 chicken eggs.

Ostrich at South African ostrich farm gets a painless haircut. Wing plumes
are in great demand by costume designers and milliners around the world.

17

 

 




 

 

1. Animals used must be lawfully
acquired and kept in strict compliance
with federal, state and local laws.

2. Research projects involving live
animals must be approved by laboratory
directors. Work by students must be
directly supervised by an experienced
teacher or investigator.

3. Dogs and cats are not to be used
when in the judgment of the investi-
gator other animals equally suitable are
readily and economically available.

4. Housing, care and feeding of birds
and mammals to be supervised by a
veterinarian; care of other species by a
competent biologist.

5. Animals must be kindly treated,
properly fed and their surroundings
kept clean.

6. Animal rooms to be provided with
an impervious ﬂoor; adequate drainage,
light, ventilation and temperature con-
trol; a separate cage for each animal
(monkeys, dogs, cats and rabbits) large
enough to permit the animal to stand

 

PRINCIPLES IN THE CARE AND USE OF LABORATORY ANIMALS
APPROVED BY THE ANIMAL CARE PANEL

or lie in a normal position; and for
dogs an exercise space with an imper-
vious ﬂoor.

7. Food must be palatable, of sufﬁ-
cient quantity and quality to maintain
good health. Water must be clean.

8. Major operative procedures must
be done under a general anesthetic,
minor operations under local inﬁltra-
tion anesthesia. If the study requires
animals to survive, sterile technique
must be followed. If the study does not
require survival, the animal must be
killed humanely at the end of the ex-
periment. When for exceptional tests
animals cannot be under anesthetic,
such experiments shall be done only by
persons skilled in such work, and only
with the speciﬁc approval of the de-
partment head.

9. Post-operative care must minimize
discomfort during convalescence, with
conditions in accordance with practices
in small animal hospitals or in human
medicine and surgery.

 

 

tions, Visiting each laboratory an average of
once every two months.

Minimum standards

Minimum standards of care for laboratory
animals have been drawn up by the Animal
Care Panel, a ten-year-old national organiza-
tion of veterinarians, medical researchers,
animal handlers and humane leaders.

New medical schools and research labora-
tories have planned their animal quarters in
consultation with the Panel. With these
standards in mind, laboratories have re-
modeled or rebuilt their animal quarters to
provide the maximum in space and comfort.

The ASPCA uses Animal Care Panel
standards as a yardstick in checking on
laboratory conditions.

For the most part, ASPCA inspectors re-
port, animals used in medical research are
housed in bright, clean wards, eat a balanced
ration and receive expert care and consid-
eration. Many even enjoy luxuries like air-
conditioned quarters and post-operative con-
valescence in the country.

At the other extreme, inspectors have also

.\-.-.~.v. .-.~.-.-. . .-.¢.-.-.-.-.-.-. \. .v. . . . . . . . -:~:~:~:-:~:~:~:>:- """""""""

uncovered some distressing conditions rang-
ing from poorly ventilated wards to cages
encrusted with old excrement.

Minority fail inspection

One institution housed monkeys and rab-
bits in a washroom so small the attendant
couldn’t get in to clean it. In another dogs
were lying in old excrement because there
was only one part-time attendant to care

for 93 dogs.

Still another laboratory was rat infested
because bags of food were haphazardly piled
on the ﬂoor while tightly-covered, rat-proof
bins remained unused. During one inspection
an ASPCA veterinarian had to hold a hand-
kerchief to his nose to withstand the odor.

One institution housed cats on its roof in
a crude, chicken-wire cage reinforced with
newspapers and tar paper. It was so primi-
tive it was impossible to clean. Food and
water dishes in another hospital consisted of
assorted, rusty tin cans, and even those were
improperly cleaned.

The ASPCA withheld all animals from one

institution until conditions were improved.

 

 

 




Your pet can help find homes for others

Lassie, canine star of TV and motion pictures, was recently awarded
an ASPCA Adoption Service Certiﬁcate for contributing to a fund
for ﬁnding homes for homeless animals. Now your pet can receive the
same recognition. ‘

For a donation of $10 or more in your pet’s name, your dog, cat,
monkey or hamster will receive a handsome 7”}: 9” certiﬁcate in his
own name. Handlettered on heavy paper stock by calligrapher Dorothy
Rolph, the certiﬁcate is suitable for framing. You will be credited
with a tax-deductible contribution.

What the ASPCA Adoption Service Does

0 Last year it placed 20,016 unwanted animals in new homes at
no charge.

. Oflers each adopted pet a free examination in the ASPCA Hospital
and one serum inoculation against communicable disease within
two weeks after adoption.

Adopted pets may be spayed in the ASPCA Hospital free of any
charge for hospitalization, examination. entrance, drug and inocu-
lation fees. The owner pays only the surgical charge.

0 Offers free advice and literature on the care of newly adopted pets.

Some homeless animal is waiting for your pet’s response.
Please don’t let him down.

ASPCA ADOPTION SERVICE

 




 

 

 

Pressure kills New York State humane slaughter law

For the third year running the New York
State Legislature failed to pass a humane
slaughter law. The opponents used a time-
worn but fatal method: pressure.

Bills introduced by Senator Seymour S.
Thaler and Assemblyman William S. Calli
were killed when orthodox Jewish groups
objected on religious grounds. No legislator
wants to be accused of religious prejudice,
nor does he want to lose constituents.

Religious opposition argued that the bills’
provision to outlaw pre-slaughter hoisting
and shackling of conscious animals would
interfere with shechita, the ritual of kosher
killing. Hebrew law prescribes that an ani-
mal must be conscious at the moment of
slaughter when it is dispatched by instantan-

eous severance of the carotid arteries in the

neck with a clean, sharp blade. The tradi-
tional method of controlling animals for the
slaughter has been by shackling and hoist-
ing.

The bills, speciﬁcally stating that shechita
is considered a humane slaughter method,
would have outlawed only the non-ritual,
pre-slaughter shackling and hoisting, for
which there is no longer any excuse.

Humane method available

The united humane movement’s repre-
sentatives in Albany—ASPCA Director of
Operations Arthur L. Amundsen, ASPCA
Director of Public Relations Mrs. George
Fielding Eliot, and D. Collis Wager, Presi-
dent of the Stevens Swan Humane Society
of Utica —- pointed out to the lawmakers that
a new method of controlling animals before
slaughter not only eliminates cruelty, but
operates as fast as hoisting and shackling,
and still complies with religious doctrine.

The simple, inexpensive holding pen,
known as Can Pac, has been approved by
the Canadian rabbinate and is being used
successfully by kosher packers in Canada.
Furthermore, Can Pac has received orthodox
rabbinical approval in the United States.

Rabbi Eliezer Silver, Chairman of the Union
of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States
and Canada, and Rabbi Joseph B. Solovei't-
chik, of Boston, noted authority on Jewish
religious philosophy and law, have both en-
dorsed it.

So vehement was the opposition, however,
that despite their sincere belief in the need
for a humane slaughter law, Senator Thaler
refused to let his bill come out of committee,
and Assemblyman Calli recommitted his bill
after it reached the Assembly ﬂoor.

But the issue is not dead. The humane
movement is already at work on humane
slaughter legislation for the 1962 session.
Meantime, it is the obligation of all of us
who object to the needless torture of animals
to convince friends as well as legislators that
a humane slaughter law would not interfere
with religious freedom.

 

2333
$5; w” 275! World

OUR PET WORLD
(Dedicated to

Human-Animal Relationship)

240 West 75th Street
New York City, 23

$1.00 per issue. $3.00 per year.
$4.00 for 2 years. $7.00 for 3
years. Published quarterly.

OUR PET WORLD
urges all ﬁrms to employ the
handicapped.

9%
as; ur Pet World

\

.

 

 

 

23

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
Horace H. Nahm, Vice-President
James H. Jenkins, Treasurer

John W. Ream, Secretary

Board of Managers

Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton
John W. Cross, Jr.
José A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
William A. Meyerhoii
William F. Morgan
Joseph B. Murray
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
George B. Wagstaff

Managers Emeritus

F. Ambrose Clark
Robert L. Jones
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank

Administration Ofﬁces TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
William Mapel, Administrative Vice President
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations

George H. Tuscher, Supervisor of Humane Work
Thomas A. Fegan, Comptroller

Hospital and Clinic
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Director

TRafalgar 6-7700

Public Relations and PLaza 5-1650

Fund Raising Department

30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.

, June Eliot, Director

**

*

Volunteer Activities
Maude Hayman, Director

Humane Education Department TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Diana Henley, Supervisor

Animalport OLympia 6-6042

Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.
George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

Bronx Shelter TYrone 28500
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)

N. Michael Bromley, District Manager

Brooklyn Shelter

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

Manhattan Shelter

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
Francis Melvin, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

Nassau County Shelters ORiole 6-5913

Pratt Blvd. Ext., Glen Cove, L. 1.
Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1.
James J. McKenna, Shelter Manager

GEneral 1-0660

Queens Shelter
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
Robert B. Ferris, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

Richmond Shelter
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

Western Westchester Shelter
Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

LYric 2-7890

Serving Glen Cove, Sea Cliff, Bayville, East Hills.

Serving Tarrytown, North Tarrytown, Mount Pleasant, Irvington, Dobbs
Ferry, Hastings-on-Hudson.

 

 

 




«3.1"?
A , “at”,

,‘= [ICC/F

'mam.

 

 




 

 

Behind the Scenes in Hollywood
(Continued from page 11)

Guns in westerns, incidentally, are loaded
with quarter or half charge blanks so the
noise won’t frighten or deafen the animals.
Branding is simulated by applying hot irons
to a board on the ground behind the calf to
cause smoke.

The AHA is not a censor and does not
interfere with what is depicted, only with
how it is done. However, it does object to
extreme brutality even though it is only
make-believe.

“The Misﬁts,” an example of objectional
story content, shows wild horses apparently
being thrown, tied and attacking men. No
animal was actually thrown or choked in
spite of appearances, and horses in chase
scenes were frequently substituted to prevent
tiring any animal. Still the AHA was con-
cerned because of the possible public reac-
tion to the simulated brutality.

Scripts read in advance

Mr. Jack’s work on a ﬁlm begins as soon
as the script is prepared and continues right
through ﬁlming and a ﬁnal preview. The
staff spots difﬁcult or impossible situations
in advance and makes suggestions before
production starts. In addition to reading
scripts and checking ﬁlming, the staff super-
vises housing, feeding and traveling condi-
tions for animals on location.

Recently, While human stars sweltered
under blazing sun on a desert location, the
animal star relaxed between takes in a cool
air-conditioned trailer. When a boat capsized
and drenched a dog, ﬁve electricians stayed
on their own time to keep a giant lamp
burning to thoroughly dry the dog.

Despite the industry’s ﬁne 21-year record
of cooperation with the AHA, two sore spots
still mar the picture — foreign ﬁlms and live
television. The AHA has no control of for-
eign ﬁlms, but there is an increasing amount
of inspection through cooperation with for-
eign humane societies.

Biggest headache is bullﬁght scenes ﬁlmed

18

for both movies and television in Mexico and
Spain. When a bullﬁght ﬁlm appeared on a
New York station the ASPCA protested in
advance, but the station refused to cancel
the showing.

The difﬁculty with live shows is that they
often have no prepared script and sometimes
the producer himself doesn’t know ahead of
time what will happen. The ASPCA has pro-
tested a number of TV incidents originating
from New York studios. One involved a
magician who became enraged when his
rabbits refused to perform. Another program
featured a trained chimpanzee that was
pushed around when he didn’t respond
to cues.

The people of television, like the people of
Hollywood, are for the most part kind and
compassionate. They do not condone brutal-
ity. We hope every producer will welcome
supervision as a uniform and constant check
that no cruelty is permitted to slip in, thought-
lessly, inadvertently, or otherwise.

Just as the movie industry realized 21
years ago that it could not afford to permit
brutality because the public opinion land-
slide might crash down on it, so we hope
live television will learn that the public will
not tolerate cruelty to animals.

 

A must for
Aquarium
Enthusiasts!

ALL NEW

IN COLOR!

Golden Anniversary

TROPICAL FISH HANDBOOK CATALOG

The most complete selection of tropical fish. beauti-
fully illustrated in natural colors. This 60-page hand-
book is an encyclopedia of tropical fish. breeding.
careI do-lt-yourselfI etc., etc. Only 50¢

AQUARIUM STOCK COMPANY, INC.
31 Warren St.. N. Y. 7. N. Y.

  

 

 

Buyers - Breeders - All Breeds - A.K.C. Register With
Pet Prospectors
(LOCATING AND CONSULTING SERVICE)
‘Have a Pow-Wow for Bow-Wow"
Kittens Too! - Delivery
THE GRIMMINGERS
781 CONKLIN STREET FARMINGDALE, L. |., N. Y.

 

CHapel 9-6988

 

 

 




     
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   

 

 

 

The others were given a deadline for correct-
ing sub-standard conditions and our inspec-
tors checked back frequently to see that the
improvements were made permanent. All
institutions cooperated fully.

Poor conditions were usually traced to
one of these causes:

0 Shortage of attendants.

0 Overcrowding of animals.

0 Several hospitals claimed facilities were
temporary while new quarters were being
constructed.

0 Lack of awareness of the needs of ani-
mals on the part of the director, doctors or
attendants.

An ideal laboratory

A deep-seated concern for the welfare of
animals on the part of the director is per-
haps the prime requisite for a well-run
laboratory.

Cornell University Medical College is for-
tunate to have such an animal-oriented di-
rector in Dr. Walter F. Riker, Professor and
Chairman of the Department of Pharma-
cology. Dr. Riker, a member of the execu-
tive committee of the New York State Society

Above: Agent William Ryan and Dr. William
Beaver examine a cat in the newly-painted com-
munity cat ward. On the ﬂoor is a litter pan.
At left: Agent watches Dr. Beaver place cat on
scale for periodic weighing. Weight is a criterion
of health.

for Medical Research, states his attitude
simply: “I like animals.”

The result is that research animals under
his care are housed in a model laboratory
and receive expert care and consideration.

To give our membership a picture of what
has been accomplished through cooperation,
education and exacting standards, ANIMAL
PROTECTION accompanied Special Agent Wil-
liam Ryan, a veteran of 49 years with the
ASPCA, and a member of the Society’s in-
spection team, on a recent check-up of Cor-
nell. During 1960 the institution requisi-
tioned 671 animals from the Society—429
dogs and 242 cats.

When Agent Ryan inspected Cornell’s
pharmacology laboratory, one of three de-
partments using animals, research was under
way in neuropharmacology—the study of
the effects of drugs on the nervous system.
In charge of the animal quarters was Dr.
William Beaver, a Research Fellow in Phar-
macology.

Currently under special study is the effect
of drugs on the transmission of impulses
from the nerves to muscles, gland cells, heart

5

      
     
   

 




 

 

 

 

How permanent is

a “permanent” vaccine?
by the Veterinary Staff
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

The term “permanent vaccine” would
seem to imply life-long immunity. The truth
is: No vaccine is known to immunize for life.
The duration of immunity to all vaccines
varies considerably between individuals.

Distemper vaccinations, therefore, are not
permanent, nor are they 100 percent effec-
tive in stimulating immunity in all individ-
uals. Some animals, like some people, do not
respond to vaccination, and cannot become
immune, regardless of the vaccine used or
the number of vaccinations received.

Dogs, however, are fortunate in that vac-
cines available to the veterinary profession
are excellent. Controlled tests have shown
the latest vaccines to be 94 percent effective.

Distemper symptoms

Distemper is the universal dread disease
of dogdom. Infectious and contagious, it is
caused by a speciﬁc virus.

Initial symptoms range from a mild cough
or sneeze, accompanied by nasal or eye dis-
charge, to a severe attack of vomiting and
diarrhea with depression and loss of appe-
tite. During the usual course of about four to
eight weeks of considerable medical and
drug expense and long hours of nursing care,
many animals develop paralysis, muscular
twitching, or violent convulsions as a result
of damage to the brain from the invasion of
certain neurotropic strains of distemper
Virus. The outlook for such animals is in-
deed grave.

Prevention

Prevention is the only answer. All puppies
should be immunized about one to two weeks
after weaning from the mother. This initial
immunization transfers passive or temporary
immunity to the pup. Serum, rather than
vaccine is used, offering short-term protec-
tion until the pup is of proper age and con-
dition to vaccinate.

Most veterinarians will repeat this tempo-
rary serum at ten to fourteen day intervals.
At about three months of age, depending on
the method used, the so-called permanent
vaccination will be given.

A prevention program should not end with
the vaccination, however. While there is con-
siderable speculation among researchers and
practicing veterinarians as to the best
vaccination method to use, all agree that
immunization does not confer permanent im-
munity. “Boosters” or re-immunizing inocu-
lations are recommended once a year. The
vaccine cannot cause harm and the added
protection is reassuring. If you do it less
often than once a year, you are gambling
with your pet’s health, and the odds against
you grow day by day.

Boosters

The Veterinary Virus Research Institute
at Cornell University comes up with these
ﬁgures: over 25 percent of dogs successfully
immunized as puppies will lose their im-
munity one year later. At the end of two
years about 50 percent will lose their im-
munity, and so on as time goes by. Thus
the chances of your dog again becoming
susceptible are considerable if re-immuniza-
tion is not given.

Consult your veterinarian for his advice
on an immunization program designed to
safeguard your pet’s future health. Take a
new pet to a veterinarian for examination,
advice, parasite tests and immunization at
once -—preferably on the very ﬁrst day you
take the pet into your home. A lifetime pro-
gram should include early vaccination and
regular boosters.

15

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

DOG & CAT FOOD

 

CAL-COD

CRUMBLIZED
DOG MEAL

57-18—48th Street

 

STilIweIl 6-2468

Maspeth 78, N. Y.

 

 

CREMATORI ES FOR PETS

 

CREMATION FOR PETS
WHEN THE TIME COMES

YOU WILL WANT TO KNOW ABOUT THIS
MODERN SERVICE

Call for Booklet A or write
MARBLE HILL CREMATORY
FOR PET ANIMALS

418 W. 219th St.. New York. N. Y. LO 7-3800

 

 

 

DOG FURNISHINGS

 

W'

”II/ill? 99* 9 ﬂ

HAVE EVERYTHING

styling . quality . custom fit
. A PRODUCT OF THE .1. HANKIN CO.

 

 

 

DOG TRAINING

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING —- TRIMMING — SUPPLIES
BOARDING
Conn. Office

WEST REDDING. CONN.
WEbster 8-2l24

New York Office
449 E. 86th ST.
TRafalgar 6-24I7

 

 

 

Great Neck Dog Training Center

HARLAND MEISTRELL —- TRAINING DIRECTOR
OBEDIENCE :— HOME TRAINING OR SHOW
Group or PrIvate — Misbehaving Corrected

l4 GREAT NECK ROAD, GREAT NECK. HUnter 7-6933

PEDIGREED CATS

PED

 

 

 

PEDIGREED KITTENS

Siamese and Persian
PET AND SHOW QUALITY — ALso STUD SERVICE

T E D S T E E L E
975 FIRST AVENUE NEW YORK 22, N. Y.
Plaza 3-2521

IGREED DOGS

 

 

 

24

Pedigreed Poodles
AKC REGISTERED
Health Guaranteed

BEAUTIFUL MINIATURES
AND TINY TOYS
Exquisite Colors

ALSO YORKSHIRE TERRIERS

Ask for MISS ANN
WA 6-8100

 

 

 

 

CAITHNESS KENNEL

CAIRN TERRIERS
0 Champions at stud

O PUPPIES For Sale
occasionally.

MRS. R. E. STONE
CROSS RIVER
WESTCHESTER 00.. N. Y
Ph.: So. Salem 3-3432

 

 

HARWICK KENNELS

Stud Service, tiny & regular
Poodles & Yorkshire Terriers
i TINY STUDS sired by Dana's Blue Marvel
ex Patoot's Tiny Trinket's Meg.

QUALITY PUPPIES
MRS. MURIEL HUCKNALL
Route 25D. North Hills. L.|.. N.Y.
Phone MAnhasset 7-5580

 

 

 

POODLES AKC . . . Large Selection
TOYS -— MINIATURES -— ALL COLORS

 

DOG

REASONABLE
T E D S T E E L E
975 First Ave. ' New York, N. Y. 0 PL 3-2521
KENNELS

 

 

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and Importers
o

FINEST TYPE SKYE TERRIERS. SILKY TERRIERS
and TOY POODLES
Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl, Jr.
Owner Manager
Ridgefield, Conn. ldlewood 8-3400
‘ Walter C. Foster, handler

Alex Williamson

 

. - THE BREED WITH
Austrahan TerrIers A FUTURE

Grand Little Dogs —— Newest Terrier of A.K.C.
SMALL a SMART 0 STURDY
Minimum Grooming - Ideal Modern Living & Budgets

PLEASANT PASTURE KENNELS

I4II DORSETT DOCK ROAD. POINT PLEASANT, N. J.
Est. I944 TW 9-0557

 

 

 

EXCEPTIONAL GERMAN SHEPHERDS
Good Bone Structure, Good Temperament, Con-
formity and Coat, for Show or Obedience.
Boarding and Training — “Ask for Bill"
WILLANA-HENKEI. KENNELS

Boardman, New Milford, Conn. Route 7

 

PET SUPPLIES

 

 

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TICKS. MITES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M l T - E - K I L
HINTON & 00.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST., NEW YORK CITY

 

 

 

 

 




       

In bad weather dogs are exercised indoors.
Ceramic tile walls are coated with non-porous
cement and painted with green enamel to pre-
vent vermin from breeding.

Since cats don’t like extreme temperatures,
thermostatically-controlled rooms are steam-
heated in winter and air-conditioned in sum-
mer. A metal grating keeps cats from becom-
ing entangled in the radiator and air-condi-
tioner. An exhaust opening in the ceiling
ventilates the wards during winter.

Cats are gregarious creatures and enjoy
company. The two 13-foot by 18-foot com-
munity rooms afford them a social life plus
ample opportunity for exercise. Wooden
shelves (wood is easiest to keep clean) at-
tached to the walls at various heights give
the cats the pleasure of lolling in high places.

. Sanitary conditions
Wards are scrubbed and hosed every day

from a faucet outlet in each room. During
cleaning the cats automatically jump onto
their shelves and are never even splashed.
Food, milk and litter pans are changed daily.

Because of the expert care, contagious dis-
ease is kept to a minimum. If a cat should
develop a virus infection, it is isolated in a
special cat ward and treated with anti-biotics.
This recovery ward is equipped with 24 in-
dividual wire cages measuring 15 by 24 by

 
 

Dr. Beaver examines a feline patient with a steth-
oscope in Cornell’s pharmacology department.

  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Temperature is thermostatically controlled. Radi-
ator and air conditioner are behind wire screen.
Exhaust opening in ceiling ventilates ward in
winter.

photos by AI Levine

Food and water are changed daily. Canned foods
are well-known brands fed by many owners to
their own pets.




 

18 inches high, allowing ample space for the
cats to lie down or turn around. A carpet of
soft shavings lines each cage.

During daily cleaning cats are taken out
of their cages and permitted to wander
around the ward at will for several hours.
“Cats need exercise or they will lose weight,”
Dr. Beaver explained. Weight is checked

frequently because it’s a criterion of health.

Records kept

Careful records are kept of all animals. A
number on the cage and a band on the cat
corresponds to a number in the hospital’s
books where. step-by-step records are, kept of
all experiments. Agent liyan asked to look at
the books and they were produced.

Two dogs—an extremely friendly collie
and a brown mixed breed—occupied the
dog ward, which consisted of four large in-
dividual cages, measuring 3 feet by 5 feet by
61/2 feet high. Food and water pans hook
onto the wall of each cage just above ﬂoor
level. A wooden bunk in each cage enables
the dog to rest and sleep off the ﬂoor.

Dogs exercised

When weather permits, dogs are exercised
on leash on the roof one ﬂight up. A six-foot
brick wall encloses the outdoor exercise area.
In bad weather dogs are exercised in the
ward corridor. All windows are screened to
prevent any animal from jumping out.

A small percentage of the research involves
surgery. When this is necessary, anesthesia is
given and the operation is performed under
strict aseptic conditions. After the operation
the animal is humaner killed with an over-
dose of the anesthetic before it regains con-
sciousness.

Or if it must be observed it is isolated in
the recovery ward with post-operative care
equivalent to that given human patients in
the same hospital. Many animals are sent to
a farm to recuperate and then returned to
the hospital for subsequent examination.
Work by medical students is directly super-
vised by an experienced teacher.

 

8

  

Trained attendants

“A number of kittens have been born in
the hospital and we have a long list of hos-
pital personnel waiting to adopt them as
pets,” said Dr. Beaver, who owns two cocker
spaniels, Suzie and Delphine.

It’s important that animals get accustomed
to the doctor and attendant. At Cornell one
attendant, neatly dressed, soft spoken Walter
Robinson, feeds the animals and cleans the
wards. Two other men alternate in filling in
for him during his time off.

Balanced diets

Cases of canned pet food used in the bal-
anced ration were stacked in the storeroom.
Included were such well-known brand names
as Red Heart dog food, Puss’n Boots cat food
and Nestle’s evaporated milk.

Mr. Ryan made one suggestion during the
inspection. He recommended that several
chipped enamel feeding dishes be replaced.
The recommendation was entered in his re-
port. A copy went to the hospital director.

Under the Metcalf—Hatch Law only un-
claimed, unwanted and unlicensed animals
may be requisitioned for research. However.
the owner of a licensed dog or other animal
may offer his pet for research.

Under a previous law public pounds and
humane organizations were required to hold
any unlicensed, unwanted or unclaimed ani-
mal 48 hours. Under the Metcalf—Hatch Law,
each requisitioned animal must be held an
additional three days, during which it may
be reclaimed by its owner or adopted.

Animals are transported to the laboratory
in a custom-built vehicle operated by the
New York State Society for Medical Re-
search. The vehicle was constructed to speci-
ﬁcations suggested by the ASPCA.

Cornell’s work is just one example of the
ways men and animals are joining together
to test and screen new treatments for dis-
ease. Their research is helping to expand
the frontiers of both veterinary and human

medicine and extend the life spans of men
and animals.

  

   




 

Mr

1..
U.
a o
“1%.

1
Du
J
Q0.
9
3
.IT

Ost

vi

ng bi

Ch

1'1 .
Oddball of
rd world

, outruns a
horse and eats rocks

rd roars

 




 

 

YOUR CAT’S

HEALTH is the primary concern of the

newest, finest pet food research center in the world

Visitors to the new Quaker Oats Company
Dog & Cat Kennels for Nutritional Research
are amazed at the completeness of this new
center. For here, where 500 pets live in pleas-
ant, temperature-regulated rooms and airy
runs, Quaker scientists work on dietary discov-
eries that can lead to better health and vitality
for pets everywhere.

Around the clock, Puss ’n Boots cat food is
being tested for a wide range of vital nutritive
features. Is the ideal protein level being
reached? 15 the protein quality of the highest
standards? Are the various amino acids which

   

   

          
 

4” ill

 

View of main buildings,
Barrington, Illinois

 

make up protein properly represented? Are the
necessary vitamins present in right quantities?

To insure the best possible nourishment in
Puss ’n Boots, scientiﬁc rations are rigorously
tested at the center—in controlled feeding
studies and in test tube work on the laboratory
bench. Each coded diet is measured to the
nearest 1/454th of a pound.

The result is a cat food which is uniform in
quality, with the highest possible nutrition a
cat is known to need. If you are not feeding
your cat Puss ’n Boots, start her on it today.
You’ll soon see a wonderful difference.

Available in 8 oz. and larger sizes
Original Fish Formula and New Meat Flavor

 

Omen. dag_5m%da3_6wWWW

Coast Fisheries, Division of The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago 54, Illinois

 




 

A scratching post

In the wild a cat’s claws are its natural
protection against enemies, its grip on life
when climbing trees, and a potent method
of snaring food. A cat’s claws grow fast, but
in the wild, they wear down fast.

A domestic cat that never goes outdoors
has no need for claws and no rough surface
for wearing them down.

Discomfort and even painful sores can
result if the claws grow so long they curl
around and pierce sensitive tissue. The an-
swer is a scratching post. Provide the cat
with a slab of tree trunk or firewood with
a thick bark. Make it long enough so the
cat can stretch full length against it. Set it
upright into a heavy base so it won’t tip
over, or place it ﬂat on the ﬂoor. Equally
good is a post covered with carpeting, avail-
able at most pet shops.

If the cat is strictly a house pet, the nails
may be clipped and the points ﬁled. This

should be done only by a veterinarian.

NEW WINNER!
«5;:

 

 

 
    

ALSO
Av MLABLE
BAGS FOR
KENNELS-
. ASK YOUR
PET FOOD
sUPPL‘ER

 
   
 

 
   
     
   
    
  
 
 

Sizes: ‘lO‘/4 025., 30 025., 4 lbs, 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER®

Now—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
' H ' and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

 

19

 

 

 




 

 

      

 
   

hambaz.

OF DU PONT NYLON
PROVEN‘ SAFE FOR YOUR DOG
. . . ASK YOUR VETERINARIAN

.USED BY LEADING ANIMAL HOSPITALS. KENNELS.
AND HUMANE SOCIETIES

.CAN SAVE DOGS' LIVES . . .NO COSTLY SURGERY

.WILL SAVE VALUABLE PROPERTY FROM
DESTRUCTION

.BENEFICIAL TOOTH CLEANING AND GUM
EXERCISE . . . NO TOOTH WEAR

.NO UPSETS. . .NO EMBARRASSING VOMITING. .
. .NO INTESTINAL STOPPAGES

SIZES

WOLF-SIZE $199

-For LARGE Dogs

REGULAR $139

-For MOST Dogs
.5? EMILE): 89 ¢
( Slightly Higher in Canada 81, Mexico )
COSTS FAR LESS, IN THE
LONG RUN,THAN ANYTHING
ELSE FOR DOGS TO
HEW ON

NYLABONE Corporation

P.0. Box 1222 Oklahoma City I2,0lrla.

 

 

 

   

 

$\ \‘

/// /
23““ \g (/2?-
ON THIS EASY \'

,_ \o‘ \
:5 Budget Plur-
//

ﬂequires only $40 every 3 months. Start \

any time; stop any time—no penalties.
/ We’ll supply facts on stocks in which \
you are interested. Choice of 1200 stocks

/’ listed on New York Stock Exchange.
. Write for Budget Plan Booklet

/THOMSON & McKlNNON

2 Broadway, New York 4
MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE \

/

//////////

V/

/

Wonderful World of Nature
(Continued from page 21)

Who would think of linking hippopotami
with ﬁsh farming? In East African lakes,
the animals fertilize a plant which feeds a
ﬁsh widely used by ﬁsh farming enterprises.
The ﬁsh then supplement the protein essen-
tial to man’s diet.

Plants are the ﬁrst link in every “food
chain.” Insects eat plants, but other insects
and many animals help control insect num-
bers. They do it better, and cheaper, we’re
learning, than man can do it with insecti-
cides. More and more, scientists are urging
that we let nature do as much of the job
of controlling pests as possible.

Every plant and animal plays a role in
regulating nature’s world.

Man is left to regulate himself. Since his
actions could deplete the natural world of
its riches, he has to think of future genera-
tions and leave enough for the millions of
men to follow.

For preserving the excellent balance that
exists in nature—~and protecting natural
resources as a valuable economic force — an
International Union for the Conservation of
Nature has sponsored study programs in
different parts of the world since 1952.

Here in America the Audubon Camps in—
vite parents, teachers, youth leaders, and
anyone interested in nature to share experi-
ences in the outdoors, learn new teaching
methods, program aids, and have an oppor-
tunity to observe living animals and plants
in a great variety of natural habitats.

The Audubon Camps are conducted by the
National Audubon Society, an organization
dedicated to conservation of soil, water,
plants, and wildlife.

 

HENRY’S TROPICAL FISH HATCHERY
Wholesale Distributors of

ACQUARI UM ACCESSORIES AND

TROPICAL FISH
Mail Orders

 

IO9-08—IOIst AVENUE, RICHMOND HILL l9, N. Y.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

No Dogs Allowed

A study of the problem of dogs soiling
sidewalks has been ordered by New York
Mayor Robert F. Wagner. A universal muni-
cipal thorn, the problem appears to he get-
ting worse in New York City, Where land-
lords, tenants and pedestrians alike have been
registering louder and louder complaints.

The result is a trend toward bans on pets
in public places. Pets are not permitted in
public housing and in many private develop-
ments. Understandably, landlords are pro-
tecting other tenants from unpleasantness in
elevators, lobbies and on sidewalks.

Three years ago the Department of Sani-
tation came up with the idea of dog comfort
stations which it proposed to install on heav-
ily traveled street corners throughout the
city. An experimental station installed in
front of the ASPCA’s Manhattan Shelter
proved a failure. Dogs refused to use it.

Other suggested solutions range from in-
dividual disposable comfort stations to a
chemical which will dissolve the excrement.
The ASPCA would welcome feasible sugges-
tions from readers which we can put into
effect or pass on to the Mayor for action by
the City.

An immediate answer seems to be stricter
enforcement of existing regulations. Section
161.03 of the New York City Health Code
reads:

A person who owns, possesses or controls a
dog, cat or other animal shall not permit the
animal to commit a nuisance on a sidewalk of
any public place, on a ﬂoor, wall, stairway or
roof of any public or private premises used in
common by the public, or on a fence, wall or
stairway of a building abutting on a public place.
Violation is punishable by a ﬁne of $25

or ten days imprisonment, or both, and
police have been cracking down on violators.

If owners refuse to curb their pets, we fear
the result will be an absolute ban on dogs
in New York City—an extreme solution
already adopted in some communities across
the country. The warning signs are up, but
if owners act now, it may not be too late
to forestall such a severe penalty by the
city fathers.

    
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
    
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
    

VOL. 15, N0. 1

Janice Paprin, Editor

IN THIS ISSUE

A Report on
Laboratory Inspections ........ 2

SPRING 1961

Learning about Pets .............

Behind the Scenes in Hollywood. . . 10

Duffy Finds a Home ............. 12
Letters .......................... 14
William Mapel Appointed ........ 14
Your Pet’s Health ............... 15
Mr. Ostrich: Oddball

of the Bird World ............. 16
A Scratching Post ............... l9
Wonderful World of Nature ...... 20

New York State
Humane Slaughter Legislation. . 23

Products and Services ........... 24

Your Pet Can Help
Outside Back Cover

 

Cover picture

Diana Mulraney, l8, wears ASPCA Medal of
Honor awarded to her for saving her pet cat
Jenny during the terrible air collision over
Brooklyn last December. When the plane
plunged into her home, engulﬁng it in ﬂames,
the family was ordered to evacuate the build-
ing. Diana insisted on ﬁnding Jenny and

carrying her to safety.
New York Mirror photo

Animal Protection is published twice yearly by
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, Editorial Office, 30 East 60th Street,
New York 22, N. Y.




During . inspection tour of Cornell University
Medicai' College ASPCA Agent " William Ryan
observes Dr. William Beaver'place ailing cat‘ in
individual cage in recovery ward Cage measures
15 x 24 x :18 .mches high. ’ . ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

A report on
laboratory

Inspection

Excellent conditions cited at
Cornell University Medical College’s
Pharmacology Laboratory

aboratory research involving animals has

been protected in New York State since

the passage of the ﬁrst anti-cruelty law in

1867. The law speciﬁcally bans interference

with properly conducted scientiﬁc tests per-

formed in institutions approved by the Com-
missioner of Health.

Despite this restriction on outside inter-
ference, the ASPCA has been working for
some long time to protect the welfare of ani-
mals used in laboratory research. A pattern
for improving care, housing, feeding and
exercise has been set up in laboratories
which requisition animals from the ASPCA
under the 1952 Metcalf-Hatch Law. The pro-
gram is implemented by regular ASPCA in-
spections of these laboratories.

While the Metcalf-Hatch Law does not give
any humane organization the right to inspect
laboratories, the ASPCA has been granted
this privilege by all laboratories requisition-
ing animals from us.

During 1960 ﬁfteen hospitals and labora-
tories requisitioned a total of 1912 animals
from the ASPCA—about seven-tenths of
one percent of all animals handled in our
shelters. We made 123 unannounced inspec-

3

 




 




“We’ll ﬁnd a pet at the ASPCA.” “They’re all so appealing.” “He’s the one. We want him.”

Choosing a dog is a family affair for the Girls look over dogs for adoption through They decide on a lively, friendly two-year-
Kalsmiths. Daddy, Judy, 'l3, Lynne, 12, and Debby, plate glass window of Adoption Ward. Kennelman old wire-haired terrier. Kennelman Gorman says
6, arrive at the Manhattan Shelter. George Gorman helps with the selection. terriers make fine pets for children.

DUFFY FINDS A HOME

The family pictured on these pages found the pet of their dreams in

the animal wonderland at the ASPCA Shelter. And a wire-haired
terrier dubbed Duﬂy found a home full of love, warmth and fun.

“Let’s take Duﬂy home to Mommy.”
Happy family leaves shelter with their
frisky bundle of fur. A rich new experience in
mutual love and affection is in store for them.

“Let’s call him Duﬂy.”

Daddy fills out adoption papers and buys dog
license required for all New York City dogs. Clerk James
Pereda tells them there’s no charge for adoption.

 

‘ , “He certainly has a big appetite.”
“He’s a ﬁne, healthy dog.” H ' .‘ When Duffy arrives home, Mother is
Duffy is examined in ASPCA Hospital and Clinic. ' ‘ ‘ _ ' ' ready With food, a few TOYS “MI 0 quiet corner
All newly adopted pets are entitled to free examination, . ’ . . ‘ , - . . , Whe"? Duffy can relax after a hard romp Wlih
advice on pet care and one free inoculation against : ‘ ’ ' , , ' V, , g ' the girls. pictures by AI Levine
communicable disease. ' ' ‘ ' " ‘ ' '

 

 




