 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK APRIL 10, 1866.

 

THIRTIETH ANNUAL REPORT

 

JOHN P. HAINES, President.
DECEMBER 31, 1895.

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:
10 EAST TWENTY-SECOND STREET, NEW YORK.

 

WYNKOOP HALLENBECK CRAWFORD CO.,
STATE PRINTERS,
ALBANY AND NEW YORK.
1896.

 




 

 

STATE OF NEW YORK.

 

 

No. 72.

IN ASSEMBLY,

MARCH 18, 1896.

 

REPORT

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
‘ OF ORUELTY To ANIMALS.

 

HEADQUARTERS, 10 EAST 22D STREET, }
NEW YORK, Marcia 16, 1896.

Hon. HAMILTOl‘I FISH,
Speaker of the Assembly, Albany, IV. 17..

I have the honor of presenting to the Legislature of the State
of N eW York the thirtieth annual report of The American
Society ' for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and I would
respectfully call your attention to the enormous extension of the
work of animal protection during the past year. '

Yours very truly,

JOHN P. HAIN ES,
President.

 




 

 

 

 

'6

more important particulars of the year’s work. The most notable
occurrence has been the establishment of the Shelter for Animals*
in Brooklyn. The success of the Shelter in New York was so
immediate and secured such instant recognition from the public,
that the establishment of a similar institution in our sister city
was desired, and the Act of 1894 was amended by the legislature
so as to extend the functions of our Society in the care of lost,
strayed and homeless animals to the Cityhof Brooklyn. In pursu-
ance of the provisions of the amended act, a Shelter was estab-
lished in Brooklyn, at the corner of Malbone Street and Nos-
trand Avenue, and its operations were begun on August 15th.
Of course, this work is still new, and it is too soon to estimate its
probable usefulness when it shall have been completely organized;
but even at this date it is satisfactory to observe that in the ﬁve
months ending December 31, 1895, the number of lost, strayed, and
homeless dogs alone which have been removed from the streets
and humanely cared forhas been greater by 50 per cent. than the
number captured under the old system in the whole year of 1894.
In this statement I do not include the thousands of homeless cats
which have been disposed of, since cats were not included under
the old law and were allowed to roam at large. In the two Shelters
now belonging to the Society, during the past year 21,741 dogs
have been received, and of this number 3,192 have been returned
to their owners, while 397 have been placed in desirable homes.
In addition thereto 24,140 cats have been received, 24 have been
returned to their owners, and 80 have been placed in good homes,
making a total of 45,881 dogs and cats received, of which 3,216
have been restored to their owners and 477 provided with homes.
While I take pleasure in recording the large number of animals
which have been returned to their owners or otherwise well pro—
vided for, it is painful to be obliged to remember the far larger
number which it has been necessary to destroy. The only conso-
lation and the only justiﬁcation for this part of our work is its
necessity. Many of these animals are homeless estrays ; the
remainder are denizens Of the tenement houses, hardly less fortu-
nate than the wanderers of the streets. Nearly all of Mam are
diseased, and one of our difﬁculties in ﬁnding homes for them is

* See pages'zr, 22, 29, 30, 39, 4o.

 




 

7

that a large majority of those which are thus provided for are
returned to us for that reason. Thus they are not only sufferers
themselves, but also a continual danger to healthy animals which
are well cared for and highly valued by their owners. When dogs
of high or low degree meet in the street they are pretty sure to
come in contact, and thus the mange and other parasitical diseases
are constantly propagated. , But that is not the only danger.
Human diseases are undoubtedly propagated in the same way.
In cases of diphtheria, smallpox, scarlet fever, measles, and diseases
of the skin in general, no disinfection of houses or rooms can be
effectual if dogs and cats which inhabit them are not likewise
disinfected; and in the opinion of many competent physicians,
the spread of contagious diseases must be in many instances
attributed to this cause. In the destruction of these creatures,
we are removing a cause of disease not only from other dumb
animals but from human beings as well ; and it must be remem-
bered that the animals themselves are removed, absolutely without
pain, from a precarious existence which is full of hardships, and
is often attended with great and unrelieved suffering.

Our ambulance service in Brooklyn has been materially enlarged
and improved ; and the service in the City of New York has been
strengthened by the introduction of an improved ambulance"? which
has received the enthusiastic approval of competent judges, and
which I believe to be indisputably the most perfect ambulance for
the safe and humane removal of injured animals which can now be
found in the world. A fear has been entertained by some of our
friends lest the enormous work done in connection with our Shelter
and Ambulance Departments should interfere with the efﬁciency
of other departments. The best answer to this quite reasonable
apprehension will be found in the table of statistics to which I have
referred, and from which it will appear that, instead of a diminu-
tion of our general work, there has actually been an increase
everywhere, with no evidence of neglect or inefﬁciency in any
particular whatever. ~

Our Special Agents in various parts of the State continue to ren-
der efﬁcient service, and they must still be regarded as among the
most useful agencies of the Society. It has been suggested of

* See page 5.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

8

late that wherever an organized society for the protection of ani-
mals has been duly incorporated, the agents of our Society might
properly be withdrawn; and to this course I see no objection,
provided that the local society is really strong enough to carry on
its work efﬁciently. To withdraw our agents from a place in
which the local society is not able to attend to its duty would be
simply to abandon the protection of animals in that place. Nev-
ertheless, I cheerfully admit that where a local society has been
established, it must be understood to have assumed both the duty
and the responsibility which its organization implies.

The circulation of humane literature continues to be one of our
most encouraging and productive operations. My personal experi-
ence warrants me in saying that no part of our work is so produc-
tive of immediate and permanent results as this. It is within my
knowledge that considerable sums of money have been secured,
not only for our oWn Society but for other benevolent organiza—
tions, through the direct inﬂuence of publications which have
been issued from our ofﬁce. In one single instance, the gain to the
Society from this source was sufﬁcient to have defrayed our whole
expense of printing and publishing Our Animal Friends for six
years. This, however, is by no means the best or most valuable
fruit of the distribution of humane literature. It is the best pos-
sible missionary agency. It often produces effects in quarters
that could never be reached without it. That it is appreciated
is abundantly proved by the demands for it which come to us, not
only from all parts of the country, but from all quarters of the
globe. Many persons of right principles are ready to engage in
the protection of animals, but do not know how to set about it.
Such persons want information, and they ask us for it. To answer
all their questions with the fulness that our own experience has
proved to be necessary, would be impossible ; but it is easy to send
books, doCuments, and pamphlets which supply the very informa-
tion that is required. Thus, by adopting plans which long experi-
ence has justiﬁed, comparative novices are enabled to act ’with
conﬁdence and with discretion. One of the great difﬁculties

of such work as ours, when it is undertaken by inexperienced
persons, is‘that their enthusiasm is apt to mislead them. They
do the right thing in Some unfortunate way. With the best

 

   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  

 

 




 

 

 

9

intentions in the world, they expose themselves to ridicule and
calumny. Then they become discouraged, and in many cases
they abandon their good work at the very time when they have
begun to learn how they ought to do it. These involuntary
faults of inexperience are largely prevented by the circulation of
such literature as our Society is distributing. Nothing should in-
duce us to curtail this part of our operations. On the contrary,
as the result of my own personal knowledge, I have no hesitation
in saying that, of all our agencies, this is most deserving of exten-
sion and development, and that it brings, on the whole, larger and
more permanent results in proportion to its cost in money and
effort than any other agency of this Society.

I cannot Close this brief report without seriously referring to
the necessity of securing at least a site for the future permanent
Headquarters of the Society. Our present temporary quarters
have been already outgrown. When I remind you that our ofﬁces
are visited by an average number of two hundred persons daily,
many of whom are often present at one time, it will be seen that
the space at our command is wholly inadequate ; and any member
of the Society who will take the trouble to examine our present
Headquarters and observe the difﬁculty with which a private
dwelling has been applied to the purposes of so extensive and
so rapidly growing an agency of public business, will have no
difﬁculty in drawing the conclusion that unless our work is to be
deplorably crippled and hindered by the lack of necessary facilities,
a building of greater size and specially adapted to our purposes
must within a short time be secured.

I need hardly insist that such a building ought to be located in
some central position, easily accessible from all parts of the city.
Consequently, even if the erection of Headquarters must be
postponed for years to come, the site must be secured without
delay, or it can never be secured in the vicinity which would be
most desirable for our purposes. Every lot of ground within the
area which we should undoubtedly prefer, is being rapidly bought
up by permanent investors ; the prices of real estate are steadily
rising; and within a very short time such property as we ought,
if possible, to obtain, will command a price which we cannot hope
to raise. I press this consideration upon you the more earnestly,

 




 

 

 

IO

and with the greater freedom, as I myself have consistently depre—
cated all rash investments and everything that could be charac-
terized as of a speculative nature. In the portion of the city in
which we ought, if possible, to establish our permanent ofﬁces, the
time of speculation is passing, and the question of possibility has
begun to take its place. I venture, therefore, to urge with all
earnestness that this important subject may engage the serious-
and practical attention of our Board. I do not advocate the
building of an ediﬁce at the present time; but I do urge the
purchase of a site on which a suitable ediﬁce might hereafter be
erected.

_ On the whole, we can wish nothing better for the year on which
we are entering than such a measure of success as we have had
during the year which has gone. If our Society shall be as useful
and successful in 1896 as we may justly claim that it has been in

“1895, it will be a good New Year.

JOHN P. HAINES,
December 31, 1895. . President.

,- ‘4‘
v' '

"r' 1.
«1‘69
,, . ,“
<P ‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

12

operations of the Society in the same direction to the City of
‘ Brooklyn. This the’ Society has been enabled to'do under
authority of an act of Legislature amending the law to apply to
cities of the State having a population of over eight hundred
thousand. A Shelter for Animals has accordingly been established
at the corner of Malbone Street and Nostrand Avenue, Brooklyn,
and, as a necessary adjunct to this work, an Ambulance House at
114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn.

Details of the work of the Society during the year 1895 will be
found in the Reports of the President, T feasurer, and Super-
intendent. ‘ ‘

GEORGE G. DE WITT,

Secretary.

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, fannary I, 1896.

T o lee American Society fer the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals:

The~Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December‘ 31, 1895, showing a Cash Balance on
hand of $15,181.30.

Respectfully,
CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

 




   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

14
CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 account with THE AMERICAN
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DR.
To Cash on deposit in Union Trust C0., Dec. 31,

1894 . . . . . . $4,084 36

To Cash 1n drawer, Dec. 31, I894 . . . . . . . I48 57 ~
. $4.232 93

Bequest Eliz. R. Henderson . . . . . . . . $6,479 43

“ Maria Moffat . . . . . . 121 67

“ Margaret H. Hooker . . . . . . . . 1,000 00

“ James Simons . . . . . . . . . 1,000 00

“ Dudley P. Ely 500 00

“ Otillia Assing, valued at 13,000 00

“ Lyman W. Case, valued at . . . . . IO,374 00
32,475 I0
Members’ Dues and General Donations . . 7,049 50
Special Donation of Miss M. H. Butler for Fountain . . . . 1,000 00
Fines . . . . . . . . 6,052 70
Rentals, Interest, Dividends, Licenses, etc. . . . . . . . 82,957 99

 

 

$133,768 22

 

 

M
We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts of
Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the Society’ 5

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

I5

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1895,

 

 

 

‘8 CR.

Disbursements, January Ist to date, General MaintenanCe, in-
cluding Printing, Stationery, Light, Postage, Fuel, Rewards,

 

 

 

 

Salaries, etc. . . . . . $43,563 64
Equipment and Maintenance of Shelters for Animals in New
York and Brooklyn . . . - 37,255 95
Ambulance House, Maintenance, including Feed, Food, and Medi-
cine for Homeless and Abandoned Animals . . . . . . . 3,683 59
Rent . . . . . . . . . . 3,958 32
Repairs to Real Estate, Taxes and Insurance . . . . . . . 3,961 70
Furniture Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 509 05
Humane Literature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I0,907 65
Library Account . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . 505 36
Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334 50
Brooklyn Ofﬁce, Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,562 85
Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . 1,338 31
Settlement Ullmann Estate with Administrator . . $4,250 00
Settlement Mrs. T hayer Estate with Administrator . 700 00
—-———-— 4,950 00
Estate of Frances Clifford . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 00
Cash on deposit in Union Trust Co., Dec. 31, 1895 . $13,587 68
Cash in drawer, Dec. 31, 1895 . . . . . . . . 1,593 62
, 15,181 30
$133,768 22
the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention of

books and vouchers.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS,
WILLIAM P. ST. JOHN,

} Auditing C 0mmz’z‘z‘ee.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ but brieﬂy stated in this report.

 

 

 

    
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

REPORT 'OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

al agents of the Society during
he humane laws of the State,
the abuse of animals, can be

WHAT has been done by the speci
the past year in the enforcement of t
mitigating suffering, and preventing

Individual mention of special cases, wherein cruelty to helpless
dumb creatures was prevented at great personal risk, must be
omitted for want of space. An element of opposition—«although
in a modiﬁed form—to law and civilizing methods still manifests
itself from time to time. The large number of cases investigated
is evidence of the labor required to carry on the humane work,
and it is gratifying to report that, out of the whole number of
persons prosecuted, but fewlwere acquitted, after trial, and these
owing to the reluctance of witnesses to testify against the offend-
ers. Only those whose duty it is to enforce the laws enacted for
animal protection know the difﬁculties in the way of securing
evidence upon which trial magistrates or juries will convict ; hence
the results must, to a certain extent, fail to ShOW in detail the

magnitude of the labor involved.

Countless cases of petty abuse 0
warning the offenders against a repetition ; hundreds of disabled

animals were suspended from labor; the sufferings of others

accidentally injured, or taken sick, in the streets, have been
r diseased past recovery,

alleviated, while many more, injured 0

were humanely disposed of.
It“ may surprise many to learn that the prosecution of cruel

people is not the main feature of the Society’s work. Not ten per
cent. of the complaints received warrant criminal proceeding ; yet
all are investigated, and the evils complained of remedied.

f animals were disposed of by

  




    

    

I7

STABLES.

Much attention has been given to stables during the past year,
and in several instances animals were, by order of the Society,
removed to more healthful quarters.

STOCK YARDS, SLAUGHTER HOUSES, -ETC.

A marked improvement in the manner of carrying calves, sheep,
and other small animals from stock yards to slaughter houses may
be mentioned, likewise an improvement in the method of loading
cattle on board of steamers for exportation, and better accommo—
dation provided for the animals while in transit. More care is
exercised by slaughter-house employés while engaged in their
work, and the abuse of animals awaiting slaughter as formerly
practiced is now of rare occurrence.

DOG FIGHTING, COCK FIGHTING, ETC.

Owing to the continued vigilance of the Society’s ofﬁcers the
dog and cock ﬁghting fraternity found it dangerous to indulge
in these brutal pastimes—as will be seen by the ‘subjoined report.

PHASES or CRUELTY.

It may be noticed that several of the most pronounced cases of
cruelty inﬂicted upon animals were. prompted by malice, as, for
instance, the shooting of a beautiful mastiff because the animal
crossed the offender's lawn ; the stabbing of a horse with a pitch-
fork‘on account of the stabberbeing discharged for being drunk ;
the kicking of a pet cat to death because the human brute was not
invited to a christening party; the poisoning of a cow owing, to
a neighborly quarrel; throwing boiling water over a neighbor’s
pet dog “ because it barked ; ” giving apples containing arsenic
to two horses belonging to a rival expressman; tearing out a
horse’s tongue because the animal balked ; driving nails into the .
sensitive part of a horse’s foot on account of being discharged;
stabbing a horse belonging to a fellow-driver, with a knife ;




 

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
   

 

18

hanging a dog by the neckbptoya tree and beating it to death with
a club because it barked at a horse; shooting a tame pigeon’s
eye out “to get square with the owner.” Several cases of wanton
cruelty were prosecuted, such as throwing slack lime over a dog,
burning the animal in a terribleemanner; setting dogs to kill
cats, “just for the fun of the thing; ” pouring kerosene oil over
live Crats and'setting them ' on ﬁre, “just to ’see'them run ; ”
throwing live cats and dogs from, the roofs of houses. Many
cruel acts were done through indifference, as, for instance, driving
hOrses with broken blinders ﬂapping against the animals’eyes ;
tight check reins or throat latches ; broken shoes ; traces too long

I or'too short—any of which caused discomfort to the animal.

,AMBULANCEﬁANDIDERRHHiSERVKHL

The ambulances and life-saving “derrick and slings have been
kept busy, and were of invaluable assistance. The latter equip-
ment was employed to'resme several horses out of street excava-
tions, air shafts, and coalslides into which they had accidentally
fallen._ The ambulances have carried to veterinary ‘ hospitals

4 injured elephants,giraffes, and other large animals.

_ CANALs

.The yearly crusade against the cruelties practiced on the tow-
paths was commenced earlier this season than heretofore. The
re, orts of the ofﬁcers detailed for that duty indicate that the per-
siegent efforts of the Society for 56‘ many years have at. length
almost accOmplished their purpose. It has been costly to boat-
men to neglect the sufferings of the patient dumb beasts of bur-
den WhiCh‘haul the products of the State through the waterways.
Only two arrests were necessary this year, and but ﬁfteen teams
were suspended from labor owing to lameness or general debility.
The substitution of the electric trolley on the canals for horse
power will in the near future be an accomplished fact.

PlaCes of amusement where animals are employed, night and
day ha‘ck'stands, railroad and steamboat depots, race tracks, mar-
kets,”saleis stables, as well as all other-places Where animals are




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.i.:ﬁEﬁ_ _ 22$ :_,>_:_._:_:: :7. * x>_<:z_zﬁ _<:.__ 7... :2 4625.2: 3.... Sch C>Z>_.

 




OFFICERS FROM HEADQUARTERS EXAMINING MULES ON TOWPATH OF ERIE CANAL.

21

used for any purpose, have been visited by the Society’s ofﬁcers,
and nothing has .been left undone to enforce the observance of the
laws for animal protection. Many suggestions made by the ofﬁ-
cers for the better comfort of horses, dogs, and other animals have
been acted upon, with goodresults.

SPECIAL AGENTS.

Reports from special agents resident throughout the State indi-
cate that the humane laws are vigorously enforced. Several com-
plaints of dehorning milch cows have been reported and the prose-
cution of the offenders instituted. Many contemplated turkey
and chicken shoots have been prevented, likewise other amuse-
ments wherein live animals were to be subjected to physical suf—
fering. Horses, cattle, sheep, and other animals found neglected
or abandoned were taken in charge and cared for.

A uniformed ofﬁcer of the Society daily patrols the streets of
Long Island City and places adjacent thereto. Since his appoint-
ment cases of cruelty to animals are becoming of rare occurrence

in that part of Queens County. ‘

BROOKLYN DEPARTMENT.

Under the efﬁcient management of Inspector Clark, and con-
sidering the small force of ofﬁcers engaged there, the Brooklyn
department of the work has been most vigorously carried on.

SUMMARY FOR THE PAST NINE YEARS.

 

 

 

1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894 1895

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cases prosecuted in the courts. 797 991 949 986 1,071 1,080 980 1,010 952
Disabled animals temporarily
suspended from labor ........ 3,456 1,749 2,357 4,180 5,725 4,868
Horses, mules, and other large
animals, disabled past recov- ,
cry, humanely destroyed ..... 2,546 2,455 2,812 2,284 2,620 3,365 3,384 2,927 2,987
Small animals, homeless or dis-
abled past recovery, humane-
ly destroyed .................. 1,202 1,281 705 1,347 2,212 3,060 4,794 24,275 46,898
Disabled horses, and other large
animals removed from streets
in ambulances ................ 522 495 407 520 578

Complaints received and inves-
tigated ....................... 3,773 3,052 2,793 3,609 6,891 7,301 7,599 13,503 21,690

3,779 3,596 3,403

618 607 513 576

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

In conclusion the undersigned commends to favorable notice
the neat appearance of the uniformed ofﬁ
likewise their courage and intelligent dis
occasions While engaged in the'performance

cers under his command,
cretion exercised on all
of their onerousduties.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

Superintendent.

 




zm<< >§mcr>zom ﬁOm ._.Im ._._~>Zm.uo_~._.>._._oz Om. U_m>w_umo >z:<_>rm.

 




dm>0x3wo ENE/:23: mmmc: :5.2z0>>

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE IMPOR-
TANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING THE YEAR

1895.

Jan. 2.

Jan. 2.
a Jan. 2.
>_
:>
I
53
JJ
3
>—
j
g Jan. 3.
2
3
E
L!
f)
C
3 Jan. 3.
3
.3
I
E
3
Jan. 4.
Jan. 8.

James K. P. Fox, of Canastota, pleaded guilty before Justice Russell
to having unjustiﬁ-ably shot and killed a beautiful mastiff dog belong-
ing to a neighbor, for which he was ﬁned ten dollars.

For fastening a dog to a fence with a rope, then shooting at the ani-
mal with a shot-gun, John Otis was ﬁned one dollar by Justice Russell,
of Canastota, N. Y.

James Hallahar was employed by the Central Crosstown Railroad
Company to salt the roadway between the tracks on West Tenth Street.
He carried out his orders fully. The street was a mass of salted slush
through which horses and pedestrians were compelled to wade. Fined
ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Horace Miller was not invited by his neighbor to join in the festivities
incidental to a christening, so took revenge on complainant’s pet cat,
and kicked the unoffending animal to death on the stairway of the
house. Fined ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Patrick McMahon was driving a horse attached to a loaded cart. The
animal was suffering at the time from terrible sores on its back, unpro-
tected from the harness. McMahon pleaded «hard “ to be let off this
time, and I will take the horse straight to the stable, and I promise it
shall not be harnessed up again until the sores are healed.” His plea
was granted, the horse unhitched from the cart, and McMahon started
off in the direction of the stable ; but after going a shorgdistance, and
supposing the ofﬁcer had gone, returned and hitched the horse again
to the cart. Turning to the bystanders, McMahon laughed, saying,
“ I fooled him that time,” and then drove off. His hilarity was short-
lived, for he had not got two blocks away before he was overtaken by
the ofﬁcer and arrested. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Michael Smith, for failing to provide food and drink for his horse, was
sentenced by Judge Walsh to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to be
imprisoned for twenty—ﬁve days. He went to jail.

John Gillen, of Sheepshead Bay, neglected to give his horse food and
drink for over two days. The poor creature was eating the'wood of
the manger when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer. Sentenced by Judge
Gladding to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days.

 
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
  
   




  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

Jan. 9.

Jan. 10.

Jan. II.

Jan. I3.

Jan. 17.

Jan. 18.

Jan. 18.

Jan. I8.

Jan. 19.

Jan. 21.

    

26

Alonzo Linckinfellow, of West Amsterdam, N. Y., was charged with
having neglected to provide necessary sustenance for his cattle ; and
for the offence was ﬁned ten dollars and costs, by Justice Flanberry.

Wolf Fitchenbaum was cruelly beating a poor, weak, [lame horse on
the body with the butt end of a whip when he was stopped by the So-
ciety’s ofﬁcer. Jacob Wang, the owner of the animal, who was seated
on the vehicle at the time, resented the ofﬁcer’s interference. “ The
horse is mine,” said he, “and it is none of your business what I do
with it.” He knows better now. Both were convicted ; Fitchen-
baum was ﬁned ten dollars and Wang twenty-ﬁve dollars, by the Court
of Special Sessions.

For unjustiﬁably shooting three dogs, killing two and wounding the
third, Michael Dunn, of South Brooklyn, was ﬁned ten dollars by
Justice Quigley. The wounded dog was left unattended in a ﬁeld for
several hours before death ensued. ‘

Joseph Kravisick, of South Woodhaven, L. 1., was convicted of hav-
ing poisoned a cow with Paris green. The animal belonged to a
neighbor, who for some reason, so it was alleged, had incurred the ill—
will of the accused. Sentenced by Justice Lott to imprisonment in the

county jail for three months.

Joseph Arthur, Charles Larkiss, and Leon Lewis were ﬁned ﬁfty
dollars each by the Court of Special Sessions, for throwing sand mixed
with salt on the roadway between the tracks of the Belt Railroad.
The defendants said the salt got accidentally mixed with the sand, but
over twenty-ﬁve per cent. of the former was found in the mixture, which
they could not account for.

Albert Strumptt was charged with cruelly beating a horse with a
whip. The animal, a mere skeleton, was barely able to walk, being
lame and weak. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

John J. Wilson, for taking the badge from off a coat belonging to
one of the Society’s ambulance drivers, while the latter was putting a
sick horse into the vehicle, and for impersonating an ofﬁcer of the So—
ciety, was ﬁned $250, and sentenced to the penitentiary for one year.

Elias Jones, of Amsterdam, N. Y., failed to provide his horses and
cows with proper shelter. The animals were found by.the Society’s
agent in a shed, without bedding or protection from the cold weather.
Fined ten dollars and costs by Justice Van Newsen.

JamesTracey, of Dalton, N. Y., left a team of horses for over
twelve hours without food or covering, exposed to the inclemency of
the weather. When found, the animals were covered with snow and
ice. Fined ten dollars by Justice \Nashington Moses. 8

Patrick Brady, for driving to a loaded cart a horse suffering from




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Feb. 18.

Feb. 18.

Feb. 20.

Feb. 22.

     
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

28

the employees, “ In what stall does S. keep his horse?” The man re-
plied, “ I think in the last box stall on the next ﬂoor.” He was mis—
taken, however, as the stall referred to was occupied by “ Great East-
ern,” a famous trotting horse belonging to another boarder named
Levy, while the horse owned by Mr. S. was lodged in an adjoining
stall. Scanlon left the stable, but returned inthe evening about half-
past eight, and, without being observed,vascended to the ﬂoor where
the box stalls are located. The stable foreman, while making his
rounds, visited “Great Eastern,” and to his surprise found Scanlon in
the stall. “ What are you doing here?” he exclaimed. “ You mind
your own business,” was Scanlon’s insolent reply; and on being ordered
away, he refused to go, and had to be removed by force. On examina-
tion, the horse was found to have been stabbed several times in ‘both
fore legs. The case was reported to the Society, and the ofﬁcer de-
tailed to arrest Scanlon learned that the man had left the city imme-
diately after leaving the stable. He was ﬁnally arrested, arraigned,
and held in one thousand dollars bail for trial at General Sessions ;
and on an indictment by the grand jury, he was tried, convicted, and
sentenced on Friday, April 26th, to imprisonment in the penitentiary
for six months. ,

“Stop beating that horse,” said a citizen to George Cobane and
Charles Vogel, both of whom were cruelly beating a horse on the head
and body with the butt end of a whip. “Go to h, l” was the
reply; and as if to emphasize their contempt for their victim’s friend,
the poor beast received another blow on the head. The case was
reported to the Society forthwith. The same day both offenders were
arrested, and subsequently ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars each by the Court
of Special Sessions. '

Henry Koopman, a grocer’s clerk, hitched a lame horse to a wagon,
and started to deliver groceries. After driving around for an hour or
more. the horse going lamer at every step, Koopman was stopped by
the Society’s ofﬁcer. “I don’t care for the horse, I want to deliver
my goods,” was the unfeeling reply to the ofﬁcer’s remonstrance. The
suffering animal was taken to its Stable. Koopman was ﬁned ﬁfteen
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Morris Leffelholtz gave apples containing arsenic to ‘two horses
belonging to a rival expressman. One of the animals died the same
night. The other, after biting the apple, spat it out. A veterinary
surgeon succeeded in saving the animal’s life, but its mouth was terri-
bly burned by the poison. Prisoner sentenced to the penitentiary for
four'months.

At Ridgewood, Long Island, are places where cattle and wornout
milch cows are fed upon swill and kept until they are in ﬁt condition
Many of the places are ﬁlthy beyond description.

 

for slaughter.

     




 

mmOOXF<Z mIijmm v.02 >Z:<_>rm. _Z._.mm_Om Om Onﬂom. .

 




:58 @2203 £958 222 .S<_>__z< $8 $510 zixoomm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

31

Patrick Lyons was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by Judge Monteverde for keeping
cattle in a ﬁlthy place.

March I. On the old “ King’s Highway ” road, near Parkville, Long Island,

a saloon kept by one Bell and known as Oakwood Park, is frequented
by the “sporting ” fraternity. In the rear is an old unused barn,
which cannot be seen from the main thoroughfare, being hidden from
view by a clump of woods. For some time a gang of dog ﬁghters'had
been arranging for a contest between two noted bull-dogs named
Gamble and Pete; but knowing it would be unsafe to have the ﬁght
in any place known to the ofﬁcers of the Society or the police, Bell’s
was selected for its seclusiveness. About midnight of the day men-
tioned, poliCe and Society ofﬁcers raided the barn, and on the upper
ﬂoor found seventy—eight men seated around an improvised pit, in the
centre of which the two bull—dogs were ﬁercely ﬁghting. The entire

crowd was taken to the station-house, and subsequently the men V

pleaded guilty to being witnesses to a dog ﬁght, and were ﬁned’ten

' dollars each. The principals, Barney Reilly, Alexander J. Brown, and
Teb Bell—proprietor of the saloon—were ﬁned ﬁfty dollars each. The
pit, dogs, and other paraphernalia seized at the time were conﬁscated
pursuant to law.

March 15. Joseph A. Theobald was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars

and be imprisoned in the penitentiary for six months by Recorder
Cobb, of Monroe County, N. Y., for tearing out the tongue of a horse
he was driving, because the animal, so it was alleged, balked on the
road.

March 28. Samuel Klappan was ﬁned twenty dollars by Judge Schumacher,

April I.

of East Williamsburgh, for keeping cows in an‘unhealthy place.

Complaints having been received at the Society’s Headquarters that
many pet cats in the upper part of the city had been killed in a
mysterious manner, ofﬁcers watched the neighborhood night and day

for several weeks without discovering the cause of the trouble. Finally,

about two o’clock one morning, while the ofﬁcer was patrolling East
Sixty-ﬁfth Street, a cat suddenly started out from an areaway, followed
by two bull-dogs and a man named Edward Golden. Before the
ofﬁcer could interfere, the dogs had seized and killed the cat. Golden
was profuse in his exclamation of sorrow at the untimely death of the
cat, denied owning the dogs, and solemnly declared he was doing his
best to save the cat’s life. The ofﬁcer believed him, and permitted
him to depart, the dogs following after him. About an hour later, the
ofﬁcer, While approaching the lower end of his beat, again heard the
growling of dogs, followed by what appeared to be the screaming of a
child, issuing from the cellar of a vacant house. Proceeding cautiously
towards the scene of the disturbance, he found Golden and several

  
  
  
  
    
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
  
 

  
  
 

     




 

  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

April 8.

April 30.
April 30.
May I.

May I 3.

May 15.

May 27.

May 28.

May 31.

May 31.

  

32
men surrounding the two bull-dogs, both of which were engaged in “
mangling a cat. “The sight almost sickened me,” said the officer.
“ but the human brutes were actually enjoying it.” Golden “'85
dumfounded when seized by the policeman, but had the eﬁ'rontery 10
deny any participation in the cruel scene. He was subsequently COU'
victed by the Court of Special Sessions and sentenced to the City ‘
Prison for thirty days. ‘

A pig and a young heifer belonging to Charles Webber, of Mayﬁeld, .
N. Y., had been deprived of food and were otherwise neglected for
several days, for which neglect Webber was ﬁned ten dollars by Just ice
Brown.

John Stockhause, for overdriving a horse hired at a livery stable,
was sentenced to the penitentiary for six months by Justice Goetting-

Thomas Reilly, for kicking his horse ﬁve times in the belly, was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by Justice Walsh.

A. P. Jones, of Thompson’s Lake, Albany Co., N. Y., was ﬁned one
dollar by Justice Baker for carrying a calf in a cruel manner.

John Casterona knocked a dog’s eye out with a piece of iron pipe-
Fined ten dollars by Justice Tighe.

George Polinazie, a farmer residing at Richmond Hill, L. I., com-
pelled a horse suffering from sores on the breast, unprotected from the
harness, to drag a ﬁeld barrow. Fined ﬁve dollars.

Joseph Brukworth became enraged when thehorse he was driving-
fell, and jumping off the vehicle, he commenced to kick the un-
offending animal on the head. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Michael O’Leary was charged with having maliciously driven a nail
into the nigh fore foot of a horse belonging to his brother David, who
is engaged in the express business and employs a number of drivers,
one of whom was Michael. For overdriving and otherwise abusing
one of the horses, Michael was discharged. He threatened revenge,
saying to his brother, “ I’ll get square with you ! I’ll make you as
poor as myself ! ” David reported the case to the Society, and Michael
was arrested and arraigned in the Court of Special Sessions. He
pleaded guilty and was sentenced to the penitentiary for three months.

Morris Feldstrom, for carrying chickens in a cruel manner, was 508d
ﬁve dollars—and an additional ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars was imposed for
driving a horse while in a weak and feeble condition—by the Court Of
Special Sessions.

Patrick Shanley, a car-driver, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars‘by the

Court of Special Sessions, for cruelly beating a horse attached t0 a.
heavily loaded passenger car. When arrested, Shanley was urging the

    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

       
    




  

W

 
 
   
  
   
 
  

 

33

team up a steep incline, which it was impossible for the animals to
ascend.

June I. Martin Keena neglected to provide food and water for his horse for
two days. The poor creature when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer was
almost dead for want of attention. Keena was sent to the city prison
for thirty days by the Court of Special Sessions.

June 4. D. S. Fay, of West Brighton, S. I., for shooting at and wounding
pigeons, leaving them for dead, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Jus-
tice Reardon.

June 8. Bessie Lancaster, of Clean, N. Y., was ﬁned sixteen dollars for poi-
soning her neighbor’s chickens.

June 8. Alva Blanchard, of Manhasset, L. 1., was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by
Justice H. C. Morrell, Jr., for overworking and cruelly beating a
horse.

June II. A. Swarthouse, of Schenectady, N. Y., was sentenced to the county
jail for ten days, by Recorder Maxwell, of Amsterdam, N. Y., for over-
driving and otherwise abusing a horse.

June II. Justice E. B. Ingalls, of Mohawk, N. Y., ﬁned Andrew Leckier, of
Herkimer, ten dollars for beating a horse in a cruel manner.

June II. Mrs. S., of West End Avenue, ordered her coachman, Herman
Hartman, to report to the house with the horses and carriage, as she
had several social calls to make and other business to attend to. After
several stops had been made, Mrs. S. noticed that her coachman seemed
to be intoxicated, and her suspicion was presently conﬁrmed by his reck-
less driving and savage Whipping of the horses. Mrs. S. remonstrated,
but the drunken driver took no notice of her, and continued to beat the
team until he reached the stable. He was there notiﬁed that his ser-
vices were no longer required; and while putting the horses in their
stalls, he maliciously stabbed one of them several times in the leg with
a pitchfork, and afterwards boasted of his cruelty. The case was
reported to the Society. Hartman was arrested, and when arraigned
before the Court of Special Sessions pleaded guilty, and was sentenced
to four months in the penitentiary.

June 19. Dennis McCarthy, of Corning, N. Y., was charged with splitting a
cow’s tongue to prevent the animal from sucking its own milk.
Defendant demanded jury trial. Jury disagreed—ﬁve for conviction,
one for acquittal.

June 19. For cruelly beating a horse on the head and body with the lash and
butt end of a whip, John Gamper was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice
Harriman, of Brooklyn.

June 20. Ellen Doyle struck her neighbor’s dog with a brick, breaking the
animal’s back. The women were quarrelling when the dog commenced

 

  




  

 

 

 

‘ ’

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

34“

animal, and

to bark. Mrs. Doyle was found guilty of cruelty to the
id the presid-

sentence was suspended, “ only on account of your age,” sa
ing justice of the Court of Special Sessions.

from several sores on the body.

unprotected from the harness, to drag a heavily loaded truck, James
Rogers was ﬁned ﬁve dollars in the Court of Special Sessions. In his
he said he did not think" the sores hurt the horse, although
as chaﬁng the wounds every step the animal walked.

June 20. For compelling a horse suffering

defence,
the heavy saddle w

June 21. Mike Ross. of \Vhite Plains. trapped. a number of dogs, then beat

them to death. Fined ten dollars by Justice Moran.

June 21. A horse driven by Henry McKinley, an employee of the Street Clean-
ing Department, slipped and fell, evidently through careless driving.
McKinley made no effort to assist the fallen animal other than to sit
on the seat and jerk at the reins. Bystanders remonstrated ; McKinley
became angry, and proceeded to vent his spite upon the unoffending
animal by beating it on the face and head with the end of the lines.
Finally, with assistance, the horse was gotten upon its feet, when
McKinley deliberately kicked it in the stomach before the ofﬁcer of the

Society could prevent him. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of

General Sessions.

. June 25. Samuel Adamsky, so it was alleged, tookaweak, feeble horse belong-
ing to a neighbor, hitched it to a wagon, and drove off in search of a
job. He was hired to take two trunks to the Long Island Ferry, but
before he got half way there the animal’s strength gave out. Adamsky
declared the poor creature was balky, and should be made to go, so be
commenced to beat it brutally with a whip. Fortunately an ofﬁcer of
the Society arrived on the scene before many blows were struck. and
'took both horse and driver in charge. The former was taken in the
ambulance to the Veterinary Hospital,while Adamsky was taken to the
station-house. He subsequently pleaded guilty to the charge of cruelty,
and was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

June 26. “ The horse was not only lame and sore, but had the disease known
as glanders,” said the Society’s prosecutor to the justices of the Court of
Special Sessions, when asked to state the particulars of a charge of cru-
elty preferred against Joseph Pomeran. who was arraigned for trial.
Pomeran had been found driving a most dilapidated animal attached to a
partly loaded wagon. The poor beast was so weak it could hardly totter
along, and no wonder, for its blood was poisoned with glanders in addi-
tion to other physical inﬁrmities. After being released from the liar-
ness, its sufferings were ended with a mercifully directed bullet. For
his cruelty Pomeran was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars.

Henry Christy, while drunk, hung a dog by the neck to a tree, then

    
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 18.

July 18.

July 18.

July 22.

July 23.

July 24.

July 24.

July 24.

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

36

For selling a horse having the disease known as glanders, John Barry
was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars, with the alternate of ﬁfteen days in the city
prison, by the Court of Special Sessions.

In the Court of Special Sessions, John Barry entered a plea of guilty
to the charge of selling a horse, having the disease known as farcy, for
ﬁve dollars. The Society’s prosecutor explained the nature of the
disease, and mentioned cases of stablemen who had contracted it from
horses in their charge and had died in terrible agony. Sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to serve ﬁfteen days in the city prison.
“ If this were not your ﬁrst offence,” said the “presiding magistrate,
“ the court would have imposed a mOre severe penalty.”

Alpheus Chapman neglected. to provide sufﬁcient food, water, and
proper shelter for his cattle, for which offence he was ﬁned twenty
dollars by Justice D. C. Stone, of Lyndon, N. Y.

James Dow and George Fullington, of Delhi, were convicted of
having beaten a young heifer to death. Fined ﬁfteen dollars each by
Justice McPhail. ,

George Yunnly unjustiﬁably shot a pet cat belonging to a neighbor,
and was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Acker, of Staten Island.

For unmercifully beating a horse on the body with the handle of a.
hammer, John Ross was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to
be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days in the city prison, by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Aaron Lipsky was caught in the act of stabbing a horse belonging to
a fellow-driver. Several horses stabled in the same building had been
previously cut by some unknown person, apparently with a knife or
other sharp instrument. The foreman of the stable determined to
ﬁnd out who the miscreant was, and to that end stationed himself in a
dark corner of the premises on the night of July 24th. About eight
o’clock Lipsky entered, and after looking around and ﬁnding himself,
as he imagined, to be the only one in the place, went to the hay loft
and stole a quantity of hay. While he was leaving, one of the horses
accidently rubbed its nose against Lipsky’s shoulder, whereupon he
struck the poor creature a savage blow on the head with the wooden
bottom of a feed-bag, and jabbed some sharp instrument into the ani—
mal's side. The watcher had seen the whole transaction from his place
of concealment, and before Lipsky could escape he was captured by
the foreman. The offender was subsequently sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfteen dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days, by the Court of
Special Sessions.

When Peter Denning' was advised by one of the Society’s detectives
to stop beating a lame and sore horse, he replied, “ I know my own
business. I am the owner of the horse, and I intend to do as I please,”




July 24.

July 28.

Aug. I.

Aug. 3.

Aug. 5.

Aug. 6.

 

  

37

at the same time giving the unoffending animal a savage cut with
his whip. When arraigned for trial in the Court of Special Sessions,
Denning meekly pleaded guilty to the charge of cruelty, without pre-
tending that he could do as he pleased with his own property. Sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to serve ﬁfteen days in the
city prison. The horse was kept in the veterinary hospital for rest
and treatment.

Because the horse he was driving could not pull the load, John Ross
got down from the cart and picked up a stone hammer, with which he
brutally beat the animal on the head and body. Fined twenty-ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Cortland Leach, a farmer residing at Painted Post, in the State of
New York, got intoxicated while on his way home from the town
market, and his horse, not liking the way it was treated by the
drunken driver, stopped in the middle of the road. Leach was fu-
rious, and jumping down from the wagon, he deliberately cut offa‘ part
of the animal’s ear with his knife. The poor creature screamed in
agony but did not attempt to start; the human brute cut off another
portion of the ear, and repeated the cruelty until he had cut off several
pieces. Upon being informed of the case, the Society’s representative
at Corning hastened to the nearest justice of the peace and obtained
a warrant for the arrest of the offender. Before nightfall Leach was
in, the town jail. On being arraigned before Justice Tobias, the
several pieces of the ear were offered in evidence. Leach was sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars and to be imprisoned in the
county jail for the term of sixty days. The defendant appealed and
was awarded a new trial, which resulted in his being convicted and
sentenced by County Judge Robinson to pay a ﬁne of one hundred dol-
lars or to be imprisoned one hundred days in the county jail.

B. Lowenstein, regardless of the danger to human as well as animal
life and health, sold a horse, having the disease known as glanders, to
a neighbor for a nominal sum. Sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars
or to be imprisoned in the city prison for thirty days, by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Belor Mandel, for cruelly beating a horse, which at the time was
weak and exhausted, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions. .

John Elliott cut a horse on the nose with a knife. Fined twenty-ﬁve
dollars by Justice Tighe.

Edward Kohen picked up a poor homeless dog by the legs, and,
dashed its body against the sidewalk; then kicked the unoffending ani-
mal into the street, where it was found by an ofﬁcer and mercifully
disposed of. Kohen was convicted by the Court of Special Sessions,

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

  

38

. and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to serve ﬁfteen

. II.

12.

. 13.

. I4.

. I4.

days in the city prison. .

George F. Prigge was driving a very lame horse attached to a vvalg'O.n
loaded with ice. The foot'of the poor beast was in a dreadful con di-
. tion. The coronet had been injtlred, causing the foot to fester. Fin ed
ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Patrick Smith deliberately threw a quantity of slack lime on the body
of a pet dog belonging to a lady passing along/the street where Smith
was mixing mortar. The animal was dreadfully burned. Sentenced
by the Court of Special Sessions to a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to
be imprisoned for ten days in the city prison.

Charles Cottrell, of Little Falls, N. Y., was sentenced by the Re-
corder to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or to be imprisoned for thirty days,
for cruelly treating a sick horse.

Driving and cruelly beating a lame, sore, and diseased horse, was the
charge preferred by the Society’s prosecutor against Charles Schaﬁ'ner
in the Court of Special Sessions. The case was one of unusual cruel ty-
It appeared that Schaffner purchased the animal, a small mustang, for
twenty dollars. The following Sunday he hitched the horse to a two-
Wheeled vehicle and started for a pleasure drive. Although lame.
sore, and sick, the poor creature plodded along, urged with whip and
voice, until ﬁnally it gave out completely on the Riverside Drive,
where Schaffner was arrested while beating the horse with the butt
end of the whip. The Society’s ambulance was summoned, and the
animal taken to a veterinary hospital, and being pronounced past recov-
ery was mercifully destroyed. The offender was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfty dollars, or, in default, to spend ﬁfteen days in the city prison-
“Cruelty to defenceless animals must cease, at least in this commu-
nity, and I voice the sentiment of my colleagues of the Court of Special
Sessions,” said the presiding justice.

Henry Folts, of South Ilion, for overdriving and cruelly beating a.
horse, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Ingalls, of Herkimer, N. Y.

John Beabrice, of Williamsbridge, was driving a miserable old horse
attached to a cart. The animal’s ailments were numerous—large
sores under the collar, fore shoulder dislocated, lame, totally unﬁt for
labor. The poor creature could hardly go a step further, but Was
being urged along by Beabrice when the Society’s ofﬁcer stopped and
arrested him. Sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to serve
ﬁve days in the city prison, by the Court of Special Sessions.

William Guckian, for beating a horse with a bale-stick, was ﬁned
twenty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternate of ten days in the city prison,
by the Court of Special Sessions.

Michael McNamara, for permitting Patrick McNamee to drive a

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   

 

    
  




 




.._<_2:_< 1.: :I..:.. __\.,.L.:::.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




.Ill 1 ll If l4||( [illll‘JlAl ‘.

\
x

a
v
‘,

 
 

  

41

horse suffering. from several sores on each side of the animal’s back,
unprotected from the harness, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dol-
lars or to be imprisoned for ten days in the city prison, by the Court of
Special Sessions; ' '

Aug. 14. In addition to driving a lame, weak, and feeble horse, Nathan Behak .

beat the animal most cruelly with a whip, for Which he was arrested
and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or to spend ﬁve days in the
city prison, by the Court of Special Sessions.

Aug. I 5. Thomas Daly was driving a weak and exhausted horse attached to a

heavily loaded truck. The poor creature, in addition to its other ail-
ments, was bleeding from the ankles, caused by interfering, owing to
its weak condition. Daly resented the ofﬁcer’s interference on the
ground that the horse was well able to do its work. Convicted and
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or to serve ﬁve days in the city
prison, by the Court of Special Sessions. '

Aug. I7. Henry Medley was arrested while driving a team of horses attached

to a loaded ice wagon. The animals were suffering from many sores
on the breast unprotected from the harness. Medley, in his defence,
stated that Edward Noonan, the foreman of the stable, ordered-the
horses to be worked, and that he, Noonan, knew their condition.
Noonan was convicted by the Court of Special Sessions for “ causing
and permitting the horses to be worked,” and was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of one hundred dollars or to be imprisoned for thirty days in the
city prison. In thecaseof Medley sentence was suspended.

Aug. 20. Charles Newendorffer, for unjustiﬁably shooting at and killing a

neighbor’s goat, simply because the animal had trespassed on his
premises, was sentenced by the Court of Special Sessions to pay a. ﬁne
of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to spend ﬁve days in the city prison.

Aug. 21. William Kenyon, of Cazenovia, N. Y., was charged with keeping

two bulls in stanch-ions all summer, with no protection from ﬂies and
other insects. Acquitted by jury.

Aug. 22. Adolph Greenberg, for kicking a dog several times on the body and

on the head, breaking two teeth, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice
Laimbeer.

Aug. 26. Samuel Zimmet refused to take to its stable a very lame, horse he

was driving. The poor creature was, ﬁguratively speaking, walking
on three legs, caused by quittor, one of the most painful ailmentsa
horse can be inﬂicted with. Zimmet was sentenced to pay. a ﬁne 'of
twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to spend ﬁve days in the city prison, by the Court
of Special Sessions.

Aug. 27. Lain Muluich was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Marshall for carrying

a young calf in a cruel and inhuman manner upon a wagon. The poor
creature had been jolted over the country roads for a long distance.

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42

Aug. 28. James-Benison was driving a team of horses having large sores on

Sept.

their bodies, unprotected from the harness. The animals were har-
nessed to a truck loaded with stone, and had been driven from East
New York, nearly ﬁfteen miles, and were on the return trip when
stOpped by the Society’s ofﬁcer. Benison was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfty dollars or to spend ten days in the city prison, by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Charles Nodine, for cruelly beating a horse continuously for several
blocks, was sentenced to the city prison for one month by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Gustave Rusch was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars,
With the alternate of ﬁve days, in the city prison, by the Court of
Special Sessions, for cruelly beating his horse over the head with the butt
end of the whip. The horse was harnessed to a heavily loaded vehicle,
and being physically unable to draw the load sufﬁciently fast enough
for Rusch, was subjected to the ill treatment: above mentioned.

For unjustiﬁably striking a dog on the head with a hammer, John
Knappe, of Staten Island, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Kullman.

John Grape, for stoning a dog to death, was ﬁned ten dollars by
Justice Tighe. of Brooklyn.

George Galloway, of Port Richmond, S. 1., left his horse on the
beach for over two days without food or water. Fined thirty dollars by
Justice Maguire, of South Beach.

George Sexly and William Baldwin, of Saratoga Springs, were con-
victed for cruelly beating a horse they had hired for a drive. Fined
twenty dollars and costs by Justice Fryer, of Saratoga Springs.

Benjamin Gray and Theodore Taylor, the latter being the ofﬁcial
pound-keeper of Flatbush, L. I., wereconvicted for cruelty to several
milch cows. It appears the animals were grazing along the highway,
when the pound-keeper and his assistant beat them unmercifully with
thick sticks, and drove them on a run for over two miles on a very hot
day. The offenders were ﬁned twenty dollars each by Justice Steers,
of Flatbush, L. 1.

Frank Reinhart was caught in the act of holding burning paper
under the body of a horse, “ to make him go.” Fined twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Sept. I3. William Slattery, of Oswego, N. Y., for causing and permitting a

team of mules, while suffering from sores, to haul a loaded canal—boat
through the Erie Canal, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or
to be imprisoned ten days, by Justice F. F. Eisenmenger.

Sept. 15. Charles Stowe. of Lansingburgh, N. Y., allowed his horse to lie in a

ditch and die. The animal was in the ditch for over thirty-six hours

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

\

I.

II.

12.

I4.

16.

16.

I8.

29.

  

44

John E. Sager was sentenced to the city prison for thirty days by the
Court of Special Sessions, for striking a horse several times on the
head and body with a cart rung. The offender was arrested on the
complaint .of a lady who witnessed the cruelty.

John Mensching was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions for permitting a lame and sore horse to be worked.

Joseph Cunningham and William Ryan, of Cohoes, N. Y. , were con-
victed of having overdriven a team of horses. Recorder Nichols sen-
tenced Cunningham to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or to serve ten days in
prison, and Ryan to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars or to serve ﬁfteen
days in prison.

John Dougherty, for beating and kicking a dog in a cruel manner,
was sentenced to the city prison for ten days, by the Court of Special
Sessions.

James Hannahan, for permitting one of his horses to be worked While
suffering from sores, measuring six by ﬁve inches, on the body, unpro-
tected from the harness, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

Louis Gordon crowded twenty-six large geese and two turkeys in a
crate only twelve inches high, three feet wide, and six feet long.
Fined ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

James Gorman neglected for several days to provide food and water
for his horse. The poor creature, when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer,
was in a dreadful condition, and was mercifully destroyed. Gorman
was sentenced to the city prison for thirty days by the Court of Special
Sessions.

For kicking, stoning, and cruelly beating an old horse, Clarence and
Earl Conover, of Fly Creek, N. Y., were sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty-ﬁve dollars each, by Justice Chatﬁeld Leonard, of Cooperstown,
N. Y.

Michael O’Malley. of Geneva, N. Y., failed to supply his horses
with proper and sufﬁcient food, for which he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by
Justice Smelzer.

Charles K. Crampton was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions, for allowing a horse to be worked to an express wagon While
lame and sore.

For overdriving and cruelly beating a team of horses, Charles H.
Higgs, of Geneva, N. Y., was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Smelzer.

Joseph Scott, for driving a glandered horse harnessed to a cart, was
ﬁned seventy-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. Glanders
is of a contagious nature, and dangerous to human beings as well as to
animals.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
    




45

Dec. 5. Charles Ballard, of New Brighton, was ﬁned twenty dollars by Justice
Acker, for driving a horse having sores on each shoulder, unprotected
from the harness.

Dec. 9. James McLaughton, for shooting a neighbor’s pet pigeon, was ﬁned
ten dollars by Justice Steers, of Flatbush, Long Island.

Dec. I4. Dennis O’Brien, of Geneva, N. Y., was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice
Smelzer, for allowing his horses to remain in the roadway all one day
without food, water, and covering.

Dec. 20. Thomas Farrel was ﬁned three dollars by Justice Harriman, for kick-
ing a horse several times in the belly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




    

 

 

CNBW YORK ‘ x

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY rMAGAerVE

THE ORGAN OF

 

The American Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, IO East 22d St., New York.

 

 

 




 

 

mmOOXF<Z m1mr4mm ﬁOm >Z_Z_>_Im. ZZZ 003.200.». FOO—£20. ZOmﬁI.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wnOOXF<Z mIijmm no.»

>Z:<_>rm. Q>m 0125mm.» v.02 4.1m IC_<_>Zm Ommﬁwcojoz OT: >Z:<_>_uw.

 

 




uh.) Cnmvth I-UR THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS

....._v.

 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

 

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Incorporated April 10, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS, IO East 22d Street, NEW YORK.

JOHN P. HAINES, President. I GEO. G. DEWITT, Secretary.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.

13 I/Vz'lloug/zby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
22 3 Dewy/tin Street, Mobile.
RUFUS DANE, President.

Birmingham Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

7 I 5 Ezjg/zteent/z Street, Bz'rmz'rzg/zam.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. I DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

———————

ARKANSAS.
Arkansas Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

. Little Rock.
0. S. DILLON, President. | REES P. HORROCKS, Secretary.

 

 

| E. R. QUATTLEBAUM, Secretary.

    

 

 

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
   
 
   
   

 

  

 




   
  

  

  

  

 

    

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
    
  
 
    
     
    
    
  

54 .
CALIFORNIA.

The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I I70 Market Street, San Franez'seo. -
JACOB Z. DAVIS, President. I C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Les Ange/es.
MAJOR W. G. WEDEMEYER, Pres. I MISS ELIZABETH MILLS, Sec.
Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
45 Nort/z First Street, San fave. ‘
F. .R. SHAFTER, President. I C. C. LELAND, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. I H. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
402 “ f ” Street, Sacramento.
R. C. IRVINE, President. IVV. D. LAWTON, Secretary.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
309 Central Ban/1.: an'la'z'ng, Oakland.
REV. CHAS. W. WENDTE, Pres. I MRS. S. C. SANFORD, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino
County, Cal.
Rea’lana’s. J

JOHN B. BREED, President. I HOWARD ANDREWS, Secretary.

Santa Barbara Humane Society.
Santa Barbara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. I N. F. ASHTON, Secretary.

COLORADO.
Colorado Humane Society.

I604 Arapanee Street, Denver.
WALTER S. CHESSMAN,VPres. I G. H. THOMSON, Secretary.

 

 




 

I}:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
    
    
    
 
   

56

GEORGIA.
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1 McIntosﬁ Street, Augusta.

HENRY B. KING, President. I S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.
Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta. -
JOS. F. BURKE, President. I I. S. PANCHEN, Secretary.

The Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Macon.
ROBT. E. PARK, President. I J. R. KENNEDY, Secretary.

Brunswick Branch of Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

. Brunswick.
M. J. COLSON, President. I N. D. RUSSELL, Secretary.

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
560 Wabas/z Avenue, an'cago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL, President. I BELDEN F. CULVER, Secretary.

The Aurora Humane Society.

Aurora.
A. K. PERRY, President. | MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD-ALLEN,
Secretary.
Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford.

WM. H. FITCH, M.D., President. I MRS. N. J. REW, Secretary.
Galesburg Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
227 East Main Street, Galesourg.

A. S. HOOVER, President. | J. F. PERCY, Secretary.
The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.
LYMAN MCCARL, President. I MISS LOUISE MAERTZ, Secretary.
The Shelby County Humane Society.
S/zeloyoz'lle.

DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, Pres. | DR. W. J. EDDY, Secretary.




 

 

 

 

‘S‘IVWINV 80d tiBi'lBHS 3H1 O.L NBMVJ. GNV 81.33813 3H.L W083 GBAOWEH $900 SSEWEWOH ANVW 3H1 :10 ENG

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

> 4.3302: O>mm. 00203.52 Om. IOmmm ﬂOCZO Um><<_zm quOX.

 




    

59

Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

Champaz'gn.
HENRY TREVETT, President. I A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. . | HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.
Jacksonville Humane Society.

facksonw'lle.
A. C. WADSWORTH, President. | WM. PATERSON, Secretary pro tem.

The Jerseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

jersey/ville.
MISS ADA C. DAVENPORT, Pres.

 

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
68 West Market Street, [netz'anapolzh
HORACE MCKAY, President. | D. W. COFFIN, Secretary.

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

C rawfortlsm'lle.
GEORGE W. PAUL, President. I A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper Fonrt/z- Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. I WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.

82 Clinton Street, Fort IVayne.
GEO. H. WILSON, President. | C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.

The South Bend Humane Society.

Sent/z Benet.
J. C. KNOBLOCK, President. I H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.

    

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    
    
 
    
    
    
    
 
  
  
 
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
     

60

Terre Haute Humane Society.
Terre Home.
ALEX. LYONS, President. IDR. E. E. GLOVER, Secretary. ‘

Muncie Humane Society.
Mnncie.
DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. |W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

The Elkhart Humane Society.
210 Main Street, Elk/tart.

 

 

 

HON. HENRY B. SYKES, Pres. | LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Secretary.
IOWA.
The Iowa Humane Society.
Des Moines.
THEO. F. GATCHEL, President. I JOSEPH R. ORWIG, Secretary.
The Sioux City Humane Society.
Sioux Cizfy.
JOHN C. KELLY, President. | EDWARD CROMWELL, Secretary.
Iowa City Branch of The Iowa Humane Society.
Iowa Ciz‘y.
REV. S. R. ELSON, President. I GEORGE B. HOLBERT, Secretary.
KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
Wieniz‘o.
DR. GEO. F. LEWIS, President. | MRS. E. W. MOORE, Secretary.
KENTUCKY.

Kentucky Humane Society forlPrevention of Cruelty.
Masonic Temple, 41 I W est Green Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, President. I MISS BERTA WILSON, Secretary.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
L'. C. DALLA-M, President. | INGRAM CROCKETT, Secretary.




  

 

 

 
  
     
   
     
     
    
    
 
   

61

Franklin County Humane Society.

Frankfort.
E. POLK JOHNSON, President. | B. T. FARMER, Secretary.

Kenton County Humane Society.

915 Scott Street, Cooz'ngton.
H. B. WELLS, President. I MRS. FRANCES C. MANSER, Sec.

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

813 U nz'on Street, New Orleans.
FREDERICK W. YOUNG, Pres. I BERNARD C. SHIELDS, Secretary.

___——

MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

Port/and.
STANLEY T. PULLEN, President. 1 DR. H. C. VAUGHAN, Secretary.

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.
J. F. SNOW, President. | MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.
Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

W ateroz'lle.
S. L. ABBOTT, President. [JOHN WARE, Treasurer.

   

 

 
     
 

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

    
   

  
 

Lewiston.
\‘CESLEY BLANCHARD, President. | F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

    

MARYLAND.
The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

32 3 [Vort/z C/zartes Street, Baltimore.
H. IRVINE KEYSER, Pres. IJOHN R. DUVAL, Secretary.

     
     
      

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

62

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
19 Milk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. AN GELL, President. I JOSEPH' L. STEVENS, Secretary.

Taunton Humane Society.
I 8 Clinton Street, Taunton.
REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, Pres. I MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Secretary.

The Lowell Humane Society.
45 Central Street, Lowell.
JAMES BAYLES, President. I FRANK P. PUTNAM, Secretary.

MICHIGAN. .
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Detroit.
HON. T. W. PALMER, President. I MISS JENNIE M. SMITH, Sec.

Kent County Humane Society.
Grand Rapids.
REVIJ. L. JACKSON, President. I A. C. T OWEY, Secretary.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.
Kalamazoo.
‘FRED. HOTOP, President. I SAMUEL F OLZ, Secretary.

MINNESOTA.
Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Relief Society Building, 141 East [Vint/i Street, St. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. I THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Secretary.

Minneapolis Humane Society.
504 Bank of Commerce Building, Minneapolis.
0. B. CLARK, President. I WILLIAM CHENEY, Secretary.

Duluth Humane Society.
407 W oodoridge Building, Dulut/z.

WILLIAM S. WOO‘D‘BRIDGE. J. B. MIDDLECOFF, Secretary.
President.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

64

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri.

Sea’atz'a.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. , | LEE MONTGOMERY, Secretary.

 

NE BRASKA.
Nebraska Humane Society.

Omaaa.
DR. GEORGE L. MILLER, Pres. I PRESTON H. ALLEN, Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

I [War/eet Street, Portsmouth.
THOS. E. O. MARVIN, President. I JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

The Keene Humane Society.

, Keene.
DR. GEO. B. TWITCHELL, Pres. | JULIUS N. MORSE, Secretary.

 

NEW JERSEY.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

507 Prudential Baz'tztz'ﬂg, Newark.
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, Pres. | COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Secretary.

 

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

62 Montgomery Street, jersey City.
GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. I WM. E. MCCREERY, Secretary.

  
   

Cape May, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. ' ’

Cape May.
DR. EMLEN PHYSICK. President. I T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

  
  

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Vine/and.
REV. R. B. MOORE, President. | REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

 

     




    

    

65
Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

Merrz'sz‘ewn.

MISS MABEL OLMSTED, President. | MISS E. A. GATTER, Secretary.
The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Camden.
\VILLIAM J. COOPER, President. I A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.
The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Haeéensczek.

REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. I CHAS. W. VANDERBECK, Sec.
The Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union County, N.J.
Elizabeth.

E. P. EDWARDS, President. | J. C. COLE, Secretary.
Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Peri/z Améoy.
FRANCIS W. KITCHEL, Pres. | WILBUR LA ROE, Secretary.

NEW YORK.

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, I883.
Sing Sing.
E. G. BLAKESLEE, President. | MISS M. DUSENBERRY, Secretary.

 

MONROE COUNTY.

The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

Incorporated August 9, 1888.

90 Sop/Zia Street, Roe/tester.
REV. JAMES H. DENNIS, Pres. I MRS. THEO. D. HOPKINS, Sec.

0

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

66

 
   
   
    
  
   
 
  
  
    
 

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated September 21, 1888.

9 35 Main Street, Buﬂalo.
E. A. ROCKWOOD, President. MISS M. F. ROCHESTER, Sec.
WALTER DEVEREUX,Acting Pres.

 

 

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 18, 1889.
35 Market Street, Poug/zkeepsz'e.
WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, Pres. I CHARLES F. COSSUM, Secretary.

 

ORANGE COUNTY.

The Newburgh Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
‘ Incorporated July 22, 1889.
Newourg/z.
GEORGE W. PETERS, President. I A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

 

OSWEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City, N. Y.

     

Incorporated September 23, I889.
Doolittle flouse, One/ego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. I MRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Secretary.

       
 

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, President. I MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WEBB, Sec.

 
       
     
 
  
 

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated January 16, 1891.

  

     

207 Granger Bloeé, Syracuse.
WILBER S. PECK, President. ' I JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

       




  

 

67

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 

ROCKLAND COUNTY.
Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Incorporated February 20, 1891. . ,
1V yac/E. ‘
HARVEY C. GILCHRIST, Pres. I WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Secretary. ll

 

CI-IEMUNG COUNTY.
The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated February 21, I891.
Elmira.
DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, President. | MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER, Sec.

 

BROOME COUNTY.

Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, 1891. l ‘f‘W

Bz'izg/zaﬁzz‘mz.
DR. L. D. STONE, President. IC. E. SHORES, Secretary.

 

ULSTER COUNTY.

The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated J‘uly 25, 1891.
[(z'ngslmz.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. | W. D. HALE, Secretary.

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 
    

Incorporated December 5, 1891. j ,

   

Walertmmz.
REV. S. A. HAYT, D.D., President. | MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Secretary.

    
 

ALBANY COUNTY.

The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.
W 652‘ Troy.
DR. WM. 0. STILLMAN, President. | GEORGE R. HOWELL, Secretary.

  
   
   
   
   

 




 

 

 

 

        
   
   
     
   

 

 

     
    
     
   
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
   
     
  
  
  
   
        
       
       
   

7O

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.

72 T/zz'rd’ Street, Portland.
T. L. ELIOT, President. I W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

  

PENNSYLVANIA.

The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1627 C/zestnnt Street, Pnz'taa’elpnz'a.
ROBERT W. RYERSS, President. I M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.

Women’s Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

I 18 Sent/z Seventeenth Street, P/n'laa’etp/zta.
MRS. R. P. \VHITE, President. I MRS. BRADBURY BEDELL, Sec.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Lancaster.

E. M. COHN, President. IWM. D. MOSSER, Secretary.

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

York.
CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, Pres. I H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.

76 Sz'xt/z Avenue, Pz'ttsénrgn.

HON. GEORGE WILSON, President. I E. J. YOUNG, Secretary.
The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The Penn-
sylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

W est Cnester. I
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. I WILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 36 Penn Street, Reading.
JOHN D. MISHLER, President. I JOSEPH A. ALLGAIER, Secretary.

 

O

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I 120 W est Fourth Street, W 'z'tlz'mnsfort.
MRS. C. LA RUE MUNSON, Pres. I MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Secretary.




    

71

Lackavvanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

.Seranton.
DR. B. H. THROOP, President; ‘ | J. H. FISHER, Secretary.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie. .
HON. F. F. ADAMS, President. IHON. W. B. FLICKINGER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

W iZ/ces—Barre.

JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, President. REV. HORACE EDWIN HAYDEN,
Secretary.

——

RHODE ISLAND.

Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
6 I Westminster Street, Providence.
HON. J. C. B. WOODS, President. CHRISTOPHER BLANDING,
Secretary.

Newport Branch of the Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Newton Building, Newport.
| EDWARD R. WHARTON, Treas.

 

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
C/zarleston.
JOHN M. KINLOCH, President. | J. ALWYN BALL, Secretary.

     

  
 

 

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

C olmnoia.
TILMAN WATSON, President. | D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

' Greenoitle.
w. E. JOHNSTONE. President. | P. T. HAYNE, Secretary.

 

     

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 
 
    
  
   
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
    
  
    

72

The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Spartanourg.
J. B. LEE, President. I CHARLES H. HENRY, Secretary.

 

TENNESSEE.

Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
- Children.

289 Main Street, [Vamp/12's.
TOM GALE, President. I MINTER PARKER, Secretary.

Chattanooga Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals. A

C/zaz‘z‘anooga.
COL. TOMLINSON FORT, Pres I PROF. E. P. SEARLE, Secretary.
Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville.
HON.HENRY H.1NGERSOLL, Pres. I REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.
Nashville Humane Society.

1’. 0. Box 46, Nay/1712713.
W. H. PAYNE, President._ I MAT HOKE, Secretary.

 

TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Galoosz‘orz.

J. C. S. SPENCER, Pres. pro tem.” I W. H. RITTER, Secretary.

The Texas Humane Society.

Waco.
H'. A. PAIN E, President. I B. ATKINSON, Secretary.

 

UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.

Salt Lake City.
I J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.




 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

74
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
20 Gross Building, “ C ” aaa’ Niall; Streets, Tacoma.

SAMUEL COLLYER, President. I C. P. CULVER, Secretary.

.—

WEST VIRGINIA.
West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W/zeeli/zg.
JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. I MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE, Secretary.

 

WISCONSIN.

Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 M ilwaa/eee Streez‘, M ilwauéee.
JOHN F. BURKE, President. I MRS. J. M. PERELES, Secretary.
Fox River Valley District of the Wisconsin Humane Society.
61 M erriz‘t Six/eel, Os/iéoslz.
ROBERT MCMILLEN, President. | DR. F. J. VVILKIE, Secretary.
Sheboygan Humane Society.
S/zeloygaa.
T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. | W. C. ROENITZ, Secretary.
The Wisconsin Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Green Bay.
XAVIER MARTIN, President. | \VERDEN REYNOLDS, Secretary.
Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Society.

Mam'z‘owoe.
EMIL BAENSCH, President. I P. H. HEWITT, Secretary.

 
  

Organized Committee of the Wisconsin Humane Society of Ozaukee

 
  

County.
Port Was/ziagtoa.
A. A. FARMER, President. I C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.

    
 
 

 
 

. BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

104 Granville Slreez‘, Halifax.
JAMES C. MACKINTOSH, Pres. | JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.

  

     




   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
     
   

75

Hamilton Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Hamilton.
ADANI BROWN, M. P., President. | HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
Eagot Street, Kingston.
I JAMES MASSIE, Secretary.
The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
196 St. fanzes Street, [Montreal
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. l GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.
Ottawa.
THE lVIAYOR OF OTTAWA, Pros. I W. C. BAKER, Secretary.
Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Qneoee.

JOHN T. ROSS, President. | A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ferry Building, Water Street, St. fonn.
JOHN V. ELLIS, President. I E. J. WETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.

103 Bay Street, Toronto.
\V. R. BROCK, President. I MISS ANNA B. DELL, Secretary.

Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fredericton.
GEORGE E. FENETY, President. | CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.‘

SOUTH AMERICA.
Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.

Caile Paraguay 1059, Bnenos Ayres, Argentine Remit/it.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, REV. DR. CARLOS W. DREES.
President.

   

 
       

[Bio do faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, President. | J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

76

 
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

WEST IN DIES.
Hafgana, Cuba.
D. J. G. VILLARAZA, President. I
Sam Do77zz'72g0, Dominican Repuélzk.
RAFAELiABREU LICAIRAC, Pres. | CESAR N. PENSON, Secretary.

 

MEXICO.

Cz'z‘y of Mexico.

VIDAL CASTANEDA Y NAJERA, EDUARDO L. GALLO,
President. Secretary.

THE FOLLOWING LIST SHOWS THE LOCALITIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA IN WHICH LAWS HAVE BEEN PASSED AND SOCIETIES OR-
GANIZED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE PARENT SOCIETY.

 

Alaéama.-— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Arkansasn— “ “ H u . t u
Calzfor7zz'a.-— “ ‘ ‘ H u :2 ' u
Cairn/ada— ‘ ‘ H ‘ ‘ c s t « u
Comzectz'cut.— ‘ ‘ H u t . t t t .
Delaware.—— ‘ ‘ u u u ¢ ‘ N
Florida.— “ “ u u u u
Georgia.— “ H ‘6 u H u
[dalm— “ “ H H u u
[[[z'nois.— ‘ ‘ “ u ‘ c t c u
[7zdz'mza.—- “ “ ¢ c u c c u
[020a.—-—- “ “ H u u. u
Ka7zsas.—— “ u u u u u
ffe7zz‘uc/ey.——— “ “ ‘ t « c c t u
Louisimza.-— ‘ ‘ “ ‘ t ‘ « t c c c
ﬂiaz’mx— “ “ “ H H u
Mary/and.— “ “ u c c u u
ﬂﬂzssac/zusetts. —- ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ “ H u t (
Ml?ill:g(lﬁ.—— “ “ “ H u u
Mimzesoz‘a,— “ “ u u « c u
Mz'ssz'ssz'ppz'.~— “ ‘ ‘ t ¢ . c u t t
[Missouri— “ u u u u u
Montaiza.—- ‘ ‘ “

Neéraséa.-— “ “ H u u ..

Nevada.—

  




   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 

I 520 Ha;zzps/Lire.——Laws passed and State Society organized.

3.75:0 jc’i"5€)’.—
-‘x'a'zz' 1’707’kr—
-‘i'prf/z, Carolina.—
-‘Corz‘lz Dakota.—
O/zz'o. -—
Oregon.—
Pennsylvania.—
Rizoa’e Island.—
Sozzt/z Carolina.—
Snuz‘lz Dakota.—
Tennessee.—
Texas.—
C'Z‘a/z.—
{rafﬂzonzﬁ—
I’Tirginiar—
I I’as/zington.—
117652“ Virginia.—
lifisconsin.—
III/ﬁloming. —

44 [askas—
A rizona.-——

District of Columbia.—

Indian.—
jVew [Mexica—

Okla/lama.—

[falifax.-——
Ifamz'ltonr—
1112712171711.—
Ofla'zva.—
Quebec.—

.S’z‘. David’s, Lincoln Co., Ontario.—

.S’l. joint.—
Toronto.—

 
    
   
   

CC

CC

CC

Rio a’c _/anez'ro.——Society organized.

77

BRITISH AMERICA

CC CC CC CC CC
\. u u (.4 “C
CC CC CC CC CC
CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC
CC st CC H CC
CC CC CC CC CC
CC
TERRITORIES.
Laws passed.
“ “ and Society organized.
CC CC CC CC CC
CC CC

Society organized.

CC C
CC CC
CC CC
CC CC
CC CC
CC CC
CC CC

BRAZIL.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

Buenos A yum—Laws passed and Society organized.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

 




 

 

 

   
  

    
 
  
   
 
  
     
    
 
     
   
       
    

 

 

 

 

    

80

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

,, , CRUSE, M.D., THOMAS K ........................... Wappinger’s Falls 3
MOITH, THEODORE ................... . ....... Fishkill-on-the-Hudson

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

 

, BALLARD, JAY O ................................ .. ............ Malone ‘
l DONOHOE, M. C .............................................. Malone
l
; FULTON COUNTY. ‘C
,‘ GRANT, W. M ........................................ ‘ ..... Johnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ......................... ' ................ Gloversville
l , ROSSELLE, J. J ............................................ Gloversville I
{m}; I
GENESEE COUNTY. I

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN ...................................... Le Roy
MCNISH JOHN ......................... - ..... . ................ Batavia

 

 

GREENE COUNTY.

 

DECKER, ROSCOE .................................... .....Prattsville A
HANSEN, HENRY ............................................ Catskill
RILEY, WILLIAM T. ............................... A ....... Lexington
WILLARD, M.D., CHARLES E. .............................. Catskill

HERKIMER COUNTY.

CARR, A. J .............................................. _ ........ Ilion
HALL, H. CLAY ........................................... Little Falls
KLEM, PHILIP G ................... . ....................... Herkimer

SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ..................................... Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
WHITE, WARREN A. .................................... Watertown

KINGS COUNTY.

CORTELYOU, P. L ......................................... Bay Ridge
DE MUND, M.D., J. E ..................................... Bath Beach

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.
HILL, HARLIN H. ............ . ........... .. ............... . ....Dalton
KILLIP, W. W... ............................................ Geneseo

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C. F ............................. . ................ Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD.........................................Br00kﬁeld

 
 
   

 




    
 
  
 

 
 

  
 
  

    

81

LIPPITT, F. B .......... * ......... ' ........................... Solsville
LOCKIVIAN, A. .............................................. Cazenovia
PERRX’, IVI.D., C. H. .......................................... Oneida
IE.&LE, B. S. ........................................... Oneida
R‘ARREN, JOB A ............................................ De Ruyter
T\FCIZS’I‘, ADDISON J .......................................... Hamilton

MONROE COUNTY.
VCEITZEL, FREDERICK W ................................. Rochester

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

DE FOREST, DAVID ...................................... Amsterdam
EIATON, ALFRED G ....................................... Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C ....................................... Canajoharie
KLINE, CHARLES . . . . .................................... Amsterdam
MERENESS, CHARLES W .................................. Fort Plain

INEW YORK COUNTY.

BAUER, JULIUS ............. . ..................... . . . .Williamsbridge
BAXTER, ANDREW J. .................................... City Island
DEBIING, M.D., WILLIAM C ..................... . ....... West Chester
I-IALRRISON, WALTER S ................................... Pelhamville
EICGRORY, DANIEL F ..................................... City Island

NIAGARA COUNTY.
POZVIEROY, D. N ............................................. Lockport

ONEIDA COUNTY.

ASHLEY, THEODORE 1.. ..... . ................................ Utica
LEX‘VIS, W. D ....................................... Washington Mills
ROBERTS, M.D., DAVID HENRY ........................ I....Trenton

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C .......... . .......................... . ........ ..Jordan

ONTARIO COUNTY.
MEAD, C. H ................. , ..................... ...... Geneva

ORANGE COUNTY.

CREVELING, REV. PETER CLAUDE ....................... Cornwall
T-IILLS, JAIVIES J. . . . . ;‘. ................................... Port Jervis

X‘ANNY) IIIARRISON Wu..-OOOOIQOIIQOOO'O-oooooovooouooov-OOIGOShen

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 




 

Lewis, Percy Pyne
Liebmann, Charles
Lincoln, Dr. H. Warren
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T,
Lockwood, John E.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine ~
Loomis, Jr., Alfred L.

Lorette, Miss Florence M. V.

Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs. Seth

Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowery, Mrs. John A.
Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Lund, John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.

Lusk, Miss Mary E.
Lyman, E. H. R.

M

Macdonald, A. J.
Mackay, George D.
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Maclay, Mrs. J. W.
Maclay, Robert

Major, F. H.

Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marks, Mrs. Nannette
Marks, Selim

Marsh, David

Marsh, Nathaniel
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, E. C.
Maverick, Mrs. Brewster
Maxwell, Henry W.
May, ‘Moses

Mayer, David
McCarnrick, Mrs. Edgar
McCurdy‘, John

94

McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John

McGee, James

McKee, D. V. 8., James
McKendrick, Miss Claire F.
McKinney, Dr. William J.
McLean, John .
McLean, Miss Matilda
McManus, J. F.
McNamee, Miss Jessie
McQuade, John

Mergle, Anton

Merritt, Miss E.

Mertz, Miss M.
Meserole, A. V.

Meyer, Henry

Meyer, Mrs. L. H.
Michelbacker, S.

Miller, Mrs. G.

Milnor, Miss Jeannette S.
Minck, Henry

Minturn, Miss Eliza T.
Minturn, Hugh
Minturn, Miss Mildred
Minturn, Mrs. Robert B.
Mintz, Dr. Frederick
Mitchell, John A.

Mogk, William

Moller, Peter

Moller, Miss S. Adelina
M'onahan, Thomas
Monnot, J. B.
Montgomery, George L.
Montgomery, H. B.
Morgan, Miss Louisa P.
Morris, Lewis G.
Morrison, Mrs. George Austin
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Moss, Frank

Moss, Harris

Mowbray, Andrew
Muller, Edward M.
Mulligan, James
Munch, Ferdinand
Mustoe, Dr. Frederick
Myers, George L.

 




  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

N

Narnm, Adolph I.
Natrass, Mrs. Frank E.
Neidlinger, Adam
Neilson, Howard S.
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.

Nexvman, D. V. 8., Philip H.

Nexvton, Mrs. R. H.
Nichols, Norman E.
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Mrs. Robert J'.

Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine

Norvell, Duncan R.
Noyes, Mrs. Henry D.

O
Oakford, Miss Ellen
Ochs, Ernest

Ockershausen, Henry A.

Ogden, W. B.
Olcott, George M.
Oothout, Mrs. William
Orr, John C.

O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.

Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.
Ozioni, Mrs. Anna

P

Palmer, Dr. Ernest
Palmer, Francis F.
Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, N. F.
Palmer, Mrs. N. F. ‘
Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parsons, W. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pell, J. H.
Pell, Mrs. J. H. ,
Perkins, Miss Edith H.
Perry, C. M.
Perry, Mrs. C. M.
Tfirie, S. C.
Pitcher, L. A.

95

Plate, Carsten

Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine

Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pond, Warren

Pool, John H.
Pope, N. Q.

Prout, Dr. J. S.
Prout, Mrs. J. S.
Purdy, J. H.

Q

Quimby, Frank P.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Raisch, Julius

Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Rapelye, Mrs. C.
Rappenecker, William F.
Raymond, Charles H.
Reboul, H. W.

Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renault, Louis
Reynolds, C. H.
Reynolds, Mrs. Jennie
Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhoades, John Harsen
Riker, Mrs. D. S.
Rinschler, Frank
Rodewald, F. L.
Rogers, Noah Cornwel’l
Roosevelt, J. A.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
RosenWald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway

l

i. - < 1 3-: "’A";‘-.. ii“ 4‘
‘ ).w4_- . ‘ ‘ . . ‘5 5 .

‘ f~ :2
13> ,
_ ,r

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
l 311‘
lllllil’.

ll;
1

. l“
l
W x
Ml“
'l
.H.‘
l i
”ll."
-l
I .
l .l
l i

     

 

 

 

 

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/ Rowland, Thomas Fitch

Rowland, Jr., Thomas F.
Rowland, William F.
Russell, Mrs. James Townsend

S

Salmon, H. H.
Sanford, Hon. Horatio’S.
Schaefer, Charles
Schieffelin, E. S.
Schieffelin, William Jay
Schley, U. S. N., Capt. Winﬁeld
Scott
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmidt, William
Schmielan, C. F.
Schmitt, George
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schrader, George
Schultz, Carl H.
Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, John R.
Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seabury, George J.
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Seybel, D. E.
Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James
Sheldon, Mrs. James
Shepard, Dr. A. W. :
Sheridan, Thomas W.
Shine, Rev. E. A.
Shipman, Jl‘1dge W. D.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell, H. T.
Shults, John H.
Siegman, Alfred
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard
Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Simon, George A.

96

Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.

Smith, Andrew W.

Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Crawford C.

J Smith, Henry A.

Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. William Alexander
Snow, E. G.

Spencer, A. H.

Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Spruck, Henry

Squire, Newton R.
Standish, Myles

Stanton, Edmund C. .
Stanton, Mrs. John

Stark, Philip

Starr, Mrs. Daniel E.

Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad

Steinway, William

Stern, Benjamin

Steurer, Miss Anna

Stewart, Hugh

Stewart, Thomas J.
Stewart, William Rinelander
Still, John A.

Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stokes, Miss Emma Hartley
Stone, Edwin

Story, J. T.

Strauss, Mrs. Jacob

Strauss, Samuel

Stricker, Henry

Strong, Dr. B. G.

Stuart, Robert W.

Sturges, Miss May F.
Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine Allen
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore
Sutton, Mrs. Gregory
Suydam, Walter L.

Swords, Miss P. Caroline
Sylvester, Miss Elizabeth

 




 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  

T

Tailor, \Villiam H.
Taylor, Thomas F.
Thebaud, Paul L.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomas, Miss M. L.
Thompson, Edward P.

Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.

Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Tiedemann, F.
Tilford, Miss Etta
Tilley, John W.
Timolat, James G.
Toedteberg, Miss Emma

Townsend, Dr. Charles W.

Townshend, John
Trask, G. D. S.

Tuck, H.

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred
Tully, Matthew S.

T urney, Winthrop
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrich, Thomas
Ulshoeffer, W. G.

V

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.

Van Campen, H.

Van der Stricken, Frank

Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van lngen, Mrs E. H.

V anl Naine, J. Howard
Van Ness J. Newton

Van Orden, Miss Anna

Van Orden, Miss Mary L.

Van Volkenburgh,Miss Susie E.

Vogt, Henry
Voislawsky, S. P.

W

Wade. William D.
Wallin, Dr. Mathilda K.
Walser, Dr. William C.
Ward, Mrs. F. A. B.
Ward, Miss I. E.

Ward, L. B.

Warren, Richard Henry
Waterbury, Miss Elsie
Waters, V.S., Dr. E.
Weaver, Miss Lucy A.
Webb, H. Walter
Weber, Joseph

Weeks, Rev William H,
Weil, Charles M.

Wells, Miss Julia Chester
Welz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Edward R.
White, Horace

White, Miss May W.
White, S. V.
Whitewright, William
Wicke, William
Wickham, William Hull
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris
Willcox, William G.
Williams, Paul F.
Williams, R. C.
Wilson, Charles Hill
Wilson, D. J.

Wilson, Gen. James Grant

Wilson, John M.
Winans, Isabel T.
Winans, Miss S. S.
Wing, L. Stuart
Wing, Mrs. 1. Stuart
Winter, George

Winthrop, Mrs. Elisabeth V. S.

Wissel, Andrew

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wood, George A. W.
Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Wood, Mrs. H. G.
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, G. H.

Wooster, Mrs. G. H.

Work, James Henry

Work, Mrs. James Henry
Wotherspoon, Henry H.
Wright, Harriet

98

Wyckoff, Peter
Wyeth, Dr. J. A.
Wyeth, Mrs. J. A.

' Wygant, W . E
Wyman, Miss Esther ‘
Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry
Zimmerman, E. J.

 

 




............

       
 
      

@hituar 3752mm.

  

The Society mourns the loss of the following

members, who have died during the year :

   
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
    

BEADLESTON, W. H.
BROOKS,‘ MRS. ERASTUS
EBLING, PHILIP
ECKSTEIN, MONROE
FABER, GUSTAVUS W.
GUNTHER, FREDERIC F.
HARKNESS, MISS F.
HOLBROOK, ISAAC E.

HOSEY, MICHAEL
JOERGER,GEORGE
JONES, JOHN D.

, KNOX, THOMAS W.
LIEBMANN, JOSEPH
MOULTON, MRS. JULIA DILLON
O’GORMAN, HON. RICHARD

POMMER, FRANK L.

RUDD, JOSEPH

WYMAN, JOHN H.

 




 

YEAR 1895.

A

Abeel, John H. .

Acker, Merrall & Condit

A F riend to Animals, Brooklyn

Allcott, Miss M. .

Anonymous .

Appleton & Co., I).

Arnold, Constable «‘3: Co. .

Atlantic & Paciﬁc Tea Co.,
The Great

B

Bacon, J. M. & Co. .
Ballin, Oscar E.
Banning, B. R. . .
Bartlett, Rev. Philip
Bartow, Jacob F.
Bartow, John A. .
Batterman, Mrs. C. H.
Baumbach, Mrs. Sarah.
Behr& Co., H. .
Belden, Rev. CharlesM.
Benedict, Miss Laura
Bentley, Ellis W.
Berthele, J. G. .
Blackwell, Frank E.
Blackwell Miss A.
Blackw,ell Miss J. .
B1ackw,ell Mrs. FrancesW.
Bleckwenn, F. \N.

Bliss, Mrs. JeannetteDwight

Bossert, Louis
Bowley, F . . .
Brady, Miss Jennie .
Braidach, Mrs. A. F.
Brett, Mrs. C. A. .
Britton, Elizabeth G.
Brodie, William. .
Brooks, Geo. ‘W. .
Budweiser Brewing Co.
Bunce, John .
Burger, Max C.

  

IO
10

NMNU’INHMH

I0
HHUIUIHHHHHH

4;
O

H .
HUICLHNH

00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
00
00
OO

00
OO
00

00
00
00

oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
50
oo

00
OO
00
OO

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING THE

Buiger & Hower Brewing Co. $10

' Burhan J.H

Burkard, Philip I
Bu1nett, S. 0.5
Burnham, L. S. . . 5
Butler, Miss M. II. . . . . Ioo
Butler, Miss M. H. (special

for Fountain) I ,000
Butle1, Miss lxosalie. 5
Butts, Mrs. L. A. 5

C

Carll, Miss C. J. . . 2
Carpenter, Miss Agnes . 5
Carrington, James M. 2
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D. . 5
Carson, Henry 5
Cash
Cash, A. A. I
Cash, A. E. T I
Cash, C. J. D. . I
Cash, H. L. M. . 50
Cash, J. B. V. 0.
Cash, J. H. D. I
Cash, L. K. 1
Cash, R. . I
Castree, Miss Louise . Io
Chamberlain, Miss F. A. . 20
Chambers, George . 2
Chisolm, Benjamin Ogden 25
Chisolm, Mrs. W. E. 50
Chrome Steel Works 5
Chrystie, W. F. . 25
Clonin & Messenger 2
Cobb, Miss Fanny
Cobb, Percy _Low .
(jockey, Edward C. . 2
Coffee, William 2
Congress Brewing Co. 5
Cooper, Miss Julia 50
Corner, Thomas . I
Coster, C. 1-1. 20

 

00
OO
00
00
OO
00

00
00
00

oo
oo
oo
oo
00
so
00
oo
oo
oo
50
oo
oo

oo,

oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
30
20
oo
oo
oo

00 -

OO
00

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Cowperthwait Co.

Crissy Mrs. W. . .

Crosby, Miss M E.

Cross, Austin & Ireland Lum—
ber Co.

Cross, Mrs. Frances E

Crossman, Florence .

Crouthers, Miss S. A.

D

Dahn & Son, John A.
Daly, Henry F.
Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Deans, David.
Dehon, Miss M.
Dejonge, Louis .
Derenthal & Schalk.
Destin, Miss Lottie Y. .
Dick, Mrs. William B. .
Dickey, Charles D.
Dimock, Mrs. J. J. .
Dodson, Cora M.
Duffy, Charles T.
Duncan, M. C. . .
Dunphy, Miss Julia K.

E

Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady .
Eckert, Mrs. Thomas T.
Embury, Miss Kate .

F

Fairbanks, Mrs. Leland .
Fallert’ s Brewing Co. ,Joseph.
Fanning, Mrs. R. S. .
Field, Mrs. F. T.

Flint Mrs. C. R.

Ford, James B. . .
Forrest, Mrs. William .
Fowler, Miss Eloise.
Fowler, Mrs. K. H. . .
Frank Brewing Co., W. H.
Franks, C. Douglas.
Freeman, W. D.

F rese Estate of Charles
Frew, Walter E. . . .

G

Gallatin, Miss Louise
Gally,L .

Gates, Miss Charlotte G.
. Gergan, Charles E.
Gibson, Mrs. W. H.
Gilford, Samuel T. .

U1

1-401an

W
w

m
m
m

\IHNNHUIU’IN

N

’ to
mmmmmhmwmnonHmm

OHNNHH

m
m
w

m
m
00
m

w
m
w
m
m
m
00
00
OO
00
00
00
OO

00

00
OO
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00

    
   

00
00
00
OO
00
00

    

102

' Hendricks, Mrs. Charles

Gleason Mfg. Co., E. P. . . $2

Gleason, P. J.. . . . . .

Goldner, M. J. . ,. . . .

Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
(from James Gregg and
others). . .

Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic .

Greason & Howland.

Green, Mrs. Fred.

Grieme, M. .

Grieved, Mrs. E. D.

Gulick, Rev. U. D.

NU!

H

HHHNmO

H

Haight, Mrs. Alicia .
Hall, H. Clay

Hallett, C. W. .
Hallett, Jr., C. W.
Halsey, Mrs. S. A.
Hanson, John . .
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Hardy, Voorhees & Co.
Harkness, Mrs. S. V.
Harris, HenryJH
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, William
Harroun, G. K.
Hawley, Miss Jessie 0.
Hayden, Mrs. A. A.
Hecla Iron Works
Hegeman & Co., Joseph
Heissenbuttell & Nearing .
Hendricks, Mrs.

to

NM
mmmHHmHmNmomHNHNOH

Henshaw, John

Herholz, Ferd. .
Herriman, M. D. ,W. W.
Hess, Mrs. Henry

Hicks, Delos P. .
Hillman, Mrs. Antoinette .
Hoffman, Miss Dorothea W. .
Hoffman, Mrs. W. B.
Hohnstrom, Eleanor
Hosch, F.

Howard, Mrs. W C.
Hughes&Co.

WNU‘IHU‘IUIU'INNHHHUI

Ilsley & Co., S. A. . . . . 5
India Wharf Brewing CO. . . IO
Ingram, James . . . . . 2
Iron Clad Mfg. Co. . . . . IO
Iselin, Miss Emilie E. . . . 45
Itgen, E. H. . . . . . - 5

50
00
OO

25
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo

oo
86
OO
00
OO
00
oo
oo
00
oo
00
00
00
oo
00
00
OO
00
50
00
OO
00
oo
00
OO
00
oo
00
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO'
00




\ J
Jackson, L. F. . - - $
Jacquins, Mrs. Edward .
Jarv es, Miss (from a little bank)
Jennings, Walter -
Jerzmanowski, Baron E. J. . ”O

A!

J0nes&C0., D.S. . . . . I

5
2
5
I

K
Karfman, Henry C. 2
Kelsey & Loughlin 5
Kenyon & Newton . 5
Kimball, Misses Alice and Lulii 2
King & Adams . . “5
Klots 8: Bros.’ Sons, Walter T. 5
Knauer, E. J. . . 2
Koehler, F. . I
Koehler, Theo. 2
L
Lancashire, Helen . . . . I
Langdon, Woodbury G. . . 20
Langler & Sons, N. . . . . 5
Lanier, Mrs. J. F. D. . . . 20
Lathrop, Mrs. J. . . . I
La Tourrette, Miss J. E. . . 5
Lawrence, George H. . . . I
Lee, Mrs. J. L. . 25
Leibinger & Oehm Brewing Co. IO
Lemcke, E. . I
Lewis, Mrs. George . .600

Lewis, Mrs. Harry Dickinson. 30
Lewis & C0., S. W. . 5
L’ Hommedieu, J. N. & I4 I
Lins & Sons. II. . . . . 5
L ivingston, Miss Ann L. . . 40
Lockitt’s Sons, George . 5
Lockwood, John E. . . 5
L0ckWo0d, Miss L. A. .

Long Island Brewery . . . 5
Low, Edward A. . . 5

M

McAdam, Mrs. Phebe J.
McAlpin & C0., I). H. . . 2
McCorkle, J A.
McCoy, Mrs. .
McGanny, Edward]
McI<11ight,1‘.
Mackie, John .
Macomber, J. R. .
Male, W. II.

Mali, Charles .
Manley, L. N.

H

HUIUIHIQHNNOU‘U‘

103

m
m

m
m
m

m
w
m
w
00
m
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

w
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
25
OO
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00

Marsten & Son . . . . . $5
Marston, Miss . . . . . I
Martense, A. V. . . 5
Matthews, The ﬁrm of John . IO
Mattmann, Mrs. C. C. . . 4
May, Levy & May . . . . IO
Meeker, Dr. C. H. . . IOO
Meltzer Bros. . . . . . . 5

Metzger, Mrs. A. . . . . 5

Milbank, Joseph . . . . . 100

Milbank, Mrs. Joseph . . . 50

Miller, Allen S. . . . . . 2

Minturn, Miss Niobe

Mitchell, Joth.

M. & K. . .

Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁning
Co. .

Moller & C0. ,J. M.

Montell, E. A. .

Moore, Jr., B .

Moquin & Offerman .

Moran, D. Comyn

Morgan, Mrs. L. De

Morris, P. H. .

Morrison, D. G. . .

Morton & Sons, John .

Mott Iron \Norks C0. ,TheJ. L.

Moulton, Mrs. F. A. . .

mmHHmUl HHN

OmUnﬂHH

H
O

N

Nelson, H. N. . 1:
New York Arch. Terra Cotta

Co. 25
New York Condensed Milk C0 25
North American Brewing Co. 5

P

Park, Rev. Charles . .
Parsons, Mrs Mary Llewellyn I
Paul, Ralph

Payne, A. F . . . . . .
Pell, John H. . . . . . ., I
Perkins, B. . .

Perot, A. .

Piper, Mrs. C. E.

Platt, M. D. ,C. M.

Plaut, S. 81 II. .

Pomroy, Mrs. II. K. .

Porter, MissM. Lindsay

Potter, Georgel M.

Potter, Mrs. George M.

PowelI, I). B. .

Purdy, M. E. . .
I’yne, Mrs. Moses 'Iaylor .
Pyne, Mrs. PercyR. . . . I

OH

moHH

N

gmamNNOOmHHH

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00

OO

00
OO
00

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
U)
00
00
OO

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R

Rae William Clark.
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward H.
Rathjen, Jurgen .
Reeves, Wald S. .
Ixemsen, Mrs. .
Ridley 8:. Sons, Edward
Ixiehl, John W. . .
I\iker, Mrs. D. S. .
Rogers, Mrs. M. S. .
Rushmore, I. W.

S
Sanford, Hon. Horatio S. .
Satterlee, E. R.
Saxton, Mrs. M.
Schaefer Brewing Co. 1*.
Schluer, Frederick
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Seitz, M. .
Shaw, Mrs. Frances G
Siebrecht, W. H. .
Simminton, Mr. W. J.
Simpson, C. C. . .
Skene, Miss M.
Smith, F. N. .
Smith, George H.
Smith, George K.
Smith, Gerritt
Smith, L. C. L.
Smith, Lottie E.
Smedley, J. H. .
Snyder, Mrs. Josephine
Sperry, Mrs. D. M. C.
Stahl, Jacob . .
Stebbins, D. D. S. ,Julius W.
Steinfuehrer, Rev. C. D. F.
Stetter, Anna .
Stevens, Kerby
SteWard, Miss S.
Sticht Mrs. Augusta
Stiff, Mrs. G
Stremmell, Jonas
Stutz, Louis

T
T,aylor James R.

Taylor, Mrs. Nelly Callahan

Taylor, Mrs. W. R.
Thimig Bottling Co.
Thompson & C0.
Thompson, James

& M:

$1

IO

H

L11 L11 L11 #4 C) #4

U1
UINHLn4>H HNHHMHHHHNNNHHNHOU‘UIHUIOCHUI

()1 (11 £11 #4 no (11
888

104

00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00

oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
00
oo
50
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo

00
OO

Tiel, Mrs. W. R.

Tisdale, Mrs. Emma L.
lisdale,1\obertB.

Titus, II. N.

Todd, T. 11.

Tom and Jim .

Torry, Mrs. W. J.
Townshend, John
Trowbridge, F. C. . .
'l‘rowbridge, Mrs. Henry .
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred
Tuckerman, Miss Susan

U
Ughetta. Henry L.

United States Bung Mfg. Co. .

United States Express Co

V

Van Buren, Mrs. H.
Vandervoort, Miss A.
Vandervoort, Miss K.
Van Pelt, Rev. Daniel .
Viner, Miss Lavinia
Vogel & Bros, William
Von Hunerbein, Julius

W

Wallace, W. H. .

Ward, Miss F. L.

VVeil, Lemuel

Weinstein, Leo

Westcott Express Co.
Whitcomb, James M.
White, Edwin F.

White, Miss Susan E. . .
VVhittemore, C. A. . . .
VVidmeyel, Frederick
Wilde’ 5 Sons, Samuel
Williams, Mrs. Eliza C.
Williams, Mrs. G. L .
Williamson, Mrs. D. D.

Winans, Miss M. Antoinette .

Wingrove, Benjamin

Winth1op, Mrs. Elizabeth v. s:

Wolcott, Miss Alice
Wolf & Stein .
Woods, Jr., J.
VVoolson, I. H.
Wotherspoon, HenryH.
Wright, Miss Harriet
Wright, W. W. . .

NUIOHOHr—m

H

N
HU’tU‘lHHmNmmml-iNOLnUIHONHOHLnOOUI

888

00
00

I)

00
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
00

25
00
00
OO
00
OO
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
OO
00
00
00
()0
OO
00

OO
00
OO
00

 




 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BROOKLYN
BUILDING FUND RECEIVED DUR-
ING THE YEAR 1895.

Small,MissB.D. . . . . . . . . . $1300
Small, Miss B. D., Treasurer,. . . . . . . . . 54 00

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,1895.

The following summary will be found interesting as showing the work accomplished during the year 1895 by kindred
societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted, it does not follow that no work was accom-

plished. In many instances reports were not received, and in others the ﬁgures were not available or no records were kept.

 

LOCATION.

NAME OF SOCIETY.

Q)
J:
H
C.‘
'H
'U
G)
H
5
U
a)
m
0
1..
On
an
a)
0:
CU
U

mox; papuodsns A_

'Joqe[
[1.19.1
-odu191 51131111118 palq'esyq

Jaqio pue ‘salnm ‘SSSJOH

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile .. . . .
Birmingham . .

ARKANSAS.
Little Rock . .

CALIFORNIA.

‘ San Francisco
Los Angeles. .
San Jose. . . ..
San Diego. . . .
Los Angeles. .
Sacramento . . .
Oakland .. . .. .
Redlands . . . ..

 

Mobiles. P. C. A
Birmingham Humane S. P. C. C. & A.........

Total for Alabama

Arkansas S. P. C..............A

The San Francisco S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .
The Los Angeles S. P. C. A.. . . .. . . ..
Santa Clara County S. P. C. A... . . . . .
San Diego Humane Society . . . . . . . . . .
Los Angeles County Humane Society . . . . .
The Sacramento Humane Society. . . . . . .
Oakland S. P. C. A.*
S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal

GOOD-O...

Alaunumq
p91qesgp ‘sremgue 9.3.1121

'p; £0.11st
‘AJaAooaJ used

‘AJ

9A039.1 used palqesgp

'paﬁonsap Apnemnq
.10 53919111011 ‘slemgue news

-nq1ue U1 5139.119 11101;

'saouq
paAomal snacugue 93.1121

J9q10 pue 393.1011 palqesiq

pue paAgaoaJ siuieldwog

'pareﬁnsaAu;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Santa Barbara..... Santa Barbara HumaneSociety......................

TotalforCalifornia............................ 301 2832 323 21 74 4151
.. 30 19 5786

 

COLORADO.
Denver............

Colorado Springs . .

Colorado Humane Society
El Paso County Branch Colorado Humane Society. . .

 

5786

 

TotalforColorado......‘...................... 30 19
CONNECTICUT.

Hartford............ConnecticutHumaneSociety........................ 167 153 404 131 20 2739
NewHaven.........TheNewHavenS.P.C.A.........................

 

TotalforConnecticut.......................... 167 153 404 131 20 2739

 

DELAWARE.

Wilmington........ DelawareSPCA

 

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Washington . . . . . . . . . The \Vashington Humane Society .

107

 

 

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine. .
Jacksonville .. .
Pensacola .. . . .
Tampa

I
o
o
o
o
c
I
I
O
O
O
U
u
I
I
O
I
O
O

St. Augustine Huniane Society -
TheJacksonvilleS.P.C.A......................... I 4
HunaneSOCIety ‘

TampaS.P.C.A.................................. 5 I8 6 28

a
O
o
o
I
C

Totalf0rFlorida.............................. 5 I8 7 32

 

GEORGIA.
Augusta........... GeorgiaS.P.C.A................................ 2
Atlanta............ AtlantaHumaneSociety............................ ...3 ...S II
Macon............. MaconBranchofGeorgiaS.P.C.A.................
C. .... noo-

Brunswick . . . . . . . . . . Brunswick Branch of Georgia S. P.

AIOOOOOI'IOIOO. 00-0 .... 000' I... o... .
...

 

TotalforGeorgia.............................. 3 2 5 11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ILLINOIS.
Chicago............
Aurora

’ Rockland....,.....
Galesburg .. . .
Quincy
Shelbyville . . .
Champaign. . .
Springﬁeld. . .
Jacksonville .. . . . . . .
Jerseyville . . .

The Illinois Humane Society*...................... 166 405 281 133
TheAuroraHumane Society................ . .
Winnebago County Branch Illinois Humane Society. 3 II 32 4 7 101
Galesburg Branch Illinois Humane Society............ .
The Quincy HumaneSociety........................ 12 120 36 927
TheShelbyCountyHumane Society.....’............ .
Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society
The HumaneSocietyofSpringﬁeld..................
JacksonvilleHumaneSociety.............
TheJerseyvilleHumaneSociety..................... I 4

 

 

 

TotalforIllinois............................... 181 536 ‘350 4 140 1032

 

INDIANA.
Indianapolis. . . . . . . .
Crawfordsville .. . . .
Evansville .. . .. . . ..
Fort \Vayne..
South Bend ..

TheIndianaHumaneSociety..................... . 19 550 710 124
MontgomeryCountyHumane Society.... ........
TheEvansvilleHumaneSociety..............
FortWayneHumaneSociety.
The South Bend Humane Society... . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. 32 35 23 97 . . . . 1181
Terre Haute........ Terre Haute Humane Society....
Muncie............ MuncieHumaneSociety............................
Elkhart............. Elkhart Humane Society*....... 13 9 14 144

Total forIndiana.............................. 62 605 746 106 14 I449

108

suntan-noonoou no. one. ton. ..‘. ....

one. not.

0
N
H
H

 

 

 

 

 

 

IOWA.
Des Moines........
Sioux City . .
Iowa City.

TheIowaHumaneSociety........
The Sioux City Humane Society..................... 4 I46 21 20 431
IowaCityBranchofIowaHumaneSociety...........

 

 

 

TotalforIowa................................. 4 I46 21 20 431
KANSAS. ._._._
Wichita..... TheKansasHumaneSociety...........

 

 

 

KENTUCKY. i
Louisville .. . ‘

 

 

 

 

 

KentuckyHumaneS. PC 26 437 I69 57 1162

o
I
n
o
o
o
o

 




poa~oooua oouo gout ..¢- o-Io g... ....
‘1'“
i '1.

Henderson... ....... Henderson Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frankfort. . . . . ...... Franklin County Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Covington.. . . . . . . . .. Kenton County Humane Society. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .

coco 000- ‘0‘. out! g...

3 I

 

 

 

TotalforKentucky............................ 26 440 I69 58 1162

 

LOUISIANA.
212 I7 1942

New Orleans . .. .

 

 

Louisiana State S. P. C. A

I6 91 70 59 710

00.0 o... I...

MAINE.
Portland...
Bangor..............
Waterville. . . . . . . .
Lewiston. . . .. .......

Maine State S. P. A
The Bangor Humane Society....................
Waterville S. P. C. A.............
Lewiston andAuburn S. P.C.A........

 

 

TotalforMaine...........................

 

 

MARYLAND.

Baltimore.._......... TheMarylandS.PCA 57 1985 19

 

109'

M ASSACHUSETTS.
Boston..............
Taunton. . . . . . . . . . .
Lowell..............

TheMassachusettsS.P.C.A.*..................... 1250 .4... 7655
TauntonHumaneSociety........................... 6 48 I5 3 91

TheLowellHumaneSociety........................

6 1298 I425 3 7746

 

Total for Massachusetts”.............

 

MICHIGAN.
Detroit
Grand Rapids...
Kalamazoo.......... KalamazooHumaneSociety.........................

MichiganSPCA ..

KentCountyHumaneSociety....................... II 27 19 ..
12 22 22 211

 

 

Totalfor Michigan............................. 23 49 4I 455

 

MINNESOTA.
St. Paul............
Minneapolis. . . . . . .

0-00 ole. not. Q..-

MinnesotaS.P.C..........
92 7 20 701

Minneapolis HumaneSociety........................ I4 48

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year.

 

 




 

    

" no-o noo-

TheBergenCountyS.P.C.A...................... .. . .
I 12 45 16 26 75 312

 

Hackensack. . . . . . . .
Elizabeth... . . . . . . .

. . The S. P. C. A. of Union County..................
Perth Amboy........

 

 

 

PerthAmboyS.P.C.A .....

 

 

 

. . . . . . . 74 I64 51 39 75 802

 

 

Totalfor NewJersey.

952

The American S. P. C. A.’r.. .. . . 3403 2987 46898 576 21690
P. C. A.. 2
A

18 16 .... 16
84 448 I3 547
184 202 1155 .... 765

NEW YORK. i
New York (Headq’ers)‘l
Sing Sing. . . . . ......
Rochester...........
B11ﬁalo..............
Poughkeepsie. . .
Newburgh. . . . . . . . . . .
Oswego .....
Fulton..............
Syracuse...
Nyack..............
Elmira..............

Sing Sing Branch of The American S.

The Humane Society of Rochester P. C.
TheErieCountyS. P. C. A
ThePoughkeepsieS. P. C. A
TheNewburgh S. P. C. A

S. P. C. A. ofOswegoCity .....
S P. C. A. ofVillageof Fulton*............
TheCentral NewYorkS. P. C. A*
TheRockIandCounty S. P. C. A
TheElmiraS. P. C. .' ”
Binghamton......... BroomeCountyS. P. C.A ......
Kingston............ The UlsterCountyS.P.C.A........
Watertown..... Jefferson County S. P. C. A .............
West Troy. . . . . Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society*. . . . .. . . .
Lockport....... The NiagaraCounty S. P. C. AW.
Cortland............ TheCortlandCountyS.P.C.AWW

TotalforNewYork............................ 1189 3871- 3318 48539 591 24444

NORTH CAROLINA.
Asheville....... The NorthCarolinaS. P. C.A ...... 8 16 7 3 29

Wilmington NorthCarolinaS.P.CC&A.
. ‘8 16 7 3 29

00
KO
ﬂ'Oc
N

 

Tr

  

II onvoc

<1-
ﬁﬁ‘O (hwy-(NH
3

   

III

  

3 12
. 406

 

o

o
I
c
n
o
I
n

m
-H
-H

H

  

(D

  

I... 00.0 .00-

. . 2

 

  

 

  

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

Total for North Carolina.......................

  

 

 

OHIO.
1387

Cincinnati. . . .. . . ..

OhioHumane Society..............................

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

1‘ Includes work of its own Agents throughout the State.

r

 

* Fiscal year.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OHIO—Continued.
Cleveland... . . . ..
Canton...........
Columbus. . . . . . . .
Toledo..........,
VVarren........ ..
Dayton. . ..... . . ..
Athens...
Sandusky. . . . . . . .
Portsmouth. . . .. . .
Ashtabula. . . . . . . .
Chagrin Falls. .. . .
Pomeroy .........
Youngstown ......
Yellow Springs. . . .

OREGON.
Portland... .. . .. .

PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia . . . . .
Philadelphia. . . . . .
Lancaster. . . . .. . .
York.......... ..
Pittsburgh. . . . . . . .
West Chester. . . .
Reading. . . . . . .
VVilliamsport. . . . .
Scranton. . . .. . . ..
Erie.............

VVilkes-Barre. . . . .

o

 

0

Cleveland Humane Society' ..... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
The Canton Humane Society. . . ..
Humane Society of City of Columbus. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Toledo Humane Society ............... . . . . . . . . . .
The Trumbull County Humane Society.. . . . . . . . . . .
Dayton Humane Society....................
AthensS.P.C.A..... .....

The Erie County Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scioto County Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashtabula County Humane Society.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Chagrin Falls Humane Society. . . . . . . . . .. . . . .
Pomeroy bBranch Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The Youngstown Humane Society. . . , . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yellow Springs Humane Society.. . .. . . . . . . . . . . ..

TotalforOhio.......

The Oregon Humane Society. .. .

The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A...
\Vomen’ 5 Branch of Pennsylvania S. P. C A. . . . . . .

LancasterS...PCA.. ....... ..

TheYorkCountyS. P. C. A
Western Pennsylvania Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Co. Auxiliary Women 5 Branch Pa. S. P. C.
Berks County S. P. C.
Lycoming CountyS. P AC. A............
Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. . . .
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society. . . . . . .
Luzerne County Humane Association P. C. C. & A.

IOCIOOCCIDUII ICOIOOOIIO

TotalforPennsylvania

 

-Ln'<t'

 

72

260

248

 

 

25

37

 

301
106
30

231
I7
18

I44

22

12

 

 

 

 

444

 

 

 

 

 

2455

 

112

 




 

  

RHODE ISLAND.

Newport . .....

 

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston . . . . .
Columbia . . . . . .
Greenville . . . . .
Spartanburg. . . .

         

TENNESSEE.
Memphis . . . .. .
Chattanooga . . .
Knoxville . . . . . .
Nashville . . . .

          

TEXAS.

Galveston .. . . . .
Waco. . . . ..

   

   

UTAH. .
Salt Lake City. .

   

VERMONT.
Bristol ...... . . .
Brattleborough .
Rutland ... ..
Burlington . . . ..
Chester .
Randolph .. . . . .

          

     

 

Providence .......... Rhode Island S. P. C. A. . .

o

 

 

 

 

OIIIOI.

Newport: Branch of Rhode Island S. P. C. A.*. . . .. . -

Total for Rhode Island ........... - ' '

The South Carolina S. P. C. A.
Richland County S. P. C. A. . ..
Greenville Branch of South Carolina S. P. C' A"
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A .......... . . . . - - - -

Total for South Carolina. . .

Ill

Tennessee S. P. C. A.&C .......
ChattanoogaS. P. C. C.&A ...... ..
Knox County Humane Society .... . . . . . .. . . .- -
Nashville Humane Society... . . . - -

Total forTennessee................---

The Galveston S. P. C. A
The Texas Humane Society. . .

...-00......

Total for Texas. .

Utah Humane Society. . . .. . . .. . .

Vermont Humane Society......................
The Brattleborough S. P. C. A...
SocietyP.C.A ..........
Vermont Humane Society......................
ChesterHumane Society.......................
The Randolph Humane Society

TotalforVermont

 

 

 

 

 

 

174
I4

. I88

 

 

 

IO2

 

___._ _ __ _ _ .__._..______

214

'56.;
823

1x23

113

 

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year.

 

 

   
   




 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂ

VIRGINIA.
Richmond . . . .

Norfolk

Portsmouth . . .
Lynchburg ..

WASHINGTON.

Tacoma......

WISCONSIN.
Milwaukee . . .

Oshkosh . . .

Sheboygan . .
Green Bay . . .
Manitowoc

WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling . . . .

to.

Port Washington .

Halifax . . . .

Hamilton
Kingston
Montreal
Ottawa . .
Quebec . . .
St. John . .
Toronto .

Fredericton

o
o
t

O

BRITISH No. AMERICA.’

 

Richmond S. P. C. A..........
Norfolk S. P. C. A. . . . ..
VVoman’s Humane Society of Virginia. . . . . . . . . .
The Lynchburg Humane Society . . . . . . .. . . . . .

Oooooluoocno-oo

TotalforVirginia........................

TacomaS.P.C.A..............

WestVirginia S. P. CA

Wisconsin Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fox River Valley District* ....... . .
Sheboygan Humane Society ......... . . . . . . . . . .
lhe Wisconsin S P. C. A ....... . .
Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Society

‘0. vvvvv

Organized Committee of Wisconsin Humane Society . .

Total for Wisconsin. . .

u
o
o
o
O
o
o
o
c
o
o
o
I
o
o
o

TheNovaScotiaS. P. C
HamiltonS.PCA
Kingston Humane Society. . . . .
TheCanadian S. P. CA
OttawaS. P.C. A”
QuebecS. P.C...A . .
New BiunswickS. P C. A.
T oronto Humane Society . . . '
FrederictonS.PCA

o
I
I
u
o
a
o
I
o
a
o
n
o
o
s
o
o
o

TotalforCanada........................

* Fiscal year.

 

16
10

IO

 

,26

12'

 

0".

 

 

169

100

 

49

 

60

£8

 

 

254

 

 

 

38

 

 

 

114




 

 

HISTORY.

—_—__..

 

THE American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani—
mals was organized and incorporated April IO, 1866, being the
ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection of animals,
its founder and ﬁrst president being the late Henry Bergh,
to whose noble self-sacriﬁces and untiring energies the cause
of animal protection in this country owes its origin. The his—
tory of the Society, therefore, is practically an account of the
inception and development of the work of animal protection in
America. ‘

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed
to personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the
subject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in Lon-
don on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of
the Earl of Harrowby, then president of The Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. who gave him
much valuable information concerning the operations of that
Society in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found
that no similar society existed in this country, and he immedi-
ately devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it might
probably have failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh delivered
a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his cause with such
force of argument and such warmth of eloquent conviction, that
expressions of sympathy and offers of assistance were freely made

 




118

in enforcing the laws for the prevention of cruelty. In the cities
of New York and Brooklyn the Society has ambulances for the
removal of injured, sick, and disabled animals; appliances for
the rescue of drowning animals and animals which have fallen
into excavations; and a patrol wagon which carries with it the
necessary apparatus and medicines for rendering aid to injured
animals in the streets.

The ofﬁcial organ of the'Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS, a
monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of humanity
to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and growing
circulation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

AN APPEAL.

AN erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society is
beyond the necessity forlfurther appeals to our benevolent and
generous—hearted people for aid. It receives no appropriations
from the City or State, and is dependent upon voluntary subscrip-
tions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the organization
could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its labors greatly
extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary support. As all
know, the objects of the Society are to enforce the humane laws,
to investigate complaints, to care for lost or abandoned animals
or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress cruel beatincr over-

b?

loading, and over-driving, and to protect and assist sick, maimed,
and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution of
humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind treat-
ment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race. It may
be desirable to state in this connection that during the past year
the Society has published and distributed nearly ten millions of
pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity to animals, and
we have had ample reason to know that the effect has been fully
as great as could have been reasonably hoped for this purpose;
and to these ends we earnestly invite your pecuniary assistance.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report.

 




 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY , 1’

FOR THE

fliPREVENTION ~ 0E CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

_ IROQRPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK APRIL 10,1866.

A
l

1- <_THIRTIETH ANNUAL. REPORT _

 

J JOHN P. 'HAINES, President.

 

DECEMBER 31, 11895.“

" HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:
‘ “.10 EAST TWENTRSEQOND STREET, NEW YORK.

 

WYNKOOP HALLENBECK “CRAWFORD 00.,
’ STATE PRINTERS, . I
ALBANY AND NEW YORK.

1896g' ’ ‘ ' ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

TEMPORARY

HEADQUARTERS

5
rn
>
(D
.4
to
k)
0..
(D
.4
:0
rn
m
.1
Z
rn
‘2
.<
O
:0
‘F

 

It». y

< . ‘ "-.—r~“_

 

 

—.~:w— "Wﬁ"? L

 

 

W- mu .ﬁ

r v4“‘.>”‘” w‘w"

 

,‘Mg_;- 4;.” -V._..._~_A..._4»_‘-.‘.A \_,A~.A‘L

 

 




 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

AN increase of one hundred and forty-three new members
during the year under review, testiﬁes to the continued interest
in the SoCiety and its work.

The corps of Special Agents has’ been augmented by the
appointment of thirty-ﬁve additional Agents in all parts of the
State, some of them residing in territory where the cause of
animal protection has not heretofore received attention. -

Increased public interest is also shown in the cause by appeals
to the Society to maintain salaried Special Agents in the smaller
cities, and by offers of the citizens to contribute to the support of
such Agents. Subscription lists circulated for this purpose in
Long Island City and the City of Yonkers have been universally
and generously supported, and ofﬁcers of the Society are now
located at those points and doing good work in the enforcement
of the humane laws.

A new ambulance, embodying many improvements over former
constructions, has been built after special designs by President
Haines.

Hon. Joel B. Erhardt was elected a member of the Committee
to ﬁll the vacancy caused by the retirement of Mr. Anson Phelps
Stokes.

In the obituary record will be found the names of eighteen
friends of the Society who have been removed by death during
the past year.

The many admirable and beneﬁcial results growing out of the
establishment of a Shelter for Animals in New York, as men-
tioned in the President’s Report, made it desirable to extend the

 

 




$5.60 .5 02:22.6
E 335 $58 oz< ._<s__z< zoEozoo 82.25 02.30% r225 £5 20 p<0mj<z<o 322,9. mo“. cum: M152

 




Jan. 22.

Jan. 29.

Jan. 29.

Jan. 31.

Feb. I.

Feb. 5.

Feb. II.

Feb. II.

Feb. 15.

Feb. 15.

     

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

27

terrible sores on the body, unprotected from the harness, was ﬁned ten
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Henry Kroose, for exposing in the streets of Brooklyn a horse hav-
ing the glanders, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice Walsh.

Charles Speiler, for cruelly beating and kicking a sick, sore, and
lame horse attached to a heavily loaded wagon, was ﬁned twenty dol-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Otto Blechahn, for compelling a horse suffering from quittor to
haul a heavily loaded wagon, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars. The animal
was very lame and could not bear the weight of its body on the sore
limb; it was walking on three legs. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions.

David Parker tied the legs of nine large chickens together, then
crowded them into a small basket. The poor creatures thus tortured
were found by the Society’s ofﬁcer behind an ice-box in the offender’s
store, Where they had been for several hours. Parker laughed when
told to release the chickens, saying, “ Oh, what a fuss about a chicken ! ”
Fined ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Benton Bigelow, for causing and permitting his subordinates to salt
the tracks of the Seventh Avenue Railroad, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions.

Thomas F. Farley was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions for driving a horse so weak and sore as to be entirely unﬁt for
use. The poor beast could hardly stand up. The owner, John Ros—
trom, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars for permitting the animal to be worked.

Thomas Beatty, for compelling a lame, sore, and feeble horse to
drag a heavily loaded ash-cart, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Louis Goldman, for driving a horse suffering from two “ rotten feet,”
was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The
animal was shot.

To an express wagon was attached an old gray horse, lame. sore,
weak, and feeble. The poor beast, when unharnessed from the vehi-
cle, could hardly stand from weakness. James Bruce, the driver,
declared the horse was only lazy, but he could not explain about the
sores or lameness. Fined ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Michael Scanlon, while intoxicated, caused his horses to fall, to the
great danger of the occupant of the carriage. For this he was dis-
charged from service. On returning to the stable, he abused the pro-
prietor, and grossly insulted Mr. S., a gentleman who boarded his
horse at the same stables. On being ordered to leave the premises,
Scanlon swore he would get square. Later in the day he asked one of

 

 

 




  

July 3.

July 4.

July 5.

July 7.

July 9-

July 12.

July 13.

July 13.

July 15.

 
 
 
  

July 17.

    
 

 

35

beat the animal to death with a stick. Sentenced to the county jail
for forty-ﬁve days by Justice Wheeler, of Port Jefferson, L. I.

Virgil F. Parker unjustiﬁably shot and killed three cats belonging to
a neighbor. Fined twenty dollars by Justice Walsh.

Joseph Johnson, of Luzerne, N. Y., neglected for some time to pro-
vide food and shelter for his cattle, for which neglect he was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by Judge Adamson.

William Jackson, of Stottsville, N. Y., tied two cats together with
a string, then threw them over a beam to ﬁght. Fined ten dollars by
Justice William Butler.

Andrew Michaelbraith, for depriving a horse of food and water for
several days, was sentenced by the Court of Special Sessions to three
months in the penitentiary.

Patrick Rehey, of West Brighton, S. I., was charged with biting
cats’ tails off. Fined ten dollars by Justice Van Vechten.

For compelling a team of horses, having badly galled necks and
breasts, to haul a loaded boat through the Erie Canal, Fred. Davenport
was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice J. S. Smelzer, of Geneva, N. Y.

Adam Beck, because his horse, owing to physical inﬁrmities, could
not pull the loaded wagon, belabored the distressed animal with the
butt end of the whip ; for which he was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten
dollars or to be imprisoned in the city prison for ﬁve days, by the Court
of Special Sessions.

Joseph Archer employed Peter Walsh to drive a horse. The animal,
unbeknown to Walsh, had a large sore on its back under the saddle.
The driver when arrested stated the horse was harnessed up when he
left the stable and Archer knew the animal’s condition. So the magis-
trate thought ; hence the conviction of the owner, who was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to serve ﬁve days in the city prison.

“ The horse can’t pull the load out of the mud,” said a lady to James
Burke, who was urging his horse to haul a loaded cart out of a rut into
which the wheels of the vehicle had sunk up to the hubs. “ Well, I’ll
makeit,” said Burke ; and seizing the heavy dump slat, commenced to
beat the animal most cruelly. An ofﬁcer of the Society came along,
and soon had the horse out of harness and Burke in the station-house.
Sentenced by the Court of Special Sessions to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars or to serve ten days in the city prison. '

“ The horse did not belong to me,” said Samuel Reid, when charged
with overloading a weak, feeble horse. “ That is no reason why you
should abuse it,” said the presiding magistrate of the Court of Special
Sessions, when sentencing the offender to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve d01-
lars or to be imprisoned in the city prison for ﬁfteen days.

 

  




  

PhWi-‘HI'

Sept

Sept.

Sept
Sept

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

30.

II.

15.

20.

l 22‘

22.

22.

26.

16.

I7.

19.

23.

43

after Stowe had been notiﬁed. Tried before Justice Hearman, of Lan-
singburgh, and acquitted.

16. Joseph Schwartz, for cruelly beating a lame horse with a stick of

wood, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve'dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Samuel Sority wascharged with carrying poultry in a cruel manner.
The animals were packed in coops like sardines. Many had been
crushed to death, while others were suffocated. Sority was ﬁned
twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Edward Murphy, of Little Falls, N. Y., for cruelly beating a sick
bull, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Recorder Brown.

Manly Decker, of Phelps, N. Y., for shooting a neighbor’s pet dog,
was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Severence.

John Brown, of Pottsville, N. Y., for causing and permitting a lame
and sore mule to haul a loaded canal-boat through the Erie Canal, was
ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice F. F. Eisenmenger.

James Victory, for causing and permitting a horse owned by him to
be wOrked while lame and sore, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of one
hundred dollars or to be imprisoned for thirty days, by the Court of
Special Sessions. (Illustration on page 58 shows the condition of the
animal.)

Antonina Faigarino poisoned ﬁfteen geese belonging to a neighbor.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Harriman, of Brooklyn.

James Gleason of Mount Vernon, for overdriving a horse, causing it
to bleed from the nose, was ﬁned ten dollars by the city judge.

Herbert Smith and William Wilson, of Cohoes, N. Y., were sentenced
by Recorder Nichols to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars each, or to be im-
prisoned for ﬁfteen days, 'for driving horses having sores on the body,
unprotected from the harness.

Joseph Duluth and Howard Austin, of Mount Vernon, for cruelly
treating a sick horse, were ﬁned ﬁve dollars each by City Judge
Appel. -

John Clark, of Catskill, N. Y., for omitting and neglecting to
provide shelter and food for his dog, was sentenced to the Albany
penitentiary for three months by Justice Bennett.

Margaret Curry, of Jamestown, N.Y., was convicted of having thrown
scalding water on a fox-terrier dog belonging to a neighbor. Sentence
was suspended by the local justice.

Charles Stevens, of Corning, N. Y., was sentenced to hard labor in
the' county jail for overloading and cruelly beating a sick horse.

John Thompson, of Corinth, N. Y., for overdriving and beating a
horse, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars, or to be imprisoned
for twelve days, by Justice J. M. Fryer, of Saratoga Springs.

  
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 




  

VI
0

 

55

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs. ‘
WM. F. SLOCUM, JR., President. | F. B. HILL, Secretary.

 

CONNECTICUT.
The Connecticut Humane Society.
Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. I CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec’y.

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

New Haven.
JOSEPH B. SARGENT, President. I EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

 

DELAWARE.
Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Street, [Wilmington

DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, Pres. I WILLARD H. PORTER, Secretary.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
1317 “ F” Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
A. S. PRATT, President. I W. F. STOWELL, Secretary.

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine Humane Society.
St. Augustine.

DR. DEWITT WEBB, President. I MRS. A. M. MARCOTTE, Secretary.

The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

jacksonm'lle. .

O. PIERRE HAVENS, President. I B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.
[I Humane Society.

Pensacola.
S. S. HARVEY, President. I FRANK MAURA, Secretary.
Tampa Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Tampa.
W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, President. I D. L. HAWLEY, Secretary.

  
 
    
  
    
 
    
  
  
   
      
   
    
  
 
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 




 

   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

63

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.

I41 East Ninth Street, St. Paul. .
CHARLES STEELE, President. | M. L. HUTCHINS, Secretary.

Steele County Humane Society.

Owatonna.

B. S. COOK, President. I DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.
The Winona Humane Society.

Winona.
DR. D. A. STEWART, President. I L. D. FROST, Secretary.
St. Cloud Humane Society.

St. Cloud.
JAMES F. BRADFORD, President. | S. S. PARR, Secretary. -

.————-..._.

MISSISSIPPI.

The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Nate/zez.
JOHN P. WALWORTH, President. | RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

 

MISSOURI.

Humane Society of Missouri.

506 59" 508 Columoia Building, Eight/i and Loeust Street, St. Louis.

GEO. D. BARNARD, President. I JNO. W. MUNSON, Secretary.

The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.

617 Locust Street, St. Louis.

MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, President. I MISS M. W. BRADFORD, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Kansas City, Missouri.
City Hall, Kansas City.
EDWIN R. WEEKS, President. | COL. L. E. IRWIN, Secretary.
The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.

Room 15, Carory Block, St. josep/i.
HUSTON WYETH, President. | PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

     

\
. 1
i

1‘ iiili l
“H i

ll Hi

 

~ 7 U‘. W l




   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
    

73
VERMONT.

Vermont Humane Society.

Bristol.
H. B. WILLIAMS, President. I E. A. HASSELTINE, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Brattteooroug/z.
DR. GEORGE F. GALE, President. I MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ruttano’.

T. L. DRURY, President. I I. H. PENNINGTON, Secretary.

Vermont Humane Society.
Burtz'ﬂgton.
HORACE J. BROOKS, President. I H. P. WHITCOMB, Secretary.

Chester Humane Society.
C/zester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. I MERRILL WRIGHT, Secretary.
The Randolph Humane Society.
Randolph
DR. W. S. CURTIS, President. I R. K. WIRES, Secretary.

______..——_—

VIRGINIA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
618 East Main Street, Richmond.

DR. JUD. B. wool), President. | W. A. TOWNES, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
106 Main Street, Norfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, President. I W. B. BARTON, Secretary.
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

.Portsmoztt/z.
MRS. A. P. GRICE, President. I MISS M. A. BINGLEY, Secretary.

      
    
   
      

The Lynchburg Humane Society.
Lyne/zourg.

P. A. KRISE, President. I T. H. EARLY. Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

w... L; on" up

ﬁ"““44* ‘4‘ “ ‘4‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

82

WELLER, ABEL I ......................................... Middletown
WILLIAMS, N. H ............................. . ............. Ridgebury

ORLEANS COUNTY.
VAN STONE, EDWIN ..................... . ................... Albion

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G ........................................ North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H ............................................. Mexico

OTSEGO COUNTY.

KRAHAM, FRANCIS J ............................. . . . . .Cooperstown
LATHROP, CHARLES MCHARG ......................... Cooperstown
PIERCE, CHARLES C ....................................... Oneonta
SITTS, JOHN H ..................................... Richﬁeld Springs

PUTNAM COUNTY.

BENNETT, WALTER J ..................................... Mahopac
DINGEE, MYRON .............................................. Carmel

QUEENS COUNTY.

BRUST, AUGUST C .................... . ................... Maspeth
BUSCH, ADAM ............................... . ........... Woodhaven
CLAPP, IRA M ........... J ............... . ................... Flushing
CLOWES, LEWIS H ...................................... Hempstead
CONKLIN, ARCHIE E. . . . . . . . ............................... Jamaica
DUNBAR, JOHN J ........................................... Freeport
DUSING, WILLIAM. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. Long Island City
HENTZ, ALBERT ............................................ Maspeth
KNOWLTON, W. C ................................... Port \Vashington
LOSEE, HORATIO ........................................ Glen Cove
MILLER, WILLIAM H ............................... Rockaway Beach
SCHOLLE, THEODORE E ......................... Winﬁeld Junction
SEAMAN, VALENTINE ..................................... Oceanus
SKIDMORE, JR., A. W ..................................... Cedarhurst
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM .............................. Locust Valley
WALSH, JOHN C ...................................... Far Rockaway
RENSSELAER COUNTY.
BROUSSEAU, S. W ................................. Schodack Landing
CLINT, DE WITT .......................................... Poestenkill
JONES, W. FRANK ..................................... Lansingburgh

LANE, LE ROYC ........................... Troy

 
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

  

 




 

 

    

    

83

RICHMOND COUNTY.

ELLIOTT, GEORGE . . . . ._ ............................... New Brighton
KATHESON, JAMES C .................................. Green Ridge

ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
TWRIGHT, D. V ......................................... Ogdensburgh

SARATOGA COUNTY.

FONDA, ROBERT C .................................. Saratoga Springs
RICE, GEORGE A ............ , .......................... M echanicsville
SELDEN, EDWARD D ............................... Saratoga Springs
\YOODVVORTH, H. J .................................... Mechanicsville

SCHENECTADY COUNTY.
HOAG, C. E ............................................ ..Quaker Street

SCHOHARIE COUNTY.

BECKER, W. H ............................................... Gilboa
CRANDALL, GEORGE E ..................................... Jefferson
PLANK, OLIVER F ........................................ Gallupville

SCHUYLER COUNTY.
ROGERS, ROBERT P .............. . ........... . ...... . ........ Burdett

STEUBEN COUNTY.

BURKE, THOMAS W ......................................... Addison
HOUGHTON, ARTHUR A .................................... Corning
PHILLIPS, M.D., CHARLES R ........................... Hornellsville

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W .............................. Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L ...... ” ................................... Babylon
CAMPBELL, ARCHIBALD H .............................. Huntington
DAYTON, WILLIAM B .................................. Port Jeﬁferson
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P .................. - ................. Elwood
HAYS, JOSEPH A .......................................... Patchogue
HOMAN, C. E. C. . . .. ................................... East Hampton.
HOVVELIQ, WILLIAM M ..................................... Setauket
MORISON, GEORGE W .................................. Ronkonkoma
llULFORD, HENRY D ...................................... Northport
PENNEV, ROBERT W ....................................... Flanders
REEVES, DETMOLD ........................................ Greenport

SAVAGE, M.D., WILLIAM B ........ ............... East Islip

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

84

SMITH, CHARLES F ....................................... Cutchogue
SQUIRES, EDWARD N. . . . . . . -. .......................... Good Ground
STRONG, JAMES S ........................................ Wainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L ...................................... Blue Point
TOTTEN, JOHN C ................................. Cold Spring Harbor
VAIL, ALFRED R........ .................. Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B .................................... Baiting Hollow

SULLIVAN COUNTY.
DECKER, A. A ........................ . ................ Mountain Dale

ULSTER COUNTY.

ELLSWORTH, ELIJAH .............................. . ...... Kingston
FREER, ISAAC .............................................. Ellenville
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ............................... Clintondale

WARREN COUNTY.

BEVINS, STANLEY H .................................. Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ................................ Lake George
GRIFFING, E. T ........ . ..................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S ...... . ..................................... Lake George

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEWAY, FREDERICK .................. _. . . .. ........... Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M .................................... Salem
MICKLE, JAMES ......................................... Fort Edward
SCOTT, GEORGE H ........................................ Whitehall

WAYNE COUNTY. '
AGETT, WILLIAM W .......................................... Lyons

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J .......................... .. . . .Mount Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL L ...................................... Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H. . . .4 .\. ........ . ............................. Irvington
COLLINS, HIRAM J ................................... Mount Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ....................................... White Plains
GARNJOST, FERDINAND .................................... Yonkers
HALSTEAD, A. M ................................................ Rye
HART, FRED. R .............................................. Somers
HUSS, HENRY. . . . . ....................... . ............. Mount Vernon
JOHNSON, PERCY D ................................... Mount Vernon
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS ..................................... Tarrytown

KOPP, GEORGE M ......................................... Sing Sing

 

J

I
t.

33
S
'I

  




85

MAI‘IC)1\TEY, JOHN H .............. . . ..... . . . . . ...... North Tarrytown
BEONTGOMERY, FERRIS R ............................. White Plains
STEVENS, CHARLES S ................................. Port Chester
T.&YLOR, ROYAL E .................................. . ...... Peekskill

 

 

 

 

WYOMING COUNTY.
POND, MARCUS E. . . ..................... . .............. . . . . .Castile

YATES COUNTY.

B'ICLAUGHLIN, AMOS .............................. . ........ Penn Yan
PECK, MARTIN W ............. Middlesex

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

The payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time
secures a life membership.

,

 

A Coddington, Gilbert S.

Anderson, Mrs. Elizabeth M. Crap 0’ John M‘
Andrews, C. A. D
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Arnold, William Daly, Henry F.
Astor, William Waldorf Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Avery, Samuel P. DeWitt, George G.
Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.
B Dilks, George W.

. Dod e, Mrs. Charles Cleveland

1Benson, MISS Mary Dodge, Norman W.
ergh, Henry b

. . Draper, Mrs. Henry
B1111n ton, Mrs. Reno R. ,
Bliss, gRobert P. Dunlap, Cornell
Bonner, Robert E
Boyd, J. Gilmore
Brady, Miss Jennie T. Ehret, George

Brown, LCWiS 13- Ewen, Miss C. G.
Busteed, Richard, Jr.

Butler, Miss M. H. F

B . .I . '
““5; Mrs Laura A Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
C Foster, James

Campbell, A. H. G
Chambers, Dr. M. L.

Claﬁin, Arthur B. Gebhard, William H.
Claﬂin, John Gerry, Hon. Elbridge T.
Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B. Gilbert, Frederick E.
Clausen, Henry Gray, Horace
Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. M. Gudewil‘l, George
Clews, Henry Gunning, William J.

..._.| \...| I...‘ lay-.1 he! lav-i PH Hui Mi Mi Mi




      

H

Hadden, John A.
games, John P.
galsey, Mrs. Frederic Robert
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hakains, Mrs. Rush C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Robert, Jr.
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Alice
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann

I
Ingersoll, Mrs. James H.
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kemp, Edward
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, John W.
Kraus, Miss Emma

  

L

     

Lanier, Charles

Lee, lVIiss Alleine

Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson
Liautard, Dr. A. F.

Low, Joseph T.

  
  
  

M

  
 

Marie, Peter
T‘Jarsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.

 
  
  
 

87

     

Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T,
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Murray, John B.

O

O’Berry, Loftus
O’Brien, William
Olcott, F. P.
Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R

Remsen, Robert G.
Reusens, G.

Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott

Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Ruppert, Jacob
Russell, Hon. Horace

S

Schaefer, Frederick
Scharmann, H. B.

Schermerhorn, William C.

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George

Sherman, William Watts

Smith, Edward A.
Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, Jr., James

Straus, Nathan

St. John, William P.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.
Suckley, Rutsen

Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T

Thompson, Fred. ’F.
Tiffany, Charles L.

Townsend, Mrs. Howard
Tuck, Edward

V

Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila

88

     
    
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 

Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen

Van Tassel, Emery M.

W

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Watson, George H.

Webb, William H.

Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrs. C. E.

Winans, Miss M. Antoinette
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.

Wood, Charles B.
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon

Y
Yuengling, Jr., David G.

 




MEMBERS.

The annual membership subscription is ﬁve dollars.

A

Abbott, Warren G.
Abendroth, W. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlrnann, Otto
Amend, C. A. L.
Appel, Jr., Henry J.
Appelbaum, Henry
Appleton, W. H.
Aron, A.

Astor, Mrs. J. J.
Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B.

Bachmann, Frederick
Bacon, Marshal L.
Baeszler, Charles
Bailey, Miss Mary L.
Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, C. C.
Baldwin, H. M.
ﬁaldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Banyer, Goldsboro
Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis

Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barnes, Reon

Barret, Miss Lily

Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barth, Gustav A.
Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Beard, Mrs. J. Carter
Beckwith, Mrs. L. F.
Beinert, Charles

Belford, William J.
Benedicks, Leonard
Benjamin, A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell
Benner, Mrs. Robert
Bennet, Frank .
Benscher, Fred.

Benson, Miss Mary
Bernheimer, Simon E.

Berns, Dr. George H., V.S.

Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Binge, Julius

Bishop, Miss Eleanor
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Peter

Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.
Bliss, Miss Sue D.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.
Bloor, A. J.

Bodine, B. J.
Bowdoin, Miss E. G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.

 

  
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     




 

 

 

 

 

 

Bradish, Mrs. George Johnston

Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brooks, William L.
Brown, Benjamin
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Thomas

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Browne, Mrs. G. Morgan
Brunjes, George F.
Bryan, Charles S.

Bull, W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burnett, Mrs. Dr. W. J.
Burroughs, William V.
Burt, Dr. Stephen Smith
Buswell, Mrs. F. C.
Butler, Charles

Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Callender, Thomas 0.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel
Carpenter, Miss Agnes

Carpenter, Miss Edith W.

Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Carscallen, Miss Kate
Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, Rev. Charles A.
Cassidy, John

Catlin, Miss C. V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Cestero,-J. N.

Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.

90

Chanler, Mrs. Amélie Rives
Chase, Miss Helen F.
Chisolm, Benjamin 0.
Choate, Joseph H. .
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Clark, Edward J.

Clay, George E.

Close. 8. B.

Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Cole, Mrs. A. J.

Cole, Mrs..Hugh L.
Colgate, Miss Adele W.
Colgate, A. W.

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Conklin, Michael
Constable, W.

Cooper, Charles W.
Corbett, C. H.

Cornell, Robert C.
Coster, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.
Coyle, Miss J. Antoinette
Cramer, L. H.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Crocker, D.

Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cuming, James R.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, George
Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, John L.
Dalley, Jr., Henry

 




     

Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrell, Edward F.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Darrigrand, Miss Marie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davidson, Peter
Davison, Clarence B.
Day, Mrs. H. M.
Decker, J. P.
De Coppet, H.
De Coppet, Mrs. H.
De Cordova, Alfred
De Gerlach, Alexander
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis
De La Vergne, John C.
De Luze, Francisco 0.
Dempsey, Daniel
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.
De Witt, Mrs. George G.
De Witt, William G.
Dexter, Henry
Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles F.
Ditson, Mrs. C. H.

Dittrich, M.D., Eberhard W.

Dix, S. T. D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Dodge, William E.
Doelger, Peter

Donnelly, Edward
Donovan, Dennis
Donovan, Joseph

Dowd, Timothy

Dowst, Arthur A.

Drake, Mrs. Charles
Duer, Miss Alice M.
Duer, Miss Caroline K.
Duer, James G. K.

Duer, Mrs.'James G. K.
Duggin, Mrs. Charles

Du Vivier, E. A.

f)» ''

91
E

Eaton, Dorman B.
Eckstein, Samuel
Edwards, J. Pierrepont .
Eger, Mrs. T. J.
Ehrmann, Julius
Elkins, Miss Fanny
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Henry

Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry
Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fairchild, Mrs. A. V.
Fargo, Mrs. James C.
Fearon, Robert J.
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Fiest, K.

Finck, August
Fischer, Mrs. Charles
Fisk, Mrs. Harvey E.
Fitch, M.D., Neil O.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Miss Annie
Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.

F oller, Nicholas
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia F. de
Fontenilliat, Baroness Paul de
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Matthias N.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Franchot, Mrs. Helene
Francis, Mrs. George
Frankenberg, D.

Eta-2:: . ; < .4; 2: rim”;

 

‘23:;53 ,2, .1 ..
L

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

 

l ‘l
(. JJJJ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.1“ij
" lil

.
llm

   
 
  

   
 

 

 

 

 

     




Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freel, Edward

Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, Mrs. L.
Freeman, W. D.
Friedman, Leonard
Fries, Frederick

Frew, Walter E.

F roehlich, Joseph J.

F rﬁhauf, Miss Victoria
Fuller, M.D., William H.
Fuller, Mrs. W. H.
Furman, John T.

G

Gager, Mrs. Mary M.
Gallatin, Frederic ‘
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.

Gescheidt, Anthony L.
Gibb, John

Gibbons, Francis J.
Gibert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.
Glassford, H. A.
Gleason, Hon. P. J.
Goddard, Mrs. J. Warren
Godwin, Parke

Goodrich, George Selden
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Grabs, Ernst

Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.

Gregory, Louis
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H

Hackett, Jeremiah
Haddock, J. W.
Haffen, John
Hagerdorn, Frau H.
Hagerty, M. H.
Haight, Mrs. D. H.

92

Hall, Miss Mary L.
Hamilton, Henry
Harbeck, Mrs. Eliza D.
Hard, Anson W.

Hard, Miss Laura W.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.

Hart, Cornelius A.

Hart, Patrick

Haven, George G.
Haviland, S. W.

Hecht, Aaron

Heckman, Mrs. Barbette
Hecksher, John G.
Heins, Charles

Heins, John L.
Henderson, Mrs. Harriet
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hennig, Mrs. Sophia
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry

Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.
Heyman, Charles

Hill, James K.

Hill, Warren E.
Hinrichs, C. F. A.
Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Welcome G.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
Hoefer, Charles R.
Hoegg, . William
Hoffmann, Jacob

, Hogan, Charles W.

Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, Miss Lillian
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Hollister, Thompson
Holmes, Mrs. J. W.
Holt, George D.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

Holz, Bernard
Holz, Mrs. Bernard
HOpf, Max G.
Hopkins, H. C.

Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.

Horn, William E.
Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrman, William
Horton, James M.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Hovver, Frederick
Huber, Otto

Huck, Miss Harriet
Hudson, Miss Anna Hope
Huntington, A. M.
Hupfel, J. C. G.
Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I

Ibert, Frank

In gersol], Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Robert G.
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Irving, G. [E

Isaacs, David

Isaacs, Gabriel

Iselin, C. Oliver

J

Jarves, Miss Florence
Jeffery, Dr. George C.
Jennewein, Valentine
Jerome, Mrs. Henry A.
Jerzmano‘wski, Baron E. J.
Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnston, John H umphreys

Johnston, Mrs. Mary
Jones, Mrs. F. R.

Jones, Floyd-, Mrs. Geo. Stanton

Jurgens, W. B. A.

K

Kakels, Dr. M. S.
Karwiese, Rudolph

 

  

93

Kaufman, C. C.
Keeney, E. N.
Kellogg, W. A.
Kemp, Mrs. George
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Keugh, Miss Anna
Kimbel, Richard M.
King, Marc J.
Knapp, Dr. G. Lee
Knapp, John M.
Knapp, L.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knopf, A. E.
Knowlton, E. F.
Koegler, William
Kohlman, John D.
Koke, Dr. W. A.
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Kraus, Benjamin
Krause, M.D., William H.
Krowder, Miss Alice

L

Laimbeer, Richard M.
Lambert, Fred. A.

La Montagne, Mrs. E. C.
Lampe, Miss Elise H.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
Lawrence, Augustus
Lawrence, John
Lawrence, Miss H. N.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Lawson, Mrs. Emma

Leao, Francisco Garcia Pereira

Learned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P.
Lee, Prof. B. F. '

Leeds, Mrs. John G.

Leggett, Francis H.
Lembke, Jr., Charles
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie




 

 

 

 

 

b

MINNESOTA—Continued.
Duluth............ ..
St. Paul............

Owatonna. .
Winona....
St. Cloud.........

MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez. .. . . . .. . .

MISSOURI.
St. Louis..
St. Louis... . .
Kansas City. . . . . .
St. Joseph. . . . .
Sedalia...........

' NEBRASKA.
Omaha...........

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Portsmouth. .. . . . .
Keene...........

NEW JERSEY.
Newark..........
Jersey City. . . . . . .
Cape May........
Vineland. . . .. . . . .
Morristown. . . . . . .
Camden.........

00.0....

a

 

Duluth HumaneSociety...................
St. PaulS. P. C
Steele County Humane Society.............
The Winona Humane Society..............
St. Cloud Humane Society.................

Total for Minnesota...................

The Mississippi S. P. C. A................

Humane Society of Missouri.. . . . . . .. . . . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri. . . . .
The Humane Society of Kansas City. . . . . .
The Humane Society of St. Joseph. . . . . . . .
The Humane Society of Sedalia. . . . . . . . . .

Total for Missouri. . . . . .. . . .

Nebraska Humane Society. . . . . .

New Hampshire S. P. C. A. . . . .

0.000....

The Keene Humane Society. . . . .. . . . . . . . .

Total for New Hampshire. .

I..u....l

TheNewJerseyS. P. C. A............* ..
The Hudson County Districts. P C. A
CapeMayDistrictS. P. C. A.........
TheVinelandS. P. C A.

Morris County Branch, New Jerseys. P. C. A.

TheCamdenS. P. C. A..........

 

15

400

IO

 

32

1111

 

 

00"

Big

I...

I4

203

 

 

84

318

203

 

 

74

198.

I31

39

366

 

74

198

I31

 

 

55

 

90
29

 

20

.40.

IO

 

 

echo
0...

ova.

IZ

 

39

 

 

366

 

390

20
80

110

 




