 

VOLUME XLVIII N0 7 THREEPENCE JULY 1953

Photo] [D. Swannie

Friends

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1822 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W,1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCI-IESS OF PORTLAND SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

 

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

TAGIUS, THE REv DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POULETT, THE EARL
*ALLIBERT, MRS GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ, MA POWELL, COL RM, DSO
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. 1., FCRA, ECIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP RATTRAY, THE REV DR R- F-
BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA *RIECK, H. H” ESQ
BERTIE OF THAME, THE VISCOUNTESS *HOCKIN, C- OWEN, ESQ :$:?E::U:Y’ESTHEM€:O$:TESS 0F
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC SNELE, Ti", REv%REBENDARY L J. 13., MBE, JP
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRcvs *HUNTER, MIss TA”, MRS BA
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. 13., JP LEE, MRS Tamworbn, THE LORD, KBE, MA
DAWEs, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRcvs LOCKWOOD: LT'COL 5- C's JP, TD. MP THOMAS, w. s. RUSSELL, ESQ,
*DOWDELL, MRS LONGMAN’ MRS W- TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA RN
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MIss AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MURRAY: BR‘GAD’ER C- A" CBE, MRCVS *WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ. FCA
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC *WINCHESTER, F. 1.. ESQ, FClS, FSS
* Denotes Branch Representative T Denotes Co-opted Member

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Officer—MAJOR R. c. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE & GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

OVER

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. Moss, ESQ, MBE, ACIs
ASSIstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

   
 

Dog lovers
need to
know these
facts!

 

Mr. Brian'Vesey-Fitzgerald,thne
well-known writer on dogs, says in the “News ofthe World :

‘A dog has not the same digestive system as a man. Its stomach
. . . lS adapted for taking highly concentrated food . . . a succession

  
    
 

 

should always be available.’

Spratt’s Biscuit Dog Foods ARE highly concentrated energy-giving nourishf
ment. They provide the appetizing, satisfying ‘hard-tack’ feed which IS

so essential to your pets' well-being. See the name on the Biscuits and the
package!

,, SPRATT’S
{Will DOG FOODS

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL BONIO . MIXED , . SCUITS
FOR A“ ANIMALS °1253...‘ZEEL”.EEL ”P" B'

”c”, ”I, “my“, ”D . BIRMINGHAM , 6 . EMU“ SPRATT’S PATENT LTD, «41 BOW ROAD, LONDON. E3

4__———-—'—‘
5465

I oftit-bits really is not much use to a dog . . . Puppies no less than
.. “ grown dogs, need concentrated food . . . as soon as the teeth
\\ begin to come through give them biscuits . . . A good dry biscmt

. ‘5:

H M PlE
SAFE. c

. sun: gamma X”

        
 

 

 

 




 

 

76 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1953

 

 

 

THE, RSPCA AT WORK

MAY 1953

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,589 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Offenders imprisoned.
58 Offenders ﬁned.
42 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

911 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting 3
DONI<EY—-Worl<ing in an unﬁt state... 1
CATTLE—Neglecting, exposing in an unfit state 3
SHEEP—Neglecting 2
PIGS—~Neglecting . . . . . . 3
DOGS—~Neglecting‘, starving, shooting and wounding,
injuring with irritant substance, beating,
killing in improper manner, etc. 24
CATS—Neglecting, injuring with missile 6
EOWLS—Starving, neglecting, overcrowding, convey—
ing in improper manner 4
ROOKS—Injuring with missiles 3
OEEENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OE BIRDS ACT, 1933:
Selling other than a closerringed specimen
bred in captivity 2
OEFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Shooting 1
VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Steel—tooth traps—set in open 4
Steel'tooth traps—failing to inspect 1
Aiding and abetting in an offence 1
Permitting in an offence 1
Keeping dog when disqualiﬁed 1
Infringement of the Pet Animals Act, 1951 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 61

During MAY 1953, Magistrates at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed ELEVEN persons from owning a dog or holding a dog
licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows: FIVE for Life;

THREE for ﬁve years; TWO for two years; ONE for twelve months.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 11,235
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 357
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 4,183

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 5,170 Dogs, 3,925 Misc, 404 Total, 9,499
No. of animals given emergency first—aid: 1,096

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

~No. of Animals handled:

Cats, 15 Dogs, 59 Misc, 1 Total, 75

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,824

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,312
No. of animals rescued: 8

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 242

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—laid Cases:

Cats, 28 Dogs, 72 Misc, 1 Total, 101
No. of other animals handled by Unit:

Cats, 118 Dogs, 64 Misc, 0 Total, 182
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 1,930

AWARDS

CUI‘I‘CDL 'd'\\’£l.1’(18 under ICVICW’.

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS 30,750
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 962
CAUTIONS 1 1, 5 99

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 160,263

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19,839

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,083

AWARDS

Margaret Wheatley Cross.1
Silver Medals .. 11
Bars to Silver Medals 3
Bronze Medals 52
Bars to Bronze Medals 5
Merit Certiﬁcates 104

 




 

re .55; I‘

 

July 1953

 

THE NIGHT SERVICE AT WORK

During a recent holiday, many calls were made
on the RSPCA Headquarters Night Service
Staff. One of its members waded deep into the
Thames mud near Waterloo Bridge to rescue a
swan with an injured leg. He then took the bird
to Putney Clinic where the limb received expert
attention. Later in the day, by means of an
extended grasper, a cat was saved from a static
water tank containing some six feet of water.

On the following day, a kitten was rescued,
with the help of the Fire Brigade, from a roof top
on which the mother cat had placed her; while,
a day later, no fewer than four cats found them—
selves in danger and in need of help. All of them
were delivered out of their distress.

Another deliverance was that of Bunty, a too
venturesome terrier, who set off to explore the
Underground tunnel at Baker Street Station.
Metropolitan Line trains were held up for ten
minutes while members of the Night Staff searched
the tunnel, until the quest ended happily with
the discovery of a very crestfallen little dog, who
was returned, unhurt, to the home in Wembley
from which he had strayed.

THE COVER PICTURE

Mrs I. Slater, Territorial Organizer, Tanganyika
Division of the RSPCA, from whom the cover
picture comes, describes it as being very special.
It was taken by Mr D. Swannie, a great supporter
of the Society’s work in Tanganyika. The dog is
Honey and belongs to Mr Swannie. It symbolizes,
SEIVS Mrs Slater, the advance of the RSPCA’S
work. Showing an African boy in close contact
with the dog, it is unusual, particularly as the dog
and the boy are obviously great friends.

THE ANIMAL WORLD _ I 77

FlLTH—NOT OF THE PlG’S SEEKING

Counsel prosecuting for the RSPCA said
there was a widespread fallacy that the
dirtier the pig the more it thrived. He said
it was untrue. A pig did not seek dirt volun-
tarily. He was prosecuting for the RSPCA
a man and wife brought before the Sheer-
ness Magistrates on a charge of causing
suffering to l4 pigs by unreasonably omit-
ting to give the same sufficient nourishing
food and proper and necessary care and
attention. When Regional Superintendent
Higgins visited a certain address he found a
boar, three sows and ten piglets living in
extremely ﬁlthy conditions. There was no
bedding and the boar was kept in what
might be described as a morass. Mud and
filth was so deep that in parts the animal
was up to its belly and had difficulty in
moving. There was no dry place on which
it could lie. All the animals were in poor
condition and in some cases were just a
frame of skin and bone. Each defendant
was fined £5 and the man was ordered to
pay £4 l4s. 6d. costs. (Case No. A6599.)

CLEAN—AS THE PIG PREFERS TO BE

 

‘THE LYNMOUTH FLOOD DISASTER’
A small book, bearing this title, has just been
published by the Raleigh Press, Exmouth. It
contains an account of the rescue work carried
out by the Society’s Inspectors.

 

 




 

80' THE ANIMAL WORLD

of the Boston aux was held at the Committee Room, County
Hall, Boston. Mrs Vernon Clark presided and was supported
by the aux co hon secs, Miss Beedall and Miss Hall, and the
hon treasurer. Certificates were presented by the chairman
to Mr Pettifer on behalf of the Fire Service, Mr Chantry
and Mr Keith Walker, MRCVS.

Loughborough and North Leicestershire Branch At the
branch annual meeting, Miss Marion Harridge—Cayless,
hon see, was presented with the Society’s Meritorious
Service Badge in silver. She received the badge and a framed

citation from the branch president, Lady Crawshaw. Paying ~

a tribute to Miss Harridge-Cayless’ work, Mr C. R.
Davies, branch organizer, said the branch was one of the
strongest and most ably organized in the whole country.
Miss Harridge—Cayless had given devoted service for the
past 41 years and he hoped she would continue for many
more. In her report Miss Harridge-Cayless said they were
still in great need of help because of the increased contribu—
tion they had to make to headquarters for the services of the
Inspector and also because of the appalling number of sick
and unwanted animals needing collection and, where neces-
sary, destruction. Inspector Paul’s report stated that ﬁve
convictions were recorded last year for serious cases of
cruelty, 93 complaints were investigated and 54 cautions
given in lesser cases of cruelty. The hon treasurer, Mr S.
Caradine, said expenditure had increased by £69 and income
by £14. There was a deﬁcit on the year of £7 and the general
fund, which was being built up in an endeavour to provide
a lethalising centre, now stood at £994. Both Archdeacon
W. J. Lyon and Mayor, Alderman G. E. Allen, who respect—
ively proposed and seconded the adoption of the reports,
congratulated Miss Harridge-Cayless on her award. Mr C. R.
Davies, branch organizer, gave an address on the work of
the Society and answered questions on the battery system
of keeping poultry. Chief Inspector J. H. Middleton, thank-
ing Mr Davies, spoke of the excellent co-operation between
Inspector Paul and the police. A message was read from
Winifred Duchess of Portland and it was announced that
1,000 signatures had been secured for the petition against
the gin trap. At the close of the meeting Miss Ann T ilney
invited everyone to tea in the name of her grandmother,
Mrs W. A. Tilney, Vice-president of the branch.

Miss F. Harridge-Cayless addressed the Loughborough
Toc H on the work of the RSPCA.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Mr Leslie
Rhead of Messrs Redfern and Rhead, mill owners, organized
a jumble sale at the mill of new and seconds and raised
£80 17s. in aid of the Congleton aux funds.
Montgomery Speaking at the branch annual meeting at
N‘ewtown, Wing Commander Hillier, branch organizer, said
that prosecutions for animals cruelty by children had
increased by 100 per cent since the war and in the same
period the overall increase for adult and juvenile offenders
was 50 per cent. He said that one main reason for this was
the improved co-operation and vigilance of the public.
The branch president, Col the Hon Ralph Beaumont said
that a committee of the secretaries of the various aux branches
in the country, under the chairmanship of Major R. J.
Brymer, had been set up with power to co-opt to deal with
any emergency. In his report Inspector T. E. Rees stated
that eight cases had been brought before the courts during
the year. He had investigated 49 complaints, administered
54 cautions for cruelty and three admonitions had been sent
from headquarters. The hon sec, Miss I Riddell, reported
that a new dog collecting box, valued at £5, had been pre-
sented to the county by the Llandinam committee, who were
thanked for it. Receipts of £303 18s. 11d. were reported by
the hon treasurer, Mr R. Ashford Davies. Col Beaumont
said that a new type of trap for humanely killing rabbits
instead of the gin trap had been brought out. This would be
sent to country agricultural executive committees for demon-
stration. Montgomeryshire would have 30 and demonstra-
tions would be arranged as soon as possible. Mr Hillier and
ofﬁcers of the Society were thanked for their services. Tea
was provided by the ladies of the Newtown committee.

July 1953

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich The Lord Lieutenant of Nor-
folk, Sir Edmund Bacon, presided over the branch annual
meeting which was held at the Assembly House, Norwich.
Presenting the annual report the branch chairman, Sir
Richard Barrett Lennard, referred to special efforts made
during 1952 to beneﬁt branch funds and he mentioned the
great interest taken by Mr and Mrs G. Knight of Stody
Lodge, Melton Constable, who raised over £500 for the.
funds by opening their grounds to the public during the
summer. The Flag Day held in Norwich last year realised
£376. Sir Richard said the cost of maintaining the branch.
Inspectors and of almost every item connected with the
Society’s work continued to rise. Still greater efforts were
required if the Society was to fully carry out its humane

_ task. Sir Richard spoke of the work done at the RSPCA

Home for Animals in Drayton Road, Norwich. He said
that of 227 stray dogs received 88 were claimed, 18 were
found new homes and 121 were painlessly destroyed. At
the RSPCA Free Clinic at the Chantry, Norwich, well over
500 treatments had been given to 263 animals and birds.
Major Chapman of RSPCA headquarters staff spoke of
work done in the ﬂoods and said that drowning of chained
dogs had been a most distressing feature. He attacked the
practice of keeping hens in batteries and criticized the ”use
of the gin trap. Major Chapman also spoke against the
training of wild animals as circus performers. The Lord
Mayor of Norwich, Mr W. E. Walker, who was accompanied
by the Sheriff of Norwich, Mr Leonard Howes, thanked
Sir Edmund and Major Chapman. The Society’s certiﬁcate
of merit was presented by the Lord Lieutenant to Police
Constable Alec Buck of Norfolk Constabulary who twice
rescued a cat from a 35 ft. tree at Hellesdon last autumn.
Norfolk West At the annual meeting of the Kings Lynn
and District aux held in the Town Hall, Kings Lynn, the
chairman, the Rev Dr D. W. G. Bartlett, presided. The
Mayor, Mr C. A. Freestone, attended. Mrs Hardy, hon sec,
traced the work of Inspectors and voluntary helpers during
the recent ﬂoods. The hon treasurer, Mr C. R. Hart, pre-
sented a ﬁnancial, report and Senior Inspector Morrison
said that ﬁve convictions were obtained. Mr C. R. Davies,
branch organizer, spoke of the Society’s national work.
Officers elected were: chairman, Dr Bartlett; hon sec,
Mrs J. T. Robson; hon treasurer, Mr Hart.

Miss Ann Lambert of Kings Lynn organized a whist drive
and dance in the Church Hall, Magdalen. Mrs K. F. Thomas
presented the prizes and Miss Joan Turner presented her
with a bouquet. Mr G. Richardson was MC. Miss Lambert
gave thanks to Mrs Thomas and to donors of all prizes
and Miss Lambert herself and all helpers were thanked on.
behalf of the Society by Senior Inspector Morrison. £12 75.
was raised for branch funds.

Northumberland West The sum of £ 1 6 was raised for branch
funds by a coﬂ‘ee morning and bring and buy sale at the
home of Major and Mrs G. L. Bradley of Bridge End
House, Hexham. The sale was organized by Mrs Hanna
and Miss D. Bradley, joint branch hon secs.

Oxford Senior Inspector Waite visited No. 5 District
Police Training School, Eynsham Hall, Oxford and lectured
to approximately 180 recruits on cruelty to animals and the
law and humane destruction of animals.

Senior Inspector Waite called at Easington Modern School
and presented to 15-year old Patrick Allen a book awarded
by RSPCA headquarters for his bravery and courage in
rescuing his dog from an icy canal. After making the presenta-
tion Senior Inspector Waite described how Patrick, with his
frlend holding his ankles, pushed himself on to the ice in an:
effort to reach the dog. The ice broke and Patrick fell into
the water. However, he managed to get hold of his pet and
put him on the bank.

Poole Borough Alderman J. Bright, branch chairman,
pres1ded at the annual meeting held at the Dolphin Hotel,
Poole. The Countess of Shaftesbury was among those who
attended. Mr Roland Ampleford, parliamentary organizer,
spoke of the parliamentary work of the Society and Chief
Inspector Best related his experiences in the ﬂood disaster.

 

 




 

 

 

RSPCA

 

Vol XLVIII No 7 New Series

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post paid

 

The following article, written by Eric Wainwright,
is reprinted (with acknowledgments) from the
Daily Mirror.

CAGE SUCH KILLERS!

A robin redbreast in a cage
Puts all Heaven in a rage—BLAKE

 
   
  

A chafﬁnch
feeds the

young

Do you know a bright, lively boy of about seven,
always singing and happily running about?

Then cram him into a cage so narrow he cannot
stretch his arms. Do it violently. A bruise or two
won’t matter. Let him cry and shriek and rattle
the bars until he is dead of a broken heart.

That way, in human terms, you may sense the
suffering that is being inﬂicted today on thousands
of our small wild singing birds.

The law of Britain protects them.

Beneath the spring sun they may sing their
joyful hearts to heaven and in the dusk their
lawful twittering rises sleepily from the darkening

edges.

It is an offence to snare and cage them.

Yet in the sunless backrstreets live people with
hobnailed hearts who covet the beauty of a small

/

bird’s song and can look with granite faces on
a small bird’s suffering.

Because captive—bred songsters are expensive,
10s. to £3, they are buying illegally trapped wild
birds cheaply and caging them in homevmade
prisons no bigger than a shoebox.

They show no remorse.

When a lorryadriver was prosecuted by the
RSPCA for birdatrapping and for keeping ﬁve
frantic and half—dead wild goldﬁnches in a cage
he whined: ‘I haven’t been well.’

And when a labourer was ﬁned for keeping a
chaffinch in the lavatory in a cage so small it
couldn’t stretch its wings he grumbled: ‘I didn’t
think I was doing wrong.’

How are these timid songsters, larks, linnets,
chaffmches and goldﬁnches, captured? At dawn
the bird—tra ppers go furtively to work in the ﬁelds
that skirt the towns, for this miserable trade is
spawned among the soot—grimed city streets.

Across the dew—wet grass they lay close meshed’
nets from which a drawstring leads. beneath a
hedge. They smear low—hanging branches with
bird—lime and tether a decoy bird in the middle of
the ﬁeld. '

In a recent case brought by the RSPCA the
frenzied little decoy was secured round the head
by a loop of string. This had cut into the brain
and the tiny bird, its bright feathers stained with
blood, had to be destroyed.

 

SLAUGHTER 0F HORSES

Committee’s Report Expected
Before July 31

Mr Lloyd—George, Minister of Food, stated
in the House of Commons that the com~
mittee under the chairmanship of the Duke
of Northumberland had completed its in—
quiries into conditions governing the slaugh’
ter of horses and its report was being drafted.
The chairman hoped to submit it to the
Secretary for Scotland and himself before
July 31.

When the report was studied any neces—
sary action would be taken without delay.

 

 

 

ANIMAL’HEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE

JULY I953

 

   




 

July 1953

THE. ANIMAL WORLD . 79

 

Marsh, a book awarded to him by the RSPCA for his
gallantry in releasmg two pigeons who were entangled by
cotton in a tall tree. The birds were 45 ft. from the ground,
the tree was wet and dusk was apprOaching when the boy
climbed to their rescue. Mrs Clutterbuck, branch co hon
sec, attended the presentation and gave a brief talk on the
work and origins of the RSPCA. Her words were interpreted
to the audience. Boguslaw was enrolled as an Animal
Defender. -

Great Yarmouth and District A tribute to the work of the
RSPCA during the ﬂoods was paid by the Mayor, Mr W. A.
Barﬁeld, when he presided at the branch annual meeting
at the Town Hall. In her report the hon sec, Miss M. Castle,
outlined the rescue work undertaken. Senior Inspector
Tye’s report showed that he investigated 74 complaints. A
talk on the parliamentary work of the Society was given by
Mr Roland Ampleford, parliamentary organizer. Among
ofﬁcers elected were: president, Mr C. E. Kevill-Davies;
chairman, Dr R. L. Ley; hon treasurer, Mr C. G. Francis;
co hon secs, the Misses M. and I Castle.

Hampshire—New Forest RSPCA ﬁlms were shown at the
Fawley cinema and a collection amounting to £2 ls. was
taken by Mrs Clarke, aux hon sec, helped by Mrs Faulter,
Mrs Hartnell and Mr Clarke.

Hampshire—Ramsey At the branch annual meeting refer-
ence was made to Captain Hayter’s long service as hon
treasurer. Captain Hayter had tendered his resignation
owing to ill health. In submitting a ﬁnancial statement
Captain Hayter said receipts amounted to £227 11d. and
the balance in hand was £38 93. Id. In her report Mrs Moore,
hon sec, thanked collectors, but expressed regret that
subscriptions were not as high as anticipated. She hoped
that as this was Coronation Year more subscribers might
be obtained. She paid tribute to Captain Hayter for his
services over a period of more than a quarter of a century.
Inspector Evans in his report said that 40 complaints of
cruelty were investigated. Fifty verbal cautions were given
and two cases of gross cruelty were submitted to head-
quarters. In each case a conviction was obtained. The
Inspector said special observations had been kept concerning
the handling of livestock at Romsey Cattle Market. He drew
attention to the increase in petty cruelty by juveniles.
Appreciation of service rendered by the Hampshire Fire
Service in rescuing cats from roofs and tree tops was also
given by the Inspector. The following ofﬁcers were re-
elected: president, Mr A. Lassel; hon sec, Mrs G. Moore;
hon treasurer, Mrs Perkins.

Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Engineer Rear-Admiral
A. K. Dibley presided at the branch annual meeting which
was held at the City Council Chambers, South sea. The annual
branch report announced an increase in aux branches.
Chief Inspector Hindle submitting a report said that ten
convictions had been recorded for various offences. In all
454 complaints of cruelty had been investigated and 138
verbal cautions given. Particular attention had been paid
to country stock animals turned out to graze. Farms and
smallholdings in the rural areas had received supervision
and visits had been paid to markets, fairs and gypsy encamp-
ments. In the absence of Inspector Cox the chairman read
the report for the area. Five convictions, 31 verbal cautions
and six monitions had resulted from investigation of a total
of 83 complaints. Mr Allan Joiner, a member of RSPCA
headquarters staff, gave an address in which he called for
humane education on a nation-wide basis. Mr Joinenalso
SPOke on the exploitation of performing animals. Englneer

Rear-Admiral Dibley was re-elected as chairman, Mr D. A.

Grey was re-elected as hon treasurer and Mr P. L. Coombe
continues as hon secretary.

Hampshire—Southampton and District The Mayor of
Southampton, Alderman E. Burrow, presided at the branch
annual meeting in the Civic Centre Conference Room,
Southampton. A presentation was made to M1ss Morse
who was leaving the district. Her splendid work at the Clll‘llC
was praised by the branch vice—chairman, M1ss W. Moody,
J. P. Major Chapman reviewed the general work of the

Society. Ofﬁcers and committee were re-elected with the
exception of Miss Morse and the addition of Mrs Symonds,
Mrs Turner, Mrs Heath and Miss Bright.

Hants and Surrey Border In the absence of the branch
president, the Rt Hon the Viscountess Alanbrooke, Lady
Perceval, wife of Major General Sir Edward Perceval,
KCB, DSO, branch chairman, kindly consented to preside
at the annual meeting which was held at the Congregational
Church Room, Farnham. After the election of ofﬁcers and
the reading of reports Chief Inspector Best of the Bourne-
mouth and district branch spoke of his experiences during
the East Coast Floods. He was thanked by Col R. M.
Powell, DSO, hon sec. Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer,
spoke of the general work of the Society.

Kent—Canterbury and District Regional Superintendent
Webb judged dogs and cats at the Barton Secondary School,
Dover, annual pet show. Mr Dawkins helped.

A whist drive held in Canterbury raised £4 123. 7d. for
branch funds.

Kent—Dover and District RSPCA posters and literature
were displayed at a dog show held by the Dover Canine
Club at the Co-operative Hall, Dover. During the interval
Mrs Arnold collected £1 103. 2d. for branch funds. Announc-
ing this the chairman of the club thanked everyone on
behalf of the RSPCA. Mr Lee, branch chairman and hon
sec, was present and thanked Mrs Arnold.

Kent—Folkestone and District At Hythe the Mayor, Alder-
man Mrs L. E. Farmer, at the institute presented RSPCA
awards to Gordon Uden and Michael Grifﬁn who helped
to rescue a swan with a ﬁsherman’s hook in the throat.
Among those who attended the presentation were Miss A.
Wright, branch hon see, Mr D. Hasson, chairman of the
branch education section and Inspector Wolfenden. Mr C.
Davies, branch organizer, spoke about the work of the
RSPCA. After the presentations a concert was given by
local artistes. A vote of thanks was proposed by Alderman
H. A. Fisher and seconded by Mrs P. Tooth, hon sec Hythe
aux.

Inspector Wolfenden gave a talk on the welfare of animals
and their protection at No. 6 District Police Training Centre,
Sandgate.

Kent—North-West Mrs Dowdell, RSPCA Council member,
speaking at the branch annual meeting at Dartford YMCA,
said that they should not tackle cruelty with kid gloves,
but must meet it where it was and ﬁght it. Mr W. Honess,
branch chairman, said that the ﬁnancial position was good
and Mrs Honess, branch hon sec, reported a successful year.
The report from the hon treasurer, Mr C. Peachey, showed
a balance at the end of the year of £1,321 14s. 7d. Lady Hart
Dyke, branch president, said that one activity of the Society
calling for special praise was that of the Animal Defenders.
No less than 218 complaints of cruelty were investigated by
Senior Inspector Stephens.

Lancashire—East and Blackburn Mr C. Owen Hockin,
RSPCA Council member, gave an address at the branch
annual meeting in Blackburn. Senior Inspector Cameron’s
report showed that he had investigated 269 complaints of
cruelty. The annual meeting was held at the Sessions House,
Blackburn, and Mrs E. G. Tattersall, branch chairman,
presided, Major Pulleine, branch organizer, was present and
spoke. The hon Mrs R. Assheton was elected president,
Mrs E. G. Tattersall, chairman, Mr A. Spencer, hon
treasurer and Mrs Edmondson, hon sec.

Lancaster City Division The Mayor of Lancaster, Council-
lor C. B. Treu, took the chair at the division annual meeting
which was held at the Town Hall, Lancaster. Mr S. M.
Douglas, co hon sec of the Craven and Upper Wharfedale
branch, gave an interesting address and was followed by
Major Pulleine, branch organizer. The reports of the hon
sec, Mrs Ingham, and of Senior Inspector Oxley were
adopted. Mr H. de B. Askew, hon treasurer, reviewed the
ﬁnancial position. During the meeting the Mayor presented
to AA Patrolman George Anthony Millray an RSPCA
certiﬁcate for the rescue of a cat from a tree.
Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham The annual meeting

 

 




 

 

 

78 THE ANIMAL WORLD

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

The ﬁrst announcement of the new range is given
on the later pages. As this year’s cards and
calendars should prove more popular than ever,
early orders are recommended.

BRANCH NEWS

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
Mrs F. Rawson Schoﬁeld, JP, joint branch hon sec, reports
that a Floral American tea held at Mrs Grey’s house, Early
Bank, Stalybridge, raised over £57 for branch funds.
Inspector Blaylock judged the novelty dog section at the
Young Farmers’ Gymkhana held at Romiley. RSPCA.
certiﬁcates were awarded.
Balham and Tooting Mrs Ash’s School of Dancing gave a
display in Wandsworth Common aux and raised £11 for
branch funds. Mrs Granville Stott, Wandsworth Common
aux hon sec, thanked Mrs Ash and all who had helped to
make the display such a success.
Bolton At the annual meeting of the branch three school-
girls were presented with inscribed books to mark their good
work for the Society. Patricia Lomax aged 12, Maureen
Hayes aged 13 and Barbara Dwyer aged 12 have together
raised over £35 for the branch by means of rummage sales,
a dance and various other activities. Major Pulleine,
branch organizer, addressed the meeting. Mr J. N. Grierson,
branch chairman, spoke, and a report was submitted by
Inspector King.
Bromley and District (Kent) At the branch annual meeting
in the Public Library, Bromley, Senior Inspector Goode-
nough reported a total of 164 complaints investigated.
Mrs Hill, branch hon sec, agreed with the Senior Inspector
that the year had been of steady progress. Mrs Hill was sorry
that Mrs L. Schooling, after 30 years of devoted work had
had to resign as assistant hon see, but she was glad that
Mrs Schooling had consented to be a vice-president. Mrs
Sheila Walker replaces Mrs Schooling as assistant hon sec.
Mr A. Bourneman, hon treasurer, said that income was up
. by £76. Mrs Schooling, who had been awarded the RSPCA
Silver Meritorious Service Badge received a framed testi-
monial on behalf of the branch from Sir Frank Alexander,
branch president.

 

*

Senior Inspector Goodenough, with the help of Mrs
Goodenough, judged entries at the St Mary Cray County
Primary School annual pet show which was organized by
Mr Bell under the leadership of the head master, Mr South.
Senior Inspector and Mrs Goodenough were afterwards
entertained to tea by Mr South and the school staff.
Burton-on-Trent Mrs Bird, branch hon sec, reports that
£10 has been received for branch funds from the Mayoress’
Charity Ball.

Cambridgeshire Mrs Scratton, branch hon sec, sends the
following reports:

Lord Merthyr, chairman of the RSPCA Council, per-
formed the opening ceremony of the new branch clinic,
a memorial to Sir Arthur Eddington. Also present at the
opening were the vice-chancellor of the university, Sir
Lionel Whitby, the Mayor, Alderman S. T. Bull. and the
chairman of the County Council, Alderman R. H. Parker.
The clinic will be staffed under the direction of Professor
L. P. Pugh, by members of the Department of Veterinary
Clinical Studies. Beginning the opening ceremony the
president of the Cambridge branch, the Hon Mrs de Beau-
mont, expressed the regret that Sir Arthur Eddington’s sister,
Miss Eddington, could not be present to declare it open
owing to illness. Dr R. F. Rattray, chairman of the clinic
committee, traced the history of the clinic from its beginning
in a small house in Covent Garden.

Dr R. F. Rattray, chairman, at the annual meeting of the
branch, at the Master’s Lodge, St Catharine’s College

‘

 

reported that during the year 2,248 animals _were treated by
the branch. The Hon Mrs de Beaumont, presrdent, was in the
chair and a vote of thanks to the retiring oﬁicers was pro-
posed by the Mayor-designate, Councillor T. H..Amey, who
also proposed that the officers be elected. This proposal,
which was carried, was seconded by the vice-chairman of the
County Council, Councillor F. H. Jeeps. Mrs_Bushe-Fox,
hon treasurer, presented the ﬁnancial report. Fireman P. J.
Seaber was presented by Lord Merthyr with a certiﬁcate
awarded by the RSPCA for displaying courage and humanity
in rescuing a cockatoo from a tree. Lord Merthyr said that
the Cambridge branch had a very ﬁne record. He was thanked
for his address by Mr Balfour Gourlay. 1n seconding the
vote of thanks Mr M. G. Tozer, hon treasurer of the clinic
committee, said that the appeal for money for the clinic had
produced disappointing results.

Cleveland and Tees Side The branch president, Mr Arthur
Dorman, presided over the branch annual meeting at which
the principal speaker was Miss Naomi Jacob. Miss Jacob
spoke of the cruelty used in the training of circus animals.
Major Pulleine, branch organizer, gave a general description
of the Society’s work and also mentioned work done by the
Society’s Inspectors during the East Coast Floods. Miss
McCombie, chairman, moved a vote of thanks to the speakers
which was seconded by Mr 0. Hill, FZS.
Derbyshire—Derby and District Col H. Rawlings, branch
chairman, presided at the branch annual meeting. In her
report Mrs R. A. Loten, hon sec, said that the year had been
active and successful. Senior Inspector Barrett reported that
144 complaints of cruelty were investigated, 18 persons
were convicted in courts and 73 people were cautioned. The
branch president, the Rt Hon the Viscount Scarsdale,
appealed for more helpers for the cause and paid tribute to
the help given by the Police without whose aid the Society
would not enjoy the success it did. Major Pulleine, branch
organizer, spoke of the work done by the RSPCA during
the East Coast Floods. Mr R. P. Ampleford, parliamentary
organizer, gave a talk on the part that parliament played in
the Society’s work. Mr Arthur Else and Mr Ernest Whittaker
were presented with RSPCA certiﬁcates of merit by Mrs E.

'V. Meynell, hon sec to Kirk Langley aux, for bravery and

courage in the rescue of a sheep from a ledge 80 ft. down the
face of a quarry.
Essex—Colchester and District The Lent collections at
St .lzilary’s Church, Colchester, raised £13 23. 6d. for branch
un s.
Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District Mrs Camp-
ling and helpers organized and ran a successful jumble sale
in aid of clinic funds at Jackson’s Yard, East Finchley. The
sum of £21 was raised.
Forest of Dean Division Mrs Farmer, division hon sec,
reports that Mrs F. Young, hon sec of the Popes Hill aux,
and helpers organized a whist drive at Flaxley and raised
£12 for branch funds.
Forest Hill and Sydenham Mr S. R. Geary, branch presi—
dent, took the chair at the branch annual meeting at Catford
Town Hall. Interesting reports on a busy year’s activity
were submitted by Mrs M. R. Dowdell, branch hOn sec and
Councﬂ member and by Mr C. Wright, hon treasurer-
Inspector Cooper submitted a report both on his general
work and on his activities during the East Coast Floods.
A talk on the Society’s work, particularly parliamentar)I
work,_was given by Mr Roland Ampleford, parliamentary
organlzer. '

_A whist drive held at the Church Hall, Honor Oak, SE13
raised £14 for branch funds.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Miss Ethel Rees, branch
hon sec, reports that a collection taken at Aberkenﬁg cinema
if)y g/Irs Raikes, aux hon sec, raised £5 1s. 9d. for branch
un s.

MISS .Marian Evans, clinic hon sec, reports that a WhiSt
drive ralsed £11 10s. 3d. for funds.
Gloucestershire—East, and Cheltenham Mrs Yoxall, Block-
ley aux hon sec, presented to Boguslaw Holownia, a Poltsh
boy at the Polish camp at Northwick, near Moreton-ln-

July 1953,

 




 

July 1953 THE ANIMAL WORLD ” 81

RSPCA 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1

 

 

 

CHRISTMAS CARDS

 

Ref L ‘ Ref. M

 

Ref. 0

 

 

Ref. N
These four delightful COLOURED
STUDIES OF ANIMALS %

available as illustrated

Actual size 4%” X 5%” Flyleaf with Greetings

and Attractive Illustrations
PRICE 6d. EACH

5/, per dozen for one dozen or over

Envelopes supplied free

 

Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Speaking at
the branch. annual meeting held at McIlroy’s Restaurant,
Reading, Her Highness Princess Marie Louise, branch
president, said that cruelty arose largely through ignorance.
Her Highness presented a certiﬁcate of merit to Mr E. J.
Kelly for rescuing a kitten from a 40 ft. well. Books were
given to John Baldwin, Terry Piercey and Cliﬁord Warren
of Maidenhead for rescuing a cat from a tree. The Uniacke
Memorial Prize for essays on kindness to animals awarded
to Mavis Greenwood was received on her behalf by Jacque-
line Bakewell. The branch report presented by the hon
treasurer, Mr G. B. Potter, showed that receipts totalled
more than £2,000. The branch chairman, Mr C. O. Lowsley,
the hon sec, Miss E. M. Wadland and Mr Potter, hon
treasurer were re-elected. The Mayor of Reading, Councillor
F. H. Lewis, presided and welcomed Her Highness. Mrs
Wallis Power, vice-chairman of the RSPCA, said that the
eneral public were becoming more conscious of cruelty.
Richmond and District The Mayor ofRichmond, Councillor
G. Hamilton Penney, presided over the branch annual
meeting at the Castle Hotel, Richmond. In presenting hIS
report the hon treasurer, Major R. W. Williams, said there
was a balance at the bank of £133 19s. 1d. The Barnes
branch, which had elected its own ofﬁcers, had a balance of
over £124. In her report the hon sec, Mrs Noel-H111, said
that hon secs were required for Ham and Petersham and

for Whitton. The unremitting eiTorts on the part of Inspector
Ruck in his work were, as ever, greatly appreciated by all
members. She concluded by thanking all who had helped to
ensure another successful year, both in the work of the branch
and ﬁnancially. The Mayor presented Inspector Ruck with
a second bar to the Society’s Bronze Medal he already holds,
for his rescue of a swan from Putney railway bridge. A
certiﬁcate of merit was also awarded to Station Foreman
P. W. Broad. A talk was given on the history, achievements
and further aims of the Society by Mr Roland Ampleford,
parliamentary organizer. A11 ofﬁcers were re-elected en bloc.
Shropshire Inspector Watt attended and judged the pet
animal show held by the Shropshire Federation of Young
Farmer’s Clubs at their ﬁrst rally held at the Farm Institute,
Walford.

Sittingbourne Division Presenting her report at the division
annual meeting Mrs M. Draper, hon sec, said that the year
had been a most successful one and thanked everyone who
had helped to make it so. The ﬁnancial statement presented
by Mr A. Hutchinson, hon treasurer, showed a balance in
hand of £338 12s. at the end of the year. Mrs Draper and
Mr Hutchinson were thanked for their comprehensive
reports by Mr W. Shapland Cowper, divisionchairman. Mr
Roland Ampleford, parliamentary organizer, gave an in-
teresting address on the work of the Society. Mr Ampleford
was thanked by Mr W. R. Rees, Vice-chairman.

 

 




 

82 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

July 1953

 

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Inspector
Coles and Inspector Cook of Macclesﬁeld attended the
Reddish Crippled Children’s Fund Twenty-third Annual
May Queen Festival and acted as judges of heavy and light
turnouts and tradesmen’s turnouts. Inspector Coles and
Inspector Cook also judged entries at the pet show run in
conjunction with the Hayﬁeld May Queen Festival.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable RSPCA certiﬁcates for
rescuing a barking deer from Lowestoft harbour were pre-
sented to Mr T. Crisp and Mr M. Turner and to Inspector
Woods by the Mayor, Mr W. H. B. Sanders, at the branch
annual meeting at the Town Hall, Lowestoft. Major Chap-
man spoke on the Society’s activities. Mrs S. Eady, branch
hon sec, reported a record income for the branch of over
£501. The hon treasurer’ 5 report was read by the chairman,
Miss J. Mann, in the absence of the hon treasurer, Mr N. M.
Coe.

Mrs Belcher, Southwold aux co hon sec, reports that an
RSPCA ﬁlm shown recently raised £4 10s. 6d.
Surrey—Guildford and District The sixth annual bring and
buy sale organized by Mrs Merritt of Guildford was held
at Trinity Hall, Guildford and raised over £220 for branch
funds. The Rev A. C. B. Bellerby, branch chairman, intro-
duced Mrs Wilkins, Mayoress, who opened the Sale.

Mrs Merritt, Merrow aux hon sec, reports that a sale
raised £230 for branch funds.

Surrey—Sutton and District Mr C. R. Davies, branch
organizer, reports that he attended and assisted at the
RSPCA stand at the Cheam Charter Fair and that owing to
the efforts of Mrs Allibert, branch hon sec, Miss Brooks,
Miss Sanders, Mrs Kinsman, clinic hon sec and Inspector
Reed over £50 105. was raised for branch funds.
Sussex—West, and Brighton Mr Brown, branch sec,
reports that a jumble sale organized by Mrs K. B. Cooper,
Harting aux hon sec, made £16 2s. and a variety entertain-
ment staged by Mr E. G. Cull, Southwick aux hon sec, made
£4 for branch funds. A jumble sale at Brighton for clinic
funds organized by Mrs Dickson and Mrs Wood, made £16.
Vale of Mowbray At the branch annual meeting, which
was held at Northallerton, the chair was taken by the vice—
president, Lady Hunter in the absence of Viscountess
Swinton, the president and chairman. The branch. ofﬁcials
were all re-elected with the addition of Miss Amy Jackson to
the committee. On the proposal of the hon sec, Miss Sha rples,
a new aux was formed to be known. as Alne and District
aux with Mr W. Dale as hon sec. Major Pulleine, branch
organizer, spoke on the activities of the Society during the
year, making particular mention of the work done in the
East Coast Floods.

Warrington and District Mrs Fairclough, Warrington aux
hon sec, reports that a jumble sale raised £33 7s. 10d. for
branch funds.

 

CHRISTMAS CARDS

 

Ref. P

 

 

Ref. R Ref. S

cThe Christmas Cards illustrated are

 

 

Ref. T

available in BLACK 899 WHITE

Fly’leaf with Greetings and Illustrations

‘3s. 6d. dozen for one dozen or over

Actual size 4-1-">< X5%;”

PRICE 4d. EACH

%&3

Envelopes supplied free

ALL CARDS SENT ASSORTED UNLESS OTHERWISE ORDERED

 

 




 

 

 

ﬂdy 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD &

 

 

‘RSPCA

CALENDARS

IN'coLOUR

  

Actual size 8%” X 6%”
Mounted on strong board

PRICE 2s. EACH

Post free including Envelopes

21/~ per dozen for one dozen or over

 

West Bromwich and Wednesbury Captain H. W. Dawes,
CBE, FRCVS, branch chairman, took the chair at the
branch annual meeting which was held at Grant Hall,
Taylors Lane, West Bromwich. In addressing the meeting he
mentioned the death of Mr E. Woodward, the late branch
Vice-president and spoke highly of the work he had done for
the branch. At his suggestion the audience had a one minute
silence. Captain Hayes gave an outline of the work done by
the branch and by the Society as a whole. Mr A. Parton
Smith, chairman of the Birmingham and district branch
was the principal speaker. Mr Maurice Parker, MISAC,
group representative, also attended the meeting.-

Weston-Super-Mare Division Lady Orr Ew1ng, division
president, speaking at the division annual meeting at the
Grand Central Hotel, Weston-super—Mare, said she did not
think people realized what a tremendous safeguard to the
well-being of the animal world generally the RSPCA was.
Inspector Phillips reported that he had cautioned 36 people
during the year for minor acts of cruelty. Mr K. P. G. Bick,
hon sec, spoke of the year’s work. The ﬁnanc1a1 statement
submitted by Mr J. B. Frampton, hon treasurer, showed
that cash in the bank amounted to £400 195. 1d.

Wiltshire—Mid. Miss Goddard, branch hon sec, reports
that at the branch annual meeting held at Westbury the

branch chairman, Lt Col E. C. Boutﬂower, took the chair.
Both Mrs Desborough Walford, RSPCA Council member
and Wing Commander Hillier, branch organizer, attended
and addressed the meeting. Inspector Larkin and two police
constables from Westbury were congratulated on their com-
mendation from RSPCA headquarters for their rescue of
a cat from a tree. Dr Speer proposed a vote of thanks to the
chairman, the speakers and to Mrs Cambray, Westbury
aux hon sec, who arranged the meeting.

Other branch activities reported by Miss Goddard include
a jumble sale held at Devizes which raised £23 65. 11d. a
Christmas sale at Westbury organized by Mrs Cambray,
aux hon sec, which produced £27, a dance organized by
Mrs S. Dowse at Devizes which raised £14 and a concert
at Devizes organized by Mr E. H. G. Howells which raised
£410 163. 9d. for the Animal Distress Fund. RSPCA ﬁlms
were shown at the Palace cinema, Devizes.
Yorkshire—Barnsley and District By courtesy of Messrs J.
W. Greenwood & Son the grounds at Blacker Green Darn,
Wooley Lane, Silkstone, were opened to the public and the
sum of £6 17s. 1d. was raised for branch funds. .
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs Roper-
Spencer, branch co hon sec, reports that Miss Hudson
organized a whist drive in aid of branch funds and raised £3.

 

 

 




 

84 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1953

 

 

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTION

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the collector or collectors.)

Overton, Mrs Hide, aux hon sec, £4 10$.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the names of the organizer or organizers.)

Coventry, Mrs Mocatta, branch hon sec, £209 175 1d.;
Strood, £66 165. 10d.; Bardney, Miss Puttergill, £6 18$. 10d.;
Preston, Mrs Kay, branch hon sec, £236 15. 6d.; Stocktonvon—
Tees, Mr and Mrs F. Postle, £271; Northallerton, Mrs Stro-
ther, aux hon sec, £35 ls. 5d.; Bangor, £56 165. 4d.; Caernar—
von, Miss G. E. Jones, aux hon sec, £35 103. 9d.; Aber—
daron, Mrs Dodd, £4; Tamworth, Mrs R. White, aux hon
sec, £59 3s. 8d.; Suffolk—West, and Bury St Edmunds branch,
£136 11$. 11d.; Bridge—Blean, £113 165. 8d.; Tiverton, Miss
Arthur, £49 45. 4d.; Canterbury, £210 175. 10d.; Chalfont
St Giles, Mrs Barlow, aux hon sec, £12 145.; Bedale, Mrs
Hone, aux hon sec, £12 105. 10d.; Rugby, Miss Jones, branch
hon administrative sec, £133 185. 1d.; Welshpool, Mrs
Lloyd, aux hon sec, £49 73. 8d.; Newtown, Mrs Hugh Jones,
aux hon sec, £59 23. 2d.; Holyhead, £40 195. 7d.; Earby,
Mrs Hodgson, aux hon sec, £22 55. 9d.; Horam, Mrs Wat-
son, aux hon sec, £24 45. 6d.; Shildon, Mrs Allinson,
aux hon sec, £41 135. 4d.; Leek, Lt Col Worthington,
£106 115. 2d.; Acle, Miss M. Castle, branch hon sec,
£17 173. 5d.; Tettenhall, Mrs P. Hartill, branch hon sec,
£60 Os. 8d.; Letty Green, Mrs Finch, aux hon sec, £3 95. 9d.;
Catsﬁeld and Ninﬁeld, Miss Carter, £12 55. 1d.; Burnham,
Mrs Morgan, aux hon sec, £43 45.; Surrey—Purley and
District branch, £73 143. 8d.; Spenborough, Miss K. A.
Crowther, aux hon sec, £54 55. 4d.; Thrapston, Mrs Coles,
£27 195. 3d.; Skipton, £71 95. l%d.; Bengeo, Miss Longland,
aux hon sec, £15 155. 6d.; Carmarthenshire, Mr A. C.
Mitchell, branch hon sec, £111 55. 8d.; Sussex—Mid and
Eastbourne branch, Miss I. Middleton, branch hon sec,
£99 195. 1d.; Leyburn, Miss Sharples, branch hon sec,
£30 53. 10d.; Letchworth, Mrs Wood, aux hon sec,
£120 103. 4d.

CHILDREN WEPT AT MISSING RSPCA
' LECTURE

‘The Headmistress and I agreed not to include the very
youngest children in the audience for my talk’ reports an
RSPCA school lecturer who adds that on learning of this
some of the young children wept loudly. He is glad to say
that they were molliﬁed when he had a suitable word with
them afterwards.

Since the last report 122 lectures were given in schools in
Dorset, Sussex, Bredon (Worcs.), Windsor, Woking,
Canterbury area, Welling (Kent) and Newcastle—on—Tyne.
Lectures were also given to seven Youth Groups and one
ﬁnimal Defender group in the London area and Lyme

egis.

Twenty—eight new Animal Defender groups were formed;
325 children joined the Headquarters Group.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

RSPCA ﬁlms were sent to the following places for showing
recently.

Stourbridge, Wisbech St Mary, West Norwood, Charl—
ton, Epsom, Chatham, Leeds, Ottershaw Park, Gateshead,
Usk (Mon), Bensham Grove, Gravesend, Sevenoaks,
Warrington, Croxley Green, Chepstow, Pembroke Dock,
Berwick—on—Tweed, Dereham, Sedgeﬁeld, Fawley, Swansea,
Ryton-on-Tyne, Wenlock Edge, Wrekenton, Maidstone,
Rubery, Sale, Wells, Durham City, Chiswick, Ponders End,
Radcliffe, Taunton, Topsham, Billingshurst, Welling-
borough, Bromley, Alnwick, Southwold, Deptford, Aber—
kenﬁg, Congleton.

SURREY COUNTY FLAG DAY COLLEC.

TION

£ 8. d.
Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District 94 16 2
Hants and Surrey Border 203 15 11
Surrey East . 332 7 9
Surrey, Epsom and District 103 18 9
Surrey, Guildford and District 60 13 8

Surrey, Kingston, Surbiton District and South
Middlesex 31 3 9
Surrey, Purley and District 76 1 2
Surrey, Weybridge 77 11 1
Surrey, Woking and District 109 0 5
*Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge 32 0 9
£1,121 9 5

* A small area of this branch is in the County of Surrey,
thus only a limited collection was possible.

ANIMAL DEFENDER—ANIMAL RESCUER

 

At the Bell Tower Modern School, Berwick-on-Tweed,

Major Smail of the ‘Berwick Advertiser’ presents an .

RSPCA prize to Eric Cann who rescued a swan from the sea.
Animal Defenders watched the presentation

 

FLAG DAYS

Branch officials are reminded it is advisable to order Flag
Day equipment about four weeks before the actual date of
the Collection. The number of such efforts has increased
to a very gratifying extent and it will assist Headquarters
in dealing with Flag Day requirements if orders are placed
at an early date; early delivery of equipment to Organizers
will assist in the distribution of tins, trays and emblems to
collectors and will allow time in which to order additional
equipment should the original order prove inadequate to
meet late offers by potential collectors.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to meet
rush orders and equipment will be placed on rail if neces—
sary, but in such cases there can be no guarantee that
supplies will arrive in time in spite of every endeavour
made by Headquarters. '

. Early ordering and delivery of Flag Day equipment does
much to assist in making successful collections.

It is also of considerable assistance if Flag Day equip—
ment can be returned without delay after the collection has
taken place. Our Flag Day supplies are limited and if equip—
ment is retained unnecessarily, this may cause embarrass—
ment in meeting orders from other Branches.

 




 

LONDON ESSAY COMPETITION

In the RSPCA London Essay Competition
70,626 children wrote essays compared with
52,001 last year. Of these, 1,556 were submitted
for ﬁnal judging at RSPCA Headquarters.

Doris Cristofoli aged 9% of Clerkenwell
Parochial. Junior Mixed and Infants School,
Anwell Street, EC1 received the ﬁrst prize for
the best essay from primary schools. She chose
as her subject to imagine herself a donkey work;
ing at the seaside and to describe a day in her life.

Jean Furst aged 14 years 7 months from Dame
Alice Owens Grammar School, Owens Row,
ECl received the prize for the best essay from
secondary schools. The title of Jean’s essay was:
‘In what way do thoughtless people cause sufa
fering to animals?’

Jean and Doris have each received books to
the value of Z guineas and book consolation
awards have gone to 791 children and certiﬁcates
have gone to 765.

 

Subscriptions under Deed of Covenant

Did you know that by signing a Deed of Cove;
nant you can almost double your subscription to
the Society at no additional cost to yourself, pro;
viding you are paying income tax at the standard
rate—at present 95. in the £7

Many subscribers have already signed Deeds
and all annual subscribers are asked to do so, if
they are paying income tax at the rate of 93. in the
£, since the Society is able to recover tax on the
actual subscription: thus, for example, an annual
subscription of 103. becomes 18s. 2d. upon re—
covery of tax, and a subscription of £1 becomes
£1 16s. 4d. Proportionate recovery of tax can be
claimed on all other subscriptions under Deed of
Covenant.

Branch subscribers who wish to give additional
support by subscribing under Deed of Covenant,
should contact the local branch on the matter.
Supporters, who send their gifts direct to Head;
quarters and who wish to give additional help on
the lines indicated, should write to the Chief
Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London,
SW1.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
“MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOUSE-TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS—
SUGGESTED SALE OF TOKENS

A Branch Organizer has suggested it might add to the

popularity of house’to—house collections if a token could
be handed to donors in the same manner as an emblem is
used for street collections (ﬂag days). There are objections
to the use of the Flag Day emblem for house—to—house
collections, unless such collections are being made in con—
junction with 3 Flag Day, when the emblem is quite in
order. The Council has approved the use of the token,
which is quite attractive—the coat of arms is the centre-
piece, with a surround bearing the words ‘RSPCA—
House to House Collection’. There is no pin, as in the case
of the Flag Day emblem, since the token is not intended to
be worn, but is exactly what it is called, i.e. a token for a
gift received on behalf of the RSPCA. A specimen of the
token will gladly be forwarded to Branches contemplating
the organization of a house—to'house collection.

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LI ST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutoo Edo’

 

 




 

 

 

 

@NﬂTCODRMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every

All“ .. description for ALL
Iquzrzes to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

ORDER FORM

PLEASE SUPPLY the following for which I enclose Cheque/Postal Order

value ................................................

CHRISTMAS CARDS: Please quote Ref. and No. required.

 

NAME (Mr/Mrs/Miss)
ADDRESS ......................................................................................................................................................................................................

(BLOCK LETTERS)

Send Cash with Order to: RSPCA, 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1

Please send for copies of illustrated pamphlet showing cards and calendars. May we ask you

to obtain copies of the pamphlet for your friends? When writing, please say how many copies
\you would like.

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliament S , H tf d, d
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Sill-1:32, Loeridgrli, Shiktll

 




