 

 

 

 

 

COLLECTIONS

(\W e give wherever possible the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

  

Bob, whose picture
comes from Miss Bos-
ville, Newport aux hon
sec, drove off a bull
attacking a man. Short-
ly afterwards Bob died
and the RSPCA award
of an inscribed dog
collar was made post-
humously.

Flag Days

Middlesbrough, Mrs J. H. Hart, branch hon sec, £135; Dov—
er, Mrs Price, branch hon sec, £119 135. 661.; Preston, Mrs
H. Kay, branch hon sec, £290 Os. 9d; Eastleigh, Mrs Cook,
aux hon sec, £33 175. 761.; Chandlers Ford, Mrs Clark, aux
hon sec, £16 115.; Bishopstoke, Mrs Richens, aux hon sec,
£10 195.; Allbrook, Miss Wootton, £4 65. 861.; Andover,
Mrs Braime, aux hon sec, £95 135. 261.; Northallerton, Mrs
Strother, aux hon sec, £34 95. 261.: Warrington, Mrs E. B.
Fairclough, branch hon sec, £200 135. 761.; Newtown (Mont),
Miss A. Humphreys, aux hon sec, £70; Hatﬁeld Rural Disv
trict, Mr D. A. J Wilshire, branch hon sec, and aux hon
secs, £57 15. 1061.; Bridlington, Mrs L. Gray, branch hon sec,
£100; Newcastle (Staffordshire) Miss E. M. Taylor, aux
hon sec, £162 55.; Skipton, Mrs Horne, aux hon sec,
£79 105. 661.; Cambridge Cattle Market, £33 185. 1061.; Tring,
Mrs M. Andrews, aux hon sec, £27 35. 1161.; Sedgeﬁeld, Mr
E. Toulson, £20 195. 661.; Southampton £187 135. 561.;
Ruthin, Mrs Strong, aux hon sec, £26 145. 1d.; Portsmouth,
Mr P. L. Coombe, branch hon sec, £198 155. 561. (share
of joint collection); Dereham, Miss E. M. Hunter, Council
Member and aux hon sec, £61 15. 261.; Holbeach, Mrs J.
Asprey, aux hon sec, £28 165.; Runcorn, Mr J. Goulden,
aux hon treas, £106 15. 461.; Carlisle £120; Birkenhead and
Wirral branch, Mr W. H. Munday, branch sec, £452 75.;
\Whittlesey, Mrs Hunt—Pain, aux hon sec, £50; Hemel
Hempstead, Mrs Fielding, aux hon sec, £130 25. 361.;
Welford—on—Ayon, Mrs Setten, aux hon sec, £8 155. 7d.;
Colne, l\4r J. N. Smith, aux hon treas, £35 145. 361.; l’urton
(Wilts), Mrs May, aux hon sec, £12 195.; Lydiard Milllcent
(Wilts), Mrs Ealy, aux hon sec, £3 165. 261.; Congleton,
Mrs Solly and Mrs Pirie, £83 65. 661.: Chippenham, Mrs D.
Wheeler, branch hon sec, £131 195. 261.: Wakeﬁeld, Mrs M.
Sunderland. branch hon sec, £145 15. 10d.; Berwrck—on—
Tweed, Mrs Dougall, aux hon sec, £52 175.; Leigh (Lancs),
Mrs J. C. Boydell, aux hon sec, £133 55. 161.

Isle of Wight Flag Day

Results of the Isle of Wight Flag Day, notiﬁed by Mrs. G.
lesty, branch hon. sec.: £ 5. 61.
Shanklin (Mrs Buxton, aux hon sec) 6 4 6
Gatcombe and Chillerton (Mrs Farrar) 2 16 6
Newport (Lady Lloyd, branch chairman and Idrs
Jesty, branch hon sec) 45 15 1
Bembridge (Mrs Battersea, aux hon sec) 17 16 10
Ryde (Mr Maurice Toms, aux hon sec) 38 11 5
Seaview (Lady Rouse-Boughton, aux hon sec) 12 18 1
Binstead (Miss H. Parkes, aux hon sec) . 7 13 9
Cowes (Mrs Haigh, aux hon sec) 34 14 0
St Helens (Mrs Bullin, aux hon sec) . 3 10 10
Yarmouth and District (Mrs Hawkesworth, aux ,
hon sec) 31 7 4
Brading and District (Miss E. 1%. Corbett, aux ,
hon sec) .... _... 16 6 0
Ventnor, Niton and District (M155 1. Jolliﬂe, ,
aux hon sec) 46 3
Freshwater and District (Mrs Will1am and IV11$S 3

M. Corbett, Co Aux hon secs) . 65 5
£361 2 10

House to House Collections

£ 5. d.
Rhondda Aux, Miss O. Steed 141 18 5
Horsford, Lady Barrett—Lennard 9 7 9
Park Gate, Mrs K. F. Turner (aux hon sec) 55 0 0
Newton Aycliffe, Mr Wilson (aux hon sec.) 14 8 0
Leeds, Miss Todhunter 3 15 8
Barry, Mrs Brown (aux hon sec) 83 14 1
Leek, Mrs Worthington (aux hon sec) 96 2 4

London Stores

Collections made by Mrs John:

Easterns of Tooting, £7 85. 161.; Jones and Higgins of Peck—
ham, £5 135. 2%d.; Royal Arsenal Co—operative Society
(Lewisham), £11 65. 3%(1.

FILM NEWS

RSPCA ﬁlms were sent to the following places for showing
recently:

Dorchesterron—Thames, Gateshead, Broadstairs, White—
chapel, Langwith Junction, West Moors, Middlesbrough,
Battersea, Epsom, Bournemouth, Knighton, Aberavon,
Llanelly, Falmouth, Retford, Hornsea, Leigh, Oakham,
Llandilo, Ammanford, Blyth, Doncaster, Dinnington, Farn—
worth, Brixton, Putney, Alton, Wolverhampton, Lancaster,
Oswestry, Weils, Lancing, Wigan, Scunthorpe, Hexham,
Brentwood, Dalton—in—Furness, Manor House, Bromsgrove,
Nottingham, Tilbury, Maidstone, Ilfracombe, Farnham,
London Docks, Knutsford, Bolton, Canvey Island, NeWa
castle Emlyn, Sittingbourne, Swindon, Thorne, Oxford
Street, Streatham, Clapham, Windsor, East Grinstead,
Shepton Mallet, Standon.

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—~ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

___.—_——s_* 2*

 

 

 

July 1956

___f

 

A lesson in kindness is given by Inspector Blain to children
of the ‘Kingﬁsher’ (Blyth) Group Animal Defenders.

Monmouthshire Caerleon (The Priory), whist drive, £22 10s.;
Newport, jumble sale, £26 11s.

The Branch annual meeting‘Awas held at the King’s head

Hotel, Newport, and reports were received from Mr C. T.

Stephens, branch chairman and hon treas, and Mrs H.

Pughe-Evans, branch hon sec. Mr D. A. L. Camm addressed

the meeting.

1g/3Iontgomery Llandrindod Wells, ‘Big Day’, committee,
7.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Drayton, whist drive, £13 33. 6d.
Norwich, spring fair, £75 125. 9d.

Norfolk West Brancester, dance, Mrs Hardy (branch hon
sec), £19 18s. 3d.

*

The Rev. Dr D. W. G. Bartlett, branch president, took the
chair at the combined branch and Kings Lynn Auxiliary
annual meeting. Among those present were Miss Hunter,
council member, the former Mayor and Mayoress of Kings
Lynn and Mr Arnold Jones, branch hon treas. Mr Ampleford
from Headquarters spoke.
Northumberland West Viscountess Ruffside, branch presi-
dent, congratulated the branch co hon secretaries, Mrs J. C.
Hanna and Mrs J. W. Mordey, for their work during the
year at the branch annual meeting held in the Royal Hotel,
Hexham. Mr Luke Wanless, branch hon treas, presented his
report. Mr A. L. Wilson, secretary of the Newcastle branch,
presided in the absence of Major Harold Portnell, branch
chairman.
Plymouth and South-West Devon The Earl of Mount Edg-
cumbe spoke at the branch annual meeting held at Good-
body’s Cafe, Plymouth. Reports were received from Mr P. E.
Foot, branch hon treas, and Mrs Rees, branch hon see. Mr
H. G. Hurrell, branch chairman, was the guest speaker.
Preston and District The Mayor of Preston (Alderman
James Henery) ofﬁcially opened the new branch clinic.
Among those present were the Mayoress, Mr Alick Plant,
branch chairman, and Archdeacon W. G. Fallow, Vicar of
Preston.
Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border The branch
annual meeting, held at Heelas’ Restaurant, Reading, was
addressed by the Deputy Mayor of Reading, (Coun H. V.
Kersley), and Mr E. P. F. Sutton, branch chairman. Mrs Tait,
council member, presented awards. .
Rugby Branch Rugby, point-to-point, Mrs M. J. Prickett
S‘Lbllial7mh hon sec—administrative) and committee member,

s.
StOCkDOrt, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch At
the branch annual meeting held at Stockport Town. Hall, the
Mayor of Stockport, branch president, took the char but had
to leave and Mr R. E. Wilson then took over chairmanship.
Mr R. McFarlane, branch chairman, presented the annual
report. Mr Allan Joiner was the guest speaker.

 

THEANIMALWORLD ' 83

Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Peasenhall, ﬁlm show, Mrs
Barley (aux hon sec), and Mr Charlesworth, £5.

Ald. Miss J. Mann, branch chairman, took the chair at the
branch annual meeting held in the Town Hall, Lowestoft.
Reports were received from Mrs Belcher, branch hon sec,
and Mr Hall, branch hon treas. The Mayor of Lowestoft and
Mr D. A. L. Camm addressed the meeting.

Southwold, jumble sale, £10; Lowestoft, jumble sale, £21»;
Roydon, jumble sale, £10 103.
Surrey—Guildford and District Guildford, sale, £32214s. 7d.
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
The branch held its Whitsun mounted show and gymkhana
in the paddocks at Hampton Court. '
Surrey—Weybridge Weybridge, jumble'sale, Mrs E. Martin
(branch hon sec), £60.
Torquay and South East Devon Mr C. J. H. Wollen, branch
president, presided at the branch annual meeting and was
supported by the Mayor and Mayoress.
Warwickshire South and "East Councillor E. Lucas presided
at the branch annual meeting held in the Town Hall, Leam-
ington Spa. The guest speaker was Ald. the Rev Prebendary
L. J. B. Snell, council member.
Westmorland The Mayor of Kendal (Mrs M. L. Penning-
ton) presided at the branch annual meeting held at Friends
Meeting House, Kendal. The Mayor presented Inspector
Harland with an RSPCA. certiﬁcate of merit and bar to
bronze medal for the rescue of 'a sheep. Mrs Boyle, branch
hon sec, presented her report. An address was given by
Major F. N. L. Chapman.
Wiltshire—North Miss L. G. Bransom, council member, was
the speaker at the 63rd annual general meeting of the branch
held at McIlroys, Swindon.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Tidworth, whist drive,
Mrs Wright, £9 16s.
Wimbledon and District Miss Peggy Mayers, who smashed
her way through 15 feet of ice to rescue a dog, was presented
with an RSPCA silver medal and certiﬁcate, which she received
from the Mayor of Wimbledon (Ald Withall) at the annual
meeting of the branch held in the Town Hall. Among those
present were Mrs M. R. Dowdell, Council member; Mr G.
Milner, branch hon sec; the Mayoress; Mrs Milner, branch
chairman and Mr H. A. Hardman.

*

Wimbledon (May Fair), exhibition, Mrs D. L. Turner (asst
branch hon sec), 153.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Bridlington,
coffee morning, Mrs Hewitt, £10.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District At the branch annual
meeting in Harrogate, Lord Merthyr, Chairman of RSPCA
Council, presented bronze medals to PC Matthew Waller
and Mr James Watson for rescuing three sheep trapped in,
How Stean Gorge. Alderman G. A. Spenceley, branch chair-
man, spoke.
Yorkshire—York and District York, fashion parade (Chris-
topher of York), £47 93. 6d.

RSPCA Christ-
mas Fair at Nor-
thenden. Mrs
Evelyne Rose of
TV fame, who
openedtheShow,
buys two gifts
for her children.
Left to right are
Mrs M. johnson,
Northenden and
Wythenshawe
aux hon sec, ’ .
Mrs E. Rose, ‘ 3'

Mrs L. Murray, the stallholder, and inspector Cunliﬁ'e.

 

Photo by courtesy of the Manchester City News

 

 




 

 

 

July 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 75

 

 

ANIMAL KINGDOM

Wild Life of the World; Advisory Editor: Dr Maura
ice Burton. Published by Odhams Press Ltd.,
Long Acre, London, W.C.2. Price 133. 6d.

 

WANDERlNG ALBATROSS ON THE WING

The Wandering Albatross, with a wing-span of about l2 ft.
and a weight of l6 Ib., is the largest of albatrosses. The bird
can remain on the wing for incredibly long periods and has
been known to follow a ship for six days without alighting.

This photograph of a female fur-
seal licking her newborn pup was
taken in the islands of Algoa Bay,
Cape Colony, South Africa. The
pups are suckled for six weeks
and are then taught to swim.
When the female fur-seals go to
sea to feed, they leave their pups
behind on the ice, but recognize
them without difﬁculty on return.

Running to 384 pages and profusely illustrated
with photographs this book seems a great bargain
by today’s standards.

As would be expected from Dr Maurice Burton,
whose articles (reprinted from other journals)
have appeared occasionally in ANIMAL WORLD, the
need for preserving wildlife and regret at its de—
struction by mankind is the constant refrain.

A foreword describes the book as an eifort to
summarize present—day knowledge. The advisory
editor has restricted himself to creatures found in
the upper limits of the animal kingdom, as any;
thing more ambitious would have demanded
more than the single volume planned.

In the main, animals and birds are studied in
their natural homes and the photographs are very
helpful. In the section on ‘Land animals gone back
to- water’, we see examples of man’s destructive—
ness in an illustration depicting the harpooning of
a ﬁn whale. The picture of a captured whale on
shore has the enlightened caption: ‘The senseless
depredations of large—scale mechanized whaling,
which originated with the introduction of the
Sven Foyn harpoon gun in 1865, have reduced the
stock of whales throughout the world to a dangera
ously low level.’

A few of the animals appear to have been phOtOv
graphed in captivity, and conclusions about the
behaviour of many of them are based on observa—
tions made both in the wild and in captivity. We
wonder how reliable is knowledge based on oba
servations of wild animals in captivity? What a
wonderful opportunity is presented to writers of
such works to aim a blow against the practice of
collecting wild animals to be kept in captivity or

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, EBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, ERSA

THE EARL OF SHAPTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *PRITCHARD. MRS D.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., ERCA, ECIS, JP GARDNER, HON. JULIET *RATTRAY, R. E., ESQ, MA, PH.D
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE V'ISCOUNTESS HOBHOUSE, J. s. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOGG, S. R., ESQ, Dso, MC SHAFTESBURY,-THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE , SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
CONNICK, REV- WILLIAM, BD, FR MET 5, HON CF *HUNTER, MISS SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.,
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS E. M. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
DORCHESTER, LT—COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALEORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A. *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, E. J., ESQ, FClS, FSS

 

 

POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
*Denotes Branch Representative

 

! OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL
.. ' ;. Hon Treasurer—LT—COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD Chief Seeretary_ARTHUR w_ MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
_ Deputy H_on Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
I Hon Medical Officer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

 

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

usmwnusriuionmsovm

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION I

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1.9 Birkbeck Street, Belhnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShOpsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’ ‘

   
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

READING WITH BERKS, HANTS AND OXON
BORDER BRANCH

TWO FORTHCOMING EVENTS

A SALE
Goods Old and New Bring and BU)’

\_\......_._ . l

\

SURE fulﬁll Xi”

at St Laurence’s Hall,
Abbey Street, Reading

SATURDAY, lst DECEMBER, at 2.30 p.m.

._ g

2%:
“ch
tab
2.5.4.

ANIMAL SUNDAY SERVICE
Conducted by the Vicar, The Rev A. C. Wilson, MA, at
CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL

The Municipal Church of St Laurence, Reading
. FOR ALL ANIMALS SUNDAY,7th OCTOBER, 3 p.m.
IccHSIND snuvoxt [ID - BIRMINGHAM - s . Encuuu AdultsandChildrenareinvited.
5456

 

 

M‘.—.-_A SM, .. A.

 

 




 

July 1956

At present there is no law to stop the practice
as the animals are termed ‘Vermin’. The Organiv
zing Secretary has gone to some length to point
out that to the RSPCA no animal is vermin, but
a living sentient creature.

PERFORMING ANIMALS
South African Legislation
Regulations dated March, 1956, made in South

Africa under the Performing Animals Protection
Act, 1935, provide among other things that no
person holding a licence to exhibit performing
animals, or no person employed by him shall:
During any period of training, exhibition,
maintenance or travelling, subdue any animal by
‘ hunger, thirst, isolation in darkness, ﬁre, forks,
' spikes, goads or other implement of a like nature,
loaded sticks, clubs, knouts, heavy whips, sjame
boks, the discharge of ﬁrearms or explosives, the
use of heated irons, or by electric shocks or any
other cruel method, or by the administration of

drugs or narcotics by way of feeding, injection
or any other means.

Licence

The regulations lay down conditions for the
issue of licences. Before the licence is issued, the
_ magistrate is to be satisﬁed that the applicant is a
ﬁt and proper person to have a licence and that the
apparatus he proposes to use is suitable.

The licensee is at all times to keep the premises
and the accommodation provided for animals in a
clean and suitable condition and in good order
and repair. No licensee shall train or exhibit any
animal who is suffering from any disease or wound
unless a duly registered veterinary surgeon has
certiﬁed, in writing, that the animal is ﬁt to be
trained or exhibited.

The licensee shall keep, house and transport
animals only in cages of such size as to allow of
their lying down at full length, standing upright
and turning without difﬁculty.

One of the questions to be answered by the
applicant for a licence is whether he has been
charged with cruelty to animals in South Africa
or elsewhere.

British Law

Under British Law, exhibitors of performing
animal turns must be registered. Local authorities
must keep a register. A court of summary juriSv
diction may prohibit or restrict performing anir
mal exhibitions that have been accompanied by
cruelty. Proof of this is difﬁcult to obtain, and pI‘Ov
secutions in which the victims of cruelty are
trained performing animals have had to be ob,
tained by the RSPCA under the Protection of
Animals Act, 1911. Prosecutions under this Act
have usually arisen out of bad accommodation or
travelling conditions. .

THEANIMALWORLD 79

The British law demanding registration of exhi—
bitors of trained animals is the Performing Ani—
mals (Regulation) Act, 1925. It was based on the
recommendation of the Select Committee on Pere

forming Animals, 1921—22.

Recommendations

Other recommendations made by the Select
Committee and shelved by the Government are
as valid now as when ﬁrst published nearly a
quarter of a century ago. The RSPCA continues
to urge that they should be embodied in legisla—
tion. They are:
That in View of the fact that the Committee of
Supervision (a body envisaged by the Select
Committee) would have no control over train;
ing abroad, it should have power to prohibit the
performances of animals trained abroad in
those cases where, in their opinions, the condiv
tions of their training involved cruelty.
That the training and performances of all chime
panzees and, all anthropoid apes should be
prohibited.
That the training, exhibition and performances
of all the larger carnivora (such as lions, tigers,
leopards and hyenas) should have the special
attention of the Committee of Supervision.
That the use of mechanical and other appliances
in the execution of conjuring tricks, which in—
volve cruelty, should be prohibited.

RSP CA Policy

It is the policy of the RSPCA to oppose by all
means in its power exhibitions or presentations of
any kind in which animals are required to perform
tricks or actions contrary to their natural inclina—
tions or habits, or the result of cruel training.

FRANCE

 

This picture which shows the new dogs’ home established by
the Société Protectrice des Animaux at Perpignan,,.comes
from Mr Francois Rous, vice-president of the Society, who,
in his letter, acknowledges that the new home has been
established thanks, in part, ,to help given by the RSPCA in
London. A donation of £50 was made from the RSPCA Over-
seas Fund in re ponse to their appeal. Mr Rous is at preSent ’
appealing for ands to establish a new cats’ home adjacent

to the dogs’ home.

 




 

 

 

 

July 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 77

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

MAY 1956

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,368 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
100 Oﬂenders ﬁned.
53 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
865 Registered Cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, beating... 4
DONKEY—~Neglecting . . . 1
CATTLE—Neglecting, beating, exposing for sale unﬁt 10
SHEEP—Neglecting 1
GOAT—Neglecting . 1
DOGS—Neglecting, beating, shooting and wounding,
improperly killing, selling unﬁt, etc. 20

CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding... 3
FOWLs—Starving, conveying improperly .. 2
DUCKS—Improperly killing 5
RABBIT—Improperly killing . 1
PIGEONs—Killing, pulling out feathers 2

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Being in possession of recently taken birds 13
Setting spring traps . .. 7
Conﬁning birds in small cages 21
Shooting 1
Injuring . 2
Killing 2
Using net . . . 1
Offering for sale 2

VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Laying poison

l H

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 100

.During MAY, 1956, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed SEVEN persons from owning a dog or hold—
ing a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; ONE for 3 years; FOUR for 5 years;
ONE for Life

Total number of Complaints from January lst 11,425

Total number of Convictions from January lst . . . 380
Total number of Cautions from January lst 4,014

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,393 Dogs, 4,355 Misc., 1,119
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,398

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 25 . Dogs, 104

Total, 9,867

Total, 129

NIGHT STAFF

_ No. Of calls received: 1,626

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 6

N o. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 272

No. of animals rescued: 17

No. of complaints, 13

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,600

NORTH WALES UNIT
First Aid Cases:

Cats, 12 Dogs, 33 Total, 45
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 155 Dogs, 60 Total, 215

No. of’miles covered by Unit: 2,880

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT
First Aid Cases:

Cats, 38 Dogs, 61 Misc., 1 Total, 100
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 81 Dogs, 29 Misc., 5 Total, 115

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,474

AWARDS

CMTTBTIIC awards are under review.

RECORDS FOR 1955

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 28,128
CONVICTIONS . . . 1,052
CAUTIONS . . . ... . . . 9,843

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 148,963
NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,545

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAITHEWORLI

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LI No 7 New Series

MR PETER FREEMAN, MP

Peter Freeman is dead to our physical sight; but,
as the friend of all humane causes, he will live ale
ways in our hearts and memories. The humani—
tarian movements to which he gave unceasing ser—
vice still exist, and our most ﬁtting memorial to a
friend who never spared himself in the defence of
the weak and helpless is to readedicate ourselves
anew to the prevention of cruelty in all its forms.
For Peter Freeman, all our religion, philosophy,
and science were of nothing worth unless com—
passion informed their teachings and discoveries.
Misrepresentation and contumely never stirred
him from his ﬁdelity to the truth as he saw it,
and those of us who were privileged to work with
him in the RSPCA and kindred causes will ever
remember his unswerving championship of those
whom he delighted to call ‘my younger brothers’.
Knowing him as I did for some forty years I can
testify to the love which he was able to arouse in
those who saw something of his one—pointed der
votion to a humane way of life. His outward life
of service was the expression of a spiritual perv
ception that gave him awareness of the inner
unity of all that lives. He loathed the exploitation
of animals for man’s pleasure and proﬁt because
he felt that cruelty was a betrayal of those spiritual
principles which he believed were essential to the
progress and harmony of a living world. For him,
there was no power like the might of gentleness.
In this, as in other ways, Peter Freeman was a
knight sans pear et sans reproche, and we salute
him as one who fought nobly and without bitter—
ness in a righteous war. May light perpetual shine
upon him. B. P. H.

\M

At a memorial service held at Stow Hill Methodist Church,
Newport, Mom, with Mrs Freeman present, Mr W. T.
Williams, MP, spoke of the strong beliefs of Mr Freeman
against vivisection. The large congregation was led in prayers
by Mr Williams, and the Lesson was read by the Rev I. L.
Phillips, Vicar of St Paul’s, Newport, who also pronounced
the Benediction. The Rev Prebendary L. J. B. Snell (Council
Member) paid a tribute to Mr Freeman before asking for
the offering, which was in aid of the RSPCA. Prebendary
Snell described him as ‘a modern St Francis’, adding: ‘He
has probably achieved more in his brief 67 years than we
will ever really appreciate or be able to estimate. He has lit a
great bonﬁre from which other men can kindle torches and
carry them into distant lands.’

JULY 1956

PRICE THREEPENCE

5s. per annum. Post Paid

a

Reprinted, with acknowledgments, from THE ARK, Bulletin of The Catholic
Study Circle for Animal Welfare.

Our Debt to the Franciscans

 

We are sometimes accused, in our work for ani'
mal welfare, of distracting people’s minds from
more important things; Surely, they say, human
beings and their needs should come ﬁrst, and when
they have been satisﬁed we can turn to animals.
Or they say, God and His service are of para’
mount importance and how can a priest or religiv
ous spend time taking an interest in. animals when
he should be teaching men to love and worship
GOd? [continued overleaf

-

\gxmxsexxmxxxsexmxxmxxxxxxxsexsexsex,

CONGRATULATIONS
Congratulations to Lt-Col Sir Thomas Moore (Council
Member), who was created a Baronet in the recent
Birthday Honours list -for public services, andgto
Mrs W. Slater, Organizing Secretary for the RSPCA, .
Tanganyika Division, awarded the MBE for services
to animal welfare—an award unique in that it is the
ﬁrst recognition of work done in Africa exclusively

for the RSPCA. ' ‘

z
I
6
(-
(-
*6
(-
(-
(-
(-
(-
‘-
(-
f
4.
(-
(-
(-
(-
(-
It
‘+++¢++++++++++++4+++++¢4§¢~+4¥¢¢++Q¢7.

 

 

 

\¢+++¢+++++§+‘P++++~P**

 




 

 

 

July 1956

 

 

RSPCA Prosecution Upheld

Persistent efforts to reverse a judgment in an
RSPCA prosecution were thwarted when an Ape
peal heard by the Lord Chief Justice, sitting with

two other judges, was dismissed in the Divisional.

Court of the High Court.

The Appeal came before the Divisional Court
on May 1, and arose out of a prosecutLon at
Croydon in August and September last year,
when a pet shop proprietor was ﬁned £8, and had
to pay £6 65. costs, for conﬁning a number of
budgerigars in cages not sufﬁciently large to enable
them to stretch their wings freely, contrary to the
provisions of the Protection of Birds Act, 1954.
(RSPCA Case No. A9939.)

The defendant appealed to the Quarter Sessions
against his conviction and the 'Appeal was dis—
missed with costs of £50.

The Appeal to the High Court was lodged on
alleged points of law.

The Court dismissed it on the grounds that
the points of law alleged were really questions of
fact which had already been resolved by the Rev
corder at the Quarter Sessions and there was
therefore no reason to interfere with the decision
then taken.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 81

Quarantine Kennels

This RSPCA statement was quoted in the BBC

programme ‘Air Space’ recently.

Undoubtedly, pets must risk unhappiness in

quarantine, as in any kennels. That few cases of
rabies have occurred in quarantine is admitted,
but the danger to other animals if infected ones
were allowed to be free is so great that quarantine
is kindest. The RSPCA always takes the point of
view of the animal. Many animals would suffer
if they were allowed to contract rabies. At the
same time, the RSPCA stresses the need for the
best standards of comfort, cleanliness and affec—
tion for animals in quarantine.

On November 10 last, the. Minister of Agriculr
ture said in the House of Commons: ‘An expert
committee set up by the World Health Organizav
tion recently expressed the View that countries
now free from rabies should continue to prohibit
the import 'of dogs and cats or subject them to a
long period of quarantine, preferably six months,
at the port of entry. I am convinced, so far as this
country is concerned that to reduce the quaran—
tine period or to rely on inoculation as an alter—
native would be an unjustifiable risk.’

 

Holiday Reminders

  
   

Mr j.VA. Wells,
hon sec, Blyth
auxiliary, with a
tufted duck and
herring gull, two
wild birds found
injured and
nursed back to
health by Mr
Wells. Both birds
have now been
released.

-'2 :3.

Photo by courtesy of the Blyth News-Ashington Post

The RSPCA makes this appeal for the welfare of
animals at holiday time. ’

Cats and other shop, oﬂice and factory pets
should not be left without food and water. Arr
rBulge for someone to visit them. A supply of food
Or water left for a holiday weekend is not satiSv
factory. It will be eaten or drunk in the first day
or will go stale.

Do not turn out a cat to fend for herself. The

RSPCA has evidence that cat thieves are active at
night. This is another reason why all cats should
be kept indoors at night. Moreover, the lights of
holiday motorists are liable to dazzle straying cats
and thus cause accidents.

The household pet of anyone going away
on holiday should not be left without care and
attention. If the pet cannot be taken away, ar—
range for reliable friends or relations to look
after him.

The RSPCA has a list of hotels and boarding

' houses where pets are made welcome with their

oWners. Apply to RSPCA Headquarters with a
stamped addressed envelope for a free copy.

Anyone who thinks of placing an animal in ken—
nels is advised to pay a visit and make sure that
the establishment is well run. , ‘

If you take a dog or cat out for the day by car,
do not leave in a closed car. The close atmos—
phere can cause an animal serious distress.

Do not leave broken glass in picnic places. Ani—
mals (and children, too) can be injured.

Do not feed forest ponies and induce them to
stray on the roads, where they are likely to cause
accidents.

Remember to exercise dogs where they can be
free without risking road accidents. Lead your dog
through busy streets. '

In the country keep your dog in sight and
avoid the risk of his either worrying animals
or being blamed for worrying them!

 

 

 




Incorporating QThe Winged Messen

 

VOLUME LI N 0 7 THREEPEN CE

 

Photo] [Courtesy of FACT

ARISTOCRAT

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE

 




 

74 THEANIMALWORLD

July 1956

 

Our Debt to the Franciscans-cont.

We are saved from the necessity of any elabora
ate answer (easy though it would be) by the his—
tory of St Francis, By common consent he loved
animals, cared for them, spent a considerable
amount of his time on their welfare, understood
them (as they understood him), rejoiced in them
as the admirable work of God.

Did he then neglect human beings in conse—
quence? Was he indifferent to the tribulations
of his fellow men because he had so much
time for animals? Did he fail in teaching the
love and service of God, or show lack of zeal
in inducing others thereto? Does his memory
seduce anybody from the love of God to
spend time instead on animals? Does religion
in general and Catholic truth in particular
suffer because St Francis set no limits to his
consideration for all living things? Has he
tanght us to love animals instead of our fellow‘
man?

The answer is a smile. St Francis is the Saint
beloved by Catholics and nonvCatholics alike.
And one reason for that is because ‘All the world
loves a lover’. Love is a commodity that is in
short supply in our modern world: but it is vital
to man’s happiness, even on earth. Well, St
Francis taught us how to love. Not to love good
customers, as his father would have taught him.
Not to love the aristocracy, although the snoba
bishness of his upbringing inclined him that way
in his youth. Not to love anyone because we hope
for something for ourselves in return. But to love
everybody and everything, because God made
them all, to love them for their beauty, to love
them for their common origin with ourselves,
who are also God’s creatures, to love them be»
cause they remind us of Our Lord and all that
He did for us, to love them because they are poor
and needy and our love can do them good.

What, in consequence, has been the effect of
the impact of St Francis on the world: and not
only on the world of his day, but the world of suc—
ceeding centuries and in all civilized countries?

First, men love God more than if St Francis had
never existed or had left us a different me‘Ssage. So
far from distracting us from religion, his example
has presented it to us as a lovable thing, as the
pattern of God’s love, as an inducement to pity
and sympathy and cooperation, as a tutor to diSv
cerning the beauty of the Creator in all the variety
' and range of His creatures. And in this successful
appeal, St Francis has reached and still reaches a
multitude of men to whom religion in the ordina
ary sense makes no appeal at all.

Secondly, St Francis was the exemplar of con—
sideration for all mankind, the recipient of its con’
ﬁdences, a magnet for the distressed. So potent

was his example and his teaching in this respect
that the rapid spread of his Order in his own lifea
time was due in large measure to the humanity of
his Friars. In every town and city to which they
penetrated, whether among the Court and nobi’
lity in London, or in some forgotten little country
town, their presence made for peace and tran»
quillity and the settling of quarrels. Chaucer, our
discerning poet, who had scant respect for some
of the clergy of his time, notes that the Friars were
pre—eminently successful at the ‘Lovevdays’ when
folk came to settle their differences by arbitration.

In short, if we follow St Francis in his love
of animals and his desire to secure mercy for
them, we may hope to follow him also in his
love of God, for Whom he literally stripped
himself of all he possessed, and in his love
of his fellow—men and especially of those in
any need.

Most of these points are illustrated in a quota»
tion from the life of St Francis by his confessor
and Secretary. After describing how St Francis
had a special love for the feast of Christmas ‘out
of reverence for the Son of God, Whom on that
night the most Blessed Virgin laid in a manger be:
tween the ox and the ass’ (and therefore all who
had ox or ass should give them a special treat on
that day, ‘and all poor people as well’), the text:
continues: ‘Therefore he wished that on such a
day every Christian should rejoice in the Lord,
and for love of Him Who gave Himself for us, all
should make ample provision not only for the
poor, but also for animals and for birds’.

Is there perhaps a warning also here? It may be
that so much pleading for animals falls on deaf
ears just because it is now divorced entirely from
any consideration of the Lord Who made them.

T. A. AGIUS

GROUP 10
At the Group 10 Conference Mr Richard Clithe»

row, Secretary, Liverpool Branch, was elected
Hon Secretary to the Group.
The conference, which was well attended, was

addressed by Mr John Hall.
DEVOTION

The devotion of the master and mistress to Lassie,

_ the collie, was matched only by Lassie’s devotion

to them, in My Dog Lassie by Frank Crew (Freda
erick Muller Ltd, London, price 83. 6d.). The
writer shows how the friendship of a dog can sus—
tain us through difﬁcult times. We cannot recom—
mend hotel bedrooms and lounges for a dog like
Lassie, but Mr Crew strove continually to give
Lassie the home she deserved, and in the mean;
time he gave her affection and human companion-
ship, to which was ﬁnally added a country home
with plenty of opportunity for exercise.

 

 

 




 

76 THEANIMALWORLD

July 1956

 

 

 

 

for degrading exhibitions as trained performers!

Dr Burton contributes sections on weasels,
civets, cats, dogs, wolves and bears. Other author~
ities summarize modern knowledge of many more
species. Today, a knowledge of animal life is an
important part of our equipment, and this we
cinct story of those who inhabit the ‘upper limits
of the animal kingdom’ should commend this
book to everyone. It is thoroughly indexed. (The
book may be obtained from any bookseller, not

from the RSPCA.) '

The pictures on the preceding
page, like this one, are from
‘Wild Life of the World’; they are
samples only of the numerous
telling illustrations to this work.

 

Ritual Slaughter
Condemned

‘Why they will not allow theSe animals to be shot
before the cut is made, I do not know,’ said Coun—
cillor Purchase. ‘The bleeding method of slaughter
is a survival from the time when they killed ani’
mals in hot countries and bled them so that the
meat would keep.’ * 7

He was speaking after a visit with other mem—
bers of the Wimborne and Cranborne Rural Dis—
trict Council and of the Dorchester RDC to
Uddens slaughterhouse, where a demonStration
of the Jewish method had been arranged by the
Rabbi of the Bournemouth Hebrew Congregav
tion. ‘ .

The Council Members had given support to a
Bill introduced in Parliament by Mr Robert
Crouch MP. The object of the Bill is to enforce
the mechanical stunning of animals before the
knife is used in ritual slaughter. ‘

Mr T. S. Rendall tried to persuade Wimborne

 

 

WANDERER OF BRlTlSH LANES AND FIELDS
(picture below)
The hedgehog, with his extremely effective defensive arma-

ment of prickles, is a familiar sight in the British country-
side. He destroys large numbers of harmful insects.

RDC to withdraw its support of Mr Crouch’s
Bill, and though the demonstration was arranged
with this object, no one shared his view that there
was no cruelty in Kosher killing.

Fear Shown
Mr A. R. Hughes said that when the animals

were turned over in the casting pen their noses

were almost in the blood of the animals killed

there earlier and there was a great deal of fear
shown by the beast to be killed.

‘After the cut has been made,’ he added, ‘one
can see their eyes still working and I am certain
death cannot be instantaneous.’ .

Mr J. C.-Sheasby found the ritual method Of
killing nauseating. «

Wimborne and Cranborne Rural District
Council continued to support the Bill introduced
by Mr Crouch. This Bill has the backing of the
RSPCA. As a Private Member’s bill it depends on
the chance of the ballot, but Mr Crouch is ready
to reintroduce it; on its previous introduction,
the election interfered with its progress.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

78 . ‘ THEANIMALWORLD

July 1956

 

 

QWERSBAS PRQBLEMS

 

ANIMAL DEFENDER

Mrs Slater, organizing secretary, Tanganyika Division,
who sends this picture, says that the child was protecting
his goat. Mrs Slater was visiting Zanzibar with her cousin
when she saw this young Arab with his pet goat. The child
thought they were seeking the goat to kill it. He cried: ‘You
will not kill my goat’, rushed to the animal, flopped down
beside it, and clutched it ﬁrmly.

The RSPCA Tanganyika Division report for
1955, received recently by Headquarters in Lonv
don, shows the size and variety of problems faced
by the Society overseas.

The Hon Mrs Keeka, MLC, Chairman of the
Dodoma Branch of the Division, raised in the
Legislative Council the problem of air guns and
gin traps. A Bill removing the prohibition on the
use of air guns has been passed, but Mrs Keeka
was assured that no air gun would be allowed to
be used without an arms licence. The import of
gin traps is forbidden (except certain numbers for
‘crop protection’) and the division is advocating
the abolition of these traps.

Signs of improvement in conditions for ani—
mals during transport are seen in the arrival, in
Dar es Salaam, of wagons with water trough ﬁxed
on top. Unfortunately, comments Mrs Slater,
Division Organizing Secretary, ‘as yet’ there is no
sign of a water supply!

Ritual Slaughter
Among dignitaries attending a demonstration of
the captive bolt pistol at Dar es Salaam abattoir
were the Liwales of Dar es Salaam and Mombasa,
as well as ten sheiks—the religious leaders of the
Moslems on the Coast.

All the ' Moslems present agreed that the rendera
ing of the animal unconscious before the knife
was used in no way interfered with the ritual.

A barbaric method of catching crocodiles ille—
gally in certain rivers was reported to the Divi~
sion. Bait was placed on a grapnel, the unwary
crocodile swallowing the contraption, which tore

  

 

the entrails. The grapnel was tethered to the bank,
so that the crocodile could not escape and might
be in agony for days before the illegal hunter came
for his spoil.

The Division transmitted the facts to the Afri.
can centres of the RSPCA in the vicinity of the
rivers, as well as to the Game Department, the
Police and the Press.

Muzzle Loaders
Another cruel hunting exploit brought to light by
the Division involved the wounding and killing

of game at water holes. The ‘killers’ made camou—

ﬂaged ‘hides’ and used muzzle loaders against
animals coming to drink. The destruction was
appalling.

The Organizing Secretary of the Tanganyika
Division got in touch with the Game and Police
Departments and one culprit was caught and sen—1
tenced to three months’ imprisonment.

  

Mr Abdulkarim Karimjee, President of the RSPCA, Tangan-
yika Division, hands to Mrs K. A. Master, Dar es Salaam

branch chairman, the keys of the new animal ambulance for
the Branch.

Another matter being pursued by the Division
(continues the report) is the attempt to get a law
made to prohibit the hawking of small wild aniw
mals. These poor little creatures—monkeys and
bush babies, etc—are caught and brought into
the towns for sale, usually by Africans. The ani’
mals might be kept for several days before being
sold, and their condition is pitiable when they
are taken around the hot and dusty streets, usuv
ally tied with a small piece of dirty string.

Many of these Small creatures have been res,
cued and taken to the bush to be released, but
many of them are too young to feed themselves,
in which case members of the RSPCA have taken
them home to feed.

GIBRALTAR BRANCH

.9 = '- Lt-Gen Sir Harold
Redman, the GOV-
ernor of Gibraltar
and Lady Redman ,
visit the RSPCA
Animal Clinic,Gib'
raltar; they are
shown at the en-
trance with the
Branch Chairman
Mr H. ]._King

 




 

80 THEANIM'ALWORLD

July 1956

 

: Parliamentary
News

‘I regret that this information is not available’,
said Major Lloyd George in answer to a Question
from Mr Peter Freeman (whose death is reported
in these pages) in the House of Commons. Mr
' ~ Freeman wanted to know from the Secretary of

. State for the Home Department how many moné
keys‘ had been used for the purpose of animal er
perimentation for poliomyelitis during each of the
last ten years; of these how many had been killed;
how many had been given anaesthetics; and how
many had been experimented on without anaeSr
thetics.

(The RSPCA has led deputations to India
House in an effort to persuade the Indian authori—
ties to stop the export of monkeys for painful
experiments . )

Slaughterhouse

MR CHAPMAN asked the Minister of Agricul—

ture, Fisheries and Food how many months have
now been allowed to owners of slaughterhouses to
bring their premises up to the standards of the
Slaughter of Animals (Prevention of Cruelty)
No. 2 Regulations, 1954; and how many horse
slaughterhouses and knackers’ yards are known to
his Department as still below the standard of
these Regulations.

MR AMORY: Some of the Regulations came into
force on December 1, 1954, and the remainder on
July 1, 1955.When last visited by my ofﬁcers, 13
horse slaughterhouses and 39 knackers’ yards
needed minor alterations to bring them up to the

‘

required standard, and two horse slaughterhouses
and 11 knackers’ yards needed substantial altera—
tions. The local authorities or the occupiers of the
premises concerned have taken or promised re—
medial action. I have arranged for the premises
to be revisited.

(The RSPCA is constantly pressing for strucv
tural improvements in slaughterhouses so that
existing regulations for the welfare of animals in
these places may be observed.)

Burning of Gorse

The burning of gorse as a method of rabbit con—
trol has always been deplored by the RSPCA, and
MAJOR BEAMISH asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food whether it had been with his
approval that there had been several recent in— ,
stances under the schemes for eradicating rabbits
of the burning of ‘gorseland and scrubland with
the object of trying to kill a small number of raba
bits. He asked, further, whether the Minister was
aware that this burning had resulted in the des’

'truction of numerous wild birds with their nests

and eggs, most of which were protected by the,
\Wild Birds Protection Act. ’ ,

MR NUGENT answered that the Minister’s ap—
proval was not required for burning gorse and
scrub except where this was undertaken by ofﬁa
cers of the Ministry of AgricultureThe only. case
where approval had been given was for the burn
ing of eighteen acres by the East Sussex AEC on a
common at The Hide, Arlington.

He added a comment .of special interest to
RSPCA supporters: Instructions have now been
given that burning is not to be undertaken during
the nesting season.

 

I RSPCA Achievements

Ashford Urban District Council has conﬁrmed
that no pets are to be sold in Ashford Market dur—
ing cold weather and that no dogs, puppies, cats
or kittens are to be exhibited for sale on the stalls
at any time. Inspector Coles has worked actively
for this advance. '

As there were instances of "cattle arriving at
Etchingham, Sussex, from Carlisle, after a 23—hour
journey, in the course of whiCh they. were neither
fed nor watered, an approach was made to British
Railways, with the result that watering facilities
were to be installed at Etchingham Station.

"Special Market Inspector Sleight reported to
the Markets Manager that the ﬂoor of Lincoln
Cattle Market was becoming so slippery thataniv
mals were constantly falling and injuring themv
selves. The Market Managers brought the report to
the notice of the Lincoln City Council, which
acted promptly, as this memorandum from the
Market Inspector shows: ‘The work of concreting

. a roadway between the TT cattle pens has now

been completed and it is quite safe for the cattle
to walk without slipping. The Auctioneer has in—
formed me that they are getting a milking machine
installed, so that cattle can be milked out as they
are sold.’

 

NOT THE FIRST TIME

‘It is obviously not the first time you have spoken
to country children’, said one Headmaster to an
RSPCA lecturer. ‘You have hit on just the things
they need to be told about.’

Since the last report 143 lectures were given in
schools in Denbighshire, Glamorgan, Caernarv
vonshire, Kent, Surrey, Nottinghamshire, Sufv
folk, Mexborough (Yorks), Hull, .Wellington
(Shropshire), Pontypool, Tilbury and the London
area. St John Ambulance Cadets, Porthcawl, the
Dulwich Young Conservatives and St Mark’s
Youth Club, Mitcham were also addressed.

51 new Animal Defender groups were formed;
805 Children joined the Headquarters Group.

 

 

 




 

82 THEANIMALWORLD

 

July 1956

 

 

 

t.

 

BRANCH NEWS

‘Brought in to be put to
sleep’, Darkie was given a
good home by Mrs Mc-
Farlane, Stdckport.

 

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed
' by the sum raised.)

Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District Sir Charles
Woolley, branch president, was the main speaker at the
branch silver jubilee annual meeting held at the Town Hall,
Petersﬁeld. Sir Charles presented long service awards to Miss
Cross, Petersﬁeld aux hon sec, Miss Leuchars, Grayshott and
Hindhead aux hon sec, and Mrs Guy Mort, Grayswood aux
hon sec. Among those present were Mrs H. Tollemache,
branch hon sec, Mrs Boyd, branch asst hon sec, and Lady
Dorman-Smith, branch chairman.

Bromley and District (Kent) Sir Frank S. Alexander, branch
president, took the chair at the branch annual meeting held
at the Library, Bromley. He was supported by Mr L. H. Hart,
branch chairman, Mr A. Bourneman, branch hon treas,
and Mrs Hill, branch hon sec. Among those present were Mrs
M. R. Dowdell, Council Member, and Mr D. A. L. Camm.
Buckinghamshire Newport Pagnell, jumble sale, £44; Din-
ton School, pet show, Mr Green.

Cambridgeshire The Mayor and Mayoress were present at
the Branch annual meeting held at the Master’s Lodge, St
Catherine’s College, Cambridge. Major Chapman was the
guest speaker.

Chiswick and District Acton, jumble sale, Mrs J. Du Rose
(aux hon sec), £15 10s.

Cirencester The branch annual meeting was held recently.
Cleveland and Tees Side Kirby-in-Cleveland, coffee party,
Mrs Geoffrey Dixon assisted by Mrs Boyd and Miss Dobson
(Marton-in—Cleveland aux hon sec), £33 8s. 6d.
Cornwall—East Mr R. S. Jervoise, branch chairman, pre-
sided over the branch annual meeting held at the home of
Mrs Kendall, branch co hon sec.

Cornwall—Mid. Mr R. L. Frank, branch chairman, took
the chair at the branch annual meeting held in Falmouth.
Coventry and District The Chief Constable of Coventry, Mr
_E. W. C. Pendeton, took the chair at the branch annual meet-

mg.
Cumberland—North and East Mr G. Lionel S. Lightfoot,
branch chairman, welcomed Dr Thomas Bloomer (Bishop of
Carlisle and branch patron) to the branch annual meeting
held at St Cuthbert’s vestry, Carlisle. Lt-Col H. Levin, branch
h'on sec, and Mr P. G. Monkhouse, branch hon. treas, pre-
sented their reports.

Derbyshire—Derby and District Inspector W. J. T. Gosnold
presented his report at the branch annual meeting held in the
Albert Hallroom, Derby.

Devon—North Instow, bring and buy sale and ﬁlm show,
Mrs T ottenham (aux hon sec), £25 15s. .
Durham and District The branch president, the Viscount
Gort, presided at the branch annual meeting held in Alington
House, Durham. Among those present were Lady Gort;
Lady Bradford; the Mayor of Durham, Coun H. L. Cawood ;

‘

Mrs. Cawood; Deputy Mayor, Coun Mrs E. Blyth; and A1-
derman A. J. Alsop, council member. Miss G. S. Wilkinson
branch hon sec, read her report. ’
Durham—Hartlepool and District Hartlepool (rugby match)
collectlon, Miss N. McAuslan (branch hon sec), £20 9s. 4d.
MISS McAuslan gave a talk to the Hartlepool ‘Inner
‘Wheel’.
Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Shenﬁeld (Youth Club), talk and ﬁlm show, Mrs Donovan
(branch hon sec.). ,
Exeter, East and West Devon Beer, 1a , Miss Gw
Williamson and friends, £4 3s. 8d. p y ynneth
Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District North Finch-
IEe2y6, jumble sale, Mr and Mrs Campling (Co. aux hon secs),
Fylde Among those present at the branch annual meeting
held at St Annes were Mrs Poole (branch president), the
Mayor of St Annes (Coun J. Faulkner), Mr H. V. Webb (hon
treasurer), Mr D. S. Wadsworth (hon secretary), and Dr.
H. M. Coope (chairman).
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Porthcawl, sale, Mrs
V, L. Hands (aux .hon sec), £16 (additional to previous
amount of £67).
Gloucestershire—Mid Mr W. A. Sibly, Council Member
and Branch president, presided at the Branch annual meeting
held 1n Stroud. Awards were presented by Mrs Desborough
Walford, Council Member, and Mrs Edith M. Porri, branch
hon sec, read her report.
Grimsby and District At the branch annual meeting held in
the Town Hall, Grimsby, Mr H. Davis, branch hon treas,
reported that 1t had been a record year for collections. Re-
ports were received from Mrs D. M. Clapham, branch hon
sec, and Senior Inspector Grant. Mr D. A. L. Camm, assist—
ant sec from Headquarters, spoke.
Hampshire—Ramsey The Vicar (Canon W. E. Norris) pre-
SIded at the branch annual meeting at the White Horse Hotel,
Romsey. He was supported by the Mayor and Mayoress (Ald
and Mrs L. E. Allan), Mrs Wallis Power, vice—chairman
RSPCA Council, Miss E. M. Collins, branch hon sec, and
Mrs Dav1d Williamson, branch hon treas. Senior Inspector
Marsh presented his report.
Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth The branch annual
meetmg was held at Kimbells Corner House, Portsmouth,
and Eng Rear-Admlral A. Kingsley Dibley took the chair.
The treasurer’s report was given by Mr D. A. Grey. Mr Allan
J omer was the guest speaker.

Park Gate, concert, Mrs K. Turner (aux hon sec), £8; Park
Gate, Jumble sale, £26. 2

Isle of Wight Ryde (Vectis Hall), jumble sale, Miss H. M.
Parkes (Blnstead aux hon sec), £24.

Kent—Dover and District Mrs Beaumont spoke on the
work of the RSPCA at the branch annual meeting held in the
Town Hall, Dover.

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Maidstone United foot-
ball club, collection, £13 10s.

Kent—North West Bexleyheath, jumble sale, Miss M.
James (aux hon sec) £28.

Lancashire—East and Blackburn The branch annual meet-
1ng was held 1n the Magistrate’s Room, Sessions House,
Northgate. Mr. J. Green, secretary of Manchester branch,
spoke on the work of the RSPCA.

Lancashlre—St Helens and District Mr F. J. Winchester,
counc11 member, spoke at the branch annual meeting on the
work of the Somety. Films were shown after the meeting.
Liverpool Two dockers, who rescued a dog from drowning,
were each presented with an RSPCA bronze medal and certi-
ﬁcate. at the Odeon Cinema, Liverpool. Items were given by
gignIglttlewoods Songsters, by kind permission of the manage-
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Inspector
Cook presented Flreman G. Ashmore, of Wilmslow, with an
RSPCA bronze medal for the rescue of a dog. The presenta-
tion took place at a hot pot supper at the Wilmslow station.

 

 

 




 

.L .M...__..._.. .____—_._..__—.__...

84 THEANlMALWORLD

July 1956

 

 

@bituczry '

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mrs
P. Daniels, a supporter, Mr Chas. Pearce, former
hon sec of Lincs Mid and Lincoln Branch, Miss
E. A. Howitt, a' supporter, Mr Peter Freeman,
Council Member, Mrs Quinton, hon sec, Need—
ham Market Aux, Mrs Lloyd, a supporter.

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

At the time of going to Press on May 31
we have been informed that the following
Flag Day Collections are to be held in the
near future:

Anglesey Saturday, July 14
Barnsley . . Saturday, July 14
Barnstaple Friday, August 3

Berkshire County
Billingham (Co. Durham)
Bradford
Bristol
Cardiff and District Branch (Gla‘
morgan County)

Saturday, July 28
Saturday, July 7
Saturday, July 14
Saturday, August 18

Friday 81 Saturday,
July 13 and 14

Chatham Saturday, July 28
Cleethorpes Saturday, July 28
Clitheroe Saturday, August 4

Cold Ash and Hermitage (Berkshire) Saturday, July 28

Conisborough (Yorkshire) Saturday, July 14

Corby, Lincolnshire (Sth. Kesteven
Rural District)

Denaby Main (Nr Rotherham)

Denbigh

Devizes

Dorset County

Drifﬁeld (Yorkshire)

Ecchinswell (Berkshire)

Essex County

Exeter

Saturday, July 21
Saturday, July 14
Wednesday, Aug. 8
Saturday, July 21
Saturday, August 4
Saturday, August 18
Saturday, July 28
Saturday, July 21
Friday, July 6

Faversham (Rent) . Saturday, July 7
Filey Saturday, July 14
Folkestone Saturday, July 28

Forest of Dean (Gloucestershire) Saturday, July 7

Gainsborough Saturday, August 18

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot
(Glamorgan County) .. Friday and Saturday,

July 13 and 14

Glamorgan West and Swansea (Gla—
morgan County)

Gravesend . . . . . .

Great Yarmouth and Gorleston

Heckington, Lincolnshire (E. Kest—
even Rural Dist.)

Hexham

Highclere, Berkshire

Hul . ..

Hunstanton . ..

King’s Lynn

Lambourne and Eastbury, Berkshire

Leasingham, Lincolnshire (E. Kest’
even Rural Dist.)

Leeds

Llandrindod Wells

Llandudno

Lymington

Maidstone

Merioneth

Friday and Saturday,
July 13 and 14 '
Saturday, July 28
Saturday, August 4

Saturday, July 21
Saturday, August 11
Saturday, July 28
Saturday, July 21
Wednesday, Aug. 1
Tuesday, August 14
Saturday, July 28

Saturday, July 21
Saturday, July 14
Saturday, July 28
Saturday August 11
Saturday, August 11
Tuesday, August 7
Saturday, July 7

Merthyr Tydﬁl and District (Gla—
morgan County) Friday and Saturday
July 13 and 14

Milford Haven (Pembrokeshire) Saturday, August 4

Montgomery Saturday, August 18

Newbury Saturday, July 28

Newton—le'Willows (Warrington)... Saturday, July 7

Northampton Saturday, July 21
Norwich Saturday, July 7
Reading Branch (Berkshire) Saturday, July 28
Redcar Saturday, July 28
Retford (Nottinghamshire) Saturday, August 18
St Mawes Tuesday & Wednes—
day, August 7 and 8
Saltburn (Yorkshire Saturday, August 11
Sidmouth Saturday, July 14
Southend’on-Sea Saturday, August 11
Stroud Saturday, August 4
Tewkesbury Saturday, July 28
Thetford Saturday, July 28

Thornaby—on—Tees
Wantage, Berkshire
Walkern (Hertfordshire)

Wimborne . . .

Saturday, August 18
Saturday, July 28
Saturday, August 4
Tuesday, July 31
Winchester (Rural District) Saturday, July 14
Woolton Hill, Berkshire Saturday, July 28

An appeal is made to any readers who are
able to assist these collections to communi‘
cate with the local Hon, Secretary, whose

name and address will gladly be supplied by
RSPCA Headquarters. '

A FEW USEFUL HINTS

FLAG DAYS. Collectors sometimes have great difficulty in
controlling emblems when there is a high wind. When a col-
lection takes place in such conditions, it is suggested the
emblems could be placed in cellophane bags, and placed in
the tray—thus the emblems can easily be seen and there is
no danger of the collector being diverted from his or her
efforts as a result of retrieving emblems blown from the
tray. A shopkeeper interested might donate the bags if the
predicament of the collector is noticed—otherwise, it is wise
to purchase a few for the purpose mentioned. Headquarters
cannot provide such bags as part of flag day equipment.

OUTDOOR DISPLAYS AND SHOWS. Difficulty is often
experienced when such displays are arranged at Agricul-
tural and similar shows, particularly when there is a strong
wind which blows leaflets in- all directions. By running two
lengths of string, about two inches apart, across a table,
ﬁrmly securing each end with a brad, and then at regular

intervals tacking the string to the table, it is possible to place
the leaflets under the double row of string which holds them
ﬁrmly and neatly in position.

COLLECTING BOXES AT HOLIDAY RESORTS. It is the
custom of one Branch supporter, on Saturday evenings, to
visit hotels at a popular seaside resort during the season
and with the permission of the Manager to take the
RSPCA collecting box from the bar counter and to pass it
amongst the visitors seated at the tables. By so doing a very
considerable amount of money is raised as few people refuse
to contribute. It is, of course, necessary to have the co-
operation and consent of the Manager of the hotel before
such a collection is possible. After the box has completed the
rounds, it is returned to the bar counter and the collector
moves on to the next hotel. It is estimated that the boxes so
used raised four times as much as a box which is just left on
the counter.
a?

 

 




 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A=

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be suﬁicient discharge forgsuch legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex'

pended on some particular phase 0 the Societ ’3 work a direction to this effect may be added to the
y )

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@NEE‘ORMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

(LONDON) LTD BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every

All inquiries to description for ALL
154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS or CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lineS) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




