 

 

 

 

 

E R.S.P. 0.1!:

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, for the
general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free of all duties
payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a suﬂicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the '

form of bequest.)

 

CAUTION
By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

@NEE‘ORMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD
Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries Of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

hAay 1957

THEANIMALWORLD 51

 

HEROES’ CORNER
Weak Heart had Great Heart

,. Nineteen/yearvold Clifford Twemlow has a weak
heart and is unﬁt for military service, but when
he saw a dog in difﬁculties in the Bridgwater
Canal at Eccles, Lanes, he did not hesitate to
dive in and try to rescue the animal.

The time was late November, in pitch dark—
ness; street lighting was poor at the place where
the incident happened, and it was very cold.

After swimming about 25 yards Mr Twemlow
managed to secure the dog, but on returning to
the bank, which rose steeply 18 in. above the
water, he bruised his chest in his efforts at getting
out. Police officers had now been called, and Mr
Twemlow, after handing the dog to them, gave
added evidence of his greatrheartedness by quietly
walking away.

For his gallantry he has received the bronze.

medal of the RSPCA.

Cats Rescued
Two men whose bravery in the rescue of cats

has earned the award of the RSPCA bronze
medal are Inspector Cole and Mr J. A. Wright.

After several rescue attempts, Inspector Cole
heard from Mr Baston, Edmonton Clinic Man;
ager, that the cat had been seen on the concrete
bank inside the culvert at Fore Street, Edmonton,
London.

Mr Baston was stationed on the footbridge
over the culvert, and the Inspector crawled 60 feet

through a semi—circular drain 2 ft. 6 in. wide and .
2 ft. high to reach the culvert.

The Inspector signalled Mr Baston to enter the
water, which, to a depth of 2 ft. 6 in., ﬂowed fast
through the culvert. Frightened, the cat jumped

into the water, and the two men waded in pursuit

for a distance of about 300 yards in the darkness.
After another 200 yards, the Inspector was finally
able to secure the cat, and both men' were so
exhausted that they had to rest before beginning
the arduous return journey of a quarter of a mile
against a strong current. They were in the culvert
one and a half hours before coming into the light
of day.

The rescued cat has joined the Inspector’s

household.

Rescuer’s weight swayed tree

Mr J. A. Wright scaled a fit tree 40 ft. high to
rescue a cat. He was already at the top when the
RSPCA Inspector arrived. Seeking to evade the
rescuer, the cat moved away, and as Mr Wright
followed, the tree swayed dangerously under his

weight in the high wind. He lowered himself

using one hand, holding the cat, whom he had
finally rescued, in the other. At one time the
tree listed to 45 degrees. The Inspector climbed
to give help, but had to return to the ground, as
his additional weight made the risk of the tree’s
breaking too great.

The rescue was finally accomplished. Once
again, the rescuer was reluctant to give his name.

 

HELP ON THE WAY!
MAROONED!

 

Photographs by courtesy of R. S. Oliver, Newcastle upon Tyne

Streak, 0 one-year-old brown and black Alsatian, fell into

a river before noon, disappeared, and was not seen again

until 5.30 p.m. The diary of events afterwards:

'6 p.m. Inspector Blain arrives and ﬁnds Streak perched on a
platform of floating wood (see photograph No. I).

6.30 p.m. Unable to climb the IS feet down to Streak, or to
get a rowing boat alongside, the Inspector asks the River
Police to help (No. 2).

 

RESCUED!

 

7.I5 p.m. Streak, drenched and trembling, jumps back into
the water and swims beneath a jetty, to evade his rescuers
who cIamber through ice-coated spars.

8.45 p.m. Streak appears once more,-and the RSPCA In-
spector borrows a pontoon and floats towards the dog.
At last Streak is rescued and taken to a riverside office
for warmth and food (No. 3).

 




 

May 1957

.—__i

DEER HUNTING}

SIR L. PLUMMER asked the Minister of Agriculture
Fisheries and Food: ’

(1) what representations on the subject of
deer hunting have been made by the County
Agricultural Executive Committees of Devon
and Cornwall;

(2) what advice he has given to west country
farmers as to the best method of protection
against damage by deer;

(3) to what extent agricultural production
on Exmoor is affected by the presence of deer.
MR AMORY: I have received no representations

from my county agricultural executives in the
SouthaWest, who inform me that they get few
requests for advice from farmers about pro;
tection against damage by deer. Where they do,
they suggest, in appropriate cases, fencing as the
only practicable means of protection which a
farmer can himself adopt. I understand that on
occasion local damage is caused by deer to crops
on Exmoor, but I have no information as to the
‘total extent of the damage.

SIR L. PLUMMER: Is the Minister aware that
the British Field Sports Society issued to the
Press two or three weeks ago a statement con—
taining the following: ﬁrst, that the Ministry
of Agricultural strongly supports the hunting
of deer; secondly, that the Agricultural Execu—

tive Committee for Devonshire also strongly ‘

supports the hunting of deer; and, thirdly,
that this is necessary to protect crops on
Exmoor? Is the Minister aware that the Devon
and Somerset Staghounds in their season
ending 1956—57 paid out for crop damage by
deer about £24 103. for the whole season,
thus showing that the damage is negligible?
Will the Minister now take the necessary
steps—

HON. MEMBERS: Speech. ,

SIR L. PLUMMER: On a point of order. I am
asking a supplementary question to three
Questions. .

MR SPEAKER: I know, but it still makes it rather
a long supplementary question.

SIR L. PLUMMER: Will the Minister now give
the necessary instructions that the most effective
Way of getting rid of these deer is by shooting
and not by pursuing this brutal and bestial habit
of hunting?

MR AMORY: There are very great practical
difﬁculties to shooting in the conditions in the
big woodland areas in which these deer spend
most of their time. I would refer the hon Member
to the Report of the Scott Henderson Committee
0f 1951 which looked into this whole matter and
Which reported that hunting was a necessary and
useful method of controlling red deer on -EXv
moor. (Hon Members: ‘Oh.’) I am only referring

THEANIMALWORLD 57

to what the Committee said. It said that the deer
could not be destroyed or controlled without
danger to persons or stock in a way that would
cause less suffering. It therefore recommended
that it be allowed to continue.

SIR J. LUCAS: Is it not a fact that after the Devon
and Somerset hounds were destroyed by rabies
many years ago and there was no hunting the
whole country was ﬁlled with wounded deer
being eaten alive by maggots, showing that in
wooded country shooting with shot guns, which
most farmers use, is impossible and that the only
way to destroy red deer is hunting them and, as
is being done now, shooting when they go to soil,
which means standing to bay in water?

MR. SHINWELL: Will the right hon Gentle—
man be forthcoming and frank with the
House and say whether these explanations
which we have heard justify cruelty to
animals?

MR AMORY: The question of the humanity or

' otherwise of hunting deer is one for my right

hon Friend the Home Secretary. My direct
interest is in the agricultural implications of this,
and I have referred the hon Member for Deptford
(Sir L. Plummer) to the Scott Henderson Report.*

* This Report, known as the Report of the Com,
mittee on Cruelty to Wild Animals, was issued in
1951. Evidence was given by the RSPCA, whose
representatives recommended that wild animals
should enjoy the same protection as domestic ones and
those in captivity.

The RSPCA is continuing to press for legislation,
which would have for its object the outlawing of the
hunting of deer with hounds. The RSPCA has been
agitating for such legislation for very many years.

UNDER ESCQRT

One RSPCA lecturer at a certain school found
the boys so keen to ask questions that when he
left they walked the greater part of the way back
to the hotel.

Since the last report 111 lectures were given in
schools in Lancashire, Yorkshire, Buckingham’
shire, Ashford area (Kent), Isleworth, Sheen,
Margate, Southampton, Loughborough, Leices'
ter, Port Talbot and Leyton. A Young Christians
Association in Cudworth, an Animal Defender
group in Burnley and a Youth Club in Port
Talbot were also addressed.

@bituary

With sincere regret we report these deaths:
Rev W. R. John, a supporter; Miss F. E. Cole,
hon secretary of Pontrilas auxiliary; Mr D. C.
Sinclair, Hull branch secretary.

 

 




P

 

 




 

 

if:

 

May 1957

THEANIMALWORLD 5.3

 

 

WARNING

This and the next three pages are devoted to reports
of RSPCA prosecutions; the next two pages carry
illustrated reports, which may possibly upset the
sensitive.

 

 

 

BOYS KICKED AND DROWNED
A CAT

The RSPCA had the unhappy task, recently, of
bringing before the Juvenile Court at Gravesend
three schoolboys, one aged eleven, and two (one
his brother) aged only eight years, on a charge of
killing a cat in an improper manner.

A housewife in evidence said that from her
window she saw four 'boys in an open air swim—
ming pool. After pulling towels from a line and
throwing them into the pool the boys disappeared
into a building on the side of the pool and reap,
peared after about five minutes. The tallest one
had a black cat, which he was holding by the tail.
He started dipping it into the water, and then,
still holding the tail, swung the cat which fell into
the water about half way across the pool. The
boy undressed, went into the water and got the
cat out. The boys then moved behind a wall and
the housewife saw the cat again swung and thrown
into the water. -

She called a passing Police Constable, who
immediately went into the grounds of the swimv
ming pool. He saw a dead cat ﬂoating in the
water. He asked whether the cat was alive when
thrown in, and the boys answered ‘Yes’.

Inspector Thomas interviewed the boys. One
of those aged eight admitted that he had thrown
the cat into the water and that at the time it was
struggling. The" other eightayearvold said that he
was the last to throw the cat in, but it was dead
by then. ~

The third, and eldest, boy denied to the In~
spector having picked up the cat by the tail, but
said that he had done so by the stomach. He
admitted having thrown the cat into the water.

Veterinary evidence showed that the cat was in
quite good bodily condition, and death was due
to asphyxia from drowning. In the opinion of the
veterinary surgeon there was nothing to indicate
that the animal was unconscious when the drown—
ing occurred. In his opinion the cat was subjected
to unnecessary and extreme suffering. 7

The eldest boy was convicted, and given a cona
ditional discharge. A supervision order was made
for two years, and the Probation Ofﬁcer was
asked to make enquiries with a View to his being
placed in a special residential school for sub,
normal children. His brother was placed under
the supervision of the Probation Ofﬁcer for two

years. Their mother was ordered to pay 3 guineas
costs.

The third boy was remanded to a reception
centre for three weeks, and when he appeared
in the Court after that time he was given an
absolute discharge and a Fit Persons’ Order was
made for him as being in need of care and
attention.

The fourth boy seen by the housewife witness
was not brought before the Juvenile Court, as
there was no evidence to show that he had had
any hand in the ill treatment of the cat. (B.1692.)

BEAR FRUSTRATED

When a man was ﬁned £10 at Faringdon and
ordered to pay £15 costs, for causing cruelty to a
bear, the chairman said that the Bench wished to
remove his licence for training and exhibiting
bears. ‘We disqualify you from being registered
under the Act of 1925 for ﬁve years. We also
want to deprive you of the ownership of the bear.’
Arrangements were made for the bear to be
properly housed.

Outlining the case, RSPCA counsel said that

’ the defendant was a teacher, and his hobby was

training wild animals—‘a somewhat remarkable
combination’. When the bears were not out on
hire to showmen, their home was a stone barn.
When taken from home they went in a travelling
cage on wheels. The cage had two compartments,
one measuring 6ft. long, 6ft. 6in. wide, and 6ft.
high, and the other being a bit larger.

It was in the smaller compartment that the
Himalayan bear, which was 5ft. 6in. high,
was kept. It had only just enough room in
which to turn round and no room in which
to get exercise. As the barn was lighted by
only one small skylight, the cages were in
semi—darkness nearly all the time.

Chief Inspector Waite said that the floor of
the cage in which the Himalayan bear was kept
was ﬁlthy. The bears had no water on the several
occasions on which he visited them. They were
‘utterly and completely dejected’. The defendant
had told him: ‘I know more about bears than
you will ever know and I am fed up with idiots
like you telling me it is cruel to keep it in that
cagef

A demonstrator in zoology at Oxford Uni—
versity said that the conditions under which the
bear was kept were contrary to its natural con;
ditions and would have caused it severe mental
frustration.

The defendant said that he provided the bears
with adequate food and water and cleaned the
cages daily. He admitted that the Himalayan
bear had not left its cage since July. It cost him
£3 a week to keep the bears and he had let them
out on hire at £5 a day. (B. 1744.)

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAEHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol LII No 5 New Series

MAY 1957

PRICE FOURPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

A PREMONITION ?

In a period of three weeks early in the year,
there were reports of bullocks running amok at
four different places: Slough, Worcester, Black;
pool and Doncaster.

‘Berserk bullock’ and ‘Death in the Afternoon’
were among the sensational headings under which
' the incidents were reported in the popular Press.
The word ‘rodeo’ was pressed into service.

For those of us who are apt to look beyond
animal behaviour to its cause, the spectacle of a
terriﬁed bullock raises inevitably the question:
Why should an animal, apparently docile, sud;
denly take it into his head to run away?

We do not think of the gesture as one of made
ness (though frustration might almost induce
this); to us it rather expresses bewilderment. If
the animal is to be caught (and this is demanded
both in the public and the animal’s interest), we
think of it as a sad necessity, not as an excuse for
sensational reporting. Ofﬁcers of the police, the
army and the RSPCA have all, with commend~
able zeal, undertaken the unhappy task of giving
the frightened animals a swift and humane
release. .

The four bullocks were on their way, ulti/
mately, to slaughter at the time they ran amok;
two of them were already at the abattoir. It
would be fanciful to think of their effort to ﬂee
as showing that they had a premonition of death,
but it will help us to understand the grave likeli—
hood of suffering whenever farm animals are
handled at markets, in slaughter .houses and when
travelling, if we remember that, up to a few
, moments before their ﬂight, these four bullocks
'had been behaving normally.

Whatever went on inside their brains, we
see their gesture as a protest. For some reason
they were rebelling against a particular move.

From the moment they left the ﬁelds in which
they had lived their placid lives, they had ac,

cepted the compulsion to walk along unfamiliar
ways. They had walked up the ramps into lorries,
or perhaps into railways trains; they had seen the
countryside moving by in a strange way.

In the market there were strange companions;
crowding figures—the curious who come to cattle
markets for no other reason than to stare—jostled
one another to see them and angered their
drovers by getting in the way.

Perhaps the strange sights were beyond their
comprehension; unusual noises gave to their
lives the character of a phantasmagoria.

And, above all, the strange smells bore in
upon them a sense of something cruelly
amiss. Was this the ﬁnal strain that caused
the mental tension to reach breaking point?-

No one can tell, but the proof of apprehension
is inescapable. For the four animals who recently
‘made the headlines’ how many others have
rebelled, and, not displaying the same vigour,
have been quelled. The quelling of the less vigor’
ous takes place out of sight—unlike the checking
of the animals running amok— and we are justi’
ﬂed in feeling apprehension about the methods

. used. . . .

Keeping these reﬂections in mind, we believe
that the travelling of animals should be kept to a
minimum. The longer the journeys they have to
make and the more frequently they are handled,
the greater is the likelihood of suffering.

Crowding and bad siting of markets and
slaughter houses are another likely source of
suffering.

The ideal for which we must strive in
seeking to minimize the risk of suffering is so
to order the handling of farm animals in'
tended for slaughter that the possibility of
bewilderment and panic is as far as we can

foresee banished. EDITOR

 

HORROR!

In accordance with custom, we warn readers who would rather not see harrowing reports and pictures that the
four centre pages of this magazine are devoted to RSPCA prosecutions.

 




 

May 1957

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 59

 

 

PARMAMENTARY
N EWS

QUESTIONS
Export of Live Cattle

Questions continued to be asked in the House of
Commons on this subject. MR FELL told the
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food that
the matter was still exercising opinion in the
country. In the postbag he had had more letters
and petitions from all over the United Kingdom
on this matter than on any other subject. Remarkv
ing on the signiﬁcance that nearly all the corre’
spondence is from farmers he wondered whether
the work of the Committee enquiring into the
trafﬁc could be hastened, and whether he would
make some interim statement which would give
some feeling of conﬁdence to people that some—
thing urgent was being done. MR GODBER said
that the Committee was pressing ahead as fast as
possible.

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed
by the sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting;
they are followed by the word branch, or the name of the
auxiliary, and an indication, where possible, of the person
presiding and o/‘ol‘ficials presenting reports; other information
is given as necessary.)
Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District AM (branch).
Lady Dorman-Smith presided. Speaker, Mr C. R. Dav1es.
Mrs Gordon Smith was presented with the Silver Brooch for
25 years’ service.
Animals’ Help Society AM. The chair was taken by Mrs
W- Longman (Council member). Guest speaker: Miss
Lind-af—Hageby.
Birkenhead and Wirral AM (branch). The Mayor of
Birkenhead (Councillor W. Curley Baker) presided.
BIaCkPool AM (branch). The Deputy Mayor of Blackpool
(Coun D. J. Johnson) presided. Speaker: Mr D. A. L. Camm
(Assistant Secretary of the Society).
Caernarvonshire—Llandudno and District AM (Branch).
Speaker: Mr P. Turner. '
Cumberland—North and East Senior Inspector H. Brown
gave a lecture on cruelty to animals to Cumberland and
Westmorland Police at Penrith - .
Denbighshire—West and Colwyn Bay AM (branch). The
Mayor of Colwyn Bay presided. Speaker: Mr P. Turner.
Derbyshire—Derby and District Allestree, children’s ball,
Mrs R. A. Loten (branch hon sec), £70.

Aston-on-T rent, sale, Mrs Brace and Mrs Baggerley (co
hon secs), £26. ,

Children’s dancing display, Mr and Mrs Slater, £8 8s. 4d.

.Gymk‘hana and Pet show, Mrs and Miss Turner, The
Silver Horse Shoe Stables, £100.. _ _
ESS_eX——North-West Animal Welfare Centre and Clinlc,
f\thlcslt drive, Miss Everitt (hon clinic sec), £2 10s. for clinic
. un s. -
Grimsby and District Grimsby, dinner and dance, attended

by Major C. Fitzwilliams (branch chairman), Mrs Bain- ’

borough (branch hon sec). _ ,
Halifax AM (branch). The Mayor of Halifax, accompanled
by the Mayoress, took the chair. Speaker: Mr K. Tolhurst,
branch organizer. -

(Readers will recall that RSPCA witnesses have

presented evidence before this Committee.)

Rabbit Traps

Pressed by Members of Parliament for informaa
tion about the best type of humane rabbit trap,
the Minister of Agriculture said that the Com—
mittee appointed for the purpose of ﬁnding the
best one was getting on with the task. It has made
some progress, he said, and has under trial now
several possible traps.

(The RSPCA Sawyer humane rabbit trap is one
of the humane control methods recommended

by the RSPCA.) -

 

ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLlSHMENTS BlLL
Unfortunately, the failure to secure a quorum on two
consecutive days for the Committee stage of this Bill
means that its chances of passing this session are very
slender.

 

 

 

Hants and Surrey Border Aldershot, official opening of the
new Clinic by Viscountess Alanbrooke (branch president).
Among branch ofﬁcials present were Mrs Barbour (branch
co. hon sec), Mr Foord (branch chairman), and other com-
mittee members and workers. Major Hancock attended from
Headquarters.

AM (branch). Viscountess Alanbrooke presided.
Kent—Folkestone and District Jumble sale, Mrs Ethering-
ton, £18 7s.

AM (branch). Mr A. E. Grace (chairman) presided. An
address was given by Mr Roland Ampleford, RSPCA
Parliamentary organizer._

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Jumble sale, £28.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich AM (Thetford auxiliary).
TheMayor (Mr G. A. Kybird), who was accompanied by
the Mayoress, presided at the meeting.

Norfolk West Downham Market, whist drive, Mrs Bird
(aux hon sec), £10. ‘
N0rth Tees AM (branch). Speaker: Mr H. D. Luetchford.
Senior Inspector Bielby was presented with his long
service medal.

Nottingham and Notts Retford, jumble sale, Mrs G. E.
Hurst (aux hon sec), £45 35. 2d. ,
Rochdale AM (Heywood auxiliary).

Rotherham and District AM (branch). Alderman Mrs

‘In memory
of Darky’——-
picture from
Mr A. Hewitt,
Ashington

 

 

 

 

 




 

May 1957

BEFORE

 

The dejected dog in the first picture needs help to hold up
his head. He was found in a small shed, which was locked.
The only light reaching him was from a crack at the top of
the door. There were no windows.

When RSPCA inspector Errington made his way into the
shed he found the dog crouching on a tin in a corner. The
bones of the ribs and spine could be seen quite plainly, the
dog was so thin. Coal dust covered the animal’s body.
There were a few empty cans and a bowl in the shed, but no
food or water.

For starving the dog the owner was fined £4 and had to
pay £3 3s. costs, when he was prosecuted by the RSPCA at

THEANIMALWORLD 55

DEjECTlON—

AND AFTER

 

Dover. His wife was fined £l . On an application made by the
RSPCA both defendants were disqualified for ten years from
keeping a dog or holding a dog licence.

The dog was given to the RSPCA and the change in his
condition is shown in the second picture, taken after the dog
had been only a few weeks in the RSPCA kennels. The dog
has now been placed in a good home. (8.! l52.)

 

HOLlDAY NEGLECT

 

‘Before' photo by courtesy of the City of Shefﬁeld Police

At Dronﬁeld, a woman, charged with failing to
give proper care and attention to a greyhound,
Was ﬁned £15 with £7 73. costs.

Inspector Burr visited kennels kept by the de—
fendant to examine the dog, which had been
there ten days while the owner was on holiday.
The dog appeared to be very ill, emaciated, with
all joints on the four legs very swollen. There
were numerous sores, vermin crawling on the

 

back, and pads of the feet were split open and
badly infected. There was a very strong smell of
urine and the dog’s coat was stained and covered
in dirt. A veterinary surgeon said the dog had
been grossly neglected and suffered considerably
as a result. The dog’s weight had gone down from
68’70 lb. to 45 lb. in nine days.

Returned to the owner, the dog was soon re’
stored to condition as the second picture shows.

(Case B343)

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

Founded 1824

 

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

 

PRESIDENT

PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

THE COUNCIL

 

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP

AGIUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD
‘ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS
‘COOPER, J. D., ESQ., JP
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
I'DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

 

Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTEss
GARDNER, HON. JULIET

*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ.
HOGG, S. R., ESQ. DSO, MC

HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE

*HUNTER, MISS

LEE, MRS E. M.
LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD
LONGMAN, MRS W.

MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A.

*McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH.B.
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP
POULETT. THE RT HON THE EARL

 

*PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*RATrRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
RISELEY, MRS R. C.
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ
SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.
MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
*TAIT, MRS, MA
*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*WINCHESTER, F. 1., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

 

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer——LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ
Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chief Veterinary Officer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams——WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

Telegrams: 'Unibutco Edo’

 

 

Reading, with Berks, Hants & Oxon Border Branch

Forthcoming Events in 1957

BRING & BUY SALE—Room adjoining Messrs.
Wellsteeds’ Restaurant, Reading, Thursday,
11th July, at 3 p.m.—-Admission 1/—.

RSPCA SPECIAL SERVICE—Municipal Church Of
St. Lawrence in Reading, Sunday, 6th October.
Preacher—The Rt. Rev. The Bishop of Reading.

SALE—Goods, Old & New. Bring SI Buy. St. John’s
Hall, Fartherson Road (Off King’s Road),

Reading. Saturday, 23rd November, at 2.30 p.111.
Admission 3d.

For further details apply to:
Miss E. M. Wadland (Branch Secretary),

275 Wykeham Road, Reading.

    

  

CASH X”

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL. ANIMALS

. SURE it?

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ° BIRMINGHAM ’ 6 ° ENGLAND
5456

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

50 ’ THEANIMALWORLD

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

MARCH 1957

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,198 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
55 Oﬂenders ﬁned.

45- Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

735 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES— Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting 5
DONKEY— Working in an unﬁt state 1
CATTLE—Neglecting 4
SHEEP—Conveying and exposing for sale in an unﬁt state 1
PIGS—Neglecting 3
GOAT—Neglecting 1
. DOGS—Neglecting, beating, kicking, injuring with

missile, etc. ~ 13
Poms—Neglecting, shooting and wounding 4
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Conﬁning birds in small cages ..

Being in possession of recently taken birds

Using bird lime

Shooting
VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Laying poison 1

Infringements of the Slaughter of Animals (Pre—

vention of Cruelty) (No.2) Regulations, 1954 4
Infringements of the Slaughter of Animals (Pigs)

Act, 1953 2
Permitting in oﬁences 5
Aiding and abetting in oﬂences 4

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS- 5

During MARCH, 1957, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or holding a dog
licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as fol lows:

TWO for 2 years; Two for 3 years; FOUR for 5 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 6,319 .
, Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 162
Total number of CAUTIONS from January '1st 2,205

NNt—N

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,941 Dogs 3,987 Misc. 908 Total 8,836
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,107

PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Dogs 85 Cats 15 Misc. 1 Total 101

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,202

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 8

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 296

No. of animals rescued: 7

No. of inspection complaints: 13

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,887

NORTH WALES UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 26 Dogs 59 Misc. 3 Total 88
No. of animals handled by Unit:

Cats 151 Dogs 148 Misc. 3 Total 302
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,400

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT
First. aid cases:
Cats 49 Dogs 55 Misc. 6 Total 110
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 80 Dogs 77 Misc. 10 Total 167
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,268

AWARDS

Cases considered 37
Certiﬁcates 20
Bronze Medal 1
RECORDS FOR 1956
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS ... . .. 26,508
CONVICTIONS . . . ... 1,029
CAUTIONS 8,979

HEADQUARTERS CLINIC
No. of animals handled: 145,471

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,267

 

 




 

 

 

52 THEANIMALWORLD

May 1957

 

 

 

Photo by courtesy of The Field

HOW WARM MY TOES

. . . A cat who likes keeping warm.

TOASTING HER TOES

Sir,-—-This photograph shows our cat in her favourite
position of warming her paws on the cooker. In winter
she will sit in the same position all day, if allowed, continu-
ally getting her ears singed whenever the oven doors are
opened. I have never seen any other cat in this position and
neither have any of my friends. Incidentally, she is a good
ratter in spite of the partial loss of one hind leg owing to a
rat bite.

PENELOPE VERNER

Fonthill Gifford, Tisbury, Wiltshire

 

Wild Animals

The three headings under which can be ranged
opposition to the training and exhibition of wild
animals for entertainment purposes and their
exploitation in travelling menageries are: capture,
imprisonment incages, and methods used in
training.

These headings were listed by Major Chapman,
branch organizer, when he opposed Mr Cyril B.
Mills, of Bertram Mills’ Circus, in a debate at
the Forum Club in London. A report of the
debate has reached Animal World from Miss
G. K. Sladen, who arranged for the Views of
animal protection societies to be presented.

Cruelty of Capture

»Major Chapman said he had travelled in many
parts of the world and had never seen a wild
animal captured in a humane way. Pits, traps,
cages were used, and animals captured were in a
frenzy of terror.

He saw no justice in condemning any wild
animal to have a lifetime imprisonment.
Apart from the diseases brought on by con—
ﬁnement in unnatural conditions, the animals
suffered mentally, as shown by their stereotyped
movements—pacing backwards and forwards,
or round and round, ever seeking a way of
escape.

On training methods, Major Chapman quoted
from Alfred Court’s Wild Circus Animals, which
has been extensively reviewed in a previous issue
of Animal World. He described the book as ‘a tale
of cruelty from beginning to end’.

‘ He considered that the exhibition of trained
wild animals had a degrading effect on audiences.

in Captivity

He instanced chimpanzies dressed in bikinis and
a bear representing a drunken man.

‘When we are cruel’, he concluded, ‘by cap»
turing, conﬁning and training wild animals, we
have done wrong to all living things, of which we
are part.’

The Opposition

Mr Cyril B. Mills considered that the capture of
wild animals had little to do with the motion. He
added that adult animals were not used for
training.

A book by a doctor associated with the Zurich
Zoo demonstrated that animals in captivity
needed ‘something’, and this something a circus
provided: an interest in life, good food and a
mate. If there were any cruelty inﬂicted on
animals in a circus, ‘somebody would do some;
thing about it’.

He did not consider Alfred Court an authority
on animal training.

On the degrading effect of debased turns on an
audience, Mr Mills asked where the line could
be drawn in the matter of conscience. He advised
anyone who thought performing animal shows

egrading not to attend them.

Mr Mills was supported by Mr Alex Kerr, who
had been with him as a wild animal trainer for
ten years. He said that a successful trainer had
to be a psychologist; he must forget he was a
human l-eing and become like an animal! '

This motion, put to the vote, showed the
House equally divided:

‘That this house is opposed to the exhibition

and performance of wild animals in circuses
and travelling: maiagcries.’

 

 

‘ﬁ

 




54 . THEANIMALWORLD May 1957

‘

 

 

BEFORE AND AFTER—

 

A series of pictures showing how dogs distressed by cruelty are restored by kindness to

happiness and renewed conﬁdence in mankind.

 

 

 

 

NEGLECTED IN EMPTY COTTAGE At Northallerton Court a man was prosecuted for omitting
to give proper and necessary care and attention and suﬂ“- '
cient nourishing food to a dog. He was fined £5 with
£l0 l0s. costs, and disqualified for life from holding a dog
licence or keeping a dog.

_ Regional Supt Meara reported that he found a cross-bred
Sealyham terrier bitch in an empty cottage. The animal

A room was dreadfully emaciated and looked very poor and de-

jected. There was no food but a little water in a glass recep-

tacle. (This may or may not have been rain-water.) As ken-
nel the dog had a leaky shed and some damp straw for a bed.

The dog The lnspector got some bread and milk which the dog de-

enjoys a voured ravenously. He visited the place again the next

morning and gave the animal some dog biscuits. A veterinary

surgeon also examined the Sealyham terrier and found no

friendly pat! evidence of disease. In his opinion the cause of the emacia-
tion was starvation.

The dog was cared for by the RSPCA and placed in a good
home, where the results of kindness and care can be seen
in the latest photograph, taken some months afterwarcés.

A.9l 8

without a view.

luxury—a

 

 

 

BEFORE . . . ' . . . AND AFTER

 

('Before’ photographs by courtesy of North Riding of Yorkshire
Constabulary; ‘After’ photograph taken by R/Supt Meara)

 




 

56 ’ THEANIMALWORLD

hAay 1957

 

 

FOWLS CARRIED IN BAG

Found to be carrying four live hens in a 20 in. by
18 in. bag without air vents, an Italian was ﬁned
£5 in a case brought by the RSPCA at Bedford
Borough Magistrates’ Court. He was also ordered
to pay costs totalling £1 13.

A solicitor, prosecuting, said a police ofﬁcer
at a sale yard saw a number of foreigners, includ
ing the defendant, who was carrying a bag which
was bulging. When defendant was asked to open
the bag the officer saw a fowl and when defendant
took this fowl out the ofﬁcer saw there were
three more inside.

The fowl which had been on top appeared
more or less all right but the other three
appeared very distressed. Their eyes were
closed and their beaks open and they appeared
to be gasping for breath. Defendant proceeded
to kill three of the birds and put them back in
the bag and put the live one on top.

(B.1919, Senior Inspector Dowling.)

DOG HAD BROKEN LEG——
OWNER DID NOT SEEK HELP

When a man was told in a publicrhouse that a
black and white collie dog, thought to be his,
had been run over and severely injured and had
limped off into a ﬁeld, he said: ‘I am waiting for
a bus to go to work. The dog will ﬁnd its way
home.’ The black and white collie was his and it
had to be destroyed.

Dartford magistrates heard this when they ﬁned
the man £2 for causing unnecessary suffering to
the dog by unreasonably omitting to give it care
and attention while it was suffering. He was also
ﬁned 15s. for keeping the dog without a licence.
Costs amounting to £2 23. were charged against
him.

A witness told the Court that he was driving
along a road when he collided with the dog.

Broken Leg

Yelping, with its foreleg broken,‘it limped off
into a ﬁeld. The witness said he found out the
owner was in a nearby public—house. He ~went in,
told him he thought he had run over his dog and
asked for his help to ﬁnd it.

The owner replied that he was waiting for a
bus and that the dog would ﬁnd its way home.

A police constable said he found the injured
animal lying beneath a piece of corrugated iron
at the owner’s home. He took it to a vet.

A veterinary surgeon said that two inches
of bone was sticking out from the right fore—
leg, in which there was also another bone
broken. Only skin and muscle was holding
the leg to the bone.

Secure in House

The owner said that when he left home after
dinner the dog was secure in the house, but it had
access to the garden, in which there was a gate.
It may have jumped over or crawled under the
gate to get out.

He went into the public’house to wait for a
bus to go to work. As the bus was due in about
two minutes there was nothing he could do,
when he heard of the dog’s plight. He said the
man who had collided with the dog told him he

was going to ring for a vet.

‘If I had known . . .’

The owner believed his dog was at home.
He added: ‘Not thinking it was my dog I could
not lose half a day’s work. If I had known it was
my dog I would have lost a week’s work.’

(B. 1855, Inspector Thomas.)

LIVE BIRDS (18ins.) PUT IN
BOXES (16ins.) LONG

A ﬁne of £10 was imposed on a farmer for
causing unnecessary suffering to fortyaeight
ducklings, by Banbury Borough Magistrates. He
was also ordered to pay £15 163 4d. costs.

Inspector J. Ambrose told the magistrates he
was on duty in Banbury market when he saw
some cardboard cartons.

Gasping for Breath

Opening the ﬁrst carton, he found it contained
six Aylesbury ducklings, two of which were dead.
Inspector Ambrose continued: ‘The inside of
this carton was extremely hot, the birds were
wet with perspiration and those that were alive
were gasping for breath.’

Opening the remaining seven cartons, he found
two more dead birds. The remainder were ‘all
in a state of exhaustion and gasping for breath..’

Overcrowded
The length of the birds was 18 inches and the

cartons were 16 inches by 14 inches and seven
inches deep.

The Inspector ended: ‘These birds died of
suffocation, having been overcrowded in transit.
It was cruel to have them sent in this manner.’

Blamed Railways

In Court, the defendant alleged that the ventilation
holes in the cartons were blocked up by parcels
on the railway journey. (31586.)

 

Helping at an RSPCA Flag Day is a simple way of
supporting the ﬁght against cruelty to animals!

 

 

 

 




 

58 THEANIMALWORLD

MONKEY BUSINESS

Reprinted with acknowledgments from ‘AntivVivia
section News’, organ of the London and Provincial
Anti’Vitvisection Society.

 

Since Christmas four baby Rhesus monkeys have been born
at Whipsnade. One of them is seen held in its mother’s arms.
This is one of the types of monkeys who pass through the
RSPCA Hostel at London Airport in thousands en route for
the USA—to what fate?

Monkey business is big business these days and
those who engage in it must be doing very nicely
for themselves out of it whatever may be the out
come for the unfortunate monkeys.

In March, 1957, a total of 7,339 monkeys
passed through London airport.

The numbers are likely to continue to increase
for they are now being used on a large scale both
in research into and testing of vaccines against
poliomytelitis.

It is estimated that these wretched victims fetch
about £1 a piece in India and anything up to £8
apiece by the time they reach this country.With
such .a proﬁt margin it does not appear to be
difﬁcult to ﬁnd people to engage in this modern
‘slaveatrade’ and the scale of such operations may
be estimated from the fact that the ﬁgures of
monkeys arriving at London Airport alone during
the past three years have been 66,678 in 1954;
83,732 in 1955 and 120,623 in 1956.

May 1957

With monkey business in the news,
I asked one Rhesus for his views;
‘I hear,’ I said, ‘you’re on your way
By airplane to the USA.’
‘Too bad the other allocation
Had to die of suffocation;
Are conditions of conﬁnement
Better for this new consignment?’
‘You’ll ﬁnd,’ I said, ‘the journey thrilling,
Yankee entertainment killing;
Not every little monkey rates.
An invitation to the States.’
‘Gee!’ I said, ‘to be allowed
To serve mankind must make you proud;
It’s sure a pleasure to report
This mission has your full support.’
‘All thinking monkeys must abhor
Research for purposes of war,
But none, of course, could have objection
To peaceful forms of Vivisection.’
‘You’re not compelled,’ I said, ‘to pass
The lethal tests for Poison Gas,
And only those who volunteer
May travel to the Stratosphere.’
‘For monkeys who are Paciﬁst
There’s quite a comprehensive list,
Whichever branch,’ I said, ‘you choose,
You won’t have much, I guess, to lose.’
‘If you prefer virology
To nuclear technology,
They’ll gladly stamp your card CO.
And pass you on to Polio.’
‘You’ll make the grade,’ I said, ‘Okay,

. What message shall I take away?
Your point of View should thin the ranks
Of AntI’ViVISCCtIOIl cranks.’
‘Well, thanks,’ I said, ‘Gee, thanks a lot;
Now hold it please for one more shot;
Let’s have a great big smile to show
The folks back home you’re proud to go.’
‘Good luck,’ I said, ‘Goodbye—time’s up!
I’ll see you get a good writerup!’
There goes, I thought, one real swell guy,
Now why, I wonder, did he cry?

AGATHI’E SOUTHERN

NOTE: The RSPCA objects to many of the uses
for which animal air passengers are intended.
Unfortunately, such uses are legal, and so long as
this is so the RSPCA will give the animals suc—
cour at. the air hostel at London airport—whilst
ﬁghting to abolish the cruel exploitation of all
animals. . .

 




 

6O THEANIMALWORLD

May 1957

 

Green, JP (branch chairman) presided. Speaker: Mr K.
Tolhurst.

Somerset—South llminster, dance, Mrs Taylor (aux hon
sec), £13.

Staffordshire—North AM (Leek auxiliary) Mr Tolhurst,
branch organizer, spoke.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham ColTee morning and
bring and buy sale, Miss M. Tamplin (branch hon sec), £31
Suffolk—East, and Ipswich AM (branch). Lord Ailwyn
presided.

Torquay and South-East Devon Torquay, Ideal Homes

Exhibition Stand, Mrs M. V. Dodds (branch hon sec)
£193 3s.10d.

Jumble sale, Mrs M. V. Dodds (branch hon sec),
£26 85. 5d. for clinic funds.
Warrington and District AM (branch). The Mayor of
Warrington, accompanied by the Mayoress, presided.
Speaker: Mr K. Tolhurst.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Bridlington,
jumble sale, Mrs L. Gray (branch hon sec), £16 153. 9d.
Yorkshire——York and District In 1956 auxiliaries raised
£451~:—a record.

 

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

Notiﬁed up to time of going to Press on March 29.

Barnsley . Saturday, May 18
Bedfordshire County.. Saturday, June 15
Benington (Hertfordshire) Saturday, May 25
Bexhill —_—on Sea Saturday, May 11
Saturday, May 25
Saturday, May 25
Saturday, May 25
Thursday, May 16
Saturday, May 18
Saturday, June 15

Birkenhead . . .

Blyth (Northumberland)
Braughing (Hertfordshire)
Brigg (Lincolnshire)
Buckinghamshire County
Burgess Hill (Sussex)..

Cardiff Saturday, May 11
Cheltenham Saturday, May 25
Cirencester Saturday, May 4
Congleton Saturday, May 11

Cumberland—North and East Branch
(County Collection)

Saturday, June 15
Cumberland—West Branch (County

Collection). Saturday, June 15
Dartford Saturday, May 25
Durham City Saturday, May 11
Fordingbridge Saturday, May 25
Grimsby . Saturday, June
Hastings Saturday, June

Hatﬁeld Rural District
Heckington (Lincolnshire)
Hemel Hempstead

Hexham

Hormead (Hertfordshire)
Irthlingborough (Northants)
Kings Langley (Hertfordshire)
Knebworth (Hertfordshire)
Leasingham (Lincolnshire)

Saturday, June
Saturday, June
Saturday, May
Saturday, June
Saturday, May 25
Saturday, May 18
Saturday, June 8
Saturday, June 8
Saturday, June 8

r—‘Ammi—‘r—‘l

Letchworth Saturday, May 25
Llangollen Saturday, May 11 '
London... Saturday, May 11
Macclesﬁeld Friday & Satur—

day, May 24 & 25
Friday & Satur-
day, May 10 & 11
Saturday, June 15
Saturday, June 8
Saturday, June 1
Saturday, June 8

Morley (near Leeds) ..

Newbury .

New Forest Rural District

Newport (Mon)

Northﬂeet (Kent) .

Northumberland—WestBranch (Rural .
Areas) Saturday, May 18

Norton (Yorkshire) Saturday, May 11

Otley (Yorkshire) Saturday, June 8

Oxford“ Saturday, May 11

Portsmouth Saturday, June 1
Preston Saturday, May 11
Retford Saturday, May 4
Rochdale Saturday, May 25

Royston (Yorkshire): Friday & Satur'
day, May 31 &

June 1

Rugby Saturday, June 15
Ruskington (Lincolnshire) Saturday, June 8
Scunthorpe Saturday, June 15

Shefﬁeld Saturday, June 8
Spalding Saturday, June 1
Stevenage Saturday, May 25
Stourbridge Saturday, May 4
Sunderland Saturday, June 1
Surrey County Collection Saturday, May 11
Swindon . . Friday 81 Saturv
day, May 24 S1 25
Tiverton Saturday, May 11
Tring Saturday, May 25
Walkern (Hertfordshire) Saturday, May 25
Wellingborough Saturday, May 11
Westmorland Branch (County Col
lection) Saturday, June 15

Windsor Branch (Buckinghamshire
County Collection)... Saturday, May 18
An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with their local hon
secretaries, whose names and addresses will gladly be

supplied by RSPCA Headquarters.

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE- COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELSe—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

I

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
“MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT u

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY
IIMAY

with
HOUSE-TO-HOUSE COLLECTION
From 5 MAY—II MAY (inclusive)

HOW TO HELP

By making a street collection in the Metropolitan
Police Area (London and Suburbs) on 11 May.

By making a house to house collection in London
(and Suburbs) between 5 May and II May (in-
clusive).

By placing tins and emblems in shops and busi-
ness premises.

By making a private collection among relatives
and friends, even if you do not live in the London

area.
[Photo by courtesy of G. E. Bmzcombe

‘I’m putting in a call to help the RSPCA’ By sending a donation

By sending the names and addresses of friends

NB—No one under the age of 18 is permitted to collect Who are prepared to C0116“-

either in the street or from house to house in the
LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes pos—
sible for young people to make private collections
amongst relatives and friends.

Offers of help, please, to:-
RSPCA, Appeals Dept,
105 Jermyn Street, London SW1

‘Thank you! Well done.”

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermvn Street, London, SW1

 




