 

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAYS

Branches organizing Flag Days are reminded it is Morecambe

advisable to order their equipment at an early date, ”"3 Da)’

preferably about four weeks before the collection is Mrs 30"

to take place. Early ordering is not only of assist- and ”’5
Wolfenden

ance to Headquarters, but helps Branches in the
distribution of supplies to collectors, allowing suf-
ﬁcient time in which to obtain additional equipment
if necessary.

While Headquarters will always do everything

 

 

 

 

possible to meet late orders it will be appreciated in

such cases there can be no guarantee that supplies T E M P L E C o x c A PT I v E

will arrive in time.
Provincial Flag Da 0 ' l k d

to be good enough to riturliigztlhlg: $213313: 2min B o L T s L A U G H T E R I N G

as possible after the collection to facilitate re- G U N S

. labelling of tins, etc., for further use. '

 

 

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

EM__—_

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons ’

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telegrams: "Unibutoo Edo'

   

 

   
 

  

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 
 
  

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 
    

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

   

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY
TUESDAY, 24 MAY

PLEASE HELP
By Collecting in London
— if only for
an Hour or Two!

Oﬁers of help, please, to :——
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105- Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POULli'l'l‘, 'I‘HE Rl‘ HON THE EARL
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GASKOIN, C. J. 13., ESQ, MA POWELL, COL R. M., Dso

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP *RATTRAY, R. F., IeSQ, MA. PHD

BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS, R. C.

BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ *RIECK, H. H., I-LSO
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP HOGG, S. R., ESQ, Dso, MC SHAFTESBURY, THI: RI HON THE COUNTESS OF

DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ., MBE SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP *HUNTER, MISS SNELL THE REV PRIIIIINDARY L. J. 8., MBE, TD, JP
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT, MRS, BA

ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. c., JP, TD, MP TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN

(CANTAB), DOMS LONGMAN, MRS w. *WALFORD, MRS DLSIIOROUGH
"EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE MP *WHITE, HARRY. E.- 2.. FCA
*WINCHESTER, F. J., l-iSQ, ECIS, FSS

 

 

"‘ Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL 1-,«C- LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS ISQ, M Bli, ACIS
Deputy H0“ Treasurere—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, I-iSQ, BA
~ Hon Medicaiomeer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
‘1 ,. ‘Baf‘lxlc'l‘se—‘TJIESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. (i. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telephone—Whitehall 7177

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

 

GROUP XIII
SPRING CONFERENCE

The Spring Conference of this Group
~ - “A; __ z , ~ ‘ will be held on Saturday, April 23, 1955
W: ~ at 11.0 a.m. at St Nicholas Hotel, St
Nicholas Cliff, Scarborough, and all
branch and auxiliary branch secretaries
are cordially invited to attend. The chief
secretary of the society has kindly con—
sented to be present and the Mayor of
Scarborough (Councillor Miles Bird,
J.P.) will accord the Conference a Civic
Welcome. Resolutions and other agenda
material should be sent to the group sec—
retary as soon as possible, and, in any
case, not later than April 9.

     

VI

 

 

 

  

1 SlMPlE..-\I
: $AFE.. -
-. SURE APEX?

      
 

London Joint Animal
Flag Day
CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL

FOR ALL ANIMALS Tuesday, 24 May
ICCIES AHD SHELVOKE [TD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 8 ‘ ENGLA::56 PLEASE HELP!

 
    

I
I
l
I
I

 




 

A Photo]

 

 

 

March 1955

THEANIMALWORLD' ~ 29

 

 

lh iii-111M gﬁﬁg _g__ r

INJURED ROOK ,AS DECOY

It was alleged at Doncaster that a farmer found
a rook with a broken wing. He fastened the in;
jured wing to its body with an elastic band, and
placing the bird in a wood and wire—mesh box
used it as a decoy to capture wild birds destroying
his pea crop.

He was accused under the Protection of Birds
Act of using as a decoy’a live bird which was
injured. He was ﬁned £5 with £4 17s. costs.

A solicitor, prosetuting for the RSPCA, said
that a witness was walking along a foOtpath
near the defendant’s land when he saw a bird
trap.

Inside the trap were a rook and a jackdaw. The
rook’swing, he said, was broken and fastened to
its body with an an elastic band.

This was reported and later, RSPCA Inspector

Waddleton and a police constable found the
birds in the trap, which was made of wood and.
wire mesh. There were adequate food and water
in the trap, he added.

There was a cone on the top where birds could
enter the trap, but it was highly improbable that
they could get out.

‘Done in Ignorance’

The rook was in such a bad condition that In»
spector Waddleton had to destroy it.

Inspector Waddleton and the constable saw
the defendant at his home and when told of the
offence he replied: ‘I did it in ignorance.’

Recou‘nting this, the solicitor prosecuting for
the RSPCA said: ‘Apparently he meant that he
was ignorant of the legal aspect. He could not,
hovs17<ever, be ignorant of the condition of the
roo .’ .

For the defence, it was said that the farmer
found the injured bird and in ignorance of the
legal position, used it to save his pea crops, to
which rooks had caused a great deal of damage.

(A.8568.)

 

Reprinted from ‘The Times’, with acknowledgments:

NEW LIGHT ON BIRD MIGRATION
IN THE NORTH SEA

From a Correspondent

> Members of the Cambridge Bird Club who have

taken part in the club’s annual observations on
autumnal migration at Lista in southern Norway
have been curious as to what happened to their
birds once they had crossed the Skagerrak, and

while recoveries of ringed birds from France,

Spain, and Morocco supported the belief that
these birds continued their journey down the

Sparrow Hawk and

young

[Eric j. Hosking

western coast of Jutland, and thence through
these countries to their winter quarters in Europe
and Africa, little was known either of the manner
of their migrating or of the effect of weather on
their direction and density. It was with these
problems in mind that four members of the club
decided to spend September at Blaavandshuk, the
point at which the smooth line of the western
coast of Jutland takesa sharp turn to the south,
east.

‘The Wild West’

Our party arrived on the evening of September 6

 

 




 
       
 

 
 

-~A.-—;--_- ,ﬁ- , -
m _ Luff;
_, 1' , ‘2. . -

 

FWE-V C’ V7. '«113
' A . 'A V

,. '

 

M‘l‘l" .qwjv'iix'» w ~vr-

5

   

 

3me 7"":T‘T'T
3:: l ; ;
l I

 

   

 

     

i’w" m
!

   

' ‘ a “ ‘ l ;,.n'..'-D' ‘5 “(‘2 .. ‘ ' / g
y_ ,. ; A," I ‘ " .“ . M .Aw - ‘ - ‘ . -_ > 5; " ,-' .. -_ x
. » .5 . ‘ .1 , I ,5 ‘ " a . ‘ . . , : ‘ ‘ .
r " N ' y . W ‘
l. ., ‘-b l V l , . - ‘ I ‘

 

 

 

 

' “ I...) 51

Photo) (Mrs Waterman

Oil Pollution
, , A voice raised in protest

, ' i ,. .' ‘v
. , _ ,u - - ‘ . . ‘
x; . i . ‘
. . . t , l.
e " - >
.3

 

 




 

 

 

March. 195 5

THEANIMALWORLD ‘ . 33

 

 

 

Sunbathing

Younger than this, they set up a mewing one
could confuse with that from any human ma;
ternity hospital ward; older, their voices deepen.
At a fortnight, they can run through the whole
scale of distress and indignation from a groaning
sob to a throaty baa. Now and again—and one
can almost see the surprise on the sealvpup’s face
”comes a high, yelping Ohaer!

From all over the levels of the shoreline and
up the terraces of brightly lichened rocks to
where, among the pufﬁn burrows, the seal
mothers had flattened a wide patch of sea
campion, rose the unceasing cries. And at almost
every yard lay the white and cream bundles,
some lying, ﬂippers in the air, enjoying the sun,
others asleep, some, like one I picked up, born
only two hours before—too young even to be
ﬂustered.

We were surrounded on this one small isle
alone, less than a quarter of a mile in length, by
between 500 and 600 seals. Surrounded, that is,
when the seal mothers were not taking, hotv
ﬂipper, to the sea. Only one, a big cream’coloured
lady with a brown blotched throat, stood her
ground, snarling and guarding her baby when—
ever we approached.

A Open Jaws
Seal—watcher Baron will for some time remember
the sight of 600 pounds of bull seal, eight and a
half feet long, coming at him, jaws open, while he
fell backwards over a spar. ,

Pups were found to weigh twentyaeight
pounds at birth and 100 pounds at approximately
a month. It is at this age, or soon after, when
they have shed their first coats, that they may
take finally to the sea. One previous ”tabbing of
a month’old seal showed it to have swum 400
miles in the following fortnight. It was picked up
in Norway.

Does a seal pup swim naturally or does it have
to learn? Half and half apparently. Composed
nearly half of blubber fat, it can hardly do any
thing else but ﬂoat. -

Two Children

On the water’s edge I watched a couple of
YOUDgsters, neither out of the weaning stage, mak’
ing their first attempts. Like children, their
bottoms broke water while their heads stayed
under. One, having swallowed a mouthful, came
up Spluttering. The other, after snorting around
head down for almost a minute, was edged up
gently by its mother. .

To watch even such small scenes is to be
touched by the wonder of Nature.

To have been present for nearly five hours at
the whole majestic cycle of birth, suckling,
schooling, weaning and then, finally, of re’mating

 

 

Photo by courtesy of the Eastern Daily Press

This picture is independent of the accompanying article. It
shows baby seals washed up at Hunstanton

(for seals are nearly twelve months in. gestation)
is a privilege few can hope for in a lifetime.

I shall probably never see it again. And I shall
never forget it.

_—

[NOTE The Grey Seal enjoys legal protection
and the RSPCA issues this warning notice, which
is widely displayed: ‘

The Grey Seal is protected by law, which
prohibits the taking, killing, or wounding of a
Grey Seal between September 1 and December 31
each year. Infringement of The Grey Seals Pro;
tection Act, 1932, carries a maximum ﬁne of £5
for each offence.

A Boat Owner, Master Charterer, or Hirer,
knowingly using his boat or permitting it to be
used by any person for the purpose of killing,
wounding or taking a Grey Seal during the close
season, is liable to a penalty not exceeding £10
for each offence. .

Anyone witnessing a transgression of this Act
is asked to report without delay to the Police or

to the RSPCA.]

This cat,
pet of

Miss White-
house, won
3rd Prize at
Lancaster-
Pet Show

 




March 1955

THEANIMAL WORLD 31

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Chelmsford Market Reformed

A threeryear campaign by Senior Inspector Reid
to obtain better conditions for the animals pass;
ing through Chelmsford Market has succeeded
beyond his highest hopes. A onevway system has
now been installed whereby animals enter and
leave the sale ring through wide gates, instead
of the tiny four~foot gate which used to be the
only means of exit and entry. The erection of
wider gates obviates the confusion that pre—
viously existed, when sold and unsold cattle were
herded together in a restricted space and became
so terriﬁed that they slipped and stumbled, with
consequent beating by the drovers. When the
new regulations came into force on January 7,

everything went so smoothly that hardly a stick

was used and regular frequenters of the Market
expressed their satisfaction at the changed scene.

Thirsty Cattle at Chippenham Market

In view of the fact that cattle brought to this
Market have gone all day long without a drink,
owing to the absence of drinking facilities, repre
sentations were made to the local authorities by
Headquarters, with the result that water troughs
are now provided "in the unloading pens.

News from the Markets

Local Inspectors report the following improve—
ments in the markets for which they ‘are respon«
sible. At Burghrlev,Marsh, near Lincoln, and at
NewarkvonaTrent children have been banned
from entering the Cattle Markets, while at
Aylesbury and Bletchley Markets various im’
provements have been carried out, which make
for the greater comfort of the animals concerned.
At Great Dunmow Market, new cattle stalls have
been erected, thus obviating unnecessary hand~
ling and the tying up of animals.

 

 

intended, he was told, to prevent the calf from suckling.

Chief Inspector Evans cautioned the owner of the calf for

using such a barbaric halter. Inspector Anthony took the
halter away

 

Enfield and District Branch Clinic

HEADMISTRESS SURPRISED

‘The Headmistress was surprised that I arrived’,
said one of the school lecturers who had to make
his way over roads made difficult by heavy snows.
The lecturer had his reward in finding bright
children to whom it was a pleasure to talk.

Since the last report 130 lectures were given
in schools in Sussex, Wiltshire, Cardiff, Reading,
Bury, York and the London area. Four Public
Library Children’s Meetings in London were
also addressed.

Eighteen new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 221 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

BIRDS’—NESTING

Dr A. H. B. Kirkman writes from Seaton
(Devon):

One feels that this grim subject should be kept
in the public eye ‘lest we forget’, and continue
to look upon birdanesting solely as a happy
pastime for innocent youth.

Although Lady Tweedsmuir’s new bird Bill,
now in operation, is a step in the right direction
towards the preservation of wild birds, there is
no reason to believe that it will be efﬁcacious in
putting a stop to barbarous cruelties inﬂicted
annually on innocent nestlings by irresponsible
and sadistic youth.

Each year from this small localized area, which
is my home, cases continue to come to my
notice. Help from the schoolmaster and the voice
of the public can alone deal with this evil.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report these deaths:

Mrs Tyrrell, hon sec, Lydd Auxiliary; Mr
Maurice G. Parker, Council Member; Miss
Walpole, hon sec, Suffolk—West, and Bury St
Edmunds Branch; Mr C. F. Hipwell, Chairman
and acting hon sec, Hertstest Branch; Mrs
Gordon Renton, former hon sec, Northampton
County Branch; Mr Kenneth Graham, former hon
sec of Lyme Regis Auxiliary; Miss Annette Mills,
and Col James Walker, supporters.

 




 

 

 

March 1955

 

THEANIMALWORLD 35

 

IS IT A RECORD?
A Remarkable Collection

Mr C. J. Ryiner, who is an energetic supporter of
the Hull and East Riding Branch, in a period of
just under three years has collected the remark—
able sum of £879 45. 10d. By far the greater pro—
portion of this sum has been collected in boxes
which Mr Rymer has placed in clubs and licensed
premises in the City of Hull. He has 260 collecting
boxes, and of these 155 have lighter fuel beside
them; these 155 boxes in 1954 brought in
£228 05. 2d., and the 105 boxes without lighter
fuel available realized £104 155. 461.

If any branch is interested and would like
further details, Headquarters will gladly supply
these on request. Mr Rynier devotes on an
average three hours per day throughout the year
to the supervision of the boxes.

DOG ARTISTS

Spratt’s Patent Limited are offering cash prizes
to artists who draw, paint or model dogs and
puppies. Anyone interested should write for
details to Dept. B.Y.D.A., Spratt’s Patent Ltd.,
41~47 Bow Road, London, E3.

SNOW AND FLOOD RESCUES

Snow and ﬂoods during January caused wide’
spread suffering to animals and birds, and
RSPCA Inspectors rescued over 900. Among the
animals rescued were 140 sheep and lambs, 50
horses, 18 cattle and 266 pigs. Swans numbering
128 were rescued from frozen waters, and other
birds helped were 51 fowls and 169 seabirds. .

Besides performing rescues Inspectors fed over
400 animals and birds. In this way 273 horses
and ponies, 65 cattle, 23 sheep and 80 swans were
helped.

Inspector Coaten had at one time seven birds at
his home suffering from the effects of ice and
snow. All recovered and were set free.

Chief Inspector Pope rescued a baby otter
who, despite great care, died, but the Chief
Inspector’s efforts with a crane had happier re;
sults. This bird, found exhausted, recovered after
attention and was released.

Inspector Harland rescued a sheep which had
lost the use of its legs.

MONKEYS AND MEN
A pamphlet bearing this title is available from the
National AntivVivisection Society at 92 Victoria
Street, London, SW1. The author is Dr M.
Beddow Bayly.

 

BRANCH NEWS

Mrs Hawthorn,
Sandbach, who
sends this pic-
ture, calls it
‘Dignity and
lmpudence’

 

Bromley and District (Kent) Mrs Landsbury organlzed a
hristmas party at the St John’s Parish Hall, Bromley, for
the Bambi Group of Animal Defenders.
Buckinghamshire Mrs Stacey, branch hon sec, reports that
Brian Chew and Geoffrey Tebbutt have been awarded
certiﬁcates for rescuing a cat from a tree. The presentation
was made at their homes.
Burton-on-Trent Mrs P. J. Bird, branch hon S_eC, reports
that a Christmas eﬁ‘ort organized by Mrs Simpkin, Nether-
seal aux hon sec, raised £221 2s. 8d. for branch funds.
Bury ('Lancs) and District Mrs Hopkinson, branch hon
sec, organized a children’s pet show at the Church House,
WYIde. The judges were Messrs Wild, Corbett, Hutchinson,
Maddocks and Inspector Faulkner. Mrs HOPKIHSOn
presented the prizes to the winners. . .
Caemarvonshire—Llandudno and District Miss M. Unwm,
branch hon sec, reports that a toy fair in aid of the North
Wales Mobile Unit raised £50. , , ,
Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, spoke to membersof
the Brentwood Methodist Church at their weekly meeting

on the work of the RSPCA. A collection was made and £1
was given to the branch.

Mrs Buckley, Upminster aux hon sec, organized an animal
service at her local parish church.
Essex—South, Southend and District Mrs J. Underhill,
Canvey Island aux hon sec, reports that a Christmas effort
raised £21 11s. 6d. for branch funds.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Mrs Raikes, Aberkenﬁg
aux hon sec, organized a children’s fancy dress dance in the
Welfare Hall, Aberkenﬁg, and raised £30 for branch funds.
Herefordshire At the quarterly meeting of the branch, Chief
Inspector Evans made an appeal that the sale of air guns and
catapults to children should be banned.

 

From Mrs Nash, Gloucester City and Forest of Dean
Branch Hon Sec: Bernard and Helen Warder of Brock-
worth, Gloucester, with their l7-month-old St Bernard,
‘Peter’, who helped to collect for the branch flag day

 

 




 

 

 

March 1955

POISONED BAIT

A farmer was ﬁned £4, with £2 23. costs, at Ash;
ford for placing on land poisonous edible matter.

Prosecuting for the RSPCA, counsel said that
the defendant had to some extent been annoyed
by cats. He mixed some strychnine with some
ﬁsh and laid it down as poisoned bait. Next day
a cat was found dead on nearby land.

A veterinary surgeon conﬁrmed that the cat
died from strychnine, and an analyst found
strychnine in the bait. Strychnine poisoning was
an agonising death.

The defendant, who pleaded guilty, was repre’
sented by a solicitor, who said that there were
three semiawild cats which he had fed. One of
them killed some of his goslings and tried to kill
others, so he decided he must get rid of the cat.
To ensure that no other animal took the bait, he
stood by while the cat took the poison. He did
not wish to be cruel, and there was no question

of cruelty in the charge. (A8388; Inspector
Coles——159.)

DOG SUFFERED IN GIN TRAP

Giving evidence at Shefﬁeld a man said he
heard a dog yelp in ‘horrible pain’ in some
allotments and found the animal had a leg
caught in a trap.

 

LEFT IN A BAG IN A DlTCH

Photos by courtesy of the Daily Mirror

 

THEANIMALWORLD 27

He was giving evidence in support of an
RSPCA prosecution against a steel worker who
was summoned for using spring traps, except in
rabbit holes, for the purpose of killing rabbits.
The defendant was ﬁned £1 and had to pay 105.

costs.

When Chief Inspector Ryan asked for, and
obtained, an order for the conﬁscation of two
traps the defendant said: ‘I don’t want nowt to
do with them any more.’

A rope had to be put round the dog’s neck
before it could be freed.

Pleading ‘Not guilty’ the defendant said he
did not know he was committing an offence. The
dog did not suffer any permanent injury and
responded to veterinary treatment. (A.894l.)

AN AWARD FOR ANIMALS

This plaque (actual size 5 ins. by
3% ins.) has been instituted as an
award by the RSPCA to animals dis-
playing courage, ﬁdelity and similar
qualities -

 

 

    

with her master when she

 

One winter’s day, Trix was out

stopped beside some rough grass near a ditch and refused to

move. Trix’s master went to investigate and found, in the
ditch, this unhappy puppy in a paper bag (picture left).
There was a string pulled round the puppy’s neck so that he
could not get out. Above: Trix inspects her ‘find’.

A thorough investigation failed to bring to justice the
person who had cast the puppy into the ditch.

 




 

 

 

ANIMAEH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE 'RSPCA

 

 

Vol L No 3 New Series

MARCH 1955

PRICE THREEPENCE‘
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

OIL POLLUTION OF THE SEAS

 

    

Of the many problems with which the Society
has to deal, the most difﬁcult are those which
can only effectively be solved by international
action.

An example of this is the vexed question of
oil pollution of the seas, which results in
thousands of seabirds becoming contamin—
ated by this oil and dying a slow and painful
death. Many such birds washed up around
our coasts give every appearance of having
been painted with a tar brush—a truly pitiful
sight. Few such birds rescued by RSPCA
Inspectors can be cleaned satisfactorily—most
are so badly coated with the oil that it is more
merciful to put them painlessly to sleep.

The RSPCA has for years been pressing for
action to be taken to abate this menace. As long
ago as 1931, the late Sir Cooper Rawson, MP
(then a member of the Society’s Council), introv

The pictures on this page show recent
victims of oil pollution. The guillemot at
the head appears to have been tarred; a
humane end had to be given. Right, the
oiled bird at the mercy of the waves.

duced a Bill in Parliament with the object of
enforcing the installation, of oil separators on all
British vessels over and above a certain tonnage,
but it failed to make progress. It was realized that
even had this Measure passed, it would by no
means have solved the problem, as not only
British vessels, but those of all maritime nations
are responsible for this pollution. It was felt,
however, that if only England were to take the
lead, by insisting upon oil—separators being in—
stalled on their vessels, other maritime countries
might well follow their example.

In recent years, there has been a marked.
increase in this pollution, with a consequent
increase in the number of seabirds found
dead and dying through coming in contact
with this oil on the water. More oil (which
used to be reﬁned in the Middle East oilﬁelds)
is now shipped in its crude state to Britain
and other Western European countries. The
oil containers of the tankers are usually
cleaned outat sea, and this is undoubtedly
one of the major causes of the increased pollu—
tion. Then again, more ships today burn oil,

-whereas formerly they burned coal. Many do

not have oil—separators, and discharge their
oil—contaminated ballast water into the sea.

In 1952 the British Government appointed a
Committee of experts to review the known facts
of the situation and to examine what practical
steps could be taken to prevent pollutiOn around

 

 

 




 

26 THEANIMALWORLD

March 1955

 

the coasts of the United Kingdom. The Com»
mittee concluded that the only complete and
lasting solution to the problem was to avoid the
discharge of persistent types of oil anywhere in
the sea. In other words, international action
(which the RSPCA has always advocated) was
essential. Accordingly, the Government con;
vened a Conference last year, which was attended
by representatives of 42 countries. This Conferv
ence drew up an International Convention for
the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil,
which will come into operation when it has been

‘—
ﬂ

accepted and ratiﬁed by ten countries, of which
five must each have at least half a million gross
tons of tanker tonnage. Needless to say, this will
mean still further delay, but it is gratifying to
know that at long last there is some hope of
international action being taken. Already this
Session the British Government has introduced a
Bill to give effect to the Convention, which does
show this country’s determination to put an end
to oil pollution of the seas as speedily as possible,

R. A.

 

BEFORE—Rope made these wounds
(Story right)

 

 

AFTER—Skill and care in a good home restored the dog.
The wounds have disappeared

 

DOG ‘UNSUITABLE’
LEFT WITHOUT FOOD

(See pictures left)
A young wife who, according to her husband,
wanted a dog, fancied a Peke and eventually ol»
tained a black and white collie bitch, appeared
with her husband at Longtown magistrates’
Court. Both pleaded guilty in a joint RSPCA
cruelty prosecution for causing unnecessary
suffering by neglecting the dog.

TIED

It was stated that the dog. proving unsuitable
to their one/roomed home, was left with inade’
quate food over a period of a month, and tied
up in a shed by a short rope so that a wound was
caused in its neck. The husband and wife were
each fined £3 and ordered to share the costs
totalling £10 123. 8d.

They were also told by the Chairman of the
Bench: ‘You won’t be allowed to have this dog
back and we are going to prohibit you from
having a dog or holding a dog licence for the
next five years.’

Senior Inspector Brown has placed the dog in a

good home. (A.8248.)

SHEEP’S HOBBLES HAD EATEN TO

‘ THE BONE
A farmer pleaded ‘Not guilty’ before the Pwllheli
Magistrates to a charge of causing unnecessary
suffering to seven sheep by hobbling them in an
improper manner. He was fined £5 with £3 35.
costs. Inspector Thelwell first noticed that the
sheep were improperly hobbled and then on
examination found that on some of the sheep
the hobbles had eaten through to the bone.

Evidence was given before the Magistrates
that the hobbles were much too tight and on
seven of the sheep the wounds were old and
the bones were showing. The case for the
RSPCA was that the sheep had suffered
excrucrating pain.

veterinary surgeon gave evidence for the

defendant. He examined the sheep on the date of
the offence and he found no sign of lameness. He
said that the type of hobbles used by the de’
fendant was the best. (A.8918.)

 

 




 

28 THEANIMALWORLD

March 1955

 

ﬁ
ﬁ-

THE RSPCA AT WORK

JANUARY 1955

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,538 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Offenders imprisoned.
112 Offenders ﬁned.

54 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
921 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, overdriving, beating 6

CATTLE—Neglecting, beating, conveying in improper
manner, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state, CllS'

horning without anaesthetic 29
SHEEP—Kicking . .. 1
PIGS—Starving, neglecting, beating 6
GOAT—Neglecting '1
DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding 14
CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner 6
RABBITS—Neglecting 7 3

FOWLsm—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, con—
veying in improper manner 8

OEEENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Offering for sale other than a close—ringed specimen

bred in captivity . 6
Conﬁning birds in small cages 12
Being in possession of recently taken birds 4

VARIOUS OFFENCESI

Infringements of the Pet Animals Act, 1951 2
Permitting in offences 15
Aiding and abetting in an offence 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 114

During JANUARY 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the

RSPCA, disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or holding

a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; ONE for 2 years; ONE for 3 years; TWO for

5 years; ONE for 10 years; TWO for life.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats 3,639 Dogs 3,547 Misc. 421 Total 7,607

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,953

PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number of animals handled:

Cats 15 Dogs 73 Total 88

NIGHT STAFF

Number of calls received: 1,304

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,035
Number of animals rescued: 7

Number of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 222

NORTH WALES IINIT

First—aid cases:
Cats 2 Dogs 15 Misc. 2
Number of other animals handled by the Unit:
Cats 28 Dogs 42 Total 70
Number of miles covered by the Unit during the month: 1,800

AWARDS

Total 19

Cases considered 66
Bronze Medals 1 8
Bars to Bronze 3
Certiﬁcates... ... . . . ... 17
Silver Medals 2

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS 27,686
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS

Margaret Wheatley Cross... 1
Silver Medals 6
Bars to Silver Medals .. 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals ‘ 10

Merit Certiﬁcates . . . 121

.‘.“.1; it__ 1

 

 

 




 

3O . THEANIMALWORLD

March 1955

 

and few ornithologists can have had such an
astonishing welcome; The small thicket behind
the house was full of night migrants that had
apparently arrived during the previous evening,
and among these we found a whiteaspotted blue—
throat and a collared ﬂycatcher, the latter being
a species not previously recorded in Jutland.
These birds had almost certainly been ‘drifted’
north—westward from their normal Baltic range
by the south—easterly wind that had prevailed
during the previous two days. ‘Drift’ was one
of the theories upon which we hoped our visit
might throw some light, and our belief in its
authenticity was to receive amusing support
during the following week when we discovered
on the beach, after a southawesterly gale, a rubber
ball bearing the proud inscription ‘A Present
from Lowestoft’.

Our observations on diurnal migration abunr
dantly testified to the inability of most small birds
to make satisfactory seavcrossings in adverse
winds. Even on days of relative calm, parties of
meadow pipits and linnets were seen to turn
back immediately the wind freshened. As the
feathers of a bird’s wing are designed to take
advantage of the slightest differences of motion

 

in the surrounding air, migrating birds become
rapidly aware of any change in the strength or
direction of the wind. Our best days were those
when there was little wind, notably September 19
and October 2 when 16,000 and 20,000 meadow
pipits were seen in two hours setting out on their
crossing of the Heligoland Bight.

It was primarily in order to make comparative
observations on passerine migration in southern
Sweden that two of our party decided to spend
their last week at Falsterbo. -

Falsterbo provided them with much they would
not forget. They arrived on the afternoon of
September 27, a sunny day with a light southa
westerly wind. Falsterbo is famed as the scene of
one of the most spectacular hawk migrations in
Europe, and it was on such a day that large soar—
ing birds could best make use of the rising thermal
currents to give them sufficient height to make
a leisurely crossing to Denmark. In four and a
half hours 10 red kites, a black kite, 16 honey’
buzzards, some 700 sparrowrhawks, and no fewer
than 4,700 buzzards passed over. At one time
there were over 500 buzzards rising in one vast
spiral, a scene suggesting apocalyptic vision
rather than reality.

When a consignment of poultry arrived at a railway station after a l6-hour conﬁnement, 5! out of 54 birds

were dead.

THE BIRDS HAD DlED FROM SLOW SUFFOCATION
The three survivors were gasping for breath and one had to be destroyed.
These facts were given in evidence when the RSPCA prosecuted a farm manager at Grimbsy Borough
Magistrates’ Court. The farm manager was accused of conveying 54 fowls in such a manner as to cause the

birds unnecessary suffering.

, Senior lnspector Grant said he found nine cartons of poultr at the stati 0 d
there were six dead birds. In another box he found four live and, two dead mfdjbnenhavdatso zgogzgtfopfend.a£ll
the birds in the other boxes were dead. The lnspector said that the birds were too big for the boxes. Evidence

that death was caused by suffocation was given by a veterinary surgeon.

defendant had to pay £l3 l s. costs. (A8378)

A ﬁne of £l5 was imposed and the




— W‘F‘I‘é ~ on!“

f.
S.
g
i‘
r
h
;

 

"\ ,'

32 THEANIMALWORLD

STRANGERS ON SEAL ISLAND
by Stanley Baron

(Reprinted from the ‘N ews Chronicle’, with acknow
ledgments)

 

Describing a visit during November to
the Farne Islands off the Northumberland
Coast, where the habits of the Grey Seal
were studied.

 

 

 

The round face on the rock gazed sadly up at
mine. First it had hissed, then from the back of
its throat came a husky indignant moan; mean’
time it had tried to snap at my trouser leg, and
now—I could hardly believe the sight—from its
lustrous deep brown eyes, big as halfpennies,
poured frustrated, exasperated tears. Down the
side of its cheeks they ran, furrowing and be—
dgragling its silvery, silky fur, plop into a-pool.
Unbelievable, indeed, in every detail, was the
spectacle all around. And unbelievable the
uproar.

Rarest of All

For 800 years, and probably much longer, grey
seals have bred in the harsh isolation of the
Farne Islands off the Northumberland coast.
Among all the seals of all the world’s oceans
they are the rarest. Perhaps not more than
10,000 in all exist. Of these, some three—quarters

Photo
Alan Haughton

March 1955

are born in British waters. Farvoff Rona, away in
the north of Scotland, is believed to be their
biggest breeding ground; the Outer Farnes, their
second. Even here few see the grey seal at the
time of its birth.

Since the beginning of November, when the
breeding season started, naturalists from Newv
castle had hoped for a lift in the cloud wrack or
a lull in the wind to make the three—mile trip
from Seahouses in the high—prowed open ﬁshing
coble which is the only kind of boat to go safely
among the reefs.

It has been my own good luck to get out with
them on the ﬁrst ﬁne day of the month.

Like a Sheep

From out of a narrow channel between Staple
Island and the Brownsman (once Grace Darling’s
home) a hundred heads, grey, cream, mottled and
rusty black, turned to watch the approaching
boat. There was more curiosity in it than appre—
hension. Cautious but not shy is the right
description for Halichoreus Grypus, with which
name the grey seal is blessed by science.

No word in advance could possibly prepare
one for the scene on landing. Newborn, a seal
pup looks, at a distance, something like a sleep
ing sheep. There is something of the sound of a
lambing yard, too, in the plaintive crying of the
weekvolds.

 

The round face on the rock gazed up . . . from its lustrous, deep brown eyes poured frustrated,
exasperated tears

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

34 A THEANIMALWORLD March 1955

 

OVERSEAS NEWS - IN PICTURES

 

 

Animal Sunday Service, St Alban’s Parish Church, Dar-es-
Salaam: upper picture, the service in progress; below,
animals arriving (Organized by RSPCA Tanganyika Division)

PHILIPPINES
These two photographs, sent by Mrs ]. L. jay, President of
the South Manila Branch of the SPCA at Pasay City,
Philippine Islands, illustrate some of the animal welfare
work in the Philippine Islands. Material help has been given
to the South Manila SPCA by the RSPCA.

 

Above, a scene outside RSPCA Tanga Clinic. Below is a small
reproduction of a cartoon in the ‘Guiana Graphic’; it shows
the respect in which Chief Inspector C. F. Torrezao of the
RSPCA British Guiana Branch is held. lt commemorates the
fact that he has served the branch for 25 years.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 




 

36 THEANIMALWORLD

 

Woodsmoor Nature Club Queen, Ingrid Etchells. The
grown-ups are Mr R. E. Wilson, Mrs Wilson and Inspector
Coles

   

Hertfordshire——East Miss E. Mason organized carol.
singing and raised £6 35'. 6d. for branch funds.
Kent—Canterbury and District Miss M. Michell, Herne
Bay aux hon sec. reports that a total of £236 has gone from
the auxiliary to the branch for 1954.

Monmouthshire At the service organized by the joint
auxiliary hon secretaries of Abergavenny, Miss Dorrell and
Mrs Ware, and their comn'iittee, the Mayor of Aber-
gavenny inaugurated the Mobile Animal. Service (Wales).
The Chief Constable of Monmouthshire praised the Society’s
enterprise and pledged the ready help of his constabulary.
Mr Boucher. former aux hon sec, spoke after the Chief
Constable. The Rev Arfon Price offered a prayer for the
service and pronounced a blessing upon the vehicle. Repre-
senting the branch were Mrs Pughe-Evans, hon sec, and
Senior Inspector Godley. Inspector Blaylock is in charge
of the new service.

Montgomery Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch hon
sec, organized a dance and raised £20 7s. 3d. for branch funds
and reports that a Christmas effort raised £22 5s.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne The sum of £1 ls. was collected for
branch funds when Inspector Marshall addressed members
of the 'Parents’ Association at. Shilbottle School.
Nottingham and Notts Carol singing organized by Miss
Wheeldon raised £1 75. for the branch.

Rotherham and District Mr J. Bramall, Thurcroft aux hon
sec, organized a whist drive and raised £20 for branch funds.
Staffordshire—North To mark his retirement after 18 years
as hon treasurer of the branch, Major P. Pollard was pre-
sented with a cheque by Lady Bagot, branch president, at a
ceremony in the Castle Hotel, Newcastle. Lady Bagot
attended with Lord Bagot. ,

Mrs Berry was appointed hon secretary and Mr C. B.
Grundy hon treasurer in succession to Major Pollard.

A vote of thanks to Lady Bagot was proposed by Mrs
J. A. Dene and seconded by Mrs Worthington, Leek
auxiliary hon secretary. _ '
Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch Miss
Margaret M. Davis organized a sale of work and raised
£6 13s. for branch funds.

Surrey—~Epsom and District Mrs Neale, Ashtead aux hon
sec, reports that the Christmas market raised £375 115. 3d.
for branch funds.

Walsall In the Mayor’s parlour, Walsall, RSPCA awards
were presented by His Worship the Mayor to M153 Florence
Plant, Miss Barbara Plant, Mr Charles Plant and Leading
Fireman Challis. The Mayor was accompanied by the
Mayoress. Branch committee members attended and Mr S.
Long, branch hon secretary and treasurer, spoke of the good
work done by the recipients of the awards. Inspector Downes
spoke of the RSPCA’s work.

Wiltshire—North Mrs D. Wheeler, branch hon sec, reports
that a Christmas effort raised £199 for branch funds.

March 1955

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Haslemere, Welwyn Garden City, Spels—
bury, Chester, Chiswick, Leyton, Stockport, Whittlesey,
Woodmansterne, Hexham, Hertford, Barnsley, Bridling—
ton, Thorndon, Nottingham, Acton, Rotherﬁeld, Bolton,
Wetheral, Windsor, Middlesbrough, East Ham, Exeter,
Dhoor, Canvey Island, Horley, Plymouth, \Woking, Dor—
Chester, Birmingham, Malvern Link, Canterbury, Black—
pool, Gillingham, Bridgnorth, Horam, Charlton, Appleton,
Hazel End, Cheshunt, Penrith, Hull, Washington, Newport,
Harpenden, London Docks, Rendham, Liverpool, Sale,
Folkestone, Hatﬁeld, Sulby, Timperley, Craven Arms,
Havant, Wormwood Scrubs, Morley.

COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the collection
was made, and the name of the organizer or organizers.)
Wiltshire North, Mrs Hosier (Wooton Bassett aux hon
sec), £56, and Mrs Wheeler, branch hon sec, £19 65. 061.;
Lancashire North and Borders, Miss E. F. Shaw, branch
hon sec, £549 45. 101.; Newcastle—upoanyne, Mr A. L.
Wilson (branch sec), £49 65.; Mullion, hdiss l\4. S. Thomp—
son (aux hon sec), £6 25. 6d.; Barby, Mrs Hodgson (aux
hon sec), £6 16s. 6d.; South Harrow Clinic, £58 175. 3d.;
Crewe, Miss Lewis—Dale (aux hon sec), £166 75. 8d;
Leeds, Mrs Harvey (branch hon sec), £4 25. 2d,; Kent—
Dover and District, Mrs Price (branch hon sec), £40 15s. L)d.;
Tunbridge Wells, Miss Diana Knox, £210 105. 5tl.; \V'est—
cott, Mrs Castly-Lindwall (aux hon sec), £8 25. 0d;
Devizes, Miss Goddard (branch hon sec), £9 55.; l\~lelksham,
Mrs Keen (aux hon sec), £18 0s. 5d.; Westbury. Mrs
Cambray (aux hon sec), £6 63. 10d.; Barnham. lVlrs Court
(aux hon sec), £4; Birkenhead and \Wirral, Mrs Fraser, £15;
Bromley, Nlrs Walker (asst. branch hon sec), £121 125. 3d“;
Orpington, 1Vlrs Harford (aux hon sec), £66 153. 11d.;
Petts \Wood, Mrs Grimshaw (aux hon sec), £212 105. 1d.;
Chislehurst, Mrs Wickham (aux hon sec), £76; Hayes, Mrs
Lindley (aux hon sec), £48 13s. 1061.; Keston, Mrs'lxdoyce
(aux hon sec.), £25 125. 4d,; Coney Hall, Mrs Lambert
(aux hon sec), £7 155. 6d.; Gloucester City, Mrs Nash
(branch hon sec), £124 85. 2d.; Newark, hdrs Aldred,
£10 105. 8d.; Hastings, St Leonards, Bexhill and Battle, Mrs
Sletcher (branch hon sec) and Miss Carter (Bexhill aux
hon sec), £289 103. 10d.

FLAG DAYS
Rhayader, Mrs Hall (aux hon sec), £13 65. 1061.

Mrs Simpkin,
hon sec for
Netherseal
Aux, looks in

friends. The
swan was one of
four cygnets

whose parents
were killed by an
express train

 

 

with her animal

 




 

 

 

@WHE‘ORMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
A 1/ enquiries to 1 description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

 

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. S.P.C.A_=

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested :—

‘l bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that; the legacy should be ex’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and 1 Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press. Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




