 

 

 

AN HONORARY WORKER REACHES
A CENTURY

From Miss F. E. Osborne, Kidderminster and District
Branch hon sec, comes a tribute to Miss Carrie Badland
who celebrated her 100th birthday on December 12
1955.
Miss Badland «was honorary secretary of the Kidder—
rninster Branch for over thirty years and retired from
this oﬂice in 1034. Still taking a keen interest in the
work, Miss Badland continued to collect for the branch
and only recently felt compelled to give it up.

Miss Badland actually collected for the Society until
within a few weeks of her 100th birthday. Truly, as
Miss Osborne says, a marvellous achievement!

 

 

 

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Potters Bar, Cromer, Salisbury, Nottingham, Roehamp—
ton, East Ham, Withycombe Raleigh, Little Bromley,
South Norwood, Dagenham, Minehead, North Hammer—
smith, Croydon, Cambridge, West Bergholt, Congleton,
Whittlesey, Harpenden, Chorley, Ashford, Cleveleys, Port—
land, Watford, Farnham, Alverstoke, Ramsey, Linthwaite.
New Cross, Dunstable, Rustington, Macclesﬁeld, Derby,
Holyhead, Burton—on—Trent, Woodmansterne, Dungannon,
North Shields, Brentwood, Dorchester, Westgate—oanea,
Failsworth, Sheerness, Lincoln, Bottisham, Manningtree,
Middlesbrough, Burgess Hill, Pontypool, Seaford, Street—
ley, Sale, Gateshead, Sevenoaks, Dover, Hatﬁeld, Canning
Town, Swansea, Rugby, Bermondsey, Hexham, Wisbech,
Sidcup, Goodwick, Cenarth, Lymington, Selsey.

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY, SATURDAY, 2nd JUNE, 1956

For the ﬁrst time the London Flag Day has been allocated for a Saturday, and it is a little difﬁcult to
foresee whether a Saturday will prove beneﬁcial as a whole or otherwise. We anticipate that possibly
Suburban Branches will do well, and with the ﬁve’day week being so popular more collectors will be
available. On the other hand, Branches and Institutions situated in the centre of London may ﬁnd it a
little difﬁcult to maintain the excellent results of previous years, but experience alone will decide this
point. In any case, the allocation of dates is not a matter for the Joint Animal Flag Day Committee as
the question is dealt with by the Commissioner of Police for the Metropolis and his Advisory Committee.

 

 

 

 

 

 

@NHE'CCDRMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH H
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

February 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 15

THE RSPCA AT WORK

DECEMBER I 9 55

RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,843 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Offenders imprisoned.
79 Offenders ﬁned.
36 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
667 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, beating 4

CATTLE—Neglecting, starving, conveying in an improper
manner

SHEEP—Neglecting, offering for sale in an unﬁt state
PIGS—~Neglecting, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state . . .
GOAT—Neglecting

HNUJUI

DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, kicking,
killing in improper manner, terrifying by tying

ﬁrework to neck .. .. 18
CATS—Neglecting, placing in furnace vent, attempting
to kill in improper manner . 5

BOWLS—Neglecting, starving, carrying head downwards,
exposing for sale in an unﬁt state, injur ng with
missiles 10

DUCKS—Starving

PIGEONs—Starving

RABBITS—Neglecting . .. . .. .

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 16
Being in possession of recently taken birds
Using nets for the purpose of taking
Using traps for the purpose of taking
Using bird lime

HHy—I

HWKNN

. VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Laying poison ,
Infringements of the Pet Animals Act,1951
Aiding and abetting in an offence

li—IUJP-k

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

C23

1

During DECEMBER 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; TWO for 2 years; ONE for 3 years; ONE for
5 years; THREE for 10 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 28,128
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 1,052
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst. 9,834

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,091 Dogs 3,263 Misc. 640
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,996

Total 8, 990

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats 20 Dogs 65 Total 85

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,134

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,061
N o. of animals rescued: 4

N o. of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 224

No. of complaints: 4

N o. of animals destroyed:

Cats 78 Dogs 32 Misc. 16 Total 126

NORTH _WAI.ES UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 20 Dogs 33 Total 53
No. of animals handled by unit:

Cats 50 Dogs 43 Total 93
N o. of miles covered by unit: 2,690

AWARDS

Current awards are under review

RECORDS FOR 19 54

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 27,790
CONVICTIONS 872
CAUTIoNs 9,657

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,849

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,537

AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving 12
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving . . . 65

Bars to Bronze Medals” 6
Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 12
Margaret Wheatley Cross l

 




 

 

..«~‘.,M

 

 

 

 

 

.,

.ﬂ

_

.

.

.

,‘t‘quulhlhm

. m R

J‘I“~Vi,ll. 7:!(1 , ‘ E , ‘Hh

 

 

_ . , . _. » . »

 

‘01... ‘ .. ‘ 131 x . 4.. I l‘ L. :“‘v I.‘ .ll.‘ r .1! tr.‘. b‘vIILL-‘L ill-Pthrl.-flpi I‘llt.‘ lf‘inl El! , ‘f I. -t r y . I ‘

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GARDNER, HON. JULIET
*HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA
HOBHOUSE, E. J. ESQ.

HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC
HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE
*HUNTER, MISS

LEE, MRS E. M.

LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD
LONGMAN, MRS W.
MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A.
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP
POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL
POWELL, COL R. M., DSO

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS
CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, HON CF
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

*PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D

RISELEY, MRS R. C.
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ

SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 8., MBE, TD, JP
*TAIT, MRS, MA

*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE

*WILLIAMS, THE REV H. L.

*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

 

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer-A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

 

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

USED &TRIISTED THE WORLD OVER;

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

What the UP-TO-DATE dog-owner knows—

SCRAPPY FEEDS ARE
NO GOOD TO A DOG!

Look at his teeth and see the reason! Designed
for crushing and grinding his food, his teeth show
he needs food that provides nourishment for his
body plus exercise for his jaws and teeth. Table
scraps are not what the canine digestion needs.
What he needs is
something to get his
teeth into! He needs
Spratt’s Biscuits to
sustain him and give
him energy and
vugour.

 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 

   
  

\\ ' 1

u h \ \ 7»
SIM PIE ‘ *

SAIL. *-
_ suns lama XE

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ' 6

  
   
    

Spratt's Guide to Dog Manage-
ment, 88 pages, on all aspects
' of Dog Ownership. From
your Spratt's stockist, I/6, or
l/8 post free from Dept. A.W.
at the address below.

W 5 SPRATT’S
QM DOG FOODS

BONIO MIXED OVALS WEETMEET
SPRATT‘S PATENT LTD, 4I-47 BOW ROAD, E3

See the name
SPRATT’S on Biscuits
and Package

l

ICCIIS AND SNEIVOKE lID ENGLAND

5456

 

 

 

 




 

 

in

 

 

February 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 23

 

General R. S. Campbell, GOC Aldershot District,
opened the market; Viscountess Alanbrooke was introduced
by Colonel P. A. Prescott-Roberts, branch hon secretary.

Headquarters Clinics Miss Adele Rudd has sent £250
from Mortimer‘s Memorial Fund for Cat Welfare. This will
help the RSPCA Mayhew Home.
Kent—Ashford and District Mrs Coles, with the help of
Mrs Daw, Wittersham aux hon sec, and Mrs M. Fielding-
Mould, aux hon sec for Smarden, organized a rummage
sale at Christchurch Hall, South Ashford, and raised
£14 153. 3d. for Clinic funds.
Kent—Canterbury and District Miss V. Slingsbury, Whit-
stable aux hon sec, reports that a jumble sale raised £51 for
branch funds. Mr R. Dodds assisted.

*

Mrs Dance, branch hon sec, reports that- the annual
Christmas bazaar raised £125 ls. 4d. for branch funds.
Kent—Folkestone and District Mrs Grace, branch hon sec,
reports that the Mayor of Folkestone (Councillor T. L. E.
Franks), accompanied by the Mayoress, opened the branch
Christmas fair held in the Town Hall. The Mayoress was
presented with a bouquet at the opening ceremony. Mr A. E.
Grace, branch chairman, was present. The sum of £154 was
rasied for branch funds.

The Misses Brooks organized a jumble sale and raised £14.
Kent——North-West Bexley Borough and UD Crayford
auxiliary held a Christmas bazaar at Christ Church Hall,
Bexleyheath and raised £58 65. 3d. for branch funds. Miss
D. C. Collins, head mistress of the Girls’ Technical School,
Bexleyheath, opened the bazaar. Mrs A. Fogg, auxiliary
chairman, thanked Miss Collins. Mr W. Chambers, branch
hon treas, presided. Miss M. James, aux hon sec, was present.
Lancashire—St Helens and District The branch entertain-
ments committee, under the secretaryship of Mrs Sims, have
organized two small dances which raised £14 3s. for branch
funds and a rummage sale which raised £21 5s. (Report from
Mr F. Sims, branch hon sec.)

Lancashire—Wigan and District Mrs W. G. Bennett,
branch chairman, introduced the Mayor of Wigan, who took
the chair, at the branch annual meeting held in the Mayor’s
Reception Room. Mr H. Fenton, branch hon sec, and
Inspector Middleton read their reports. Mr E. B. Hall,
branch hon treas, read the statement of accounts. Col
Coventry spoke on the work of the RSPCA. A Christmas
gift stall was run by members of the branch committee in aid
of branch funds. .

London North East Mrs Menon, branch premdent, pre-
sented ‘Chum‘, a ﬁve month old brown and black mongrel
bitch, with an RSPCA inscribed collar for warning her
mistress, Mrs Noble, of ﬁre. Mrs Noble was present.
Manchester and Salford Mrs M. Johnson, Northenden
and Wythenshawe aux hon sec, reports a whist drive held'in
£hedChurch Room, Northenden, raised £8 10s. for branch
un s. -
Monmouthshire Mrs H. Pughe-Evans, branch hon sec,
reports that two jumble sales held in Newport. raised £48 for
branch funds.

Montgomery Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch honorary
secretary, reports that the cake stall in Newtown (where
£14 105. was raised for branch funds) was organized by Miss

,A- Humphreys, Newtown auxiliary co hon secretary, and

many willing helpers.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne Mr Wilson, branch secretary, reports
that a Christmas bazaar held in the Durant Hall, Newcastle,
raised £292 for branch funds.* -

Amble auxiliary committee organized their annual Christ-

mas whist drive and with the aid of Mrs Stewart raised £16
for branch funds.
Norfolk~Mid and Norwich Mrs R. Wingate Saul, Cromer
aux co hon sec, reports: a dance held at the Newhaven Court
Hotel, Cromer (by kind permission of the proprietor, Mr
l‘hrowery), raised £9 ls. for branch funds.

A whist drive organized by Mrs Whisken, hon clinic sec,
raised £885. and a jumble sale raised £18 1s. Both. events
were in aid of clinic funds.

*

The sum of £40 Os. 5d. was raised from a bring and buy
sale at the Norfolk Cafe, Sheringham.
Norfolk West Mrs Robson, Kings Lynn aux hon sec,
organized a whist drive in The Hall, North Runcton. Chief
Inspector Morrison introduced the Mayor and Mayoress of
Kings Lynn. The Mayoress presented the prizes. The Stun
of £15 was raised fer branch funds.
Northumberland West A jumble sale and stall in Hexham
Market raised £28 for branch funds.
Nottingham and Notts Mrs Wright, Worksop auxiliary hon
sec, reports that the annual jumble sale raised £14 18s. for
branch funds.
Peterborough and District Mrs D. Towns, of Ashwell,
organized a dance and raised £50 10s. 2d. for branch funds.
Rochdale Mrs C. Chadwick, Rochdale Group Animal
Defender leader, reports that the Animal Defenders organ-
ized a pet show and raised £12 for branch funds. Reg Supt
Curran judged.
Rochester Division Mrs Stevens, Halling aux hon sec, and
Mrs Dartnell, Cuxton aux hon sec, organized a dance at
Cuxton and raised £18 10s. for Division funds.
Rotherham and District A collection at Rotherham United
Football Club rais’ed £43 63. 5d. for branch funds.
Shefﬁeld Mrs Collier, branch hon sec, addressed the Mill-
houses Methodist Youth Club and the Parents’ Group of
Hanover Street Methodist Church on the work of the
RSPCA.

*

Mrs Collier reports that Mrs Wallace, of Shefﬁeld, organ-
ized an ‘American’Tea’ at her home and raised £26 for
branch funds.

*

The Mistress Cutler, Mrs R. P. Phillips, opened the
branch Christmas fair held in the Cutlers’ Hall, Shefﬁeld,
and also presented Mr Joseph Fowler with an RSPCA
bronze medal and certiﬁcate and Mr George Pepper with an
RSPCA certiﬁcate of merit. These awards were for the rescue
of animals. Mr D. S. Haggie, branch chairman, read the
citations.

Shropshire Mrs Dunning, Horsehay aux hon sec, and Mrs
W. Sumnall, Lawley aux hon sec, visited Lawley County
School to hear a talk given by Miss Rees, Schools Lecturer,
on kindness to animals.

Sittingbourne Division Mrs M. Draper, Division hon sec,
reports that a collection at the Bull Football Ground raised
£9 11s. 317d; for Division funds.

Southport, Birkdale and District Miss Richards, branch hon
secretary, reports that Miss Bray organized a tea at which
she sold calendars made by herself and friends. The sum of
£40 was raised.

 

Tilly, holiday guest for two weeks annually, waits for a
drink. Photo from Mrs D. L. Turner, Assistant Hon Sec,
Wimbledon and District Branch -

 




 

. em

 

 

 

February 1956

RSPCA TANGANYIKA GROWS

The Governor of Tanganyika, Sir Edward
Twining, laid the foundation stone of the
Karimjee RSPCA Tanganyika Headquarters
in Dar—eSaSalaam. ~

Animal Defenders formed a guard of honour
for the Governor, who was accompanied by Lady
Twining and greeted by the President of the
Tanganyika, Division of the RSPCA, Mr AbduL
karim Karimjee, "and the organizing secretary for
Tanganyika Mrs Isobel Slater, representing Lone
don Headquarters.

Introducing Mrs Slater, Mr Karimjee said this
was a very important occasion in the history of
the Society.

In the course of her remarks Mrs Slater said
that it was more than two years ago it became
apparent that a headquarters was an urgent
necessity, and last year ‘a real fairy godfather came
along in the person of Mr Yusufali Karimjee
Jivanjee, with a wonderful gift of £3,500 for the
building fund.’ The Government and the Municir
pality had also helped, and RSPCA Headquarters
assisted with a grant of £500.

Animals of the Poor

Mrs Slater said that when the Headquarters was
completed, there would be ample ofﬁce accommOa
dation, a lecture room, accommodation for
African staff in training and a fully equipped
clinic, primarily for the beneﬁt of animals belong,
ing to poorer owners.

Mrs Slater on behalf of RSPCA Headquarters
and all Tanganyika members, thanked Mr Yusufali
and the members of his family for their wonderful
help. She also took the opportunity of thanking
their many other supporters in Tanganyika for
their ever—ready coaoperation.

THEANIMALWORLD 21

Sir Edward said that the main job of the
Society was to teach people how to look after
animals. There was a long way to go as there
was a great deal of neglect.

 

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

Asked by Mr Janner about the concern felt at the
increasing destruction of wild animals in
British Colonial Africa, Mr LennOXvBoyd (Secre—
tary of State for the Colonies) said he was aware
of public interest in the matter and was already
considering, in conjunction with ‘our African
Governors’, whether further protective measures
were necessary. .

Questions about the fate of old pit ponies
addressed in the House of Commons to the
Minister of Fuel and Power elicited from Mr
Joynson—Hicks the information that he could not
make regulations prohibiting the use of pit
ponies underground in coal mines for more than
eleven years of their life; fitness for work, as
prescribed by the regulations, he considered, prOa
vided a better criterion than an arbitrary number
of years’ service. (The RSPCA offers to place
retired pit ponies in good homes and is looking
after several. The Society has written to the
National Coal Board about the worn’out cone
dition of some ponies brought to the surface for
retirement. )

 

EVERY MONTH—
RSPCA
Children’s Magazine
ANIMAL WAYS
Price Id.

 

 

 

 

‘GIVE AND TAKE’

Reporting that both the Headmaster and the
Assistant Master were keen on the work of the
RSPCA, one school lecturer said that the Head’
master told him: ‘I’d rather have you popping in
here than the milkman or the free’meal man. You
teach the children to give as well as to take.’

Since the last report 133 lectures were given in
schools in Maidstone, Farnham, Tilbury, Boving’
don, Southport, Huddersfield, Iver, Uxbridge,
Denbighshire, Caernarvonshire, Shropshire,
Montgomeryshire, Dorset, Sussex, Bedfordshire,
Huntingdonshire, Hertfordshire and the London
area. Talks were also given to the St Martin’inv
the—Fields Boys’ Club, the Enfield West Young
Britons and the Hartley Naturalist Club.

' Twenty—four new Animal Defender groups
were formed; 396 children joined the Head
Oluarters Group.

 

Amongthe prizewinners at a Pet Show organized by the
teachers of Dinton CE School were two, rabbits and a
golden hamster shown with their young owners

 




ANIMALTH

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF

Vol LI No 2 {New Series

 

Nadir. ' "333::

Photos by courtesy of the Huddersfield Daily Examiner

FEBRUARY 1 9 56

DOG MAROONED

 

 

EWORLD ,

THE ' RSPCA

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

A young black and white collie found himself on a 44 ft. high quarry ledge at Longwood, near Huddersﬁeld. He could neither

climb the 20 ft. up to the top nor make ‘his way down. A passer-by saw the dog’s plight and RSPCA lnspector Felgate was

soon on the scene with police and firemen. In the pictures the Inspector is seen on the ladder; a fireman went on the ledge
and handed the dog to him

 

Cruelty comes in by the Back Door

In 1835, when a lusty youngster of eleven, the
RSPCA (though the ‘R’ had not yet been added
to the title) saw some of the earliest fruits of its
agitation for humane treatment of animals in the
passing of an Act that banned the baiting of bulls,
among other animals.

In 1840, Blaine’s Rural Sports said that ‘bull
running’, a form of baiting, was ‘even yet to be
met with’, but the writer echoed the humane
sentiments of the RSPCA founders by describing
it as ‘this cruel sport’.

We would commend his epithet to the
notice of the present—day providers of public
entertainment. No one in this country would
dare stage a bull-ﬁght, or any other form of
bull baiting. The law forbids it, and anyone
.attempting to break this law would have the
full ,anger of outraged public opinion to
reckon with.

Nulliﬁed
The agitation of the founders of the RSPCA has

been nulliﬁed by the advance of science. The
authorities refuse to see that new developments
in science mean that a broad interpretation must
be placed upon existing laws if the spirit of ena
lightenment they enshrine is to guide us in our
conduct.

The provisions of the 1835 Act are embodied
in the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, so that,
for over 120 years, bull baiting has been con,
tinuously forbidden in this country. The people
of Great Britain have said, through their elected
representatives: ‘Bull baiting is cruel. Because of
this, we do not wish to be entertained by this
sport. Those among us who might be tempted to
take pleasure in the animal suffering it involves

shall be forbidden to do so!’

Unfortunately, our ancestors and particu—
larly the valiant pioneers of the RSPCA were
not able to foresee television.

As was reported in a recent number of Animal
World, the Independent Television Authority




 

February 1956

    
   
  
   
 
 
  

THEANIMALWORLD 19

LAME DONKEY HAD To BE HELPED UP

is; ': ._ a?”

RSPCA Inspector Baldock found this small light grey aged donkey lying on his side in a ﬁeld. The animal had to be helped up
and could only stand on three legs. The front off side leg was raised from the ground and inspection showed that between the
knee and the fetlock joint and to the side of the cannon bone there was a deep wound about 4% inches in length and lg inches
Wide. The tendon and bone were exposed, the wound was dirty, blood and matter had run from the wound down the leg and
foot and had matted the hair. The donkey resented the slightest touch and appeared to be in great pain. A veterinary surgeon
was promptly called to dress the wound. He described the lameness as severe and added that the donkey was unable to point
the foot owing to the severity of the wound. Brought by the RSPCA before the magistrates at Mansfield the owner of the
donkey was found guilty of causing unnecessary suﬂ'ering by omitting to give proper and necessary care and attention to
the animal when in a suffering state. He was ﬁned 5/- and sent to prison for two months. The animal was given a humane
end. (A9982)

 

LITTLE GIRL GOT TIRED OF
HER PONY

The skewbald mare pony in a meadow at Dorney
Common appeared to RSPCA lnspectorWilkin—
son to be in pain. She lifted up her feet repeatedly.

The reason, the Inspector found, was that her
hooves were extremely overgrown.

And that led to the owner being ﬁned £5 with
£5 53. costs at Burnham for causing unnecessary
suffering to the animal.

A veterinary surgeon explained that the trouble
was laminitis, a disease of the hoof which caused
It to growpin an elongated way.

Novelty Gone

Pleading guilty on behalf of the owner a
solicitor said that the pony was bought four
years ago for the owner’s daughter. But after
the novelty had worn off for the little girl, the
pony had been allowed to roam around the
ﬁelds. ‘

The pony had never been worked. Apart from
the. hoof! complaint she was in excellent COD!

ition,

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    

As soon as the owner had been told that little
could be done to treat the advanced stage of

laminitis he had had her destroyed. (B.130.)

BIRDS WERE IN AIRTIGHT BAG

A factory worker was ﬁned £5 and ordered to
pay £3 costs at Old Street magistrates’ court,
London, for carrying ﬁve pigeons in a manner
likely to cause them unnecessary suffering.

A Police sergeant said that the defendant was
carrying ﬁve pigeons in a plastic bag the.top of
which was screwed up so that no air was getting
to the birds. After being told, he went away with
the bag open at the top as directed.

About an hour later the defendant was seen
carrying the same pigeons with the top of the
bag screwed up as before. ‘When we took the
pigeons they were very exhausted and distressed,’
the sergeant added. ‘The defendant said he paid
a shilling each for them. He buys them for eating.’
(A.9888.)

(Inspector Goodes, who gave evidence for the
RSPCA, released the pigeons in Trafalgar Square,
London, after the hearing.)




 

 

 

February 1956

THEANIMALWO‘RLD 17

ELEPHANTS IN GENTLER MOOD

BY MAURICE BURTON, D.Sc.
Reprinted from The Illustrated London News, by courtesy of the Editor.

If you turn to an encyclopaedia or a work by any
other authority, you will almost certainly meet
the categorical statement that there is no court«
ship found among mammals. A few authors are
less certain about this and content themselves
with the remark that there is little courtship in
mammals. One writer, in a book published in
recent years, manages to satisfy both views by
stating in his early chapters that there is none, and
in a later chapter admitting there is a little evi’
dence for it. There are, however, several detailed
accounts of such courtship. The hedgehog, for
example, has a courtship lasting several hours and
comprising a very definite and formal ceremonial.
Most of the accounts of this are in German and
one is in Danish, but since an English translation
of the latter was published soon after the original
version, admittedly in a Danish scientific journal,
it is somewhat surprising that so little is known
of this phenomenon here. There has also been
published a very full description of a prolonged
and formalized courtship ceremonial in the wild
rabbit; and there are other accounts of pre
nuptial behaviour in hares, squirrels, badgers,

 

A SAD SPECTACLE

The exhibitor of performing animals claims
that there is a thrill in watching antics
such as the one illustrated. Dr Burton’s
article shows that elephants in their natural
state are a far more fascinating subject of

study

$54..

and wolves, to quote merely a few more, which
seem to line up with "the others.

There is another extreme view that courtship
is a purely human affair. This view is certainly
upheld by the original connotation of the word.
If, however, we can use the word ‘courtship’ for
the pre—mating __ceremonial behaviour of birds,
reptiles, ﬁshes, insects, spiders and mollusca, then
it is surely illogical to suppose that the mammals,
the class to which human beings are scientifically
allocated, should be exceptional. Rather, it would
seem that we are speaking from ignorance and
that when we say there is no courtship among
mammals we mean we know very little about it.
This much is Suggested by the fact that only
recently has there been an authoritative descrip’
tion‘of a courtship between elephants. It has been
given us by Major W. E. Poles, MC, and is con,
tained in the current number of Oryx, the journal
of the Fauna Preservation Society.

It is not always easy to say when a human court,
ship begins and it is reasonable to suppose that the
initial approaches in elephants are equally difﬁ’
cult to detect. One thing Major Poles makes clear,

 




 

 

 

14 THEANIMALWORLD

February 1956

 

 

thought ﬁt recently to show scenes from a Spanish
bullvﬁght on television screens in this country.
The ﬁght was not staged specially. Had it been,
the RSPCA might well have considered action
under the Cinematograph Films (Animals) Act,
1937, which makes it illegal to exhibit to the
public a ﬁlm:

‘if in connection with the production of the ﬁlm any
scene represented in the ﬁlm was organized or
directed in such a way as to involve the cruel
inﬂiction of pain or terror on any animal or the
cruel goading of any animal to fury.’

The ﬁlm was a ‘documentary’. It was not mere
entertainment, we are assured, but was intended to
show us the typical life of a country. (We doubt
whether it is typical and assert that the bull—ﬁght
is kept alive by the tourist trade.)

Moreover, the presentation was edited so
that much that was likely to give offence was
cut. We say that bull—ﬁghting should not be
shown on television in this country. Genera—
tions of British people have said the same
through their Acts of Parliament. Has the
intention of this Act to be ﬂouted merely
because our pioneers did not persuade the
law—makers to insert into the Acts for which
they agitated some such phrase as: ‘If, in a
hundred years’ time there is such a thing as
television, then bull baiting will be illegal on
this just as it is any other place in the country’?

Not being able to foresee this advance of
science, these grand pioneers unwittingly left
open the back door through which exhibitions of

SALK VACCINE

The many people who have been disturbed by
newspaper reports about the untoward results of
using Salk vaccine in America will be interested
in The Story of the Salk Anti’Poliomyelitis Vaccine
by M. Beddow Bayly, MRCS, LRCP.

In his preface Dr Beddow Bayly says that
reliance has been placed upon the statements of
leading authorities on the subject to build up a

true picture without the intrusion of any undue -

comment on the part of the author. His restraint
makes his story extremely telling. The book,
which is illustrated, can be obtained from its
publishers, the National AntiaVivisection Society,
29 Victoria Street, London, SW1. The price is
15., which covers postage.

CRUELTY FOR A FILM

Drawing attention to the fact that an Italian ﬁlm
director, Carlo Bessi, was ﬁned about £20 for
forcing a blindfold horse over a cliff to make a
scene ‘more realistic’, the RSPCA states that the
ﬁlm, La Principessa delle Canarie, has not yet been

animal cruelty might sneak back into this country.
Television Act

The Television Act of 1954 (under which the
Independent Television Authority provides tele’
vision broadcasting services) makes it the duty of
the Authority to satisfy itself that, so far as possi—
ble (Section 3 (1) (a)) ‘nothing is included in the
programmes which offends against good taste or
decency or is likely to encourage or incite to
crime or to lead to disorder or to be offensive to
public feeling . . . .’

The RSPCA protested in vain against the
showing of the ﬁlm. A spokesman for the Author’
ity quoted the Sub—section of the Act as given in
the preceding paragraph and expressed the View
that it had not been contravened by the pro«
gramme. In other words, the back door was wide
open. ,

The RSPCA protest brought forth the announce;
ment from the BBC that it at least would not show a
bull—ﬁght on the screen.

Another result of the RSPCA protest against
the showing of the bullvﬁghting ﬁlm was that 'it
encouraged hundreds of wellrwishers to make
vocal their own concern. In the knowledge that
it has the support of all enlightened people, the
RSPCA will struggle to make effective the intenv
tions of its pioneers and to close the back door
as ﬁrmly as they closed the front—so that cruelty
to animals, under any guise, will ﬁnd no way of
entry into this country. Against cruelty abroad
the RSPCA will ﬁght through its overseas
branches and its international afﬁliations.

EDITOR

submitted to the British Board of Film Censors.
The RSPCA urges that the ﬁlm be banned from

British cinemas.

Counsel for the Italian Society for the Pro‘
tection of Animals Said that the horse in the
objectionable sequence was an old worn—out
one. It was goaded into jumping with shouts
and blows and, carrying a dummy rider
strapped to the saddle, was killed on rocks
195 feet below. The director pleaded that the
horse fell over the cliff accidentally and he
appealed against the ﬁne, but it was conﬁrmed.

The RSPCA was in touch with Italy through

the Anglo’Italian Society for the Protection of
Animals.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Miss
M. Tivy, a member of Carmarthenshire branch
committee; Mr A. H. Powdrill, former chairman
of Hams—Southampton branch; Mrs Walker,

supporter; Mr H. K. Frost, chairman, Chester
branch.

 

 

 




 

 

 

16 . THE ANIMAL'WORLD

 

RAGWORT

The fact that ragwort is poisonous to cattle is not
generally recognized, probably because cattle sel’
dom graze it and because poisoning under natural
conditions is a slow process: so says the Ministry
of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Advisory Leaf~
let No. 280, entitled ‘Ragwort’, available from
Her Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce at the price of 2d.

The present review of this leaﬂet, which was
amended in June last year, recalls the question
addressed by Mr Peter Freeman (RSPCA Council
Member) to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food in the House of Commons in November
last, when the Minister said that Agricultural
Executive Committees have standing instructions
to remind farmers that they must destroy ragwort
and to serve statutory notices on them if necessary.

Myxomatosis?

No one disputes the increased occurrence of raga
wort and country folk and many visitors to the
countryside often ascribe this increase to the
effects of myxomatosis, which has reduced the
rabbit population. There has been no authorir
tative comment on this theory. (A. G. Tansley,
in The British Islands and Their Vegetation, lists
ragwort as a rabbitaresisting plant.)

Although cattle do not eat enough ragwort at
one time to cause acute poisoning, the Ministry’s
leaﬂet points out that the weed may be included
in hay with disastrous results.

The poison is cumulative in its action, and
with continuous doses the amount will in
time cause serious illness, often resulting in

death.

Symptoms
The onset of ragwort poisoning is insidious, says
the leaﬂet. In the early stages the animals have the
appearance of being hide/bound. Later they walk
with a staggering gait, some appearing to be partly
blind or heedless of direction and mentally af—
fected. They may become very excitable and
charge at anyone who approaches them. Usually
constipation is so marked that it causes violent

straining, but in some instances there may be

diarrhoea. The pulse is weak and rapid, but the
temperature remains normal. -

No cure is known, and prevention lies
solely in removing the ragwort from forage or
eradicating it from pastures.

Control

The leaﬂet admits the difﬁculty of controlling
ragwort, but summarizes the control methods in
use as:

Spraying with growthvregulating herbicides,

   

MCPA or 2,413; grazing with sheep; hand

pulling; cutting; biological. control.

The RSPCA reminds readers that both herbi~
cides mentioned are potentially poisonous to
ground game, but in concentrations used in a gri—
culture are harmless. The leaﬂet itself has the
observation that if repeated applications are made
the effect of the treatments on clover content of
the sward may be serious.

Seedling ragwort in a young ley should not be
sprayed unless there is a sufﬁciently dense weed
stand to protect the clover.

Sheep

Repeated close grazing by sheep from winter to
early summer weakens the plants and prevents
seeding, but the view that sheep can eat any quan’
tity of ragwort with impunity is incorrect and the
practice is, therefore, dangerous.

Other Methods

On small areas the plants can be handapulled
after rain has softened ground. Mowing or cutting
the plants in the bud stage, and again later in the
year if further ﬂowering shoots are produced, is
another method of eradicating ragwort if con,
tinued long enough. The caterpillar of the Cinna»
bar moth in years of abundance will so defoliate
the ragwort plants that they are killed or severely
checked. '

In this article, there is space only for quotations
from this leaﬂet, the whole of which is extremely
valuable.

 

    

‘1'? _._.‘ . .

The View that sheep can eat any quantity of ragwort with

impunity is incorrect

 

This .picture, published by courtesy of the ‘Lancashire

Evening Post’, shows a lamb feeding after rescue by RSPCA

Inspector Clarke and Charley Fire Brigade at Whittle-le-
Woods

February 1956 ’

 

 

 




 

 

 

18 THEANIMALWORLD

however, is that the climax is marked by an
activity that has more the appearance of bullying
than of love/making. The two elephants face each
other with outstretched ears. Then they advance
until the tusks interlock. They take hold of each
other’s trunks and strain one against the other as
in a tugaofvwar. In this, the cow appears to be
roughly pushed and pulled, but whether she is
actually maltreated only she can know. Her sub;
sequent behaviour makes it improbable. Certain,
ly, after a spell of this she disengages and moves
away. The bull follows closely, taking her tail in
his trunk, pressing the side of his head against her
quarters. Later, he releases the tail and passes his
trunk over her neck to grasp the base of the
opposite ear.

It may be argued that this is a poor show to be
compared with the elaborate displays of birds, of
which we have had so many detailed accounts in
recent years. Yet there is the same suggestion of
formality, if not of exhibitionism, for after the
consummation, the cow and the bull elephants
face each other at a distance of some ten yards,

then extend their trunkshorizontally towards each.

other and advance until the tips meet. With
hardly a pause, each,then raises the trunk upv
wards and backwards over the head in the form
of an S, in a formal but definite salute. This posiv
tion they hold for about half a minute before
separating.

Those who make a special study of their be
haviour are reluctant to admit that animals Show
affection in the human sense. The extreme lay
view to which I have referred earlier sets human
courtship apart from anything seen in the animal
world because there is so much affection accom—
panying it. Here, it seems to me, the knowledge of
the elephants’ behaviour tends to bridge the gap
between the two.

It is claimed, and with reasonable justiﬁcation,
that if we range all the known animals in order
from the simplest to the most specialized, then
we can trace a fairly unbroken series, showing all
gradations in anatomy—from the simple one;
celled organism to the lord of creation. Our cur”
rent scientiﬁc theory is, indeed, founded upon
the acceptance of some such generalization as this.
Assuming such a gradation in bodily structure, it
seems inescapable that a parallel gradation in be
haviour should also emerge. Elephants, for all
their ancient history, are classified high in the
scale for bodily structure. They are also rated
high for mental attainments, and those who know
them best do not hesitate to credit them with
wisdom, even with the ability for simple reasonv
ing. In 1922, Dr William T. Hornaday, then
Director of the New York Zoological Society,
tried to assess their mental qualities from his
experience of elephants in the wild and under
domestication in India. He placed them fourth,

February 1956

after man, the chimpanzee and the orang. He
went so far as to rate them higher than chima
panzees in their ability to think things out, and
he supported this opinion with cogent reasons.
It is arguable that we can add to this a capacity for

' affectionate behaviour.

The elephant’s trunk is a versatile organ, highly
sensitive, capable of feats of strength as well as
delicate operations. It is also used for expressing
affection, so far as we can see, in its truest sense.
Major Poles comments: ‘I am sure everyone who
has studied elephants, either wild or domesti—
cated, can have no doubt that these highly intelli~
gent animals form strong attachments and deeply—
rooted friendships between either sex and all
ages.’ There are many stories of affection shown
by the cow to her calf, but these are to be ex;
pected, and the channel for this display of affec—
tion is so often through the trunk. Cow elephants
Show their attachment for each other by putting
small offerings of food into the other’s mouth. It
is common for the bull to caress the cow, the two
standing side by side with trunks entwined. From
the frequency of these things it is not stretching

. imagination too far to see in the bull putting his

trunk around the cow’s neck or ear a gesture of
real affection.

Finally, the argument can be clinched by such
episodes as the following. In elephants it is the
female that ‘does the courting’. She is a coquette
or a ﬂirt, capable of pressing her attentions on the
unwilling male. Major Poles describes such an
incident in which the male vigorously rebuffed
the ﬂirtatious female and following this he

‘walked close behind, frequently caressing her,

back and neck with his trunk as, with the rest of
the herd in front, they marched steadily through
the grass towards the distant water’, apparently

expressing disinterested though real affection.

 

 

Photo]

[Regional Superintendent Brown

These two ducks are 2l years of age and still in very good

health. They have never been penned up but have always

had the run of a very large garden. Owned by Mrs Meredyth

Baker (Hon Secretary of RSPCA Apuldram Auxiliary),

they prove the results of care and kindness. Ducks have

been known to reach l2 years of age, but to remain in
good health at the ripe age of 2l islvery rare




 

 

 

20 THEANIMALWORLD

February 19 5 6

 

WILD LIFE CONSERVATION IN MALAYA

‘The best legislation for the conservation and
preservation of wild life anywhere in SouthaEast
Asia’ is the description by Mr H. J. Kitchener,
Chief Game Warden for the Federation of Ma,
laya, of the Wild Animals and Birds Protection
Ordinance, No. 2, of of 1955.

The phrase occurs in a long and helpful letter
addressed by Mr Kitchener to the RSPCA Singar
pore branch, who had been asked by RSPCA
Headquarters for information about the new
Ordinance. The ensuing observations are made
by Mr Kitchener.

The Ordinance is not the first legislation in
Malaya for the preservation and conservation of
wild life in the country. It supersedes the Feder’
ated Malay States Wild Animals and Birds Pro'
tection Enactment of 1925, Cap. 193, in the
States of Pahang, Negri Sembilan and Selangor,
and supersedes the Settlement Ordinances which
operated in the Settlement of Malacca.

New Protection

Man-y loopholes for evading the provisions of
the 1925 Enactment have been closed; several
species of animals hitherto not afforded pro,
tection are now included in the protected list;
others have been placed in other lists affording
them protection, and bird shops, dealers in game
meat, and taxidermists are now controlled by
licence.

Animals who have now been included in
the Totally Protected List are the Slow Loris,
the Scaly Anteater, Benturong (Bear—cat), all
Gibbons and the Tapir. The Malayan Bear,
hitherto entirely unprotected, is now included
in the list of Big Game, which virtually means
that it has total protection.

All taxidermists, game meat dealers and dealers
in animals and birds—except domestic animals
and birds—are required to keep registers, open to
inspection by the game warden at any time, in
which shall be recorded all details of protected
animals and birds and parts thereof received by
them, name of person from whom received and
manner of disposal. This regulation is directed
towards the suppression of illegal shooting, trapv
ping and killing.

Dealers in animals and birds whose premises,
cages, enclosures, etc. do not conform to ordin—
ary humane standards for the conﬁnement of
animals and birds can be compelled to repair or
alter them to suitable standards or, failing that,
to be closed down. Any ailing or maimed animal
or bird still conﬁned may be destroyed.

Cruel Snare

One very important regulation incorporated in '

the new Ordinance is that dealing with the setting
and use of the wire noose snare (or, in Malay,
jarat). This instrument of ﬂexible cable laid wire
is set in the game paths and tracts and catches the
unfortunate animal by the foot or paw. As soon
as the snare is sprung the noose tightens round
the foot or paw and is, under considerable tension
from the ﬂexible pole to which the end of the
wire is ﬁxed.

The tension exerted by the pole and the
frantic leaps of the victim in attempts to
escape in a short time cause the wire to bite
through the skin and ﬂesh to the bone and
sinews.

The animal may remain in such a snare for days
before the setter arrives or death releases the
maimed and tortured creature. In any case, death
is inevitable, as the mutilation and loss of circur
lation to the caught foot or paw soon causes
gangrene.

Paws Found

Bears’ paws have been found near a
sprung snare where the victim has pre'
ferred freedom at the cost of a paw;
should the stump heal, slow starvation is
inevitable, as one set of claws is not enough
to deal with termite nests and rotten logs, nor
can the bear climb trees to forage for fruit,
nestlings and honey with only three sets of
claws and a quite useless limb.

The enforcement of this section will reduce the
wastage of wild life tremendously and prevent an
immeasurable amount of cruelty, mutilation and
maiming, as well as the useless and irresponsible
killing and maiming of tiger, leopard and clouded
leopard.

Rhinoceros have been totally protected for
many years.

 

QUEENSLAND
Afﬁliated Society Honoured

Miss M. Hitchcock, secretary of the affiliated
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty in Brisbane,
says that the Society is proud to have received the
honour of Her Majesty the Queen’s approval to
the use of the title ‘Royal’. The Society is now
the Royal Queensland Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty; it protects the welfare of both animals
and children.

Congratulations on this honour have been sent

from RPSCA Headquarters.

 

r; g& .451” i i

 

 

 




 

 

 

22 THEANIMALWORLD

February 1956

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

Mrs Kendall,
Cornwall—East
Branch co hon
secretary, sends
this picture of a
Pyrenean
Mountain Dog
who belongs to
Mrs S. lames, of
Polperro.

Mrs james sells
copies of the
picture to help
the RSPCA. This
year alone she
has in this way
raised £l0

 

Bath and District The Archdeacon of Bath (the Ven E. A.
Cook), accompanied by Mrs Cook, opened the branch
Animal Welfare sale held in the Concert Room of the Pump
Room, Bath. The archdeacon was introduced by the Mayor
of Bath (Coun A. N. Dix), member of the branch committee.
The Mayor was accompanied by the Mayoress (Mrs Dix).
A vote of thanks was proposed by Mr E. J. Hobhouse,
branch chairman, and was seconded by Mr A. W. S. Berry,
branch secretary. Mrs Mary Barnes, branch president,
organized the sale which raised £885 for branch funds.
Berkshire—Newbury and District .Miss Angela Baylis,
Winterbourne aux hon sec, organized a whist drive and raised
£8 14s. for branch funds.

Birmingham and District The annual bazaar organized by
Miss Evans took place at Northﬁeld. The event realized
£177 1s. 3d. for branch funds. This is the ninth bazaar that
Miss Evans has organized on behalf of the Society in seven
years with a total result of £1,002 12s. 5d.

Blackpool Mr Arthur Warner, branch chairman, presented
Mr John Pearce with the RSPCA cup and merit medal for
the landau owner who has best complied with the Blackpool
Landau Horses’ Charter. The presentation took place at the
National Spiritualist Church and Lyceum, Blackpool, and
Inspector Heyes attended.

*

The branch annual bring and buy sale was opened by Mrs

Ivan G. Aspinall and Miss K. Milner, chairman of the
branch social committee, presided. In charge of the bring and
buy stall’were Mrs D. Hinchcliffe, Mrs A. Jones (branch
hon sec), and Mrs Lee; MC for the whist drive was Mrs
E. M. Jordan, hon sec and treas of the social committee.
Inspector Heyes gave an address on the work of the
RSPCA. The event was held at the Wainwright ConserVative
Club and over £25 was raised for branch funds.
Bromley and District (Kent) Mrs Grimshaw, Petts Wood
auxiliary hon sec, reports that their annual bring and buy
sale held at her home raised the substantial sum of
£241 43. 5d. of which £125 was donated to Headquarters,
and the balance for branch funds.

*
Mrs Beaumont addressed the Petts Wood Townswomen’s
Guild on the work of the RSPCA.”
Burton-on-Trent An effort organized by Councillor and
Mrs Simpkin, the latter being aux hon sec for Netherseal,
at their home raised £230 for branch funds. Among those
present were Mrs P. J. W. Bird, branch hon sec, and Mr
P. J. W. Bird, branch hon treas.

* .
Mrs H. Archer, Rolleston Auxiliary hon sec, reports that
their Christmas fair raised £70. During the year Rolleston
auxiliary has raised £138.

Bury (Lanes) and District Mrs Hopkinson, branch. hon
sec, made a presentation to Bacup Fire Brlgade of an
RSPCA certiﬁcate for bravery in animal rescue.

Mrs Hopkinson reports that a Hallowe’en dance organized
by the dance committee raised £83 for branch funds.
Caernarvonshire——Llandudno and District Miss M. Unwin,
branch hon sec, reports that Miss Jollitfe organized a dance
at The Memorial Hall, Llanbedr, and raised £22 17s. 1d. for
the North Wales Mobile Unit.

Caernarvonshire West and Anglesey Mrs Lowcock, Holy-
head aux hon sec, and Miss Parry organized a play and
rummage sale at the Scouts Club, Holyhead. The sum of £10
was raised for branch funds.

Chiswick and District Mr G. James Du Rose, branch hon
sec, reports that Miss D. Parlby, branch chairman and aux
hon sec for Bedford Park, organized a concert and raised
£17 105. for branch funds.

Cleveland and Tees Side Mrs Hart, aux hon sec for Salt-
burn, organized a coffee morning at Saltburn and raised
£11 163. 6d. for branch funds.

A dance organized by Mrs G. A. Roberts, Skelton aux

Eon 2sec, and Mrs Hart at the Hotel Alexandra raised
5 1 s.

Coventry and District Mrs Tremlett, Nuneaton aux hon
sechreports that their rummage sale raised £24 for branch
un s.
Cumberland—North and East Lady Graham, branch presi-
dent, opened a coffee morning held at ‘Fantails’, Wetheral,
the home of Mr and Mrs Watson, and the sum of £40 was
raised for branch funds. Among those present were Lt-Col
H. Levin, branch hon sec, Mrs Levin and Senior Inspector
Brown.
Dorset—South Miss A. Hannay, Dorchester aux hon sec,
reports that a children’s Christmas party was organized for
the Dorchester and District Animal Defenders and the
junior branch of another organization. The sum of £12 was
raised and £6 went to branch funds.
Durham and District Miss G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon
sec, reports that the Mayor of Durham (Coun H. L. Cawood)
Opened the branch bring and buy sale held in Durham Town
Hall. The branch chairman, Lady Bradford, presided, and
among those present were Lord and Lady Gort and Lady
Havelock Allan. Mr Peacock, branch hon treas, proposed a
vote of thanks to the Mayor and Mrs J. Dixon, 'Bearpark
aux hon sec, presented the Mayor with a book.
Durham—South, and North Yorkshire A dance was
organized at the Gretna Green Wedding Inn, Ayclitfe, by
Mrs Betty Allinson, Shildon auxiliary hon sec, and Mr
Wilson. The sum of £14 143. 6d. was raised for branch funds.
Hants and Surrey Border As a departure from having the
usual stall at the London market the branch held a Christ-
mas market for the ﬁrst time in Farnham, at the Church
House. Organizers were Mrs Foord of Rowledge, Mrs
Harbord, Fleet aux hon sec, and Miss Routley, Aldershot
aux hon see; the ﬁnancial side was very capably handled by
MISS A. M. Ayre, branch hon treasurer, and the sum of £145
was raised for branch funds. The branch president, The Rt
Hon The Viscountess Alanbrooke, supported by Major

Chorley
Auxiliary Stall
at a show

Photo by courtesy
of Charley Guardian

 

 

A"

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

24 THE ANIMALWORLD

February 1956

 

A coffee morning and bring and buy stall organized by
Miss Richards raised £63. A Christmas effort raised £49
for branch funds.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Miss M. Leaning, Brixton
aux hon sec, reports that a sale was organized by the Head-
mistress, Miss Mayhew, and the pupils of Claremont School.
The sum of £14 was raised for branch funds. (Report sent
by Miss M. Tamplin, branch hon sec and hon treas.)
Suffolk—East, and Ipswich Mrs G. B. Houston organized
a dance and raised £32 7s. for branch funds.
Surrey—Epsom and District Mrs F. Neale, Ashtead aux-
iliary aux hon sec, reports that a bazaar raised £346 for
branch funds. The bazaar was opened by Sally Lane of Mrs
Dale’s Diary. The prizes were distributed by. Mr Peter
Yorke, the well-known composer and conductor.

Miss Cunlilfe, branch hon sec, reports that a sale of work
was held in the Church House, Epsom, and £100 was raised
for branch funds.

Surrey—Waking and District Over 250 people attended the
ﬁnal of the branch darts competition held at St John’s
Memorial Hall, Woking. During the evening Mrs Pelham
Warren,'branch hon sec, presented Mr A. Hack with an
RSPCA certiﬁcate of merit for bravery.

Sussex—West, and Brighton Miss Johnson, Thakeham aux
hon sec, organized a whist drive at the Junior School,
Thakeham, and raised £40 Is. for branch funds. Mr Laker
acted as MC. Mr C. R. Davies presented the prizes.

Westmorland Mrs A. Coward, Kendal aux hon sec, organ-
ized a cinema collection and raised £46 105. Mrs Coward
would like to thank all who helped, especially Mr Colman,
managing director of Brennan’s Cinemas Ltd, who made
the collection possible.

Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Miss M. E.
Fletcher organized Trials at her stables at Burcot and raised
£5 5s. for branch funds. (Report from Col D. N. Cronin,
branch hon sec.)

Mrs Whiteley, Bromsgrove auxiliary hon sec, reports that
their rummage sale raised £12 4s. for branch funds.
Worcestershire—West, and Malvern Mrs Salmon, Tewkes—
bury aux hon sec, reports that the Animal Service was at
Forthampton and the collection (given to branch funds) was
£1 8s. 9d.

GRANDMOTHER GOES
SHOPPlNG?—NO!

Animal Defender Ronald Knee in
fancy dress as he appeared in an
Animal Defenders’ Concert. (Picture
sent by Mrs Turner, Park Gate
Auxiliary Hon Sec)

 

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day or House—tovhouse Collection
was organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Tess, whose picture comes
from Mrs Allinson, Shildon
Auxiliary Hon Sec, col-
lected £l 2s. l0d. for
Branch funds at a show
held in the district. Tess
came to a sad end; she
died shortly after being
scared by fireworks

FLAG DAYS

Willenhall, Mrs E. A. Holt, aux hon sec, £35 185. 4d.;
Warsop, Miss M. P. Cooper, aux hon sec, £11 95. 8d.;
Fleetwood, Mrs E. Clark, aux hon sec, £68 35. 4d.; Oakham,
Miss Whadcoat, aux hon sec, £21 125. 11d.; Suffolk——
West and Bury St Edmunds branch (County collection),
Mrs N. H. Francis, branch hon sec, £272 185. 4d.; Gateshead—
on—Tyne, Mrs Lawton, aux hon sec, £110; Nelson, Miss D.
Ashworth and Mr C. Whiteside, co aux hon secs, £87.

 

Furness and Barrow Branch

The following results of Flag Days organized on behalf of
the Furness and Barrow Branch have been notiﬁed by Mr
G. Calderbank, branch hon sec:

£ 5. d.
Cartmel 21 19 7
Coniston 24 4 1
Daltonvin-Furness . . . . . . 25 9 8

 

.. UNEXPECTED GIFT

Sending £5 55. to help the RSPCA, Miss Paddy‘Skiﬁing—
ton, Clifford Manor, near Newark, le05, says she re'
cently appeared in a Bourn—Vita advertisement for
Cadbury Brothers and was asked to name a charity to re’
ceive this sum. In thanking Miss Skiﬁ‘lngton the RSPCA
hopes others with similar opportunities will follow suit.

 

 

 

‘ £ 5 d.
Hawkshead 17 7 O
Lakeside and Newby Bridge 26 9 2
Ulverston 74 4 2
£189 13 8

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE

Leeds, Mrs J. W. Harvey, branch hon sec, £1 75. lOd.;
Frosterley, Mrs Ross, aux hon sec, £4; Sidmouth, Sidbury
and Salcombe Regis, Miss Page, aux hon sec, £109 105. 8d.;
Banbury, Mrs Brummitt, aux hon sec, £17 95. 2d.; Alne and
District, Mr W. Dale, aux hon sec, £41 133. 10d.; Birching'
ton, Miss Denning, aux hon sec, £23 65. 9d.; Ebbw Vale,
Mrs Lloyd, aux hon sec, £37 55. 10d.; Devizes and District,
Miss Goddard, branch hon sec, £32 85. 11d.; West Drayton,
Mr H. Button, aux hon sec, £67 55. 1d.; Dorking, Mrs
Dryer, aux hon sec, £54 45. 9d.; Croydon, Miss V. G.
Culling, £15 45. 7d.; Stamford, Miss Blackstone, aux hon
sec, £21 165. 8d.; Surrey—Woking branch, Mrs Pelham
Warren, branch hon sec, £257; Ruthin, Mrs C. Strong, aux
hon sec, £24 105.; North Shields, Mrs M. Frier, aux hon
sec, £36 65. 8d.; Tewkesbury, Mrs V. L. Salmon, aux hon
sec, £9 13s. 3d.; Tewin Wood, Mrs Golding, aux hon sec,
£14 45. 9d.; Suffolk East and Ipswich, Mrs Crawford,

branch hon sec, £351 05. 8d.; Bacup, Mrs Roberts, aux hon
sec, £35 125. - _

 

BONUS

Certain tea ﬁrms are giving dividend coupons to be
afﬁxed to cards which, when full, can be exchanged for
cash. An RSPCA supporter has suggested that these
sums could very well be given to the RSPCA. Her sug—

gestion is gladly passed on to our readers of Animal
World.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

LONDON TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
LA AY
JOINT gxerﬂbiY G D BOLT SLAUGHTERING
2nd JUNE, I956 GUNS

See note inside this cover
Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

 

 

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

FLAG DAY
G ODDS

Celluloid Buttons

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

47* ﬁ—— ‘

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON co. LTD. TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
1.9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2 HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. COAO

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

TO those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested :—

‘l bequeath‘fto the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall

be suﬁ‘lcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be exv

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




