L? -ol'awa

*

The N atinnal
Anti-Vivisectinn
Society

INCORPORATED NOT FOR PROFIT

(REVISED TO AUGUST 29, I962)

100 EAST OHIO STREET

CHICAGO 'II, ILLINOIS

 

 

 




 

Animals often are kept in abominable quarters for long periods— These cages, in Ohio State University, are barely large enough to
even years. Many laboratories use dog cages like these, which are allow a large dog to stand and turn. Even small dogs are unable to
in the Benjamin Franklin County Hospital in Columbus, 0. move more than about a foot in any direction.

TRUTH ABOUT VIVISECTION!

These are actual photographs secretly taken in

 

Vivisection laboratories around the country by
investigators for The Humane Society of the

United States, and used by special permission of that
society. These photographs, said to be representative
of conditions discovered in typical laboratories,

are unretouched. Dimness is the result of conditions

under which they were taken.

 

These dog cages are in Western Reserve University, Cleveland. Note
old urine stains running from cages to floor. Entire room is dirty.

 

Dogs in this Indiana U. room have undergone experiments that These are typical dog cages in the University of Cincinnati. All over
Paralyzed their hind legs. Dog at left is dragging itself across room America, laboratory dogs, monkeys, and cats are kept for long
on belly, with hind legs trailing. Note trails in sawdust. periods in SUCh cells.

 

   




 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANT I -VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO 11, ILLINOIS

 

N U M E R 4

BULLETIN

SEPTEMBER, 1964

 

 

N. l. H. GETS OVER ONE BllllON
OF YOUR IAX MONEY FOR I965

 

Huge mm: for virirection included in burden

of $5 on each mom, woman and child in U S.

 

By CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing Director
National Anti-Vivisection Society

IF some government official came to your
home and “asked” you to give $5 for yourself
and each member of your family, including
the youngest child, to finance a bureau which
would hand out a portion of the total col-
lected to vivisectors for experiments on
animals, you unquestionably would refuse.

And yet, probably without your knowledge
(unless you are the rare citizen who studies
the government budget) you are being forced
to make such a contribution for a purpose to
which you are flatly opposed, else you would
not be a member of this society. Once the
federal government has collected the taxes
you pay, you have no control whatever over
how the money is spent.

Vivisection is opposed by most humani-
tarians because it causes unlimited, unre—
strained and merciless suffering of millions
of animals, but there is another compelling
reason why every citizen should take a long,
hard look at the practice and protest to his
senator and representative the squandering
of millions of dollars annually on useless,
repetitive “research” that has been strongly

 

 

criticized even by the very legislators who
vote your money for it.

Let’s examine the facts. In April of this
year the House of Representatives approved
a budget for the National Institute of Health
calling for an expenditure in 1965 of the in-
credible sum of $1,045,242,000.00. This total
was an increase of more than $70,000,000.00
over the appropriation for 1964. With a
population approaching two hundred million
persons, the money voted to the NIH repre-
sents an expenditure of approximately $5 for
each man, woman and child in the country.

***

THE NIH is the government bureau that
gives grants (over which Congress has no
control once the appropriation is approved)
for research in medical institutions, includ-
ing some profit-making, commercial labora-
tories operated by pharmaceutical manufac-
turers, and to other research organizations
in this country. And, which will come as a
shock to some taxpayers, money is even sent
to institutions in other countries.

(Further along in this article you will be
appalled to discover how some of this money
is used for unbelievable torture of animals.)
As this BULLETIN goes to press, the
Senate has not acted on the NIH budget, but

 

 

 




 

COURIER POST, Camden, New Jersey

 

 

 

 

 

 

RESEARCH PHYSIOLOGIST HITS
USELESS EXPERIMENTS BY KIDS

Baltimore SUN
May 14, 1964

Animal Experiments

Sir: As a research physiologist, I
was interested in the ﬁfteenth National
Science Fair. We saw high school
children aged 15-18 exhibit work cover-
ing a wide variety of topics, much of
commendable ingenuity.

The pleasure of the fair was, how-
ever, marred by the fact that 50 or
more students had performed painful
experiments on animals. The pain
varied from injecting drugs to centri-
fuging animals, producing cancer (a
common practice in high schools
today), skin grafts, removing spleen,
ovaries or adrenals. One 16-year-old
had inserted brain electrodes without
aseptic technique and the rats that
survived two weeks post-operatively
were then electrically stimulated.

In my opinion, the inﬂiction of pain

 

a positive contribution to knowledge
will be made in another way. But the
work of these young students does not
meet this test. These projects are
simply an exercise in technique which
could have been conducted just as well
on lower forms of life or by different
kinds of projects.

A moral code for high school biology
work should provide that no vertebrate
animal is subjected to any procedure
which interferes With its normal health
or causes it pain. If Science Service,
which administers this fair and many
others, adopted such a code, students
would beneﬁt from a fuller apprecia-
tion of humane standards and their
education would in no way be worse.

Biology teachers can lead the way
by encouraging their students to do
work only within such a code. Only that
research which proceeds,from a con-
sciousness of the value of animal as
well as human life is in accord with
the ﬁnest traditions of medicine.

‘NEXT THING YOU KNOW‘ THEY’LL BE AFTER
OUR BRAINS!’

on experimental animals can be justié

, F.Barbr01 .
ﬂed if it is reasonable tq expect that a a r ans

Bethesda, May 11.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Des Moines REGISTER
March 10, 1964

Baboon-Kidney
Loans All Fail

DENVER, COLO. (AP)—Hos-
pital surgeons said Monday all
six operations in which‘kidneys
of baboons were transplanted to
humans have been failures.

Four of the patients have
died. In two others the baboon
kidneys were removed and re-
placed by kidneys. donated by
other persons.

It would be interesting to hear some apologist for
vivisection or a fanatical proponent of practices

in schools which result in torment of animals, try

to explain to an impartial jury of citizens precisely
how such “work" described in the newspaper story
below benefits "science" or contributes to the educa-
tion of America's youth° Remember, it is YOUR money,
paid in taxes, which supports whatever is done in

the nation's public schools.

San Rafael (Ca1.) INDEPENDENT-JOURNAL, March 10, 1964

RED EARS IS A WINNER

 

Mill Valley Student Freezes
Mouse, Brings It Back To Life

 

 

 

None of the transplanted ba-
boon organs functioned as had
been hoped, said doctors at
Colorado General and Veterans
Administration hospitals.

The baboons died immedi-
. ately after the transplanting
operations. "

 

 

 

 

 

Kim Steinhardt, 12, was
voted “Sweepstakes Award
Winner” by his fellow pupils
at Edna Maquire School in
Mill Valley for his science
fair project of freezing a
mouse and bringing it back
to life. The seventh grader
is a son of Dr. David and
Mrs. Steinhardt of 301 East
Strawberry Drive.

In numerous experiments
with mice and rats, Kim re-
ported he froze one mouse
at 9.5 degrees centigrade,

then brought it back to life
by placing it on a cushion,
putting a light bulb beside
it, and giving artificial res-
piration.

He lost six mice, two be-
cause of too much anasthesia
and others by freezing them
too low. He lost neither of
his two rats.

Method of freezing, said
Kim, was to inject the anes-
thesia with a syringe and
leave the mouse five minutes.
Then he put the mouse on

tin foil atop crushed ice. He
then brought the rodent
down to the lowest temper-
ature and back up, taking
about two hours for the proc-
ess.

“I took a rubber tube and
put one end to the mouse’s
mouth and one end to my
mouth,” he said, to give arti-

. ficial respiration.

One of the mice that sur-
vived, Kim called “Red
Ears.” because Kim painted
his ears red to identify him.

 

 

 

 




 

icontim/ed from page 2 }

MORE BEATING TO INDUCE TRAUMA

At Colorado University, T. Eliot, W. R. Miller and J. T. Willson also induced trauma by con-
tusing each hind leg of dogs by “150 to 400 successive blows with leather and rubber mallets.”
They then studied blood changes in the dogs as a result of trauma, although back in 1919 Joseph
C. Aub and Hsien Wu of Harvard Medical School also were engaged in studying chemical
, changes in the blood as a result of traumatic shock induced by “smashing” and “resmashing”

’ the legs of animals.

NIH GRANTS TO T. ELIOT FROM 1954 to 1957: $30,566

 

 

STRESS

Hans Selye of the University of Montreal, Canada, subjects animals to stress by poisoning
them; frustrating them by strapping them on their backs; crushing skin and muscles; exposing
them to frigid air and extreme heat; subjecting them continuously to screeching sirens; tap—
ing their paws together to prevent climbing and then placing them in a revolving drum contain-
ing projections; breaking their legs; forcing them to swim to exhaustion. In addition to the
partial total of NIH grants listed below, Hans Selye also receives grants from other sources.

NIH GRANTS (INCOMPLETE TOTAL) TO HANS SELYE FROM 1950 to 1963: $728,926

(*Material supplied by The National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare.)

 

tion of Grants by the National Institutes of
Health (Reexamination of Management De-
ficiencies)” and it took the NIH sternly to
task in highly critical language. (Union
Calendar No. 811, House Report No. 1958, a
copy of which will be supplied to you on re-
quest to your representative or senator.)

Here are some of the revelations and recom-
mendations in that report:

l—Disturbing evidence of abuse of grants
by commercial firms.

Z—The NIH is not adequately organized
to administer the grant programs with maxi-
mum effectiveness.

3—Commitments are made by the NIH for
future support of projects in specified
amounts for periods up to EIGHT YEARS
OR MORE. Usually, the grants are not re-
viewed again and the amount originally voted
is paid automatically on request. (Can anyone
imagine a vivisector who gets a fat sum from
the government merely “on request” saying
he didn’t want any more money?)

4—In hearings held to get at the truth
about alleged waste, the NIH admitted that
adequate administrative machinery does not
exist, either in the NIH itself or in the insti-
tutions receiving your tax money, to insure

 

 

the grants are effectively managed. (What
business man would permit such a situation
to exist in his own company?)

5—The committee recommended that the
NIH formulate grant principles to clarify the
moral obligations of scientists as trustees of
public funds. (This is about like locking the
barn door after the horse has been stolen.)

>l< * >l<

HERE are some further excerpts from the
report:

“The committee is concerned by reports
of the widely held attitude of scientists
toward NIH. grants. It is apparent to the
committee that many scientists regard their
grants as personal resources and use surplus
funds that remain after providing for neces-
sary project expenses for nonessential pur-
poses, rather than return surplus money to
the Government.”

“According to the NIH criteria for rating
grant projects, the average quality of such
projects has been steadily declining in recent
years. The proportion of the best projects
(the 100-199 group) has declined while there

{continued 072 back page}

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

2-- The Editor, CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR July 31, 1963

of helpless, live animals.

Public derision by spokesmen for "regulation” of those who
believe vivisection is not only cruel, but wrong, is an
exhibition of poor taste and bad judgment, and a very real
disservice to their own campaign for animal relief. Cruelty
cannot be justified by the argument it is useful and no

bill yet proposed would stop vivisectors doing exactly what
they do now if, in their opinion, the success of their "work"
would be jeopardized.

The National Anti-Vivisection Society yields to no one in its
concern for animals or its desire to alleviate their suffering.
For years we have publicized the work of vivisectors, as did
the active and dedicated organizations which preceded us.
Pioneers in the work, giants in the humane field whose names
are honored by humanitarians the world over, were battling
cruelty to animals long before many of the existing humane
societies were formed. They created the climate in which

the legislative efforts getting so much attention today
flourished and grew.

But the anti-vivisection societies, past and future, are con-
cerned with much more than laboratory cruelty. To them the
practice is not only a moral issue, it is an ever-present
danger to the lives and health of all the people. In a world
where crass materialism is king, it is beyond understanding
why this facet of the fight is so consistently soft-pedaled.

If, as we contend, vivisection is wrong and if, as has been
demonstrated time and time again, results of animal experimen-
tation may not be applied to humans without a very real danger,
then concentrating all efforts on mere ”regulation" to eliminate
animal suffering will simply delay total abolition.

If a gun has two barrels, why use only one?
Yours sincerely,

Clarence E. Richard
Managing Director

 

CER:Cg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND DENTISTRY
260 CRITTENDEN BOULEVARD
ROCHESTER 20, NEW YORK

November 21, 1963

  

Dr. Robert A. Russell, President

The National Anti~Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street

Chicago ll, Illinois

Dear Doctor Russell:

I am shocked indeed that an educated man like yourself could
sign the letter attributed to you from the National Antivivisection
Society. You should indeed take a "longer harder look at the picture"
before you advocate “the abolition of vivisection“. ‘Without vivisection
medical science would be still in the dark ages. Almost all advances in
medicine from the discovery of the circulation of the blood to the
discovery of insulin have been due to devoted persons who were everlastingly
doing eXperiments on animals to learn how they work. It is fortunate that
the world is full of creative peOple who have enough curiosity and
intelligence to try experiments in order to learn how to deal with the
ailments of mankind while others are content to take life as it comes
with merely a weekly prayer to some imaginary deity who is supposed t9.
intervene in some mysterious way. If vivisection were abolished as you
prOpose, medical progress would come to a standstill.

 

Almost all experiments on animals are done under an anesthetic
and the animal is killed before the anesthesia wears off. The animals
so used represent only a small fraction of the animals killed every day
in our cities for lack of an owner. Death from an anesthetic is no
worse than death by poison gas and better than death in a slaughter house,
and both of the latter are considered right and proper. In a few experi~
ments, it is necessary to let the animal recover from an Operation. Many
human patients are also subjected to useless Operations because medical
science knows no better. There are probably some animals in cages that
are too small and dirty. The way to avoid that is not to abolish vivim
section but to help the medical scientists obtain enough space and money
for larger cages and enough money to pay for more help to clean the cages
and to give the animals better Care.

Of course there are many useless experiments done. If we knew
the answers in advance this could be avoided. 'Without vivisection medicine
would have made as little progress as religion has in the last 2000 years.

 

 

'Indeed on the whole religion has retarded progress in the medical fields
as in many other fields of learning and it looks as if it were going to do

 

 

 

its best to continue in that effort, if your letter is a fair example.

 

You obviously have had no Opportunity for any real knowledge
of what goes on in medical laboratories and a few pictures from a roving
photographer can be very deceptive indeed. Those who work in medical
science laboratories are just as fond of animals and just as humanitarian
in their outlook as any member of the Antivivisection Society in spite
of accusation to the contrary. Your eXpression “unrestrained torture"
is pure nonsense. You really should indeed take a "longer harder look
at this problem" before you indulge in such public utterances.

'With all due respect, I am

very truly yours,
4% 037W

wallace O. Fenn‘
Distinguished University
Professor of Physiology

 

 

 




USE YOUR FAVORITE ON IETTERS AND PACKAGES—SOMEBODY WllI READ IT!

MARK TWAIN

I believe I am not interested to know whether
vivisection produces results that are profitable
to the human race or doesn't. To know that
. the results are profitable to the race would
not remove my hostility to it. THE PAIN WHICH
IT INFLICTS UPON UNCONSENTING ANI-
MALS is the basis of my enmity toward it,
and it is to me sufficient iustification of the en-
mity without looking further.

THE REV. ROBERT A. RUSSELL

(Rector, Epiphany Episcopal Church, Denver, Colorado)

With 600 millions of Christians in the
worltl, why does the church permit this
crime of vivisection to go unchallenged?
... It is high time that the clergy and the
church as a whole rise up and create a
public opinion that will put an end to
these brutal and perverse experiments
which for the most part are so futile and
unavailing, and are certainly demoraliz-

DR. ROBERT GESELL

(Late Chairman, Department of Physiology,
University of Michigan)
IV e are drowning and suﬂocating unanaesthetized ani-
mals—in the name of science. We are determining the
amount of abuse that life will endure in unanaesthetized
animals—in the name of science. We are producing
frustration ulcers in experimental animals under shock-
ing conditions—in the name of science. We are observ-
ing animals for weeks, months, or even years under
infamous conditions—in the name of science. With the
aid of the halo supplied by the faith of the American
people in medical science, the National Society for
Medical Research converts sanctuaries of mercy into
animal pounds at the beck and call of experimental
laboratories regardless of how the animals are.to be
used. )Vhat a travesty of humanity! This may well prove
to be the blackest spot in the history of medical science.

BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL

We firmly believe that only when we get away
from the physiological or pharmacological lab-
oratory, and go back to the bedside will we
begin to add to our knowledge of disease in
man. Professor Hastings Gilford wrote: “There
is much to be said for the belief . . . that the chief
cause of this new obstacle to progress is the
present dominance of experimental research
over clinical and pathological investigation."
We commend these pertinent remarks, which
we thoroughly endorse. to those who still pay
homage to the animal experimenter.

Those who test operations or drugs on animals, or who
inoculate them with diseases so that we may be able to
help human beings by means of the results thus obtained,
ought never to rest satisﬁed with the general idea that
their dreadful doings are performed in pursuit of a
worthy aim, it is their duty to ponder in every separate
case whether it is really necessary thus to sacriﬁce an
animal for humanity. They ought to be ﬁlled with
anxious care to alleviate as much as possible the pain
that they cause. How many outrages are committed in
this way in scientiﬁc institutions where narcotics are
often omitted to save time and trOuble! How many also
when animals are made to suffer agonizing torture, only
in order to demonstrate to students scientiﬁc truths
which are perfectly well known.

LATE CARDINAL GIBBONS

I have always entertained an abhorrence towards
unnecessary cruelty to dumb animals in the in-
terest of science. It is doubtful to my mind that
scientiﬁc men are warranted in inﬂicting this
cruelty and that the advancement of science
justiﬁes it. I do not think that the promotion of
scientiﬁc knowledge has been such as to justify
this cruelty. It aﬁords me pleasure to invoke a
blessing on the good cause . . . the cause of anti-
vivisection, which had the warm approval of the
late Cardinal Manning.

FOR MORE SHEETS, WRITE THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY, 100 EAST O:HIO STREET, CHICAGO I I, ILLINOIS

i

I"
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
|
l
|
l
l
l
l
l
|
l
l
l
l
I

THE MEDICAL WORLD

Animal experiments, as performed in physiological
and pharmacological laboratories today, call for
serious critiCIsm by the medical man who is actually
engaged in practicmg medicine. We submit that the
malprity, if indeed not all, of such experiments are
distinctly misleading as to the deductions drawn
from_ them. It is undoubtedly the experimenting
phySiologist_a_nd pharmacologist who give the lever
to the anti-ViVisectionist. Can we wonder at this time
when _we read of the endless experiments performed
on animals under the guise of medical research that
either yield no practical results whatever, or merely
erroneous conclusions?

GEORGE ARLISS

The cure of human ailments is being re-
tarded, and the human body is being
vitiated by the poison arising from ani-
mal experimentations. If you doubt this,
I would ask you to think whether it seems
possible that God ever intended that
animals be tortured, in order that we
might be cured of disease. If I believed
that, I could have no religion at all. I
certainly could not worship such a God.

DR. CHAUNCEY D. LEAKE

(Assistant Dean of Ohio State University and President of
the American Academy for the Advancement of Science)

It seems to me that it is wise to avoid getting our
youngsters so enthused over biological sciences that
they are anxious to undertake extensive animal ex-
perimentation without the background, the experience,
the judgment, or the wisdom that is necessary in
handling animals appropriately for complicated bio—
logical experimentation . . . there is plenty of biology
to be gotten from a study of unicellular organisms
that can readily be obtained in any high-school lab-
oratory and handled and followed with skill and
convenience.

HON. PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

(Former Governor of Maine)

Kindness is the noblest trait of human nature;
cruelty the meanest and lowest. In giving to man
absolute power over the creatures beneath him
the Creator put humans to the test and gave them
the choice of kindness or cruelty, of good or evil.
There is no cruelty as selﬁsh and despicable as
vivisection. It must be abolished. The road to
that end is long and hard but. someday the ﬁght
for justice and mercy to all God’s creatures, even
the humblest, will triumph and the world will
then be a better place in which to live.

CARDINAL MANNING

Vivisection is a detestable prac-
tice . . . I cannot understand any
civilized man committing or
countenancing the continuance

of such a practice.

DR. HENRY J. BIGELOW

(Late Professor of Surgery, Harvard Medical School)

There will come a time when the
world will look back to modern vivi-
section in the name of science as they
do now to burning at the stake in
the name of religion.

L____-______-____.,________________

|
|
l
l
I
l
l
l
l
l
|
l
l
|
I
l
’I ,
I
l
l
l
|
l
I
|
|
|
l
l
|

THE MEDICAL TIMES

Students are trained to believe that a
knowledge of the results of animal exper-
iments is a sine qua non to successful
practice. As a matter of fact, such experi-
ments are more frequently misleading in
their results than otherwise. No, it is
clinical and practical knowledge that
counts when the former student goes out
into the world to deal with patients.

GEORGE BERNARD SHAW

The natural abhorrence of sane mankind for
the vivisector’s cruelty, and the contempt of
able thinkers for his imbecile casuistry, have
been expressed by the most popular spokesmen
of humanity. If the medical profession were to
outdo the anti-vivisection societies in a general
professional protest- against the practice and
principles of vivisectors, every doctor in the
kingdom would gain substantially by the im-
mense relief and reconciliation which would
follow such a reassurance of the humanity of
the doctor.

M. BEDDOW BAYLY

(Member Royal College of Surgeons, England)

Vivisection is founded on the selfish principle
that might. is right, that the end justiﬁes the
means and that material beneﬁt should take
precedence of moral obligation; it appeals to
the basest instincts of fear and cowardice, and
excuses any cruelty on the tyrant’s plea of neces-
sity. Before the bar of justice vivisection stands
condemned on three main counts; cruelty to
animals, uselessness to man, and obstruction on
the path of real knowledge.

ARTHUR V. ALLEN, M. D.

(For many years Chief Surgeon of the Commonwealth Edison
Company, and formerly professor of ophthalmology at
Illinois Post Graduate Medical School)

Few persons seem to realize that vivisection is a
business. Men enter this business for the same reason
they enter any other business: to make money and to
further their own interests. It is not only the large
salaries received by directors of laboratories, or the
fees for testing various products, that make this busi-
ness attractive; it is also the publicity—the self-
advertising through newspaper stories, magazine ar-
ticles and radio talks. Without this publicity, stemming
directly from vivisectional experiments, many a well-
known vivisector would have remained engulfed in
the great sea of professional and financial mediocrity.

LORD MOYNIHAN
(World Renowned Surgeon)
Has not the contribution of the ani-
mal laboratory to the surgery of the
stomach been almost negligible when
it has not been potentially dangerous

because divergent from human ex-

perience and therefore inapplicable?

T
l
I
l

DR. G. I". WALKER

(Member, Royal College of Physicians, England)

I believe vivisection overwhelmingly on
the whole, has misdirected research, mis-
led research workers, and, by absorbing
energy, money, intellect and time in the
pursuit of frequently barren investigation,
has incalculably delayed and impeded
medical progress.

 




 

 

 

 

  

 

ent PUbliC SUPPOrt on the state level to im—
press state legislators and members of
Congress.

Let’s put the horse in front of the cart.

The goal is to totally abolish vivisection
forever. We_shall seek nothing less than
that. To regulate an evil is to condone it.
The so-called “moderates” who sought to
lessen the evil of human slavery by com—
promise and regulation, succeeded only in
splitting the anti—slavery movement. In the
end, the “extremists”-—-the abolitionists,
achieved their goal because they were right
and because they convinced an overwhelm—
ing majority of the people they were right.
But they were a mere handful in the begin-
ning of the long struggle!

The great Henry Bergh, founder of the
animal protection movement in America,
was an outspoken anti-vivisectionist. But
he had little support in his lifetime. He
lacked members and financial support. For
years, his only financial help came from his
own personal fortune. In his mail one day
there came a letter from a little girl. She
enclosed a dime and begged to be counted
as a member. He always regarded that
first contribution as the most important his
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals ever received. Until he received
that dime, he had given no thought to
building a paid membership for the pur-
poses of moral and financial support. (To-
day, the SPCA he founded sells dogs to
vivisection laboratories!)

***

IT frequently is said in my mail that it
appears our chief concern is getting new
members. That is true, but it is not the
whole truth. The chief concern is achiev-
ing the gOal of abolition, but that goal can- .
not be attained without the support of .a 7
very large membership all over the United *
States. ‘ ‘ 1 . -

 

 

 

      
 

 
 
   

* Putting the horse in from of: the cart;
means, then. same mustotam lever is ‘
creasing. numbers of newmembersCOn- ’3 ,
Si-dering ”the“ handfuiof members we had in
the beginning. it: can ’ saldthat today i

  
 
 
 

N.Y. Daily News, Sept. 9, 1964
LOWER THAN ANIMALS

In our considered opinion, anybody who will. abuse a
poor, dumb animal is lower than any animal ever was or

will be.

It is a fact that three elephants at the World’s Fair

have been cruelly mistreated.

Cruelty

alligators and ﬁsh at the Florida Pavilion.

Really, what has come over the Fair management, and
doesn’t it properly superVise various concessionaires, and
What kind of screening is done of applicants for Fair jobs?

0

This situation stinks out loud—and cries out loud for

the earliest and most thorough cure possible.

 

Chicago's AMERICAN, Sept. 28, 1964

 

 

Clark to Check Use
of Charity Millions

BY ROBERT GLASS Chicago area are holding more
Th e Illinois attorney gen~ than 450 million dollars.
eral’s office has opened a cam- There are 2,723 registered
paign to make sure the millions charitable trusts in Illinois, and
of dollars lying in charitable Handelman’s assignment is to
trusts are spent as originally shake loose what Clark calls
intended. “lethargic trustees who either
, Atty. Gen. William G. Clark do not understand the 1963 Illi-
said that operating charitable “01$ scharitable mist ad, :01‘ ..
trusts is the fourth largest bus- else are not parrymg out the
iness in the United States. Wishes according to the trust.”
Often, he said, large amounts .“Our biggest hurdle in. the
of trust money are unspent or field 0f Charltable tmsts IS t0
misspent thru ignorance of get the money now being held
trust 1 a WS, forgetfulness of into circulation where it can do
some executors, or--in some the mOSt good,” Clark 331d-

-—thr hank .. an . “While trusts are set up to
cases 11 y p ky release only small amounts at

APPOhItS all Overseer at time, groups such as the
«He has named Martin R. American Cancer seeiety. could
Handelman, assistant attorney be that mUCh better Off If only
general, to see that funds ear- gheythcouhi" Obtalh the money
marked for charities in Illinois no em. . . .
are rightfully paid out accord» A ‘31thth IS finding Where
ing to the wishes of persons the money is, Handelman said.
who left [the money in their;

 

,, Reports, apparently reliable, are coming
At Fair in of cruelty by Fair employes to the Conti-
nental Circus’ trained bears and horses and to

 

 

 

Wills.
Clark said Illinois banks and‘
trusts hold more than 1.13 bil-

 

 

 

lion dollars of more than 9
billion dollars held in trust in
the United States.

He’ll “Shake” Trustees

Seven Chicago banks notified
Clark’s office that they are
holding in excess of 600 million
dollars, and latest figures show
that trust companies in the

This society has no
paid solicitors nor
does it employ pro-
fessional money~
raising firms. All
mailing is done di~
rect by the society
and no commissions
are paid to any per~
son or organization.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Times—Picayune,
July 18,

New Orleans

1963

Medical Dog Law Ignored
by LSPCA; Nobody Cares

 

Now Dead I s s u e, Says
Society's Head

The Louisiana Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
is ignoring a city ordinance re-
quiring it to turn over unwanted
dogs for medical research.

But nobody cares.

Heated controversy arose. over
passage of the ordinance in 1958
and again in 1959 when anti-vivi-
sectionists protested at City Hall.

But now it is a dead issue. said
LSPCA president Henry Dorsey,
whose organization has no inten-
tion of following the ordinance.
“Just say we’re not going to do
it,” he remarked.

SAYS MOST SUITABLE

The medical schools, who spend
$12,000 to $18,000 a year for dogs
needed in medical research, agree
that there is “no issue at all.”

“Louisiana' State University is
not particularly concerned. We
have enough animals," said a
spokesman for the medical school.

“I am certain our colleagues
at Tulane are in a similar posi-
tion.” he added.

The medical schools agree with
Dorsey that the majority of the
dogs collected by the SPCA are
unsuitable for medical research.

SAYS DOGS UNWANTED

“No medical school would want
90 per cent of the dogs we pick
up,” commented Dorsey, who no-
ted that the majority are diseased.

He added that City Hall was
well aware how the SPCA pro-
gram was run. The city provides
‘55 per cent—$50.00‘0—ol the organ-
ization's budget for running the
city’s stray animal program.

At City Hall the ordinance re-
quiring that dogs be turned over
for medical research has not been
a topic of conversation for sev-
eral years.

 

 

 

'4 THE COURIER-NEWS

Ploinfield, N. J.,

Monday, July 'I, 1963

 

9

gDog-l‘lapping

—

Criticized

 

“Sixty-five per cent of all
assumed strayed or lost dogs
are actually dog-napped by
professional pet snatchers.”
Don R. Maxfield, New Jer-
sey executive director of the
Humane Society said Friday
at an area meeting in the
home of Mrs. Charles Gilman
of 960 Hillside Ave.

Maxfield explained that
these animals are sold to re-
search laboratories and medi-
cal schools for as much as
$30 for a healthy mongrel!

and $100 for a pedigreed dog!

Because of a passive state:
policy. local communities arel
also free to turn their im-
pounded animals over to con-
tractual dealers. who in turn

 

sell them to wholesalers, he
said. One dealer in New Jer-
sey services 31 communities
in around-the-clock dog pick-
ups. according to Maxfield.

The Humane Society and
other groups are endeavoring
to control such practices and
to eliminate the many docu-
mented cases of extreme
cruelty, he said. It is not their
intention to prohibit the use
of animals in experiments, he
emphasized. but to work for
legislation to regulate such
use and to assure that the
animals are humanely housed
and attended.

The group discussed ways
to support a bill (Randall Bill
4856) now in committee in
Congress which would control
and enforce such a program.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it

 

 

 

 

 

Christian Science
MONITOR

Vivisection in Britain
To THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR:

I was interested in the letter in your
issue of April 17 concerning animal ex-
perimentation. The writer refers to two
bills as “based on legislation that was
passed long ago in Britain and which
has been effective there in curbing
cruelty in connection with laboratory
work.” Regrettably the stark fact is that
there is no legislation in Britain to curb
cruelty to laboratory animals. The ani-
mal experimenter may be just as cruel
as he chooses to be.

Experiments on animals in Britain
are performed under the provisions of
the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876. Hu-
mane clauses in the act are cancelled
out by other clauses in it which permit
vivisectors to perform experiments
which cause great pain and misery. The
act says the animal must be anesthe-
tized to prevent. it feeling pain. But the
animal need not be anesthetized if a
certiﬁcate is obtained. The animal must
be killed before it recovers from the
anesthetic if pain is likely to continue
or if a serious injury has been inﬂicted.
But the animal need not be killed if a
certiﬁcate is obtained. Experiments are
not to be performed in illustrations of
lectures. But experiments may be per-
formed in illustrations of lectures if a
certiﬁcate is obtained.

Lest it be assumed that these certiﬁ-
cates are difﬁcult to obtain, they are
issued by the heads of colleges in which
the experiments take place. The law is
contradictory and deﬁnitely, it does not
curb cruelty to laboratory animals in
Britain. It protects the vivisector from
penalties which would be inﬂicted on

ordinary people who were cruel to
animals.

Five inspectors are supposed to keep
an eye on.over 500 laboratories, nearly
7,000 vivisectors and nearly 4,000,000
experiments. The government propose
to increase the number of inspectors
but that is hardly more than a sop to
the public conscience. Although the act
has been in force over 70 years there
has not been a single prosecution for
cruelty.

The British Government is setting up
a committee of inquiry to examine the
workings of this law. It has refused to
consider the appointment of a repre-
sentative of any anti-vivisection society
to this committee. GABRIEL BARLow

Organizing Secretary,
The Scottish
Glasgow Anti-Vivisection Society

 

 

NEWS, Hutchinson, Kansas
School Treatment
Of Animals Hit

I was deeply distressed by the article on
page 15 of your Sunday paper of June 9th,
in regard to the school girls who tortured a
rat for almost two months by making it in-
hale glue while enclosed in a jar. Where is
the Humane society that allows school girls
to treat an animal in such a terrible way?
They say they do it for the sake of science
but any one knows that their cruel curiosity
had more to do with it than science.

Schools that allow students to torture ani-
mals out of sheer curiosity or for any other
reason should be reported to the human.
sodety.—VERNA OUSON, McPherson.

 

VOICE OF THE VOICELESS
June, 1963

Who are Anti-Vivisec’rionists
To the Editor:

I am tired of Donald Clausen (Jan. 19) re—
ferring to anti—vivisectionists as an irresponsible
group. Just who are anti—vivisectionists any—
way? Well, here is a very limited list of readers
of the movement past and present:

Queen Victoria, Franklin D. Roosevelt (he
frequently spoke for the New York Society
before he became governor of the state), Per-
cival Baxter, former governor of Maine, and the
present .day Prince of Monaco. Such well
known publishers as William Randolph Hearst
and Bernarr McFadden and writers Robert
Browning, Mark Twain, George Bernard Shaw
and Fannie Hurst. George Arliss, Irene Castle,
Marion Dayies, Gene Tierney, June Havoc
and Rudy Vallee are only a few of the theat-

,rical profession. Cardinal Manning, the late

Cardinal Gibbons and today’s popular Rev.

Robert Russell, rector of Epiphany Church in-

Denver, who is president of the National Anti—
vivisection Society, represent the church.

Could anyone call Luther Burbank irrespon—
sible? The medical profession contributes such
names as Dr. Henry Bigelow, late professor
of surgery at Harvard Medical School, and the
very much alive Dr. A. V. Allen of Chicago.
Perhaps the most important name of all iS
that of Dr. Albert Schweitzer, one of the most
highly respected and best loved men in the
world. ——-Leroy Nelson

THE MINNEAPOLIS STAR

 

 

 




 

 

This is a Scalpel . . ‘.

The hand that holds it belongs to a 15-year old boy.

He is a high school student—perhaps in your own com-
munity.

He is about to use the scalpel on a kitten. He is beginning
an experiment which will demonstrate the principle of
immunological tolerance . . . that, under certain conditions
a living creature will accept organs from another.

The experiment will probably continue for several weeks,
or until the animal dies.

It will have proved nothing not already well known. As
to the boy—he may or may not become a surgeon; at 15,
such major decisions are usually still in the future. In any
event, what little skill he may achieve with the scalpel in
this experiment will not loom large in his list of teen-age
accomplishments.

But he will have acquired one thing which will stay with
him all of his life: a hard shell of indifference to the suffer-
ing of a living creature. An ability to shrug off the cries,
the tortured eyes, the pain-wracked spasms that will come
when the animal emerges from the anesthetic. In short he,

will have successfully smothered his natural revulsion at
perpetrating a cruelty, and will have made the transition
from “reverence for life” to “the scientiﬁc viewpoint.”
Do you want this for your boy or girl?

Make no mistake about it, such “scientiﬁc” projects as this
are being assigned to our youngsters in greater numbers
every year. Students are enthusiastically encouraged to
initiate animal experiments leading to induced cancer . . .
collapse from fatigue . . . starvation . . . observation of
functioning internal organs . . . demonstrations so ele-

mental that the results have been published hundreds
of times.

Why? Is it because we live in an age in which everything
from better breakfast food to “The Bomb” has been given
us by “science?” Is it because the U. S. Government is
constantly increasing its awards for medical research ? Is it
because teachers, being human, enjoy seeing their names in
headlines when a student under their direction sews a
plastic window into a frog’s abdomen, and the newspapers
take pictures of the proud experimenter and his mentor?

 

 




National Anti-Vivisection Society

-...-..'..... -ww',

V%%:;;::/ I:

wu‘r.‘

100 East Ohio Street L %\bA/\\a Aﬁﬁygyﬁiii
Chicago, Illinois 60611 [’0 \IU V , Ug,m_i_6, in

2:
'ﬁ‘ a '1

U

'Am.erican P. C. A.
441 East 9 nd Stree
New York . New York

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

CAT MAN

(From Page 3)

cat yesterday from a hell of
a good lookin’ woman. Big car.
I’ve bought from doctors, bank-

ers, lawyers~everybody.

“I’m going to finish buying
this load, then I’m going to the
horse races. Buy cats, go to the
horse races. That’s how I get
by. Course, I could get along
without cats, but it’s enjoyable
and it makes a little money.”

Tennison lives alone on a 265-
acre farm near Goodman, Mo.,
his birthplace 73 years ago and
the family home for more than
a century. He keeps. a pointer,
two Border Collies and 120
sheep. .

“I guess part- of the reason
I buy them is I’ve always had
an interest in the human side
of life,” he said, “medicine and
that. Had an uncle Was a doc-
tor.

Career Was Derailed

“That’s probably what I’d do,
if I had my time to do again.
Would have, too, if I’d had the
guts. But I had to trade horses
and such, you know.”

A man in a billed cap stopped,
with his wife and daughter, out—
side Tennison’s truck.

“Cat Man?” he asked.

“That’s right.”

The man passed a judicious
eye over the caged livestock.

“I’ve got a cat at home that
IS a cat.” he said. “I mean I
wouldn’t take a farm for him.
White cat—weight 15 or 16
pounds. Spends all his time
lickin’ himself. I mean he’s a
snow-white son of a gun.”

“I’ve bought cats weighed
over 20 pounds,” Tennison said.

“My wife gets up every morn-
ing and fries him two pieces of

 

bacon and an egg, and lets ’em
cool a little, and puts them down
for him. Does it every morning,”
the farmer said.

The family started away, then
the man turned back to the
truck.

“What you payin’ for a eat
like the one I just got through
telling you about?” he asked.

“Fifty cents a head.”

“Fifty cents. Hell,” the man
said, “I must have $45 worth
of bacon and eggs in that son

of a gun.”

Tales Go On

The yarns were endless, but
to each the Cat Man brought a
fresh enthusiasm.

It was 2 o’clock then. By some
inexplicable process of com-
merce, the clutter on the tables
outside the sale barn had al-
most disappeared. Most of it,
likely, had only traded hands
wa nickel saucer for a nickel
necktie, a broken pair of shoes
for a bulb-less lamp.

The crowd had thinned, many
of the people drifting inside to
the benches around the auction
ring.

T e nn i s o n inventoried his
cages. One day in Nevada, Mo..
he’d bought 400 cats, and once
in Huntsville, Ark., 140. There
were only 80~some in the crates
today, be reckoned, but after
15 years in the business he is
not quickly disappointed.

“Some people’s got a hundred
cats,” he said philosophically,
“and won’t sell you a one of

them. The ones that do sell

’em—it’s not for the money.
They just got too damn many.”

He rose stiffly from his bale
of hay' and climbed down out
of the truck.

“One of these days,” he said,
“I’m going to get too old to be
a Cat Man. I thought about 90
I might retire.

W .

"I don't know exactly what it means,"
says the vivisector, talking about his
own experiment, described below. If

he doesn't, who does? (Source unknown.)

Brain Kept Alive
Outside a Body

C LEVE LAN D, Ohio —— was kept alive for “more than
(UPI) —- Three scientists said 12 hours With the donor aili-
a, h mm...
for the ﬂrSt time In keeping a “alive” meant, he said it meant
brain alive outside a bOdY. the brain was in good working

Dr. Robert J. White, chief of order. White said the experi-
neurosurgery at Metropolitan ments would be discontinued
General H 0 s p i t a 1, and Drs. when the brain showed signs of
Maurice S. Albin and Javier deterioration. .
Verdura conducted the experi- Asked what significance the
ments with rhesus monkeys at scientific feat had in relation to
Metr0politan General. human surgery, White said: ‘1‘:

don’t know exactl what ,
(163;; 5’21; lizﬁebrggn‘g; means. We have a bzain, totally
was kept functioning, at first disconnected from its body, still

alive. Is it thinking '3”
f . s O I
gig; dfeﬁigii°ﬂ$ﬂzy§sﬂd White said the achievement]

‘ 1 (1 will allow study of the brain asl
:gpglagvggchanical b 00 a separate organ and might!
' lead to new brain surgery tech-
The surgeon said the brain niques for humans.

 

 

 

 

 

 

CITIZEN—JOURNAL

Columbus,

Ohio

Beware Of Dog Snatchers

Dog thieves are active in Celumbus. It
is important to protect pet animals sothere
is little chance of their falling into unscrup-
ulous hands. ’ Stolen animals are: sometimes
shipped to distant places where it is impos-
sible to.trace them. Surely there is nothing
more heartless than to steal the beloved pet
of a child and sell it for commercial, pur-

poses. .

. Many who are Seeking pets are, perfectly
honest; it is dangerous, however, to give
away an animal unless one is certain that it

will have a good home.

CollectOrs of j ani-

mals are on the alert for unsuspecting per-
sons whooffer to give away dogs and cats.
It is. far better to have an animal put to
death humanely than to turn it over to. a,

stranger. - WILL
Lane-‘av.... '

RA N N E LLs, 216's.

THE TIMES—HERALD
Vallejo, California

OPINIONS OF THE PEOPLE:

Our attention has been called to a letter in
your issue of November 4th signed by Mrs.
Christine Stevens in which she says a speech
by her late father, Dr. Robert Gesell, “has of-
ten been quoted by anti-vivisectioniSts in an
effort to make it appear that my father agreed
with them.” '

We cannot, of course, be responsible for what
individuals may say, but this organization,
Which originally unearthed and gave wide pub~
licity to Dr. Gesell’s condemnation of? labora-
tory cruelty, has never implied, much less
claimed. that he was sympathetic toward our
aims. To set the record straight. D1? Gesell,
threatened us with a lawsuit 'f we publicized
his remarks (an idle threat ince his speech
was a matter of public record) so it is ex-
tremely unlikely we would regard him as a
supporter.

The chief value of ,Dr. Gesell’s forthright
criticism of abuses “in the name of science”
lies in the fact that he, himself,»was a vivisec-
tor and it is a, fair assumption that the acts
which. aroused him to protest must have been
intolerable to any decent man, else he would
not have risked the ire. of his associates by
castigating them at a professional meeting.

So far as Dr. Schweitzer is concerned, your
correspondent quoted only one of his many state-
ments concerning animal experimentation.
Others are on record which clearly indicate he
would be happy to see the whole vicious prac-
tice abolished and a more humane, more pro-
ductive method of medical research substituted.

CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing , Director ’ ,
National An&Vivisecﬂon Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

"EVERY SURGICAL OPERATION DONE TODAY IS A DIRECT RESULT OF

HUMAN EXPERIMENTATION." --- Dr. Robert G. M. Ravdin,

associate professor of surgery of the University of Penn-
sylvania at Philadelphia, a panelist on a seminar for
science writers conducted by the American Cancer Soc1ety
in Palm Beach. (See last paragraph of story below, repro-
duced from The Dallas NEWS of March 22, 1964.)

 

Human Tests Called
Big Cancer Problem

By SUE CONNALLY
News Staff Writer

PALM BEACH SHORES, Fla.—
The; head of a leading cancer in-
stitute voiced a “plea” Saturday
for more human experiments but
added that it is “absolutely im-
possible” to make patients fully
understand what would be done
to them.

Dr. George E. Moore, indicat-
ing that legal difficulties and pub-
lic opinion have made some in-
vestigators “put their careers on
the line,” stirred a lengthy and
occasionally heated discussion of
the problem during the American
Cancer Society’s seminar for sci-
ence writers here.

DR. MOORE, director of the
Roswell Park Memorial Institute
in Buffalo, N.Y., termed the prob-
lem of human experimentation
“the most critical area of re-
search in this era,” while com-
menting:

“There is no doubt that human
experimentation is the most diffi-
cult, slowest and most expensive
kind of medical research. It is
also the most important.”

Later to cite the importance and
advantages of human experi-
ments, Dr. Moore was questioned
at length on the area of “in-
formed consent”—that is, the pa-
tient’s voluntary agreement to
participate in a study after un-
derstanding the nature of the pro-
posed experiment.

HE SAID, “It is absolutely im-
posenble for one human to explain
to another what will be done” be-
cause of the complexity of the
work.

“Even if the physician-investi-
gator careful-ly explains to a can-

gers in unplanned clinical usage.
It was pointed out that half of
the cancer drugs now being used
were ineffective in animal experi-
ments with the inference that
these would not be in use today if
they had not been tried in human
patients.

 

 

 

cer patient that the drug being
studied is probably ineffective,
many patients immediately inter-
pret this as an overly cautious
statement and that a miracle can
”be expected.”

The scientist resolved this prob-
lem in his formal paper presented
to the science writers.

“It must be recognized that a
completely informed consent is
not possible and therefore, in addi-
tion to the patient’s voluntary par-
ticipation, the investigators must
accept as a moral and legal
charge the responsibility for de-
termining whether or not the sub-
ject is suitable for the study,”
he said.

DURING HIS talk, Dr. Moore
pointed out that “All medical
practices, diagnostic and thera-
peutic, and experiments” are
either “unplanned or premedi-
tated” experiments. “The vast
majority,” he said, are unplanned.

“Individual clinical trails which
really are human experiments
performed by conscientious fam-
ily physicians attempting to
achieve therapeutic success in a
particular patient range in se-
riousness from the use of aspirin
to the performance of life-threat-
ening operations.

“The dangers of such experi-
ments,” he added, “are demon-
strated monthly as new and some-
times more effective therapeutic
measures replace the old, and the
tragedies associated with the pre-
viously available therapy are re-
vealed.”

DR. MOORE said “There has
been no tremendous catastrophies
in premeditated experiments,”
while mentioning the “thalidomide
disaster” as an example of dan-

 

Other examples of the advan-
tage of human experimentation
were noted, including a comment
from a panelist, Dr. Robert G. M.
Ravd‘in, associate professor of
surgery at the University of Penn-
sylvania, Philadelphia, that,
“Every surgical operation done
today is a direct result of human
experimentation.”

 

 

 

 

Chicago DAILY NEWS
April 30, 1964

Johnson’s

Beagle Mail
Kept Secret

BY CHARLES NICODEMUS
Of Our Washington Bureau

WASHINGTON—President
Johnson has decided to let
sleeping dogs lie.

The White House press
office said Thursday it‘has de-
cided not to tabulate or dis-
close the sentiments expressed
in White House mail from the
public dealing with Mr. John-
son’s lifting of his beagle “Her”
by the ears.

A Daily News reporter
asked for the tabulation after
White House press secretary
George Reedy, in response to.
a question, said he had not
read the mail and didn’t know
what it said.

Another White House aide
said later that “the less we do

to promote further publicity
on this, the better.”

CITIZEN—PATRIOT
Jackson, Michigan

Physician
Criticizes
Training

Atlantic City, N. J. - (1P) - The
new president of the American
Academy of General Practice
has criticized medical schools,
saying many of them “do not
know how to produce a general
practitioner.”

“Students coming out of the
medical schools have not been
taught basic medical knowl-
edge,” said Dr. Julius Michaele
son of Foley, Ala., in an in-
terview. “Too many of the
schools are preoccupied with
specialization and research
work.

“The boys coming out of the
schools have very little practical
knowledge.

“There are many personslnow
teaching our medical students
who have not practiced and who
have learned medicine .from
people who have not practiced.”

Dr. Michaelson will be install-
ed as president of the academy
tonight during the 16th annual
assembly of the orgamzation,
succeeding Dr. Albert E. Ripp of
St. Paul, Minn.

 

 

 

Chicago TRIBUNE
May 22, I964

BRITON NEVER
TO OWN A DOG,
COURT DEGREES

BINGLEY, England, May 21
(fPl—A magistra-te’s court today
passed one of the toughest sen-
tences possible in this dog—lov-
ing nation.

The court told Edward Da-
vies. a truck driver, that for the
rest'of his life he could not own
a dog nor have one as a pet.
Then Davies was fined 30
pounds 5 shillings [$84.70].

D. M. Garside, a representa-
tive of the royal society for the
prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals, told the court Dames
held his dog by its legs, swung
it around a room and hurled. it
against a wall. It died. Dawes
said he was drunk.

 

 

 

 

 




 

if the pattern of previous years is followed,
it probably will be increased even further by
the upper body. The NIH isvery generous
with your money in aiding vivisectors, and
many of them who automatically get grants
year after year are doing the same work (no
longer an experiment, but just repetitious in-
fliction of suffering) year after year. They
have no obligation even to get together with
one another to see what is being done or to
inform themselves about past or current work,
and its results, in the same areas of so-called
research.

You have a right to protest these enormous
grants, not only because you are against the
infliction of wanton suffering on animals, but
because you are a taxpayer and it is your

 

money that is being wasted. Clip out the
headline on this article, send it to your United
States Senator in Washington and ask him
if he believes all of this money is being spent
wisely and if results justify such enormous
grants, for example, the one to study “vomit-
ing” by different animals.

In protesting waste and duplication of your
tax money in the name of “research” you have
a solid and official basis for your complaint.

>l< * *

ON June 30, 1962, a report was made public
of a study by the House Intergovernmental
Relations Subcommittee of the “Administra-

*Here are just a few examples of the “work” done by experimenters on animals who re-
ceived grants from the National Institute of Health. “Grant” is an innocent sounding sort of
word, conjuring up a picture of something provided by an intangible and inexhaustible source,
coming from out of the thin air, as it were. The harsh, cold truth is that you, the taxpayer, pro-
vide the money for these grants out of your pocket, and for a purpose to which you are unalter-
ably opposed.

 

VOMITING

For at least 15 years, S. C. Wang of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia Uni-
versity, New York City, has been inducing vomiting in animals by various methods: swinging,
drugs, electrical stimulation of the brain, etc. After finding that there are differences in the
vomiting mechanism of dogs and cats, the researcher remarked in one of his published papers
that “it is interesting to study, therefore” whether the vomiting mechanism in monkeys differs
from that in dogs and cats.

NIH GRANTS (INCOMPLETE TOTAL) TO S. C. WANG FROM 1950 to 1963: $525,849

 

HIGH SCHOOL BASIC RESEARCH

For three consecutive years grants of the taxpayers’ money were made to Arthur J. Baker,
Crystal Lake Community High School, Crystal Lake, Illinois, for “high school level basic re-
search on rat growth.”

NIH GRANTS TO ARTHUR J. BAKER FROM 1959 to 1961: $6,899

 

BEATING TO INDUCE TRAUMA
Researchers P. Pakdama‘n, A. Stein, N. Lempert, A. Boba and S. R. Powers, Jr. at the Albany,
N. Y., Medical Center, caused trauma in 15 dogs by “giving 50 blows of a leather covered mallet
to each hind leg for each ten pounds of body weight.” Note that this means that if the animal
weighed 30 pounds it received 150 blows per leg.

NIH GRANTS TO A. STEIN AND S. R. POWERS, JR. IN 1960: $40,916

{ continued on page 19}

 

 

 

 

 




B Y - I. A W S
of
THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

(A not for proﬁt corporation organized
under the laws of the State of Illinois)

ARTICLE I
Purposes

“The purposes for which this corporation is organ-
ized, as stated in its certificate of incorporation, are:
To initiate, sponsor and contribute to any educational
program, the principal purpose of which is to acquaint
the public with the evils of vivisection of animals, to
teach associations, societies and individuals methods
and means of combating vivisection and inhumane
treatment of animals resulting from vivisection, in-
cluding, but not limited to, the preparation (and dis-
semination of literature to organizations and indi-
viduals; to hold classes for the purpose of such teach-
ing; to initiate and conduct lecture programs for such
purposes, and through such education and educational
means eliminating the practice of using animals in
any way, shape or manner for purposes of medical
research, medical testing, or medical training; to aid
and abet the formation of new anti-vivisection socie-
ties where none exist, and to carry on independently
of local societies a national publicity campaign to
break the trail for the formation of new societies and
render efforts of existing organizations more fruitful.

The corporation also has such powers as are now or
may hereafter be granted by the General Not For Pro-
fit Corporation Act of the State of Illinois.

ARTICLE II
Offices

The corporation shall have and continuously main-
tain in the State of Illinois a registered ofﬁce and a
registered agent whose oﬂice is identical with such
registered office, and may have other ofﬁces within or
without the State of lllinois as the board of directors
may from time to time determine.

ARTICLE III
Members

Section 1. Qualiﬁcations. Any person may become
a member of this corporation upon the payment of
dues as provided in these by-laws, unless payment is
refunded within thirty days from date of receipt
thereof in which instance such membership shall be
considered rejected.

Section 2. Dues. Dues of each member shall’ be at
least Two ($2.00) Dollars per year and Five ($5.00)
Dollars per year for sustaining membership. A life
membership exempting the member from further pay-
ment of dues shall be the sum of Fifty ($50.00) Do]-
lars. Any member who fails to pay dues as herein set
forth (except life memberships) shall cease to be a
member of the corporation without action of the board
of directors. '

Page 1

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 

   
   
 




 

 

 

'68 s sequin" uogwusgﬁau
"'sasodmd alqn
qynqa Jog spun; ’0 uogpallog pun
uoumpglos sq; amlnsau as 43V”
sgougm un Jopun [3013455691 5! Map
-os uogpasyxm—ng lnuong at“

 

 

 

31.103 me“ '83 31.103 MEN
V D ‘d 'S ueoyaewy

 

MINI)“ XVI HINDI
W01“ f NﬂlTIlfl V
NEIAID SI HOHVEISEHI

amanbau Manna
‘HEILSVWLSOd

 

[891 '°N llWlIEd
"I'll. 'OOVDIHD

GIVd

EOVISOd 'S 'n
"980 lIJOEld NON

mum! ‘II 0890913
190115 0910 19321 001
£19§oos uopoasgAgA-guv [BuopeN aql

 

 

 

}
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
*
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+
1+

{continuedfrom page 19 }

of support for their work. Moreover, the
injudicious use of research funds is grossly
unfair to the American public which is re—
quired to support this activity through taxa-
tion. What we must achieve is a harmoniz-
ing of freedom for the investigator with re-
sponsibility to the public in the expenditure
of Government funds. NIH has the obliga—
tion to develop adequate policies and pro-
cedures for assuring that grant funds are
prudently spent within this context.”

has been a corresponding increase in the
proportion of supported projects in the lowest
priority class (the 400-500 group).”

“It is probable that the large annual in-
creases in the NIH appropriation made in
the past several years has contributed to the
increasing support of lower quality research.”

“It appears that the Congress has been
overzealous in appropriating money for
health research. The conclusion is inescap-
able, from a study of NIH’s loose adminis—
trative practices, that the pressure for spend- * * *
ing increasingly large appropriations has
kept NIH fom giving adequate attention to

, ” VV E have a clear admission that there
bas1c management problems.

has been waste, extravagance and “gross’”
unfairness to the American taxpayer, and
anti-vivisectionists are taxpayers as well as
humanitarians. Moreover, we have expert
opinion that the greater the sums spent on

“Freedom for the scientist should not be
confused with license or fiscal irresponsi-
bility. One cannot condone waste and ex-
travagance wherever it exists as being either

 

in the public interest or in» the interest of
science. Grant money that is uneconomically
or inefficiently spent deprives other sci‘entists

y
\

 

this sort of research, the lower are the re-

sults in quality. Let us protest again, and
again, and again.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'n Illinois)

organization, incorp te
N SOCKETY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

- W—r

 

Here are two stories from New Orleans newspapers. The first story got a tremendous
amount of publicity all over the nation. Articles with 2—, 3— and 4—column heads
sprung up in newspapers from coast to coast. All of them stressed the fact that
the operation had been made possible by experiments on small animals over a
period of the past seven years. Note, too, that detailed studies had been made
in experiments involving more than 500 animals. And then we have another sad
story: 18 days after the operation, the unfortunate convict died. According to
an Associated Press dispatch in a Miami newspaper ”the kidney problem aroSe
after the Operation." And it is still denied by vivisection's defenders that
their opponents are right when they contend that "what works on animals does not
necessarily give the same result when applied to man."

-44

 

 

 

 

Lung Transplant

the transplanted lung. Unless
special measures are used,

First U.S. Human Lung Transplant

 

Is Achieved by Ole Miss Surgeons

 

(The Times-Picayune Capital Bureaul

JACKSON, Miss. —. Univer-
versity of Mississippi surgeons

have made the first trans-
plant of a human lung in the
nation in a 58~year-old man.
Fourteen hours after the ope-
ration the patient was doing
well.

A team at the University
Medical Center headed by Dr.
Watts Webb, associate profes-
sor of surgery, has been work-
ing on lung transplants for
the past seven years, using
small animals.

 

The transplant of the hu-
man lung was done in a three-
hour operation which was com-
pleted about 11:30 p. m. Tues-
day. Names of the doctors in
the operating group were not
immediately disclosed,

In the operation the surgeons
replaced the patient's cancer-
ous left lung with a healthy
lung from an unrelated donor.

An advisory said it was too
early to know the degree to
which the means being used to
suppress the immune re-
sponse will prevent rejection of

 

the advisory said, the body
will ordinarily reject a trans-
plant from a genetically dis-
similar partner although iden-
tical. twins will accept homo-
grafts from each other.

The lu n g transplantation
studies at the University Medi-
cal Center here have been
largely supported by funds
from the office of the Surgeon
General, Department of the
Army.

The university team had
completed detailed studies in
more than 500 experimental
animals leading up to the use
of lung homotransplants in
man.

 

 

 

Certainly no comment is needed by anti—vivisection
spokesmen on this story, printed in the Chicago
Evening American, July 9, 1963. When legislators

 

 

 

Patient Expires

JACKSON, Miss. (AP) —
John Richard Russell, the
first human lung transplant
patient, died at University
Hospital Saturday of a kidney
failure.

The University Hospital said
death came to the 58-year-old
Kosciusko man at noon, 18
days after surgeons replaced
his cancerous left lung with a
healthy lung.

The healthy lung came from
an unrelated donor in a his-
toric t h r e e-hour operation
June 11.

Russell, who was termed
rational the entire time after
the operation, had been in
prison at the state penitenti-
ary at Parchman.

Gov. Ross Barnett Tuesday
commuted Russell’s prison
sentence in recognition of his

 

 

begin to ask pertinent questions about grants for
experiments any normal citizen would consider ri-
diculous, if not downright insane, we can be sure
the halo once worn by animal experimentation is no
longer so tightly glued on as it once was.

REP. ROUDEBUSH DEPLORES SPENDING

$21,200 to Study Toads’ Mating Calls

BY PATRICK J. SLOYAN

WASHINGTON (UPI) —- T h e
National Science Foundation
and Republican Rep. Richard
L. Roudebush clashed Tues-
day over the importance of
mating calls of C e n t r a 1
American toads.

The Indiana congressman
started the debate with a let-
ter' to voters in his home
district. He attacked what he
considers last-minute scram—
bling by government agencies
to spend their remaining
funds before the end of the
fiscal year.

Roudebush singled out for
criticism four progr a ms
awarded foundation in n d s
shortly before June 30, end
of ”the fiscal year. including

a $21,200 grant to study toads
in Central America.

He said the science founda-
tion should “leave the intri-
cacies of why toads respond
to toads up to the toads,
themselves.”

THE FOUNDATION came
back with a claim that the
toad study not only. would
provide important informa-
tion. on man’s evolution, but
c o u l d result in important
benefits for modern medi-
cine.

Dr. Harvey Carlson, assist-
ant director of the founda-
tion’s biological and medical
section. said the study would:

Identify the species of toads
thru their mating calls. Sci-
entists will record the various

creeks and catalog the actual
size and type variations of
the toads.

Remove venom fr 0 m a
gland in the toads’ mouths.
Carlson said the toad venom
is being used experimentally
as a human heart stimulant.

CARLSON sA-m a similar
study of S o u t h American
toads had Uncovered one of
the world’s deadliest poisons.
The poisonc—frOm the Kokoi
frog—could dwarf the import-
ance to medicine of another
S o u t h American killer, cu-
rare.

Also labeled by Roudebush
as of dubious worth was a
$2,911 grant to study fern
flora of Peru.

Carlson said the study

 

 

contribution to mankind.

 

would enable man to catalog
growths unknown to science,
He said Peru’s varying geogl
raphy provides a rich mind
for pure research study.

AMONG OTHER expendiv
tures termed “interesting"by
Roudebush were:

$103,000 for films of Eski-
mo culture.

$5,700 for a study of the
driving behavior of the seal.

Roudebush said it was typi-
cal that the United St ate s
government -- faced. with an
8-billion-dollar deficit f r o m
fiscal 1963—8611 would spend
more than $21,000 to study
mating calls of toads.

“[They’re] not even Amm‘i-
can toads!” he said.

 

 

 

 

 




This frantic “craze for science” has reached such
nonsensical heights that even the American Medical
Association, certainly an unbiased authority, has
protested. ln Chicago’s American, April 15, 1962,
a story headed, “A.M.A. RAPS VAST AlD TO
RESEARCH," says:

“Farfrom advancing the cause of science,the huge
sums of money being poured into medical research
may represent a new‘blight,’ the American Medical
Association said today."

An editorial in its Journal called attention to the
growth of research support by the federal govern-
ment which has mushroomed from 3 million dollars
in 1940 to 496 million in 1961 and by 1970 is expected
to reach 1.6 billion.

“Far too few people have realized that the stepped

up efficiency with which these sums are raised does
not necessarily mean that they are equally effi-

ciently spent,” the editorial commented.

Huge sums probably are being spent on “doubt-
ful, artificially blown up, occasionally ridiculous
projects," the editorial continued.

Whatever the reason, it is time that we recognized school-
age Vivisection for the insidious evil that it is, and pUt a stop

A to it now. If we do not, no foreign power will have to “bury

us”—for we will have ceased to exist as Americans.

When knowledge is worshipped and understanding is
ignored—when conscience cries out against cruelty and
curiosity quiets it—when sympathy and pity are sneered at
as weaknesses—when what is morally right becomes less
important than what is expedient—then, truly, we shall
have squandered our heritage and vacated our leadership.

Will you, too, raise your voice against this crime against
our teen-age children . . . against our nation ? Will you help
us? Will you join—TODAY?

These Authorities Deplore Classroom Vivisection

Angelo Patri, Authority on Child Behavior

(From ”Information Report” of Animal Welfare Institute
March-April, 1961)

“l was distressed to learn that children in secondary schools are being
allowed to experiment with live creatures...The secondary pupil is

emotionally immature and his character is still unstable and he should
not be exposed to such experiences.”

New York Daily News, February 1, 1960
“The high school vivisections are simply needless cruelties; inflicted on

helpless animals under the direction of teachers who are overzealous

if nothing worse.

“Further, they constitute cruelty to teen-agers themselves, in that
these brutalities to animals tend to infect many a young person with a
callous disregard for any living creature’s suffering. . . An older person
who blunts or destroys a youngster’s instincts of pity and sympathy
comes close to committing a crime against the youngster."

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt
(From a letter to Mrs. James C. Parker, President National
P.T.A. Congress, as quoted in August, 1961 ”Four Paws“.)

“It seems to me of great importance to teach our children respect for
life. Toward this end, experiments on living animals in classrooms
should be stopped. To encourage cruelty—in the name of science—can
only destroy the finer emotions of affection and sympathy and breed an
unfeeling callousness in the young towards suffering in all living
creatures.”

New Haven Register, August 1 1, 1961

A 15-year old boy, one of the 50 select high school students enrolled in
The National Youth Science Center at Nasson College, removed the
spleen from a rat. This was to demonstrate the ability of a living
creature to accept organs from another under certain conditions—the
principle of immunological tolerance.

Dorothy Thompson, Journalist
(From an article in The Ladies’ Home Journal,
Copyright 1960)

The psychologists feel more strongly than the other scientists about
introducing immature youth to experimentation upon animals. Among
psychopaths the most readily observable trait is lack of sympathy and
affection. Sight of pain and suffering does not move them. This defi-
ciency in warm and benevolent emotional reactions usually dates, if it is
not neurological and congenital, from Some trauma or traumas developed
in childhood, and (as our forefathers know and our most “modern”
child psychologists have relearned) the child cannot get or give enough
of loving—by which I do not mean indulgence. Anything whatever, there-
fore, that develops callousness to the suffering of others during child-
hood and adolescence is psychologically injurious.

Dr. Chauncey D. Leake, Dean, Ohio State University College
of Medicine and President, American Association for the
Advancement of Science. (As quoted in the ”Information
Report”, Animal Welfare Institute, New York, November-
December, 1958, Vol. 8, No. 5.)

“It seems to me that it is wise to avoid getting our youngsters so en-
thused over biological sciences that they are anxious. to undertake
extensive animal experimentation without the background, the exper-
ience, the judgment, or the wisdom that is necessary in handling ani-
mals appropriately for biological experimentation . . . there is plenty of
biology to be gotten from a study of unicellular organisms that can
readily be obtained in any high school laboratory and handled and
followed with skill and convenience."

Ella H. Pope, Writer
(A quotation from ”Popular Dogs” September, 1959)

“Urged on by a relatively small number of fanatical enthusiasts, animal
experimentation in schoolrooms and in childrens’ homes is growing. It
is of vital importance that educators, scientists, and the humane-minded
public at large should demand that a firm position be taken in schools,
also in science contests and science fairs that are open to high school
students throughout the country to prevent demoralization of young
people through infliction of suffering in defenseless animals.”

Albert Leffingwell, M.D., Late President, American
Humane Association

“Now before a class of pupils in a public school, suppose you illustrate
the lesson by dissection of a rabbit or a cat, killed at that time and for
that purpose...You have aroused within them a sensation that is
oftentimes the very mother of every cruelty. For out of this awakened
sensation of abnormal pleasure at the sight of blood is born the instinct
of murder and the lowest tendencies of viciousness and crime.”

Cleveland Press, January 5, 1962

Four boys installed a plastic window in the stomach of a 2-lb. bullfrog
during 8th grade studies. (The frog died after eight weeks.)

Dr. James T. Mehorter, Prof., Facilities of Education and
Medicine, University of Vermont.

(From an address delivered to the 1959 Annual Meeting
of the Humane Society of the United States.)

“i am profoundly concerned with the psychological effects-that this
sort of public school ‘experimentation' has on the developing child.
I am persuaded that if it continues to grow, and indications are
that it will, it will contribute significantly to the mounting inCIdence
of mental illness in our young pe0ple.”

 

 

 




 

   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  

To the Friends of Fred Myers:

On Sunday evening, December 1, a fatal heart attack removed from the
American scene Fred Myers, one of its all time great humane leaders. His
was a total dedication to humanitarianism. He strove to protect animals
from abuse by man. His concept of making the world a better place for
animals and people by inducing people to act from motives of kindness
added a great new dimension to humane work.

 

His successes are boldly written in the history of humanitarianism
of our age. He built The Humane Society of the United States into the
strong, dynamic organization which has become the dominant influence in
the humane movement of America. He played the leading part in securing
passage of the federal humane slaughter law. His has been the principal
role in bringing legislation for the protection of laboratory animals to
the verge of passage.

Perhaps dearest to his heart, though still in the early stages, was
the National Humane Education Center. The Waterford program will bring
to reality his lifelong dream of such a Center. Humane workers from
across the land will receive training in the techniques of influencing
public opinion to make the communities of our nation better places for
animals and people to live together. Extensive training in shelter op-
eration and animal-protection and rescue work will eventually alleviate
the suffering of countless thousands of animals. The magnificent qual-
ities of his conception of the Center is attested by the great interest
it has evoked, greater than any other HSUS project.

This Society and Fred Myers' friends everywhere are dedicated to
the fulfillment of this great dream.

I know that all his friends, admirers and co-workers join his fam-
ily in mourning this loss. America has lost its most talented and ded-

icated humanitarian.

   

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Disraeli had a formula for persevering in spite of opposition that should prove helpful
to anyone tempted to give up on a good cause. Asked how he kept on without seeing
results the nineteenth century British statesman replied: “Have you ever watched a
stonecutter at work? He will hammer away at a rock for perhaps 100 times without a
crack showing in it. Then at the 1013t blow, it will split in two.”

 

 

‘

 

Vivisectors and their professional apologists are
constantly assuring the public that animals never
suffer in laboratories, that they are "better off"
than the average family pet, and a few go even
farther by claiming that many animals actually
"enjoy" being of "service to humans" and willingly
jump up on the operating tables when called. Such
utter hogwash is difficult to understand except
on the assumption that vivisectors think all who
oppose cruelty to animals are utter idiots, un-
able to read or comprehend newspaper articles now
appearing more and more frequently as editors
begin to evaluate more accurately the growing tide
of opposition to useless animal experimentation.
Below is a perfect example of publicity now being
given to painful experiments. One wonders if the
vivisectors will contend the facts printed here in
a great, conservative newspaper are "figments of
the imagination" of "ignorant" humanitarians?

CHICAGO TRIBUNE, SATURDAY, MAY 23.____1__9_64

 

Medical .. Preparations Tested on Rabbits

Mr.

Harold Penner
Services m
Lake Forest

Memorial services for Har-
old E. Penner, 44, of 1544
Bowling Green, Lake Forest,
will be at 4:30 pm Monday
in the First Presbyterian
Church, Lake Forest.

Mr. Penner, senior partner
in the law firm of Penner &
Maloney, 77 W. Washington,
died Friday at Lake Forest
Hospital.

A World War II veteran,
Mr. Penner was a captain in
the US. Naval Reserve and
was commander of Sq’uadron
VF-726 at the Glenview Naval
Air Station.

He was a graduate of North-
western University, and a mem-
ber of the Chicago Bar Assn.

Survivors include the widow;
Joyce; two daughters, Pamela
and Heidi; three sons, Andrew,
Eric and Stephen,

Penner was chief

 

 

counsel for the NAVS
and dedicated to the
preservation of its
legal rights. Every
member of the staff
shares the grief of
the family and his
multitude of friends.

 

Lined up in wooden device similar to the stocks which were used in punishment of offend-
ers during American colonial period, rabbits receive ministrations of scientists in pharmaceu-
tical laboratory in West Point, .Pa. Because rabbits’ eyes and skins are more sensitive to
irritants than are those of humans, they are used to detect possible irritating effects of new
medical preparations. [AP Wirephofo]

 

 

 

 

 

 




IRWIN, DENEKE 8c PENNER
ATTORNEYS AT LAW AREA CODE 3,2
HARRY o.mwm,(I691-sesu 'e Q,,..,60,,,
ELMER F‘. DENEKEHQBOHQBZ) 77 WEST WASHSNGTON STREET TELEPHON mu“! ev
HAROLD E. PENNER

DOUGLAS 9. MALONEY CHICAGO 9

PETER D. FlTZGERALD

February 26, 1964

Honorable E. William Henr ‘ R Y 0 U R
Chairman ‘ a.

Federal Communications Commission .un. “a

Washington 25, D. C... ' 2+‘RMAT‘UN

Dear Sir:

We are the attorneys for The National Anti~Vivisection
Society, individual members and other citizens who oppose the
telecast of bullfights by the Chicago UHF television station,
WCIU-TV, Channel 26.

The National Anti—Vivisection Society notified you, in
Mr. Richard's letter of January 7, 1964, of its Opposition to the
programming, and this office inquired, in our letter of December
27, 1963, concerning your Regulations on the subject.

In your reply of January 17, 1964 to the Society, you
stated that there is no federal law prohibiting the showing of
bullfights and stated that it was the Commission's belief that
the licensee should be given the responsibility of selection of
the programs, taking into consideration the tastes of the public.
The Commission‘s reply, dated January 30, 1964, by Mr. Ben F. Waple,
to our letter, stated that the selection of program matter was the
responsibility of the individual licensee qualified by the require- ‘
ment that the station Operate in the public interest, and Mr. Waple
further stated that the Commission's authority was limited to a review
at license renewal time of the station's overwall service.

Since these letters, the television station, WCIUeTV, has
proceeded with its announced programming, and on each Saturday
night, at 8:00 o’clock p.mw, commencing February 8, 1964, has tele-
cast for two hours a program of bullfights allegedly held in Mexico
City. The station states that it intends to continue the program as
a weekly feature on Saturday night. Our clients are concerned with
the damage that the brutality and depravity of the bullfight spectacle
inflicts upon the public of all ages.

At the request of the Society, we have examined the legal
situation concerning the subject telecasts. Our opinion is that the
telecasting of bullfights goes considerably deeper than.a mere matter
of judgment of taste by the licensee. The subject telecasts are con-
trary to the public interest, are in contravention of the provisions
of the Illinois Revised Statutes, constitute an obscene portrayal,
are contrary to the public policy of the State of Illinois and other
States, and constitute a public and private nuisance. There is need
here for the exercise by the Commission of the jurisdiction con-
ferred upon it, but which, so far, it has declined to exercise.

The staging of bullfights is prohibited by Statute in all
States of which we are aware. In Illinois, the State of origination
of the telecast complained of, the Illinois Revised Statutes, Chap. 8,
Sec. 229, provide for a penalty against whoever shall in any way be
connected with, etc. any place kept or used for the purpose of fight~
ing, any bull, without reference to the location of the place of
bullfighting. There can be no question but that bullfighting and the
portrayal of bullfighting is contrary to the public policy of the

 




 

 

 

THE REV. ROBERT A. RUSSELL, D. D.

Rector
EPIPHANY EPISCOPAL CHURCH
100 COLORADO BOULEVARD June 2 7 , 1964
DENVER 6, COLORADO

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Constitution Avenue at 9th Street
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Hoover:

In the current issue of the magazine, REVERENCE FOR LIFE, you
are quoted as having said, in a letter to the Hon. George R.
"Farnum, its editor:

"I, too, am an admirer of pets and feel they play an
important part in the development of any youngster.
Through love for an animal a young boy or girl can
learn respect for his fellow man and loyalty, two
necessary essentials in character development and
good citizenship."

Several newspapers in central Florida recently have given much
space to a project by a 21—year—old high school student, Al
Knight, and others, to orbit a satellite constructed by adoles—
cents, the nose-cone of which was to contain a living dog.
Protests by humanitarians and the threat of legal action by

the Lakeland Humane Society forced the amateur "scientists" to
abandon their plan insofar as the dog is concerned.

What interests us is the fact that prominent names in government,
including your own, are being bandied about in these newspaper
stories in such a way that the casual reader might get the im-
pression that this whole fantastic idea is government sponsored
or, at least, government approved. (We believe the adjective,
fantastic, is justified because sponsors of the project publicly
claimed a dog could be orbited and safely returned to earth for

a mere sixty thousand dollars. No mention was made of any agree—
ment with the U.S. Navy to station recovery ships at designated
points, and the best scientific brains in the space administration
thus far have been unable precisely to pinpoint a parachuted cap—
sule returning a human astronaut.)

In the Lakeland (Florida) LEDGER of Sunday, May 31, this para—
graph appears. "A letter direct from J. Edgar Hoover, F.B.I.

(continued on following page)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drums—qmmwweﬁr.‘ W...... m, .,..A.». » yrl.=.=,~v——-——.., ‘>r~wv”_r:235’“ - .

 




 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANT I -VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

 

NUMBER 5

BULLETIN

Putting “The Cart Before
The Horse” Will Not %Tk

NOVEMBER, 1964

 

 

By CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing Director
National Anti-Vivisection Society

(6‘ N 7
HEN will Congress pass a law abol-
ishing vivisection P”

“How long must we sit idly by while
vivisectors in laboratories continue to tor-
ture helpless animals in unspeakable ex-
periments ?”

These are the two questions most often
asked in the thousands of letters that cross
my desk every year. They are asked, often
in despair and occasionally in anger from
frustration, by dedicated members of the
society who, being thoroughly convinced
that vivisection is wholly evil, are im—
patient with what seems to be an unwar—
ranted delay in reaching our goal. They
KNOW vivisection is cruel and wrong and
it is difficult for them to understand why
the practice continues and even grows in
extent (if not in animal suffering) year
after year.

A conclusive answer to the first question
is easy. The Congress of the United States
simply does not have the power to enact
a law prohibiting the monstrous practice
of vivisection because animal experimenta—
tion, or anything affecting it, comes under
the police powers of the individual states.
Therefore, total abolition of all vivisection

 

 

requires action, instead, by the legislatures
of the fifty sovereign states.

That is why a lot of confusion has arisen
in the past when bills dealing with vivisec—
tion in the District of Columbia have been
introduced in Congress. Such bills are pos-
sible because Congress is the local legisla—
ture or “city council” of the District. Con-
fusion is caused by careless or uninformed
workers in the humane causes who describe
such bills as “national” legislation. Natur-
ally, some of our members, hearing about
these bills but knowing little about legisla-
tive procedures, think they see the cure—all
for the scourge of vivisection in congres-
sional action. They forget, or, as is the
settled policy of a few individuals and so-
cieties who use mere “introduction” of a bill
as “proof of progress,” ignore‘completely
that even the mild and futile iso-called
“regulation” measures which have been
periodically introduced in recent years have
been given only perfunctory attention by
Congress. Not one of these bills has ever
even gotten out of committee; all were
buried and forgotten. And yet, these meas-
ures so highly touted by the organizations
sponsoring them—each society, of course,
saying its bill was BEST and all others
were USELESS—would have affected only
animal experimentation done [under Fed-
eral grants of money, a very,yvery small
part of the total. Not one of these meas—
ures sought, nor could any seek, abolition

 

 

 

 




 

 

Section 3. Voting Rights. No member shall have
any voting rights. All voting rights are vested solely
in the board of directors.

Section 4. Termination of Membership. The board
of directors may suspend or expel a member by a
majority vote of directors present at any regularly
constituted meeting, and upon suspension current dues
paid shall be refunded.

Section 5. Resignation. Any member may resign by
filing a written resignation with the secretary.

Section 6. Reinstatement. Upon written- request
signed by a former member and ﬁled with the secre-
tary the board of directors may be the afﬁrmative vote
of the majority of the members of the board reinstate
such former member to membership upon such terms
as the board of directors may deem appropriate.

Section 7. Transfer of Membership. Membership in
this corporation is not transferable or assignable.

ARTICLE IV
Meetings

Section 1. Annual Meetings. The annual meeting of
the members shall be held on the fourth Saturday of
January, 1949 at 2:00 o’clock P. M. and on the fourth
Saturday of January of each succeeding year there-
after at the corporation’s ofﬁces, in the State of Ill'i-
nois. If such day be a legal holiday, the meeting shall
be held on the same hour on the next succeeding Sat-
urday or on some other day designated by the board
of directors.

Section 2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the
members may be called either by the president, the
managing director or the board of directors.

Section 3. Place of Meeting. The board of directors
may designate any place within or without the State
of Illinois as a place of meeting for any annual meet-
ing or for any special meeting called by the board 01
directors. If no designation is made, the place of
meeting shall’ be the registered ofﬁce of the corpora-
tion in the State of Illinois. ‘

Section 1;. Notice of Meetings. Written notice stat-
ing the place, day and hour of all annual meetings
shall’ be given to all members by mail at least ﬁve
days before the day of such meeting.

ARTICLE V
Board of Directors

Section 1. General Powers. The affairs of the cor-
poration shall be managed by its board of directors.

Section 2. Number, Tenure and Qualiﬁcations. The
number of directors shall be three. Each director shall
be elected to oﬂ‘ice for a period of ﬁve years and untl]
his successors shall have been elected and qualiﬁed or
such director may be removed from office as DI‘OVIded
in Section 9-A of Article 5. Directors need not be
residents of the State of Illinois. Only members 9f
this corporation who have been in good standing in
the Society for at least three consecutive calendar
years prior to their nomination shall be quallﬁed to
be elected as directors.

Page 2

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ Enclosed herewith is the sum of $ which is evidence of my satis-
faction with your work during the past year and ofmy desire to continue my a
support
Names . LIFE—$50.00

SUSTAINING

Number & StreetW $1030

ACTIVE
The National Anti-Vivisection Society

RENEWAL
l00 East Ohio Street '
APPL'CAT'ON EXPIRATION DATE
Chkugo ll, ﬂﬁnoh
(I ALSO enclose $11.“. .in memory of. ,. my pet.)

 

(Any amount, large or small, is welcome and appreciated)

 

 

New York TIMES
Sept. 6, 1964

ESTS ~0N ANIMALS
TALLIED IN BRITAIN

There were 4,196,566 experi-
ments on living animals last
year. 154,000 more than in the
previous year, according to a
British Government report pub-
lished. recently. Of the experi-
ments 13,517 were on cats, 10,-
769 onrdogs and 149 on mem-
bers of the horse family. The
Times of London reports.

About 771,553 experiments
were on behalf of the Govern-
ment. In the course of cancer
‘mvestigations, 269,658 experi-
ments were made, including
72,623 under anesthesia and
197,035 without. ‘

About 90 per Cent of all the
experiments were made With-
not "anesthesia, the procedures
consisting for the most part of
inoculations, external applica-
tions "cit" stimuli, ‘modificati-ons
indict 1 or environment or ad-
mimgitration, of some pharma-
, ceutlcal. or biological product.

ngIjectly for the diagnosis of
disease in man or other animals
318,851 experiments were made.

the experiments with sub-
"stances intended for use in the
treatment of disease in man or
other animals, 1,173,535 were
mandatory tests for the stand-
ardization of serums, vaccines
or drugs. ,

Over the period covered by
the. report, 556 places. were
registered for the performance
of experiments. From the Gov~
ernment returns it appears that

.857 of the 8,789 licenses did
not carry, out, any experiments.

After publication of the re-
113914} the British Council of Anti-
..Vnnsection Societies made “the

 

3:‘Strpngestj possible protest,” to
rPrlme Minister Sir Alec Doug-
las-Home .“at the further in;
crease in the number of experi-
Eggg performed on live 'anie

N . Y . WORLD-TELEGRAM
September 30, 1964

ASPCA Backs
§tandards Bill

'The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals today announced its
support of a Congressional bill
to establish federal standards
for handling animals in labora-
tory research.

The measure, introduced by
Rep. Paul «G. Rogers (D., Fla),
would require compliance with
“established standards” by fed
eral agencies experimenting
with animals and by recipients
of governmental r e s e a r c h‘,
grants.

(This bill, like allV’
others, diedehen
Congress adjourned.)

 

 

The TIMES
St. Petersburg
Sept.’ 6, 1964

Research Labs Studied

WASHINGTON «A The Presi-
dent’s Science Advisory Com-
mittee has begun the first crit-
ical examination of the estab-
lishment of government
research laboratories.

Underlying the study is a com

7 cern' that the eStablishment

. may" have grown too large and
that Some )of its members may

' have} outlived. their usefulness.
No {one knows exactly how

.7 many there are nor how much
they spend.

 

Reprinted from The A—V, official
organ of the American Anti-Vivi-
section Society of Philadelphia.

Investigators Turned Away

At M.I.T.

In response to a complaint about the animal
quarters at the Massachusetts Institute of
TechnolOgy, Frank McMahon, together with
investigators for the MSPCA, conducted an
unannounced inspection on January 31, 1964.
' Dr. Paul ’M. Newberne, veterinarian for the
institutiOn, readily allowed access to the animals
in departments under his supervision. The con-
dition of these animals, which has recently been
markedly improved, was satisfactory.

When the investigators asked to inspect the
animal quarters of the Institute’s Department .
of Psychology, however, they were informed
by Dr. H. L. Teuber that MIT had formed
its own committee to establish animal housing
regulations and that outside help was not needed.
'The Department of Psychology was reported
to have about 100 monkeys and 50 cats in its
animal quarters.

Dr. Teuber also remarked, expressing un-
reasoned fear that HR. 4856 or similar legisla«
tion might impede medical research, that Mc~
Mabon was “the type who would deny assistance
and help to an epileptic child.”

MIT, since 1959, has received over $11 mi1~
lion in grants from the Public Health Service.
Dr. Teuber alone has been granted. $154,628 in
the last two years. MIT is not subject to in~
SpCCthIl under Massachusetts laws and the in-
Vestigators were not able to require Dr. Teuber
to allow them access to the animal quarters.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

"no SUCH THING AS COMPLETE SAFETY
(OF DRUGS) DESPITE ANIMAL TESTSI,"

Post—Intelligencer
Seattle, Washington

 

The GAZETTE, Phoenix, Arizona, June 19,

1963

Some Scientists Think Drug Laws
Hamper Advance Of Medicine

WASHINGTON (UPI) — Many but the tendency to slow down the said “the new law and the new

scientists believe new drug regu-
lations established following the
thalidomide scare last year are

medicine.

This view was expressed today
by Dr. Lowell Coggeshall, head
of a new commission on drug
safety, in testimony prepared for
a Senate subcommittee. The com-
mission was established by a
grant from the Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Association.

COGGESHALL, former special
assistant to the secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare
and now vice president of the
University of Chicago, said 100
scientists in the drug field were
questioned concerning the Ke-
fauver-Harris law enacted last
October.

There was a general opinion, he
said, “that the new drug regula-
tions will interfere with the re-
search process through which new
drugs are developed.”

THE SURVEY, he said, “clearly
shows that new investigators will
hesitate to enter the field and
that some scientists now in it will
tend to leave. Admittedly drug
testing will not come to a halt,

seen.”

entire rocess can be easil regulations
p y threat, but they offer no shield

may narrow the

against another thalidomide epi-
interfering with the advance of Coggeshall said there was no sode” which resulted in the birth

such thing as complete safety. He of thousands of deformed babies.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The REPUBLIC
Phoenix, Arizona
July 28, 1963

Antivivisectionist
Explains Position
Editor, The Arizona Republic:
Julian DeVries’ column of July
15 states that antivivisectionists
have been trying for three years
to “get their potentially dangerous
legislation through Congress.” It
is obvious he was referring to the
various bills introduced since 1960
purporting to “Provide for the
humane treatment of animals

used in experiments and tests by
recipients of grants from the

United. States . . . .f’

This statement by Mr, DeVries
is completely erroneous. It so hap-
pens I spent the, greater part of a
year in Washington (until the foul

Detroit FREE PRESS, May 29, 1963

Professor Fired

For Drug Tests

CAMBRIDGE, Mass.~—ﬂJPD~——Harvard University Tues-
day fired another psychologist for experimenting with hallu-
cination-inducing drugs on an undergraduate student.

The psychologist, Dr. Richard
Alpert, 32, denied he broke
faith with the university by in-
volving a student in the con-
troversial experiments which
some authorities fear may
cause permanent harm.

O t I!

ALPERT’S dismissal was an-
nounced by Harvard President,
Dr. Nathan M. Pusey, who said
Alpert and his associates ex-
perimented on a student in vio-
lation of an agreement made
with the university in 1961.

Dr. Timothy F. Leary, a lec-
turer on clinical psychology at
Harvard, was fired about one
month ago.

Alp e r t ’ 3 experiments in-
volve the hallucinatory drugs
psilocybine, mescaline a n d
lysergic acid diethlamide. The
later is called LSD for short.

 

 

 

 

 

climate forced me to return to
Phoenix) as the manager of the
Washington Branch of the Na-
tional Anti - Vivisection Society.
During that time I was a reg-
istered lobbyist” for the NAVS,
and represented also the Interna-
tional Conference Against Vivisec—
tion, a federation of more than
100 antivivisection societies. My
sole activity as a lobbyist was to
oppose all of the legislation to
which Mr. DeVries referred.

Mr. DeVries wrote that Con-
gress “thoughtfully killed the pro-
posals.” I wish that were true but
Congress did no such thing. To
say that Congress “killed”- a pro-

 

posed bill means that a bill ac-
tually was killed by a majority

vote, either in committee or on

the floor. No regulation bill ever
has come to a vote in committee
or on the floor. No member of
Congress ever has had the op—
portunity to register a vote for or
against any such bill_

DeVries wrote: “Laboratory
doors everywhere are open to
everyone at all times, but anti-
vivisectionists refuse to admit the
fact.” Not even DeVries, defender
of laboratories and what goes on
in them, would find open labor-
atory doors. Even though Vivisec-
tors are exempt from prosecution
for cruelty in nearly every state
in the country, no humane society
or S.P.C.A. inspector can walk
into a Vivisection laboratory to
inspect it as he can in other
places where animals are kept.

Unfortunately, Mr. DeVries has
a narrow view of what antivivi-
sectionists are fighting. He thinks
their only concern is “poor, de-
fenseless animals.” For his infor-
mation, we are equally con-
cerned about “poor, defenseless
babies” and even convicts who
are subjected to Vivisection ex-
periments.

Cruelty is one of the less im-
portant reasons why we oppose
Vivisection. More important is its
futility and actual danger to hu-
mans. Not even Mr, DeVries
would say that thalidomide is one
of the “benefits” of Vivisection.
I wonder if he knows there is still

July 19, 1963

UBC Wires Cats
Brains To Study .
Behavior

VANCOUVER, B.C., July
17.—(CP)—Medical research-
ers at the University of Brit-
ish Columbia are wiring cats'
brains in an effort to fill some
blanks in medical books and
perhaps throw light on the
causes of Parkinson’s Dis-
case.

A team headed by Dr. Hugh
McLennan, associate profes-
sor of physiology, is experi-
menting with radio-stimulate-
ed cats in hope of solving
mysteries of the basal gang-
lia, the nerve center located
deep in the brain of man and
lower animals.

THE RESEARCHERS have
implanted fine wires in areas
of the cats’ basal ganglia
known as the caudate nuclei.
The wires, in turn, are con-
nected to tiny transistor ra-
dio recievers attached to the
cats’ skulls.

The receivers pick up radio
impulses form a special trans-
mitter.

Depending on the number of
pulses introduced into the
cat’s brain, the animal can
be made to halt in mid-stride,
turn to right or left, or turn
in full circle as if it were
trying to catch up with some-
thing moving just outside its
range of vision.

Just what” this all means is
still obscure, Dr. McLellan
says, and years of work and
experiments will be neces-
essary before a clear picture
emerges.

“Obviously we have im-
posed on the animal a fair-
ly complex type of be-
havior,” he said. But its
meaning was “open to sev-
eral interpretations.”

 

 

 

a struggle going on to get it on
the market, despite the fact that
it IS responsible for the births of

more than 10,000 deformed ba-
bies?

“There will come a time when
the world will look back to mod-
em Vivisection in the name of
science as they do now to burning
at the stake in the name of reli-
gion.” So stated Dr. Henry J.
Bigelow, late professor of surgery,
Harvard Medical School.

LARRY ANDREWS,
. President,
National Humanitarian League

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
 

, $33!: at: t. .
Wm "ti-jag 3&3. \

   
   

ANTI VIVISECTION NEWS REPORT

  
  

 

WHAT is Vivisection? Vivisection is the practice of cutting, burning, poisoning, starving,
crushing or internally mutilating any defenseless dumb animal that can be handled in a

QUICK laboratory. It is commonly performed on dogs.
. WHO practices Vivisection? Salaried experimenters in medical institutions lead the
ANSWERS parade of those who foster vivisection. Through their inﬂuence medical students and teach-
ers are inculcated with the false doctrine of this practice.
ABOUT WHEN did Vivisection get its start? Vivisection is truly “old as the hills.” It began thou-

sands of years ago. Yet with scores of centuries behind it, vivisection has failed to wipe out one

VIVISECTION W

WHERE is Vivisection found? Endowed medical centers number among their staffs notori-
ous vivisectors. These men hold their ﬁne jobs largely by performing endless, repetitious,
useless and cruel experiments on animals. Medical schools the country over boast a full
share of vivisectors on their pay-rolls. Some idea of the extent of Vivisection may be had
through the following authoritative statement: “It is estimated that more than 6,000,000
vivisectional experiments are performed each year in the United States.”

WHY does Vivisection continue to exist? The American Medical Association—powerful
serum-making drug companies—medical colleges and experimental institutions—all are
banded together to promote the spread of Vivisection! For its abolition would mean the end
of many a fat salary, many a mammoth proﬁt from serum, many a noble fee from treating a
disease that sane medical methods might have prevented in the ﬁrst place.

Such Anti-Cruelty Laws as exist in The United States are powerless to interfere with the

ANTI. systematized torture of laboratories.
Law-making bodies are composed, naturally, of citizens only casually aware of the actual
facts about animal cruelty. And the skillful lobbyist has little difﬁculty in persuading these
CRUELTY men and women that the best interests of “science” demanded a free hand for the vivisectors.

The same person who will rush to report the ﬂogging of a horse will blandly assent to cruelty

LAW 3 a thousand times worse in the misguided belief that he is aiding “progress in medicine.” The
man who would shrink at the thought of clubbing a puppy will help to pass a law author-
. exempt the izing others to nail that same puppy’s paws to a board in order that scalding water may be

poured into its abdominal cavity conveniently!
What is the answer? Simply that every right-minded voter must seek laws which do not
contain special provisions for vivisectors!

vivisector!

Of all the factors contributing to the continuation of suffering in laboratories, anesthetics is

the most far-reaching and important. Why? Simply because the use of anesthetics is most

frequently submitted as “proof” that the animals do not suffer. Yet the fact is that less than

5 per cent of all vivisectional experiments are performed with anesthetics! Where anesthetics

are employed another startling fact comes to light. For the drugs sometimes used in vivi-
ANESTHE-I'Ics section .are often incapable of rendering animals senseless to pain without at the same time

extlngulshing life! Morphia, chloroform, ether—all are almost 1mposs1ble to adm1n1ster
successfully to animals.

As a result, vivisectors are using the most devilish “anesthetic” of all-curare. This drug,
once styled “the poison of the living death” has the convenient property of destroying the
power of movement in the animal—and at the same time sharpening the processes of con-
sciousness I Unable to stir, the animal under the spell of this “anesthetic aid” is nevertheless
suffering unspeakable agony.

Anesthetics? “The public is anesthetized—not the animals.”

. . .the cruelest farce of a"!

Show your Opposition to wanton cruelty to animals
by your contribution and membership in the
National Anti-Vivisection Society TODAY!

 

 

 

 

ACE LIED:

TEA“

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

7/:e National ﬁnd-WW“ Society

l00 5.4: also Sheet, 6420.290, Mama 606//

TO ALL NAVS MEMBERS:

Once again we wish to remind our members that if you do not recall
hOW'mUCh you have contributed to your Society during 1963, or if

you are unable to verify the amount, a request to us Will bring the
exact amount, certified by the Society. If you feel more eVidence

is required to substantiate your deduction, we will gladly prepare
and send you a photostatic copy of your master ledger card, which
shows the date and amount of every contribution made during the year.

As you know, contributions to your Society are deductible from your
income tax, but perhaps some members, because of the frequency With
which they contribute, or because they might have mislaid their re-

 

 

 

 

 

ceipts, do not recall the exact amount they have donated.

 

/Géorg . ﬁsh/311, / / 3

Secr t y-Treasurer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬁt

The Moral Argument

Some sponsors of the bills now
before Congress which seek to
"regulate" vivisection are on
record as stating they would
not oppose animal experimen-
tation if conducted humanely.
Even if we grant the fantastic
contention that vivisection
could ever be made "humane,"
(many experiments are done to
determine HOW MUCH PAIN an an-
imal can endure) the practice
would remain morally reprehen—
sible and scientifically in-
exact, presenting a constant
threat to the lives of all
people. The thalidomide dis—
aster is tragic proof that
abolition is the only answer.
The statement Opposite is from
the magazine published by the
New England A—V Society.

We

 

 

 

The moral argument against Vivisection re—
mains Whether the animals suffer as much as
we do, or only half as much. The bad effect
on the operator and on the student and spec-
tator, remains; the undoubted fact that the
practice tends to produce a callousness and a
passion for experiment, which leads to unau~
thorized experiments in hospitals on unpro-
tected patients, remains; the horrible callous
ness of binding the sufferers in the operating
trough, so that they cannot express their pain
by sound or motion, remains; their treatment
after the experiment, by careless attendants,
brutalized by custom, remains; the argument
of the uselessness of a large proportion of. the
experiments, repeated again and again on scores
and hundreds of animals to conﬁrm or refute
the work of other Vivisectors, remains; and
ﬁnally, the inequity of its use to demonstrate
already established facts-to physiological stu—
dents in hundreds of colleges and schools all
over the world, remains.

ALFRED RUSSELL WALLACE

Noted Naturalist, Philosopher and
Co-discoverer with Darwin of the
Theory of Evolution

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

CLEVELAND AMORY

Bulls Brave,

Fighter? A Phony.

BY CLEVELAND AMORY

CHICAGO—We flew to'this fair
city last week to take part in 'what
israpidly becoming a national bull-
fight fight. , .
'Last week this fight came , to a head
when‘ Mr. Clarence Richard, of the Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society, filed suit
in Federal District Court to Compel, by
court order, the Federal Communications
Commission to hold hearings regarding
the telecasting by local Station WCIU
(Ch. 26) of Mexican bullfightsz/

We represented the Humane Society of
the United States which, though not an
anti - vivisectionist organization, heartily
agrees with Mr. Richard that the tele-
vising of a “sport” or “art” or whatever
it is—one which is directly forbidden ' by
the animal anti-cruelty laws :of all 50
states—is, whether legal or not, .of such
execrable taste as to be highly offensive.

Furthermore, we have reason to know that
proponents of bullfighting in at least two
states, Arizona and California, have already
taken tentative steps to see that if the‘anti-
cruelty laws can be so circumvented by tele-
vision, they can perhaps also be circumvented
by fact—and thus they are seeking ways to
put on actual bullfights in these states.

* * II!

JOHN WIEGEL, the head of WCIU, which
is an ultra-highsfrequency-station, gave Rich-
ard and ourselves fifteen ,minutes before the
regular bullfights to state our cases.

And, despite the fact that we were greeted
with a large banner—held up by two 12-
year-old. girls 4- which read “CHAN (the bull-
fight announcer) SI, AMORY NO!. we were
also permitted to see tapes of the actual
fights themselves. .

What we saw was, of Course, appaling.
vs. at as
EVEN WHEN the bull first enters the ring,
his one desire seems to be to find an exit.
There is none, of course, for him—meanwhile
his tormentors, with their capes, constantly
duck behind the fences.

Then comes the second act, when the plea-
dors, mounted on blindfolded horses, lunge,
turn and twist their long. and brutal lances
into the bull’s shoulder muscles. During this
procedure, the horses’ padding obviously
doesn’t protect them.

We saw several horses gored right through
the padding, and one horse was thrown to the
ground and about to be disemboweled—al-
though through the "miracle” of tape we were
spared what would have been the poor animal’s
final agony.

. Meanwhile, the brave p i c a d o r , had, of
course, run away. .
9 III *

THEN COMES the even more pathetic third
act—when two ridiculously pirouetting dandies
plunge their fish-hooked banderillas into the
bull’s by now gapingly wounded shoulders.
By this time, the bull cannot hold his head
up, his tongue is hanging out, and he is an
exhausted, pitiful sight.

The bravery required to dispatch him at this
point is, in point of fact, about equal to that
regularly displayed by a long list of such brave
matadors as Jinx Falkenburg, Sloan Simpson.
Patricia McCormick and Dixie Lee -— not to

buf a?

 

  

I, ' :Hi”::’."::’:}
0 ~.
I m i. I

mention those other bully girls, Lauren Bacall
and Ava Gardner.

Not in a single fight did we seems. single
matador dispatch a. single bull with one thrust
of his sword—and in one case he used IVE
swords before the pathetic animal'“*‘;on* its
knees, rolled over for the last gory tameﬁ

1|! * Q

         
 

C
T

ALL THIS THE audience sees. Witﬁioes
not see is the so-called “barber snap-Q {feat-
ment ofthe bull before the fight.

Here he is subjected either to purges or
constipation fodder, as well as tranquillizers
and other means of foul play—~meanvmhile
being kept in a darkened enclosure so that he

will be virtually blinded when he enters the
ring. ‘

Also. with pulleys and ropes he is lifted,
and his horns are filed down to throw off
the angle of his thrust.

It would be very much as if, just before
a to - the - death marksmanship coht'esiz‘you
were suddenly handed a riﬂe with« changed
sights. ' .

ill 8 t .

EVEN HEMINGWAY, that pseudo ”promoter
of this pseudo “art,” admitted that after the
modern picador has done his workmthere is
no bull left to fight.

And one former great matador. ”Domingo
Ortega, has declared that it would "be possi-
ble for- a modern matador to- “fight”. wind-
folded—to prove it he had’ a friend, of. his
blindfolded and directed his movement? by
calling out to him from the sidelines: w

‘The modern “art” is, in actual “analysis,
nothing but a phoney ceremonial attempting
to cover up a barbaric hang-ever from g the
ancient “sport” of bullbaiting.

And, in the words of the great English
humanitarian, Major Hume: “A heav'y'bﬁ'rden
of guilt rests on those editors, journalists and
broadcasters who, little by little, areTtea'ching
people to approve of sadism . . . The current
glorification of bullfighting is simultaii'eous
with a pornographic trend in literature'and
drama and with a rapid increase in c‘rimé's
violence.”

 

Chicago’s AMERICAN

Alum On Top 0! The No.0

8 TUESDAY, MAY 5. I964

 

‘lllilllliIliillilllillliﬂlllilllilllliil

Censors with Noble Motives

HE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION society is planning

soon to carry its campaign against televised bullfights
into federal District court here. The society had tried to have
the Federal Communications commission forbid the telecasting
of bullfights, but the FCC ruled—correctly, we think—that it
had no authority to do so. Now the society will seek a court
writ ordering WCIU-TV [channel 26] to stop showing the bull-
fights, which are an immensely popular feature with the
Spanish-speaking community of Chicago.

The case poses a question that comes up again and again
in various contexts, and requires an answer every time. It is
whether, and how far, we may constitutionally allow some
people to decide what is best for everybody.

The pros and cons of bullfighting are a separate issue
and are just not going to be settled in court or out of it. In
conflict here are two totally opposed sets of values, growing
out of different cultures and traditions. One side regards
kindness and humaneness as supreme values, and is utterly
revolted at the spectacle of an animal being killed for enter-
tainment. The society which represents this View, firmly
believes that such sights can only have a corrupting and
brutalizing inﬂuence on children, and should be outlawed for
that reason.

The other side regards courage and dignity as the supreme
values, and sees the corrida as the supreme celebration of
those virtues. For this side, the builfight is not so much a
sport as a ritual test of courage that ennobles bdth man and
animal. _

We can’t tell you which of these viewpoints is the “right”
one and have no intention of trying. But even granting to
opponents of bullfighting the finest and most praiseworthy
motives [which we do], we can’t grant them the claim that
their viewpoint should be imposed on people who don’t shared.
No matter how persuasively it’s phrased, the society’s posmon
comes down to saying, “This entertainment does not meet our
standards, and therefore YOU may not see it.”

What will be at stake here is the freedom to watch or not
to watch a given TV program. We are not ready to surrender
this freedom to anyone, however charitable his motives may be.

 

 

 

(Continued from Page 2)

feel they have a right to seek elimination of
bullfight telecasts, which they believe to be a
menace to the morals of children and offen-
sive to decent persons, just as other groups
wage strenuous battles to remove lewd mag-
azines from the newsstands; just as city of-
ficials censor motion pictures and stage plays
to eliminate lascivious scenes calculated to
offend common decency; just as postal au—
thorities scrutinize books and magazines in
an effort to stop interstate circulation of vici-
ous, lustful photographs and pornographic
material offered as ‘literature.’

 

 




Honorable E. William Henry 2 February 26, 1964
Chairman

Federal Communications Commission

 

State of Illinois. The cruelty, bestiality and depravity of this
spectacle constitute ao.ohscene reproduction and projection.

It is apparent, from the attendant advance publicity, that
the telecast of the bullfights is a_deliberate and willful action by
WCIU«TV. The telecasts cannot be defended by the Station as por~
trayals incidental to any plot; theme or news event. On the contrary,
the bullfights are the scheduled attraction and so publicized. There
is no room for judgment by the licensee as to taste or discretion in
this area. Bullfighting stands indicted by statute. The telecasting
of bullfights is as contrary to the public interest as would be the
performance or telecastiug of cockfights3 dude dancing and other
Obscenities.

The United States Code, Title 47, grants authority to the
Federal Communications Commission to adequately deal with the situ~
ation complained of. Among the other provisions of SubChapter III,
Section 307 (d) authorizes a revocation of a license, Section 308 (b)
authorises production of additional statement of facts from the
licensee, Section 312 (a) authorises revocation of a license, and
Section 312 provides for a show cause order and hearing upon a
license revocation or a cease and desist order.

If the Federal government has occupied the entire field of
communication by television, precluding State regulations and the
enforcement by a State of its statutes and public policy, it be~
comes incumbent upon the federal authority to adequately regulate
and protect this area. Exercise of the Commission’s authority to
revoke the license or to issue a cease and desist order, under the
facts of this case5 would not constitute censorship or interference
with the right of tr e speech as prohibited by Section 326.

On behalf of c lasts; demand is made upon the Federal
Communications Commissiou to issue a show cause order and to hold an
immediate hearing for the revocatioo of the license or the issuance
of a cease and desist order to Chicago television station, WClU-TV.
It appears to us that if the Federal Soomuuications Commission should
decline to act, proceedisgs is the Federal District Court to require
action by the Commission would become appropriate? and we have been
retained to file such proceedings should they become necessary.

We believe the subject is of major significance and requires
a re~examination by the Commission. Inasmuch as three telecasts of
bullfights have already taken place on the last three successive
Saturday nights, and the programming will continue, the Commission
should act without delay. we will appreciate your prompt response
so that we may detenmine our further course. '

Very truly yours,

Harold E. Penner

HEP:BES

 




 

 

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover —2- June 27, 1964

Director, noted FAVORABLY (capitalization is ours) Knight's
attempt to promote understanding between American and Russian
youth through what someday may lead to joint scientific en-
deavors; the matter is now of official record in F.B.I. files."

At the time this was printed, the incredible plan to orbit a dog
with a home-made rocket and satellite was getting tremendous
publicity and the dog's role as a victim was still a part of

the undertaking.

In View of your known interest in humane treatment of animals,

we find it difficult to believe you would knowingly give support
to any project, even one being carried out by qualified scientists
instead of high school students, involving useless and wanton
cruelty to an animal.

 

The youth of America is prone to emulate its national heroes,
accepting their views and c0pying their actions, and no figure

in modern history can equal your reputation or is held in greater
esteem. The "untouchable" G—men you direct have become a national
symbol for what is good and right, and it would be a black day

for animals, indeed, if the boys and girls of this country sud-
denly were "sold" the idea that their idol had given his approval

to a project which included the torture and lingering death of a
helpless small dog.

Certainly none of us has forgotten the nation-wide outpouring of
indignation over the lonely death of Laika, the Russian dog. What
purpose (other than publicity of doubtful value) can be served by
children repeating - even granting it is possible — an "experi-
ment" universally condemned when done by qualified scientists?

Our thousands of members in every state in the nation would be
grateful to you for an official statement clearing up the question
of whether you did or did not give your approval to the proposal

of these Florida high school students to attempt the orbiting of
a living dog.

With assurances of our highest esteem, I am,

Faithfully yours,

Robert A. Russell, D.D.
President

National Anti-Vivisection Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Section 3. Election. Directors shall be elected by
the board of directors at any annual or special meet-
ing of the board of directors as provided by these
by-laws. A person to be elected a director must re-
ceive a majority vote of those present. The next elec-
tion of the board of directors shall be held at the
next annual meeting of the board of directors to be
held in January, 1949 as provided herein.

Section 1,. Regular Meetings. A regular annual
meeting of the board of directors shall be held without
further notice, as set forth by these by-l‘aws, imme-
diately after and at the same place as the annual
meeting of members in the State of Illinois. The next
regular annual meeting of the board of directors shall
be held in January, 1949 as provided herein.

Section 5. Special Meetings. Special meetings of
the board of directors may be called by or at the re-
quest of the president or any two directors. The
place for holding any special meeting of the board of
directors shall be in the State of Illinois.

Section 6. Notice. Notice of any special meetings
of the board of directors shall be given at least ﬁve
days previously thereto by written notice delivered
personally or sent by mail or telegram to each direc-
tor at his address as shown by the records of the
corporation. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed
to be delivered when deposited in the United States
mail in a sealed envelope so addressed, with postage
thereon prepaid. If notice is given by telegram, such
notice shall be deemed to be delivered when the tele-
gram is delivered to the telegraph company. Any di-
rector may waive notice of any meeting. The atten-
dance of a director at any meeting shall constitute a
waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a
director attends a meeting for the express purpose
of objecting to the transaction of any business because
the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither
the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of.
any regular or special meeting of the board need be
speciﬁed in the notice or waiver of notice of such
meeting, unless speciﬁcally required by law or by
these by-laws.

Section 7'. Quorum. A majority of the board of
directors shall constitute a quorum for the transac-
tion of business at any and all meetings of the board,
provided, that if less than a majority of the directors
are present at said meeting, a majority of the direc-
tors present may adjourn the meeting from time to
time without further notice.

Section 8. Manner of Acting. The act of a major-
ity of the directors present at any meeting at which
a quorum is present shall be the act of the board of
directors, except where otherwise provided by law or
by these by-laws.

Section 9. Vacancies. Any vacancy occurring in the
board of directors or any directorship to be ﬁlled by
reason of any increase in the number of directors. shall
be ﬁlled by the board of directors. A director elected
to ﬁll a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term
of his predecessor in ofﬁce.

9A. Any director may be removed from the board
at any special or regular meeting of.said board by a
majority vote of the board. No notice of such pro-

Page 3

 




j

 

 

 

of vivisection, and each of them permitted
the worst of torture IF the experimenter
himself said use of an anesthetic would
defeat his purpose.

*>l<=l<

AS TO the second question, I wish with
all my heart that I could give a definite
answer by saying that vivisection will be
abolished in five years, ten years, twenty
years . . . But I would be denying the facts
if I should attempt so positive a prediction.
However, we are not sitting “idly by,” as
one question suggests.

A great deal is being accomplished de-
spite the continuing unspeakable torture of
innocent animals. Not as much is being
done, nor as speedily as we should like.
Nevertheless, there is tangible, noteworthy
progress.

(Concrete evidence of solid accomplish—
ment by anti-vivisectionists, as against
mere introduction of hopeless bills year
after year, can be found in the recent procla-
mation of Governer Kerner, of Illinois,
designating Sunday, October 4, as
WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS, and
mentioning anti-vivisection efforts specifi-
cally. Here is a milestone in humane
work of monumental importance and it was
reached as a result of a suggestion by Owen
B. Hunt, President of the American Anti—
Vivisection Society, and action by Dr.
Robert A. Russell, President of the Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society.)

“We know that animals are cruelly tor-
tured in the laboratories,” members write.
“Why don’t we arrest and prosecute the
vivisectors ?”

There is an old saying in law to the
effect: “You can arrest the bishop of Lon—
don for bastardy, but to successfully prose—
cute him, you must prove the charge.”

We might possibly bring about the arrest

of vivisectors on charges of cruelty, but we
cannot successfully prosecute such charges
for the reason that most state anti-cruelty
laws specifically exempt experiments on
animals. Since the laws declare that vivi-
section is not a legal offense, no vivisector

 

rI-‘Ii ‘
, .

5"

, can be prosecuted for cruelty.

ﬁx

If we alt-

,5, tempted to do so, we would be inviting suits

for heavy damages, and we would have no

defense.

VIVISECTION is evil and the fight to
eradicate it from our nation is one of refor-
mation. All successful reform movements
in history have to follow existing legal
procedures. They achieved success because
they first built up wide public support.

Vivisection is a national evil. It is every-
where. No part of our nation is free from
its contaminating influence. But relatively
few people recognize it as such. To the
contrary, vivisection is clothed in righte—
ousness. The public is told that all
progress in the fight against disease by
medical science is the result of animal ex-
perimentation.

This isn’t true, and we anti-vivisectionists
know it isn’t true, but a large part of the
public believes it. Believing it, the public
is in the apparent position of having to
choose between human and animal welfare.

In the course we have charted, first
things must come first. The most fatal
mistake that could be made by The Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society would be to
attempt to force an abolition law on the

public before public opinion is ready to sup—
port it.

We dare not put the cart before the horse.

That mistake was made by the temper-
ance forces of our country. They organ—
ized, it is true. They educated, without a
doubt. They fought many legislative '
battles :on the local level, obtaining local.1 »
option in hundreds of cities, counties, and .
even entire states. They were reaching
their goal, and then they over-estimated
their strength and public support.

They succeeded in forcing the adoption
of the 18th amendment to our federal con—
stitution by 33' of the 48 states. It was
called the “most noble social experiment

7 (Continued on Page 7)

 

 

 

W 5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

U. S. FINANCES

Chicago TRIBUNE, September 18, 1964

When you have read this, and recovered
from the shock or stopped laughing,
depending on how such nonsense strikes
you, please remember that this money,
almost a quarter of a million dollars,
came from YOU, the taxpayers. Here is
conclusive evidence, for the ten thous—
andth time, that money is being wasted
on "experiments" to prove something

a school child already knows.

 

 

service,” he said, “500 obese
girls will participate in a daily
program of vigorous physical
activity» and nutritional guid-
ance in Newton, Mass, junior
and senior high schools.

“The program will be ex-
panded in January to include
obese boys.”

The health service said the
girls taking part in the project

EXERCISE. TEST
{FOR CHUBBIES

' BY MARY PAKENHAM
lenient ,Trlbhnc Press service]
Washington, Sept; 17 - The

 

 

(Continued from Page 15)

we have a very large membership. But,
when that membership is spread among 200
millions of people, we have very small
influence.

I am not even slightly interested in en-
rolling members in The National Anti-
Vivisection Society who already are mem-
bers of other anti-vivisection socities. It
does not help our cause merely to move
anti-vivisectionists from one society to
another. We must create new anti—vivi-
sectionists. How do we get them? Where
are they to be found?

Go down any street. Stop in any block.
Ring any doorbell and ask if there is any—
one in the house who believes that vivi-
section should be abolished.

In that block you are likely to find a

 

18

 

federal government 'will spend
$228,791 in the next three years
helping H a‘r v a r d university
demonstrate that fat children

'are fat because they do not

get enough exercise.

This was announced today by
the United States public health
service. A, spokesman said the
Harvard school of public health
began its project earlier this
week with a grant of $74,672
in hand and expectations of
grants of $75,447 and $78,672 for
the 1965-66 and 1966-67 School
years, reSpectively.

7 500 to Participate

‘ TheHarvard researchers are:
“combining calisthenics a n d
computers to test a theory that
physical inactivity may be the
big villain in the juvenile obesi—
ty picture,” the spokesman
said. ,

“With support fr 0 m the
United States public health

 

were selected by a physical
anthropologist. They will have
two weeks to decide whether
they want to continue with the
daily, hour-long exercise ses-
sions. After the first two Weeks,
the program will be considered
acredit course. ‘

Pictures Show Inactivity

The health service spokesman
said Dr. Jean Mayer, the Har-
vard scientist who will direct
the project, headed a team
which took 29,000 pictures last
summer at a camp for obese
girls on Cape Cod, Mass.

“Their pictures showed clear-

ly why conventional exercise-

programs don’t help overweight
youngsters,” the spokesman
said. “The fatter children just
stood around.

“Dr. Mayer reported that
these children. were photo-
graphed totally motionless 72
per cent of the time.”

 

 

Chicago TRIBUNE
Sept. 1, 1964

BEHAVIOR OF
ZOO’S ANIMALS
TO BE STUDIED

 

 

 

WINNIPEG, Aug. 31 (EPA
research team from the Univer-
sity of Manitoba has been given
approval to conduct psycholo-
gical tests on Ianimals at As-
siniboine Park zoo.

The study, approved by the

 

Metropolitan Winnipeg p a r k s ‘

committee, is aimed at con-
tributing to “the understanding
of animal and human beha-
vior.” Monkeys are to be a spe‘
cial subject for study.

One of the tests will be to
deprive them of water for 24
hours. They will then be al-
lowed to drink from one source
while researchers check on how
long it takes each monkey to
finish drinking. They hope to
record which monkey shows
leadership traits-by getting to
the water supply first—and
therefore which is the superior
monkey.

 

doctor and his family; perhaps a registered
nurse, or a druggist. There may be a family
with a son in medical school. The cranky
old gentleman on the corner; the one who
can’t be seen without an appointment, owns
a big block of stock in a pharmaceutical
company.

These people will know what you are
talking about. All will argue about the
benefits to human beings “derived from
animal experimentation.” None will join
the anti-vivisectionist ' movement now!

>14 >l< >l<

EACH person in the block has his sphere
of influence. If you make 50 calls in that
one block, you might find one person who
believes with all his heart that vivisection
is cruel and should be abolished.

But you will spend mostfof yorir time
just explaining the meaning of the word
“vivisection.” When you have made that
clear to one who doesn’t have a personal
interest in vivisectiOn, you will find. that
one good member out of 50 persons.

This is the hard road we must take- We
have to win a great many people to our
cause, and these converts will have to be
as fervently dedicated to the abolition of
vivisection as were those abolitionists to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Many NAVS members -- certainly the business men among them -- doubtless are
familiar with the KIPLINGER WASHINGTON LETTER, which reports and comments on
all facets of business and pending legislation affecting it. Its record for
accuracy is remarkable. I have long been a personal subscriber to this service
to keep myself informed on matters that might affect the soCiety. (For ex-
ample a predicted sharp increase in paper costs might influence us to stock
up at current rates to meet future demands.) In an effort to get an impartial
and authentic report on the status of pending bills in Congress affecting
laboratories -- opponents say they have no chance, proponents claim hearings
are imminent -- I recently wrote as an individual, making no mention of the
NAVS, and asked for information on the status of the bills, saying I had
heard they were being ignored, and that I was interested. Here is the reply,
which I think it would be safe to accept as authentic.----AQ,EL °

 

THE KIPLINGER WASHINGTON EDITORS w

AUSTIN H.KIPLINGER
JOHN E.F?YEPSON
CLARENCE M.WF?IGHT
MORT SINGER
REG INGRAHAM
WILLIAM F. YELVERTON
GEORGE KENNEDY
MILTON CHRISTIE
HENRY A.EARF’
CHARLES A.CERAMI
SAMUEL H.MUPF\’AY
JOHN H. HARMS
SID A. LEVY
BILL IMMEN

July 10, 1963

‘ ,~ a ‘ . 7 .
()IIIJ/l {liq/ﬁll .CVQIIJINC’JJ ((0 I?€J/l€*ll(/€7I[J

 

 

 

 

I729 H STREET, N.W. WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

 

Mr. Clarence E. Richard
Lake Shore Club of Chicago
850 Lake Shore Drive
Chicago ll, Illinois

Dear Mr. Richard:

We hate to sound discouraging, but you’re right
about the status of the bills to regulate vivisection...
they're pretty well down the legislative ladder. There have
been a number of bills introduced, both in the Senate and in
the House of Representatives, but nothing has been done on
them by the committees to which they were referred. Neither
the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee (where S. 533
and S. thl are pending) nor the House Interstate and Foreign
Commerce Committee (with H.R. A620, Mano, #818, l+856, 5180)
has scheduled any date for hearings or committee consideration.
So the chances are slight for congressional action this
session.

We were glad to check on this legislation for you.
This is just an extra service we offer, realizing that it can
frequently be helpful to our readers who do not have ready
access to congressional sources of information.

cerely yours,

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

. 2 '5' NO ENVELOPE OR STAMP NECESSARY
E 5 5 JUST FOLD, sEAL AND MAIL
O m i u
I- -' -
— < z 0
8 5 3 5 O
' ‘ FOLD HERE
9 NAME
.5
L-
D.
a ADDRESS
U
.2
9" C'TY ZONE STATE

 

 

I am opposed to wanton cruelty to animals and request that I be enrolled as —

[I Life Member at $50.00 (I do not wish to become a member
but please use the enclosed contribu-

D Active Member at $5.00
tion Of $____.____ to carry on your

El Sustaining Member at$10.00 ﬁght against cruelty.)

 

THE NATIONAL ANTI-VI'VISECTION SOCIETY
100 East Ohio Street Chicago, Illinois 6061 I

HUSH Cl'lOzl BUSH CI'IO:I

 

NO ENVELOPE OR STAMP NECESSARY
JUST FOLD, SEAL AND MAIL

 

ENROLLMENT BLANK

FOLD HERE

 

CONTRIBUTIONS ARE DEDUCTIBLE FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES.

This Convenient Form Requires NO Postage
YOUR
CONTRIBUTION
WILL HELP
US
IN OUR EFFORT
TO
ENLIGHTEN
MANY MORE
THOUSANDS

 

ERIEH CITO:I

 

 

EclElH :l:lO clVSl

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ ' (Continued from Page 2 )

position of the future offspring of these
puppies and kittens.

The simple, blunt truth is——-you can no
longer find “good homes” for your surplus
puppies and kittens. What do you do now?
You didn’t intend to let your pet breed this
time but she got out and bred before you
could get her back into the house. She has
presented you with another litter. You have
run out of friends and while you are desper-
ately looking for four, five, six or more
“good homes” the cute little rascals are
growing.

YOU find yourself getting attached to
them. You can’t bear the thought of parting
with them. So, you decide to keep them.
Four, five, or six or more additional pets
in the home shouldn’t present any great
problem, you tell yourself and family. But
the cute little rascals become mature and
your problems increase many times.

You don’t spay the females because either
you don’t believe in spaying or you can’t
afford to pay anywhere from fifteen dollars
to thirty-five dollars or more for spaying
one female.

In every community in the country there
are “animal lovers” who have enough dogs,
or cats, or both to fill a good sized kennel.
Our staff is constantly beseeched for help
for scores of such people. They become
desperate. They cannot afford to buy food
for the increasing numbers of pets. They
appeal to humane organizations for finan-
cial help. They appeal to the public.

One of our staff members has a friend
who for years has been paying hundreds of
dollars annually to one man to feed his col-
lection of dogs. This staff member visited
a woman who had to buy a farm in order
to have room for her animals. She had spent
her life savings to take care of them, yet
She permitted her animal population to
grow. One woman appealed for financial
help to board her 60 cats. The weekly board
bill was $275. Why did she keep so many?

Because she couldn’t bear to part with even
one.

These are just a few of many such cases,
but the difference between the woman with
60 Cats and the family with a half dozen
they can’t afford is only relative. Their

reasoning is the same—they can’t bear the
thought of putting even one of them to
sleep.

96 96- 96

THIS reasoning is not confined to indi-
viduals. There are literally dozens of “hu-
mane societies” scattered from coast to
coast, that boast of never putting ANY
animals to sleep. To get funds for support—
ing their animals for the rest of their natural
lives, they often publicly blast other hu-
mane organizations in their areas, calling
them “slaughter houses.”

In one western city, its only humane so—
ciety had a policy of never putting an ani-
mal to sleep. Consequently, it always was
overloaded with animals. People had to
make application and get on the waiting
list in order to turn in unwanted pets.
Others who brought animals to the society’s
shelter were curtly told to take them across
the street to the city pound. The president
of that society claimed to be an anti-vivi-
sectionist, but the pound across the street
gave large numbers of unwanted animals to
the university every day for vivisection!

True, the humane society never put an
animal to sleep and would never, never,
under any circumstances, give one of its
animals for vivisection. It merely sent
people and their unwanted pets across the
street to the pound, where the pound did
the dirty work.

Humane societies and the pounds of this
country take in millions of unwanted ani—
mals every year. The numbers are so large
that many societies will not make their ani-
mal records public. A humane society that
is able to place even 10 per cent of its
animals in new homes is remarkably suc-
cessful.

96 96 96

A HUMANE society in a city of a half
million population receives 35,000 to 40,000
animals a year. It has a very excellent adop-
tion program. It gets very favorable news-
paper publicity. It has a weekly television
program the sole purpose of which is to find
good homes for pets. It has two weekly
radio programs. Yet that society is able to
place an average of only 3,000 pets a year
in new homes. It spends more than $10,000
a year to spay the female dogs and cats and
to neuter the male cats, but the flood “of un-

 

 

 

 




(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organisation, incorporated in I Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI «VIVISECTION SOCIETY

10% EAST 03110 W, (EXCAGO 11, 111111013

Qeee Member:

etee with the seciety, you.probab1y have eeaed

i
neeide centeihute?“

New that yen have became eeeoe
ynurseif, “What else een 1 en

‘We d0 not keep after yeu.fer eeiitienei deneiiene, nor ask you to contrihuze
tn rummage sales, etc», nu: there ie ene ﬁhinga extremely important and help-
Eu},2 yen egg an: end it meets neﬁﬁing but e little time and effort - es much
or as little a5 you can spare;

We could, of couree, send yen e big bundle ef literature right away.and esk .%
you to distribute it, but :his wnuie be an unwarranted imposition. As e meteer
ef fact, we try to disceurege our members frnm asking for literature to “Rene
nut“ because long experience has shown us that "handed out" material may Ee
eeeepted by the public but it is generally discerned unread. Material that

gees tn a person's home by mail gets far more attention, when it can be reee
at leisure.

Ferhaps you wnuld like your friends tn know about the movement in general ané
teie society in particuler, So“..enclosed are Ewe sheets of gummed labels;c
Wen't you write the names and addresses of your friends and acquaintances en
them and send them back t9 as? Ycur name is never disclosed as the source ef
nnr listo In our effice are thnusands 0f envelopes ready for mailing. Yeer

iebels will be pasted onao.end the material is on its waye

if you think your friends knew ebeut our werk, then.you can use your teiew

phene bookg D0n’t select premiuent persens n they get lets of mail ené pep
little attention tn any nf it? Fiek pereene living in geed neighborheede3

women preferably, and yen will knew the geod Streete in year own city.

The flew of literature frem :hie affine is es caneten: and heavy as cur time
end resources wiii peemit2 ften running tn thensende 0f pieces weekly. Ad—
dressing is our greeteet prehiemo By spending a few minutes with ycur ed»
drese book 0r teiephene directeryg yen can neip materially; If every new
member sends beck snme edﬁreeeee labels? an endlees chain is created whien
ensures literature gning to every pare of the ceuntryg

Thiﬁ is an easy way ta help the society: and it given you the feeling teen
yen ere dning eemething mere than gust making e donationi' Addressing 53$
enveiepes tekee an office girl a full day; 500 labels can be pasted on en”
velopeg in heif~en~heur. Please heipi

Yours Sincerely,

alaeeﬁz ‘zgiaicaara‘
Managing Director

 




 

SUN-TIMES

APRIL 26, I964

 

Chicago DAILY NEWS

 

OPINION OF THE PEOPLE

T-V Guide

7:45 Anti-Vivisection Society Address 26
Cleveland Amory presents the National
AntWivisection Society’s reasons for

 

 

Dial Turn No Remedy

Your April 23 editorial dis-
cussing the opposition of Chi-
cago humanitarians to the tele-
casting of bullfights from
Mexico City suggests the prob-
lem has an easy solution, offered
in the heading and repeated in
the last line: “Turn the Dial.”

We are not concerned with
the “pleasures” of adults. If
there are a substantial number
of mature individuals who can
enjoy the spectacle of a bull
being tortured and h orses
disemboweled, we merely pity
them; we are not interested in
“reforming” them.

Subjecting adolescents to the
temptation of watching such
unmitigated brutality, however,
is quite a different matter, and
your remedy for the evil, “turn
the dial,” does not apply. Many
teen-agers (probably a major-
ity) today have TV sets in their
own rooms, free from parental
supervision, and the normal
curiosity of children unques-

 

tionably will persuade them to
watch something instinct prob-
ably tells them is “forbidden
fruit.” Additionally Saturday
night is traditionally one which
parents are “out on the town”
and baby-sitters, usually in the
teen-age bracket, likely would
watch such a program with
their charges, too young to
“turn the dial” even if they
were so inclined.

There is ample precedent for
our position in the fact stren-
uous efforts are being made by
authorities to keep lewd maga-
zines and paperback novels
dealing with sex and crime off
newsstands and out of the reach
of children. Would The Sun-
Times contend this situation
could be handled by merely ad-
vising adolescents not to buy
and read such trash? It seems
to us the analogy is perfect.

Clarence E. Richard

Managing Diretor, The
National Anti-Vivisection
Society

opposition to Ch. 26’s bullfight tele-
casts.

 

Q‘himstﬂ'fib‘m‘ T VIII-E}?

 

7 :45—Special 26
The National Anti—Vivisec-
tion Society presents its
reason for starting a suit in
Federal court in an effort
to end telecasts of channel
26’s bullfights from Mexico
City.

 

CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, Sat., May 9, 1964

H lg h I :9 hts
7:45 p.m.-——26-—The station grants the Anti-
Vivisection Society time to state its opposition
*to bullfights. Cleveland Amory speaks on
behalf of the society.

12:20 a.m.-—2——At Random guests are Zenon
Rossides and Adan Pachachi, UN ambassadors
from Cyprus and Iraq; society columnist Cleve-

almmm Mrs. Louis Malls, recent ap-
pointee to the Chicago School Board, and Irish
newspaperman Michael Campbell.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“If magazines, books, motion pictures and

plays are considered by the public and the
authorities as proper subjects for censorship,
why should television be exempt? If a porno-
graphic magazine, as some claim, could turn
one child into a sex fiend, then a bullfight tel—

ecast could conceivably turn another into a

bloodthirsty monster capable of practicing
his ‘art’ on the family pet, or even a younger
brother or sister.”

The objection that ending telecasts would
not end the cruelty in bullfights certainly was
a valid one on the surface, even though it did
not take into consideration the fact that par-
ents did not want their children subjected to
such programs, a major point of opposition.

***

ALL these vieWpoints were carefully con-
sidered, but in the meantime, our battle was
getting nation-wide publicity, and a startling
bit of information came to us from a political
connection in California.

 

We were told that in two western states
trial balloons already had been sent up to test
public and official sentiment on a campaign
to repeal existing state laws against live bull-
fights. The theory is that if bullfight tele-
casts are accepted by the public, then it would
not be difficult to persuade legislators live
bullfights would not only be tolerated, but
would be welcomed by the public and would

contribute considerable income to financially

pressed states. Promoters are said to have
raised a “pot” of $100,000 to shove a repeal
law through the California legislature, and a
smaller amount is reported to have been set
aside for Arizona.

(In this connection we recently received a
letter from a member in Puerto Rico reporting
that “exhibition” bullfights have been staged
in San Juan for the benefit of the American-
Red Cross. Our member said: “Several such
exhibitions have been given in and outside of

(Continued on Page 14)

 

 

 




 

posed action for removal shall be necessary to any
member of the board, and the board’s action on such
removal shall be ﬁnal. For removal of any director
the board is obligated only to state such action is for
what it deems sufﬁcient cause and in the best interests
of the corporation.

Section 10. Compensation. Directors as such shall
not receive any salaries or compensation for their
services, but by resolution of the board of directors,
a ﬁxed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, may
be allowed for attendance at each regular or special
meeting of the board; provided, that nothing herein
contained shall' be construed to preclude any director
from serving the corporation in any other capacity
and receiving compensation therefor.

ARTICLE VI
Officers

Section 1. Ofﬁcers. The ofﬁcers of the corporation
shall be a president, a managing director, one or more
vice-presidents (the number thereof to be determined
by the board of directors), a treasurer, a secretary
and such other ofﬁcers as may be elected in accord-
ance with the provisions of this article. The board
of directors may elect or appoint such other ofﬁcer,
including one or more assistant secretaries and one
or more assistant treasurers, as it shall deem desir-
able, such ofﬁcers to have the authority and perform
the duties prescribed, from time to time, by the board
of directors. Any two or more ofﬁces may be held by
the same person except the ofﬁces of president and
secretary.

Section 2. Election and Term of Ofﬁce. The ofﬁcers
of the corporation shall be elected for a term of three
years by the board of directors at any regular annual
meeting of the board of directors. If the election of
ofﬁcers shall not be held at such meeting, such elec-
tion shall be held as soon thereafter as conveniently
maybe. Vacancies may be ﬁlled or new offices created
and filled at any regular or special meeting of the
board of directors. Each ofﬁcer shall hold ofﬁce untll
his successor shall have been duly elected and shall
have qualiﬁed.

Section 3. Removal. Any ofﬁcer or agent elected or
appointed by the board of directors may be removed
by the board of directors whenever in its judgment
the best interests of the corporation would be served
thereby, but such removal shall be Without preJudlce
to tbs contract rights, if any, of the person so re-
move .

Section 4. Vacancies. A vacancy in any ofﬁce be-
cause of death, resignation, removal, disqualiﬁcation
or otherwise, may be ﬁlled by the board of directors
for the unexpired portion of the term.

Section 5. President. The president shall preside
at all meetings of the members and of the board of di-
rectors. He may sign, with the secretary or any other
proper ofﬁcer of the corporation authorized by the
board of directors, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, 0011‘
tracts, or other instruments which the board of d1-
rectors have authorized to be executed, except In cases
where the signing and execution thereof shall be ex-
pressly delegated by the board of directors or by these

Page 4

 

l‘ I

,
‘4
._‘M’.

 




 

 

 

Disraeli had a formula for persevering in spite of opposition that should prove helpful
to anyone tempted to give up on a good cause. Asked how he kept on without seeing
results the nineteenth century British statesman replied: “Have you ever watched a
stonecutter at work? He will hammer away at a rock for perhaps 100 times w’ithOut a
crack showing in it. Then at the 1013t blow, it will split in two.”

 

 

 

 

Chicago TRIBUNE, July 21, 1964

 

GETS $40,000 IN DRUG SUIT

Edward J. Tanner, 46, of 4516
Stanley av., Downers Grove, a
policeman, received $40,000
yesterday in settlement of his
suit contending use of the anti-
cholesterol drug, Triparanol,
caused him to suffer cataracts
in both eyes.

The settlement, approved by
Judge Harold G. Ward in Law
court, was by the drug manu-
facturer, William S. Merrell
company, and its parent com-
pany, Richardson-Merrell, Inc.

 

His attorney, John J. Kennelly,
said this was one of 33 suits he
has filed here seeking damages
in excess of 3 million dollars
because of side effects of the
drug’s use.

The two companies recently
were fined and three of their
scientists were placed or. pro-
bation when they pleaded nolo
contendere [no contest] to
charges they filed false and in-
complete statements concern-
ing the drug with the federal
government.

 

 

 

 

 

Chicago TRIBUNE
July 22, 1964

VETS PAUTEST
PET GURBS IN
PUBLIC HOUSING

BY ROY GIBBONS

The nation’s veterinarians
are concerned over the growing
tendency of public housing au-
thorities to deny tenants the
right to keep small pets.

A resolution introduced yes-
terday at the lolst annual meet-
ing of the American Veterinary
Medical association in the Con-
rad Hilton hotel condemned the
practice as “an .abridgement
of constitutional rights” and a
discrimination “against lower
income groups.”

Introduced by the associa-
tion’s New York state society,
the measure was approved in-
formally in principle by the
delegates but sent back to the
sponsors for rewarding.

Almost Certain of Passage

Dr. A. G. Misener, 6448 Clark

st., said the resolution would
be presented at the national
association’s meeting next year
in Portland, Ore., and is almost
certain of passage. The Illinois
Veterinary Medical association,
of which he is a past president,
is among groups that will sup-
port it, Dr. Misener said.

“We feel that pats play an
important role in the American
way if life,” he said. “I under-
stand that some landlords now
forbid tenants tow own even a
parakeet. Pets take peoples’
minds off their troubles.”

 

 

 

From a report on
decisions by the

U.S. Supreme Court

in the TRIBUNE,
Chicago, June 16.

Reject Transfusion Case

The court ruled against con-
sidering a complaint by a Dis-
trict of‘ Columbia housewife
who was forced by a court
order to accept a blood trans-
fusion. The woman, a Jehov-
ah’s Witness, said the use of
blood transfusions was against
her religion.

 

Chicago TRIBUNE
July 25, 1964

SUES A. M. A-. 9
DOCTORS AFTER
SETTING TRAP

Glasses Prescribed in
Test, He Claims .

The American Medical asso-
ciation and nine Chicago oph-
thalmologists were named de—
fendants in a 90-million-dollar
suit- filed yesterday in federal
District court charging them
with attempts to create an
alleged monopoly in the field of
eye care.-

Dr. Cyrus Bass of 2704 N.
Milwaukee av., an optometrist,
instituted the action in his own
behalf and as executive direc-
tor of the Mid-West Society of
Registered Optometrists.

Treble Damages‘Asked

An Ophthalmologist is a phy-
sician specializing in the diag-
nosis and treatment of eye dis—
eases. An optometrist is a
licensed practitioner who meas-
ures or refracts the eyes for
corrective glasses without the
aid of drugs. Optometrists do
not have medical degrees.

The suit seeks treble dam-
ages under the federal anti-
trust laws. It charges the
A. M. A. with conspiracy to
eliminate optometry as an eye
care profession.

Dr. Bass told newsmen that
the suit was directed against
the A. M. A. because it is the
parent organization which he
contended has been passing
resolutions for years in favor
of ophthalmologists.

New Glasses Ordered

He said the nine ophthalmol—
ogists were named as co-de—

fendants because th e y pre—
scribed new glasses for patients
who were .sent to them under
test circumstances after being
fitted with glasses which the
patients told the ophthalmo-
logists had been prescribed by
an optometrist. T h e glasses
actually had been prescribed
b another opthalmologist, Dr.
reported. '

The suit also contends that
as a result of the A. M. A.’s
actions the number of optom-
etrists in the United States
has declined from 22,014 in
1954 to 20,819 this year. ’

In addition to the 90—mi11ion-
dollar damages, the suit also
asks that the defendants “be

permanently enjoined and re-
strained from each and every
one of the unlawful practices
alleged in the complaint.”

A spokesman said the
A. M. A. has “had no opportu-
nity to study the complaint or
examine the alleged facts” on
which it is based. “We there-
fore have no comment.”

The ophthalmologists listed as
defendants are: Doctors Carl
Apple, 55 E. Washington st.;
John Bellows, 30 N. Michigan
av.; Thomas Chalkley, 700 N.
Michigan av.; Paul Hurwitz, 55
E. Washington st.; Perry Ross,
5426 Sheridan .rd.; Robert G. .
Taub, 6_ N. Michigan av.; and
Theodore Shapira, Paul Stern-
berg, and Theodore N. Zekman,
all of 111 N. Wabash av.

Dr. Bellows who liVeS at 211
Park av., Glencoe, denied the
allegations in the suit and said
that, in his 30 years of practice
in Chicago, he has never sold
a single pair of glasses and has
none available in his offices.

“1 merely prescribe, and the
patient buys glasses at a place
of his choice,” said Dr. Bel-
lows, who is. an associate pro—
fessor of ophthalmology at the
Northwestern university medi-
cal school and a staff member
of Cook county hospital. He said
ethical ophthalmologists thru-
out the nation follow the same
practice.

 

 

IF YOU MOVE} PLEASE
SEND NEW ADDRESS!!!

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

.....

 

colonabo

W‘ 4‘ 34‘1XM‘“?«‘F§ V13)?“ “4'

‘00

 

83‘ y; ’- ;.-:;
Oenven 6, colonabo

 

Oct. 28

Mr. Mapel:

Please note Pages 5 and 17.

 

as president of
of all animal
id in getting
amation on ,

. of our work
[lestone in the

. I feel certain,
Sena 11y, this
the years, often
..-uc1ng results.

 

 
 
  
  
 

 

3'1 , feel. .J.

 

Robert A. Russell; D)... President
' National Antievwisection Society

     

 

 

 

the ,hevenenb nosem: a. uusseu. necuon
the neveuenbj . mank a. cattney. assistant: to the escrow

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

LR

slavery, and the suffragists to the cause of
equal rights for women.

We must face up to the hard realities of
life. Total abolition of vivisection will not
be achieved until we have at least as many
active anti-vivisectionists as there are active
opponents before we can hope to win over
the great majority who are indifferent, or
who can be won by one side or the other.

Our membership must be doubled, and
re-doubled, and re—doubled again, and
again, and again. We must reach that
point where our enemies will become the
minority. Right makes might, but only
when the majority is right.

“Why does The National Anti-Vivisec—
tion Society always ask for money?” some
members inquire. It’s not a good question
but I’m happy to answer.

Contributions serve a double purpose.
The contribution itself, not its size, is a
measure of the willingness of a member to
make a personal sacrifice to the cause of
anti-vivisection.

Its second, and most important purpose
is that it makes it possible for the society
to carry on its work. Moneyis important to
us only because of the good we can accom—
plish with it.

Our annual financial statements show
that we spend approximately 50 cents out
of every dollar received for just two items
“printing and postage. Our printing has
the dual purpose of getting members and
keeping them informed; giving them am—
munition for their part in the campaign.

Actually, about 90 per cent of our income
goes for these purposes, since it takes

. skilled personnel to write the material and

get it in the mail.

We have said the things in this booklet
many times to individual members, but we
- Still get letters from members who ask:

“What good IS my membership if nething
is being accomplished?” . ' ~

B * $ * : , i 7 _ ' .
Y “nothing,” of course, they usually
mean that we have net succeeded in get-
ting legislation passed. But, that is not a

 

fair standard of measuring accomplish-
ment, nor is it a wise one. I have discussed
this at some length earlier in this booklet.
But I will add this:

Let us introduce proposed abolition laws
by all means. But let’s not delude our—
selves that they have a chance of being
enacted now. Legislative bills now can
serve no purpose except to call to .the atten-
tion of the public the vast amount of un-
necessary suffering being inflicted on
animals in the laboratories, thus getting
new converts who are willing to back up
their beliefs with cold, hard cash.

Money is the product of members and
members are the product of money. One
brings the other and both are necessary.
We cannot get new members without tell-
ing people about vivisection and why we
oppose it. We cannot tell them unless we
buy printing, postage and newspaper ad-
vertising and we cannot buy them without
money. “Moral” support won’t buy stamps,
pay rent or purchase printing.

The National Anti-Vivisection Society
doesn’t want the “moral support” tendered
it constantly, particularly from persons
who are seen at the opera, the theater and
in luxurious automobiles. We contend that

the person able to do so who is not willing

to contribute as little as $5 annually to a
cause in which he or she professes to be-
lieve, is not worth having.

If this seems a mercenary and hard-
boiled' attitude, let me remind you that we
are engaged in a fight with one of the most
ruthless, hard-boiled and powerful organ~
izations on earth. We can’t fight bombs
with cream puffs, nor offset page ads in
magazines with good wishes.

You have a big part in this fight. Keep

'1 up your annual membership. Become one

of those who pledge monthly contributions
so we can meet monthly bills when due.
Try to persuade others to do the same.

We can win; we will win, but not until
we are powerful enough to convince a ma»
jority of our law makers, and demand, not
ask, and back up our demand with an organ-
ization of sufficient strength to enforce it.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 C THE BOSTON HERALD. TUESDAY. MAY 28. 1963

     

      

21...)”

Saving Face, Not Lives

WHAT I WASABOUT to observe was that I
could not care less about whether or not Krebiozen
is ever proved effective in the treatment of cancer.
But that, of course, would not have been true, for I
do indeed care. -I care very, very much. So what I
should say, instead, is that though I hope that this
drug (or any other drug, for that matter) will turn
out to be all that its advocates insist that it is, as yet
I am uncommitted. As yet I am no more than an
agnostic who asks to be made, once and for all, either
an atheist or a true believer. For, as long as Krebio-
zen remains untested and a matter of what is by now
nasty controversy, there will be those who will dream.
And that is sheer cruelty. What is awful is the not-
knowing. If Krebiozen is a fraud, then it should be
established-as such beyond all reasonable doubt.

Yet, in an odd way, Krebiozen has already
worked one wonder. No matter what the outcome
of the controversy it has caused, it has served to shake
the public’s faith in the integrity of the American
Medical Association—perhaps irreparably. Even if it
is declared illegal by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion on June 7, Krebiozen can be credited with having
exposed to a pressure group at its pettiest and most
pusillanimous. We should all be grateful to Krebiozen
for that—and if you wonder why it is time that the
American Medical Association should be anathema to
all of us, you will find some of the answers in a book
by Richard Carter called “The Doctor Business.”

* * a: .

USUALLY, WITH ANY fall from eminence, there
is an accompanying sense of, if not exactly sadness,
then pity—an air of oh, what a mighty fall, and so
forth and so on. In the case of the AMA’s forfeiting
of our faith, however, there can be nothing but a
feeling of relief. By and large, this is a group—or,
rather, its powers that rbe—that is much more in-
terested in playing politics than in observing the Hip-
pocratic Oath.

In its vicious campaign to discredit Dr. Andrew
C. Ivy, the most prominent spokesman for the case
for Krebiozen, the AMA has manifested its total in-
difference to such elementary ethics as grant even
the most hardened criminal trial by jury. And, in
doing so, it has prompted a number of dispassionate
observers to inquire if it is not, at this point, much
more concerned with saving face than with saving
lives. If that is a grave accusation, it is one that the
AMA asked for. What is unfortunate, of course, is
that, since there is always guilt by association, a
great many of its members must suffer the conse-
quences of a crime in which they have had no part—

 

and no heart, either.

* at ir , _ ,

WHAT THE AMERICAN Medical Assomation
has endeavored to do to Dr. Ivy—to give him the
countenance of either a laughing stock or a quack——
was forecast almost twelve years ago in a letter sent.
to him by a friend named Franklin C. Bing. On
August 1, 1951, Mr. Bing predicted that as soon as
The Journal of the American Medical Association
would publish its highly unfavorable report on Kre-
biozen, the following events would occur:

“The newspapers,” he explained, “will publicize
the AMA re-port,vnot once, but repeatedly, and re-
porters will pester various medical bodies for state-
ments about what they are going to about it, and
about you.

“The Chicago Medical Society will act quickly to
declare you as a member not in good standing.

“You will quickly be deposed from all official con-
nection with national cancer committees, etc.; your
name will be dropped from the AMA Council on Phys-
ical Medicine and Rehabilitation.

“Your post at the University of Illinois will be
taken from you.

“These events will follow in greater or lesser
rapidity, but they will surely occur, for the AMA re-
port will serve as the initiator of a whole chain of
reactions.”

* *. .* . .

AND THEN, after discussmg the dISgrace in
which Dr. Ivy would be, Mr. Bing proposed a possible
solution to the shame. “There is,” he advised, “only
one constructive thing that you can do, and I am pray-
ing that you will have the wisdom and courage to do
it. At the very earliest moment you must have in the
hands of the AMA—before their report is set in type
--a letter, which you will ask them to publish at once.
In that letter, which should be a short one, you can ex-
plain briefly the extenuating circumstances which led
you to report of Krebiozen at the Drake Hotel. You
can point out the initial reports given you seemed to
indicate that the product had some usefulness, enough
to justify further study. But you mustsay that since
that time critical examination of the records forces
you to the conclusion that these original hopes have
not been realized and that Krebiozen has no value in
the treatment of cancer . . . Do that, and you have
nothing to lose and much to gain.”

And to that, Dr. Ivy replied five days later, say-
ing, among other things, “What you suggest may be
the wise thing to do. I know it would be best if I
could View my own- selfish best interests in the matter.
But I cannot bring myself to believe that Krebiozen

is an inert substance in the cancer patient. Maybe in
time I. can, but I cannot do it now. So I could not
write a letter disclaiming it of all merit and keep faith
with myself. No one knows better than you that you
can’t break faith with yourself and that you must let
your conscience and belief in what you think is right
be your guide. On this basis, I am willing and ready
to take the consequences, whatever theymay be.”

And, in the eleven years since then, he has—but
so, too, as it turns out, has the American Medical As-
sociation—which is why some people wonder if it
would rather save face than. lives.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
m
g 2 v
_. :s g)
d) O
. o o o 0 ° a A w
This society has no pald SOIICI‘I’OI‘S nor does l'l‘ C3 m H
employ professional money-raising firms. All +3 :3
mailing is done direct by the society and no com- 0 C3 or!
missions are paid to any person or organization. 5 g E
U) 3 g
>z ..-.
+3
“3 2.1
E 0 'G
4.3
5 -H
Cl 3-4 3
—— ”909 suounm ‘oﬁoalqa o U
— . . . oﬁ 'H
_— leans \ogqo 4503 00L 5 O Q
= .Q
_ Megaog uogpesgAgA-Huv [BUOHEN at“. S: J: 4’
_— 3: c8 0
— s!°"!lll’05'1’3!‘l:)"£:86l 'ONllw‘adSSDDWH o E 6‘0
= 11vw A'ldEH ssalena 0 ,ﬂ 4,
Eéii;s:s:::::2:252:32-.................... """“5‘=‘=‘=‘¢‘=“"““‘3§e“" h g p
33-. 5 d d
at“ U! Penew n :5; 2:; o 'q
:2 AJesseaaN mad aq “IM w

 

aﬁeisod

 

Have you enclosed what YOUR HEART

tells you to give?

n. _
. . . the crue.

'5.
E
z
4

 




 

 

wanted puppies and kittens continues to
grow.

What happens to the more than 90 per
cent of the animals in a thousand or more
humane society shelters and pounds that
do not get new homes?

In many states and cities, animal seizure
laws permit the laboratories to take as
many animals as they want from pounds,
even though the pounds in such cities are
operated by humane societies.

Have you ever taken your surplus animals
to such a shelter or pound? How do you
know they weren’t turned over to vivisec»
tors? You may have signed a form promis-
ing that your animals be put to sleep. How
do you know your instructions were follow-
ed after you left?

Many who read this article will breathe
a sigh of relief at this point and say that
there is no such law in their city or state;
that animals are not turned over for vivi—
section by the humane society or pound.

Don’t be too sure about that. A very rot-
ten, very big business is carried on by deal-
ers who buy and sell animals to laboratories
for vivisection. They get their animals in
one of two ways, often in both ways: (1)
they steal them, and (2) they buy them.

When they buy animals, the easiest and
quickest way is to buy them from pounds
and shelters. They are able to get them,
even though the entire board of directors
of a humane society could be composed of
dedicated anti—vivisectionists!

*- 96 96

A VERY dedicated member of The Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society is also the
president of a local humane society operat—
ing an animal shelter. She spends as much
time as she can at the shelter as a volunteer,
but she can’t be there for even a major part
of the time.

She was examining shelter records on the
disposition of animals and her suspicions
were aroused. She inquired about several
dogs she had seen in the shelter on the pre—
vious day but were no longer there. The
shelter manager was evasive. As she was
about to leave, she saw a panel truck pull
into the rear of the shelter and a couple of
men got out. Pretending not to notice, she
drove away, but returned a few minutes
later. The shelter manager was helping the
men load dogs into the panel truck. She

asked questions and insisted on answers.
The men were buying the dogs for a medical
college. She got the dogs back into the
shelter, ordered the dealers out, and fired
the shelter manager.

How long he had been selling dogs at two
dollars each, putting the money in his own
pocket, of course, she had no way of know-
ing. She worried herself sick. The shelter
has at least one man on duty all night long.
Kennelmen usually aren’t the highest type
people in a given community. Frequently
they are among the lowest paid. There is
a cynical cliche that goes: “Every man has
his price” and the going price for a dog out
of a humane society shelter for vivisection
is two dollars. Sometimes they get fifty
cents per cat, if the cat is a large, beautiful
specimen.

In a midwestern city, the humane society
had a ramshackleshelter on a large tract
of ground near the city dump. The shelter
was filthy so it wasn’t surprising that di-
rectors who occasionally visited it never
complained about the jungle of brush and
weeds that extended several hundred yards
to the rear.

‘36 96 66

V» HEN one director wandered back
through the jungle and found a fenced en-
closure holding about forty large dogs, he
asked the shelter manager, the society’s
sole employee, what the dogs were doing
back at the rear. The man, who had been
recruited for the job from the city’s skid
row, glibly explained they were his own
dogs; that he raised hunting dogs and sold
them.

The society board member approved!
Later, he was mortified to learn that the
shelter manager had been taking good
hounds out of the shelter as fast as they
were brought in, putting them into his “pri-
vate kennel,” reporting on his record they
had been gassed, and then selling them to
a dealer for laboratories. He had sold hun-

dreds of dogs for vivisection before he was
caught.

These are not rare instances. A great
many humane societies have had identical
experiences; still have them, because too
few humane society directors are able to
give close supervision to their employees.

Do humane societies and pounds put ani-
mals to sleep? Of course they do, vast

(Continued on Page 18)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




(Founded 1n 1929 as a chantable educational organwatwn, mcorporated m Illinou)

THE NAJ’JQNAL ANTI VIVISECTION SOCIETY

1013 EAST OHIO STREET CHICAGO 11‘, ILLINOIS

“WASHlNGTO'N BRANCH

"swan: '701‘
OCCIDENTAL 31111.0ch
7 I I 1 ' , j ‘ 1 . A 14:11 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE. N. w.
Dear Member - V , 5 g WASHINGTON 4, o. c.

will wear away the harde 1 stone. ”' Every word planted about the

 

 

 

 

»__4,. ._ - __ __1~__.._—.._.,1-~..—.--‘._1___.__ M.

cruelty of vivisectlon 13 another drop of water added to Ehe flood meww‘
of opposnuon that w1ll one clay SWeep laboratory herrors into the

g_»&...ocean of ob 11V1on .

‘ Here'sav-‘Shleet' pf gummed stickefS Quoting magazines and famous
7‘ ‘1 men~ and wornen againstvcruelty in general and vivisection Please
use them in every possible way: on the front and back of letters
.yandxpackages, even on the back of cheeks you wrlte. SOMEBODY
;V)%JWILL READ EVERY ONE YOU USE ! And you ve added YOUR drop of

‘ water E0 the flood

 

 

 

Moreoiihese-«snee 3.3,. e 11.311 able «om-pequesewwfﬂheyzeemeen a

variety of colors, ane there 3 no obhgation, of ocurse.

1 _ ThlS 1s another we y you can do your 1311; . ; Pleas 6?“ do . Thanks ‘. ‘ V

Yours smcerely, 1 1

Clarence E Richard
Managing D1rector A;

 

 




 

The Herald, Miami, Florida, May 22, 1964

 

LIFE WITH LARRY THOMPSON

 

THAT WAS an appalling
story about the teenaged boys
who drenched cats with gaso-
line, then set fire to them.
One 17 -year-old ‘ youth admit-
ted he had tortured some 40
I . cats in this fashion. -

This grisly story was fresh in my mind when I receive-d a
letter from a lady "who tells of another form of cruelty.

I am not going to use her name, because she is afraid it
might cause her or her cat more trouble, and maybe she is
justified in such fears. .

 

Her cat was stolen recently. She advertised in the papers
and about two weeks later a woman called to report that a cat
answering the description in the ad was in her garage.

It was her cat, all right. He had chewed through the rope
with which he had been tied. He was filthy, thin -— and all of
the claws on his front paws had been pulled out, as well as two
claws on his hind feet.

Sadists in Our Midst

 

being trained for the dog tracks are trained with live rabbits
and declawed cats . . . They chase the cat and catch it and kill
it . . . and eventually chase the stuffed rabbit. This has come
to me from reliable sources. I guess my cat got away Just in
time.”

Now I don’t know how reliable those “reliable” sources
are. I will admit I have heard similar stories in the past. but
always from people who had “heard” of the practice, never
from a person who has seen it or could prove it.

If anybody knows of this being done, if you’ll send me the
information I’ll turn it over to the state attorney’s office. I
know that Richard Gerstein would gladly investigate such
charges. But remember, he would have to have facts — and
names of people who could support those facts —— not just sus-
picion of gossip.

Of course, it is not just gossip or suspicion that some bar-
baric person pulled the claws of this stolen cat, or that a group

 

 

will grow in again or not.

 

“I took him to a veterinarian,” the lady wrote, “and he is
coming along nicely now . . .\ The vet doesn’t know if his claws

“I understand from several sources that young greyhounds

be civilized.

 

of young men set fire to other cats for entertainment.
It takes more than an alphabet and modern plumbing to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Independent-Herald

Yuba City, California,

May 4, 1964

Hub Dogs Spared
Laboratory Fate

Sutter County’s doomed dogs
won’t be sent to Stanford for
medical research after all.

Supervisor Robert Paillex
reported to the board of sup-
ervisors this morning that he
had several calls protesting
the board’s recent considera-
tion of an agreement to pro-
vide dogs for E.Z.A. Caviary
to be sold to Stanford Med-‘
ical Center for research. Road
Commissioner Elwyn Watkins
said he had two calls on the
same subject, and the ﬂu-
mane Society had been plan-
ning to protest. Most of the
callers had insisted that treat-
ment of animals in research

centers was not humane.

The board decided since it
had operated its present sys-
tem of putting unclaimeddogs
to death for some time without
protest, and the new proposal
was causing protest, it would
be best to forget it.

“If Stanford needs dogs,
they can raise their own,”
suggested Supervisor Eber
Bielby. _

Apparently the original re-
quest from E.Z.A. Caviary had
come as a result of a refusal
of the city of Palo Alto to sell
dogs to Stanford for research.
The university was thus forced
to look for other sources.

 

Orlando, Florida, SENTINEL, May 21, 1964

Dog Flight Dispute Rages

By JOHN LAROSCH
Sentinel Staff

WINTER HAVEN -— Mayor Rich-
ard Dantzler told city commission
yesterday that his office had re-
ceived a post card and phone call
about a local youth’s plan to orbit a
dog.

The youth, Al Knight, 19-year-old
amateur rocketeer, plans to orbit
the animal late this summer.

Dantzler told the commission he
had received the call from Mrs.
Turpin Gerard, president of the
Haines City Humane Society.

Commission member Mrs. Vir-
ginia Miller then proposed a resolu-
tion that the council go on record as
opposing the flight.

NO ACTION was taken on her
resolution.

Knight said he has received
several calls and letters regarding
the proposed flight.

“They tell me it is cruel to
torment the animal,” he said.

“Most of the letters I have burned.

“The people who call and protest
never complain about the number of
animals that are disected in schools
and colleges.

“They say nothing about the
hamsters, frogs and, rabbits which
are cut in repeated scientific ex-
periments,” Knight said.

“Now you tell me how what I am
doing is so much more heartless
than what others have done? And my
work has not been tried thousands of
times before.” Knight added.

THE! ENTIRE argument centers
around a planned space flight which
Knight and a group of young
rocketeers hope to launch late this
summer.

The proposed flight, which will
l‘ft a black and white dog named
Mielo into orbit, has resulted in
setbacks on all sides for Knight.

The Federal Aviation Commission
will not grant him permission to fire
the rocket in Winter Haven, and
Knight and his group have expressed
concern abort the possibility of not
being able to carry through their
proposed experiment to win a chal-
lenge they have given to Russian
groups to launch a rocket.

The Humane Society has protested
the launching before, and Knight
changed his plan to include re-
covery of the dog who was original-
ly scheduled to be left in orbit.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

   

\

Occasionally a member will ask: "Why does the society send out so much liter-
ature?" They do not mean general circulars, which educate the public and build
up the membership, but news bulletins, reporting events in the work, defeats
and victories. There's a saying that "big oaks from little acorns grow" and
that is the answer. One single sheet bulletin may be picked up by somebody on
our mailing list in a position to reach thousands of persons. The letter re-
produced below is a perfect example of how a little acorn grows into a bi
.oak, often without our knowledge. Won't you write and thank Mr. Lohmann for
his help. He will appreciate knowing you know.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

was x. LOHMANNIS KANINE KORNER

“VOICE OF DOGDOM"
P. 0. BOX 38006 0 HOLLYWOOD 38, CALIFORNIA

   
   
   

VIA . RADIO . TELEVISIOIJ . NEWSPAPER SYNDICATION ,
DUnkirk 2-69”

June 4, 1964

National Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street
Chicago 11, Ill.

Gentlemen:

I know you will be happy to know that I use nuite a number of your

press releases via.ny two radio programs.....KBLA Burbank 1490 kcs and
XEMO San Diego 860 he: in addition to my syndicated newspaper version
of Kanine Ko rner.

Ion folks are doing a magnificent job; keep up the good work. My
wholehearted CONGRATULATIONS.

 

Francis X. Lohnenn

FXL/mv

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

of vivisection, and each of them permitted
the worst of torture IF the experimenter
himself said use of an anesthetic would
defeat his purpose.

* $ *

AS TO the second question, I wish with
all my heart that I could give a definite
answer by saying that vivisection will be
abolished in five years, ten years, twenty
years . . . But I would be denying the facts
if I should attempt so positive a prediction.
However, we are not sitting “idly?“ "
one question suggests.

A great deal is being accomplisi
spite the continuing unspeakable tq
innocent animals. Not as much i
done, nor as speedily as we shou
Nevertheless, there is tangible, note
progress.

(Concrete evidence of solid accd
ment by anti—vivisectionists, as 1
mere introduction of hopeless bil
after year, can be found in the recen?
mation of Governer Kerner, of
designating Sunday, October, A
WORLD DAY FOR ANIMAIi
mentioning anti-vivisection effortsl
cally. Here is a milestone in 1
work of monumental importance ani
reached as a result of a suggestion b;
E. Hunt, President of the America?
Vivisection Society, and action
Robert A. Russell, President of t
tional Anti-Vivisection Society.)

“We know that animals are crue
tured in the laboratories,” memberi
“Why don’t we arrest and prosec
vivisectors ?”

effect: “You can arrest the bishop of Lon—
don for bastardy, but to successfully prose—
cute him, you must prove the charge.”

We might possibly bring about the arrest
of vivisectors on charges of cruelty, but we
cannot successfully prosecute such charges
for the reason that most state anti-cruelty
laws specifically exempt experiments 0n
animals. Since the laws declare that vivi~
section is not a legal offense, no vivisector

5:" can be prosecuted for cruelty. If we at-
,5 tempted to do so, we would be inviting suits

 

5 'OPtiGn in hundreds of cities, counties, and .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W

 

for heavy damages, and we would have no

defense.

VIVISECTION is evil and the fight to
eradicate it from our nation is one of refor-
mation. All successful reform movements
in history have to follow existing legal
procedures. They achieved success because
they first built up wide public support.

Vi‘7;QPP+;nh ic SJ 110+;nh'31 ntr;1 T+ ;c4 T:very_

from
tively
o the
ghte-
t all
5e by
a1 ex-

lniStS
f the
ublic
lg to
lfare.

first
fatal
Pla-
beto
1 the
sup-

 

lOFSC.

nper—
rgan» .
ut a

ative.
battles on re local level, obtalnlng local}

    
   
 
 

 

even ent1re staégles' They were reaching
. , 5nd,..then they over—estimated
j,._,,,;publ1c support.

They succeeded *forcmg the adoption
of the 18th amendment to our federal con-V
stitutiOn by 33 of: the 48 states. It was
called the “most noble soc1al experiment

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 




 

 

  
    
   
   
    

 

 
 

'amﬂaM my»; in
wawuodeq "FDA men 50 anus
'nnemg uouousgﬁaa 599;:an
mam ‘681711 JaqwnN 'Pwamﬁeu

 

 

 

 

 

 

'90940-9 uaawnn NOILV‘ILIIOSU "Lav

     
      
             
   
 
   
        
      
   
 
     
   
   
   

SNOILVLIOI'IOI I'IBVLIUVHZD VIIHQ‘IOO

"» . ., "-._-, ;i_ _.. _. . ‘. u do islaisla am. aaoun 038318193!

q ~ ., ‘
‘|4,Iu,.“' ‘3‘; .‘

 

 

‘ 33'5‘ ,, ;' +51% -- ~. '

 

 

‘68 s JoqumN uogumsgﬁoa
, "'50”de alqn
ﬁght!) 10} spun; ,0 uogponog pun
uoguupuos OI" mainstay 0; pm,
sgougm un Jopun paiamﬁu 5! Map

 

 

 

 

-os uogpaSgAgA-yuv [nuoynN at”

 

 

 

aamsanbau autumn
mnsvnmsad

 

[€91 '°N llWEEd
"I'll 'OOVDIHD

GlVd

HOVLSOd ‘S 'n
980 “5021:! NON

11909 syoumt ‘03801'13
109.113 OHIO 1993 001
£19905 11090999! A—nuv [BHOHBN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE 0F ANNUAL MEETING

 

TO ALL NAVS MEMBERS:

 
 

In accordance with the By~Laws, you are hereby notified
that the regular annual meeting of The National Anti~

Vivisection Society will be held in the society's office
at 100 East Ohio Street, Chicago, Illinois, at 2:00 P.M.
on Saturday, January 30, 1965.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The National Anti~Viviséction Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HERALD, Augusta, Ga., June 26, 1963

Henry McLemore:

 

 

'-=-=: ' I Wish that
McLEMORE men of science,

especially doctors, would stop

trying out things on animals.

This isn’t because I am a mem-
ber of the Anti-Vivisectionist So-
ciety, or e eve a anima 5
should not be used in experiments
which will benefit mankind.

What bothers me is that every
time a doctor tries out something
on a dog, pig, sheep, mouse, or
monkey, the animals invariably
react badly and the doctor then
announces that the stuff admini-
stered no matter what it is, must
be bad for humans.

V V V

For example, a doctor in Phila-
delphia, I believe it was, announc-
ed a few days ago that he had
found that coffee gave cats ul-
cers. It is only a question of time
until we humans are told that cof-
fee gives us ulcers, too, and that
we had better be careful of the
brew.

Does it necessarily follow that
if coffee gives cats ulcers, it
does the same to us? I don’t be-
lieve so. In the first place, not
many cats know how to drink cof-
fee, and the chances are the Phila-
delphia doctor had to teach the
cat how to hold a cup, how to
indicate how much or how little
sugar he wanted, and if he want-
ed it black or with cream.

Couldn’t it be that the cat, in
trying to learn how to drink cof-
fee, worried himself into ulcers?
Reverse the situation, and try to
teach a human how to eat eat
food, including mice, and there is
every reason to believe that the
human would soon have ulcers to
mma

V V V

We all know that cigarettes are
supposed to give mice everything
under. the sun, but again, who
knows for sure that learning to
smoke doesn’t drive mice right
out of their little minds? Put your-
self in a mouse’s place. One day
you are happily eating cheese in
a wall in a kitchen. The next you
are in a laboratory cage, with a
plpe, a cigar, or a cigarette stuck
In your mouth. I’ll bet you can
count on the fingers of one hand
all the mice who took to smoking

naturally, and didn’t have to be
taught.

It’s time doctors quit testing

He’ll Toke Coffee
With Ulcer, Please

with animals. If they don’t, be-
fore you know it some doctor will
discover that fried chicken gives
elephants hardening of the arter-
ies, and warn us humans to ease
up on fried chicken. Or another
will find that green salad gives
walruses sciatica, or that mules
fed on a diet of pancakes and
syrup develop heart murmurs.
V V V

The cat-coffee-ulcer discovery is
not going to chase me away from.
coffee. Naturally, I will keep it
away from my cats, but as for my-
self I aim to keep on having my
six or seven cups 3 day.

I’d much rather have my cup
of coffee in the morning AND an
ulcer, than no ulcer and no cof-
fee. If that marks me as crazy,
then I’m crazy.

This is an excerpt

from a story in the

Los Angeles TIMES
by Harry Nelson,

its medical editor.

Note again the re—
ference to tests

of drugs on animals

offering no index
of their safety
on humans.

Drugs are known to
cause binth defects, but in
spite of the thalidomide
episode doctors still pre—
scribe and pregnant wo-
men still take a dozen
other drugs that may have
similar effects, Dr. Barnes
said.

Stop Taking Them

The only way to rule out
birth defects due to drugs,
he said, would be for all
women aged 14 to 40 to
stop taking them.

But this will not. be
done, the obstetrician said,
"because Americans are
committed to the proposi-
tion that life is a reasona-

which the patient comes
only with the aid of
innumerable drugs."

Another comment on
drugs was made at the
same meeting by a Cana-
dian researcher who said
that testing drugs on preg-
nant animals offers no
index of their safety for
humans.

No Assurance

Dr. F. Clarke Fraser of
McGill University, Mon-
treal, said he believes all
drug compounds could, if
properly tested, be shown
to produce some kind of
defects in animals.

But even if a drug were
developed that. would not
do this in animals, there
would be no assurance
that the drug would not
cause defects in humans.

On the other hand,
drugs which cause defects
in animalS—aspirin, anti-
biotics, phenobarbital ——
are not recognized as a
cause of birth defects in
man.

Ultimately, Dr. Fraser
said, man must be the

 

bly serious illness through

guinea pig.

 

 

World—Telegram Sun, New York

Questions Cars Rabies Shots

By MAXW'ICLL RIDDLE)
Pets Writer

In a recent issue of the
Journal of the American
Veterinary Medical Assn.
two authors recommend-
ed the vaccination of cats
against later exposure to
rabies. They suggested
vaccination of kittens
three to four months old,
then annual revaccina-
tion.

Their article is, how-
ever, full of puzzling in-
consistencies. For in-
stance, they admit that:
“Experience in New York
State and elsewhere indi-
cates that cats are not im-
portant vectors of rabies.”

And they add: “Feline
rabies customarily disap-
pear wherever the under-
lying reservoir of infec-
tion, usually dogs or wild-
life, is eradicated or con-
trolled.”

What they do not say is
that cat, rabies disappear
without control of the
cats. That is, it disappears
without any attempt be-
ing made to vaccinate all
the area’s cats, or even to
quarantine them.

Today, chicken embryo
live virus vaccines are
mostly used for vaccina-
tion of dogs. They ap-
pear to be accompanied
by fewer vaccine reac-
tions, and give a much
longer protection than
nervous tissue vaccines.

But this cannot be said
when the same vaccines
are used on cats. There
are two of these chick
embryo vaccines. They
are the low egg passage
(1. e. p.) and the high egg
passage (h. e. p.) modified
live virus vaccines.

Vaccine Fatal

For example, the au-
thors point out that five
cats which were six
months or older, died af-
ter vaccination with
l. e. p. vaccine.

That is to say, the vac-
cine actually gave rabies
to the cats instead of pro-
tecting them from it. It
is for this reason that the
World Health Organiza-
tion and the U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture do
not recommend its use.
High egg passage vaccines

have a better record.

The nervous tissue vac-
cines outperformed the
chick embryo types and
this, the authors say, was
in sharp contrast to the
results with dogs.

They conclude that:
“There is considerably
less justification for the
mass inoculation of cats
than dogs.”

Each person must an-
swer the rabies vaccina-
tion problem for himself.
But it is the belief of this
writer that a major factor
is the presence or ab-
sence of rabies in the
community.

And the most impor-
tant point is this: Cats
which are kept perma-
nently in the home do not
get rabies, whether or not
it is present in the com-
munity.

Cats which are not to
be used for breeding
should be spayed or cas-
trated according to sex.
They then make content-
ed house pets which have
no desire to roam. For
them, rabies does not
exist.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




by-laws or by statute to some other ei‘ficer or agent
of the corporation; and in general shall perform all
duties incident to the ofﬁce of president and such
other duties as may be prescribed by the board of
directors from time to time.

Section 6. Managing Director. The managing di-
rector shall be the principal executive ofﬁcer of this
corporation as shall in general supervise, superintend
and control the business and the business affairs of
the corporate; and shall receive such salary and
compensation as shall be ﬁxed by the board of direc-
tors. It. shall not be necessary that he be a director
of this corporation. He shall have complete authority
to carry an the general work of the corporation, to
employ and discharge subordinate clerks and other
employees, to make contracts and purchase supplies,
printing, newspapers, magazines and all other mate-
rials required by the corporation, enter into contracts
for advertising and to authorize the payment of all
usual and customary expenses incurred in connection
therewith. In general, the managing director shall have
the usual and like authority as the general manager
of any commercial business or corporation and re-
sponsible only to the board of directors, and carry on
the work in accordance with orders and resolutions of
the board of directors.

Section 7. Vice-President. In the absence of the
president or in the event of his inability or unavail-
ability to act, the vice-president (or in the event
there be more than one vice-president, the vice-presi-
dents in the order designatd, or in the absence of
any designation, then in the order of their election)
shall perform the duties of the president, and when
so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject
to all the restrictions upon the president. Any vice-
president shall. perform such other duties as from
time to time may be assigned to him by the president
or by the board of directors.

Section 8. Treasurer. If required by the board of
directors, the treasurer shall give a bond for the faith-
ful discharge of his duties in such sum and with such
surety or sureties as the board of directors shall deter-
mine. He shall have charge and custody of and be
responsible for all funds and securities of the cor-
poration; receive and give receipts for moneys due
and payable to the corporation from any source what-
soever, and deposit all such moneys in the name of
the corporation in such banks, trust companies or
other depositaries as shall be selected in accordance
Wlth the provisions of Article VIII of these lay-laws;
and in general perform all the duties incident to the
ofﬁce of treasurer and such other duties as from time
to time may be assigned to him by the president 01‘
by the board of directors.

Section 9. Secretary. The secretary shall keep the
minutes of the meetings of the members and of the
board of directors in one or more books provided for
that purpose; see that all notices are duly given in
accordance with the provisions of these by-laws or.
as req‘ﬁmd by law; be custodian of the corporate
records and of the seal of the corporation and see
that the seal of the corporation is afﬁxed to all docu-
ments, the execution of which on behalf of the cor-
poration under its seal is duly authorized in accord-

Page 5

 




 

 

 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

PRESIDENT MANAGING DIRECTOR AUDITOR OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY
REVEREND ROBERT A. RussELL CLARENCE 5' R'CHARD JosEPH c. WUBBEN LAKE SHORE NATIONAL BANK
100 COLORADO BOULEVARD ASSISTANT MANAGING DIRECTOR 6257 NORTH NAVAJO AVENUE 605 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
DINV‘R 5, COLORADO GEORGE J. TRAPP CHICAGO 30, ILLINOIs CHICAGO, ILLINOIs

....hard to believe, isn't it?
If you have reached this page, you are either shocked or incredulous.

You instinctively recoil at what you have seen; you may even resent
our having brought this disagreeable subject into your home.

But if we do not put these facts——and they ARE facts——before the
public, nothing will ever be done. Reforms succeed only when
an evil is brought to light.

Won't you read what we have to say with an open mind? Do not say,
"such things are impossible,” for they are happening——right now,
even as you read this.

And they will go on happening until you, and thousands of others who
abhor unnecessary cruelty, join with those already awakened in
demanding an end to the out—moded practice of vivisection.

Will you be able to sleep tonight without lifting your voice in behalf
of the homeless and friendless animals subjected to this
frightful.agony to no good purpose?

Make your protest heard in the only way it will be effective: join,
this society today. You are under no obligation, and you will not
be solicited for further contributions.

Numerical strength is our goal; in numbers there is influence.
Our lawmakers will listen if enough of you speak. Have the courage to
defend the helpless. Send your contribution now.

Yours sincerely,

Clarence E. Richard~
Managing Director

 

 




  

 

 

,Mwﬂ. . ., ,,,,,,,,,,,,,

 

 

  JOURNAL—STAR, Peoria, Illinois
November 14,

Flu Shots 0 little
Good, Experts Say

KANSAS CITY till—The ’flu
shots widely used in the last
few years apparently have done
little good, experts said Wednes-
day.

“We need better vaccines be-
fore general use is justified in
costs to the public.” said Dr.
Alexander Langmuir, of the
Communicable Disease Center
in Atlanta. Ga, a government
watchdog on vaccine results.

But Surgeon-General Luther
L. Terry immediately said the
Public Health Service still rec-
ommends ’flu shots for older
people and those with chronic
illness -- who are hardest hit by
influenza.

DR. LANGMUIR AGREED
this would be wise. He reported
the disappointing results with
the ’qu vaccine to the American
Public Health Assn.

He said there’s “little evi-
dence that recent vaccines have
significantly prevented clinical
illness” or excess deaths when
’flu epidemics strike.

An epidemic early this year
caused 50,000 more deaths than
expected although a grand deal
of vaccine had been given, Dr.

angmuir said.

The great problem is that the
‘flu virus “is a maverick,” he
and other virus experts agreed.

This virus can easily and un-
predictably become slightly al~
tered. Vaccines are composed
of the strains or types of virus
expected to come along in a ’qu
season. But a maverick strain
shows up and the vaccine doesn’t

 

 

1963 NAVS CALENDAR REFILLS

 

Members who kept their 1963 calendars
can bring them up to date with a 1964
insert, available now on request. A
postal card will speed one to you.

 

 

 

 

Anti—vivisectionists always
have contended that experi-
ments on animals inevitably
lead to experiments on man.
Granted the "subjects" in

the work described below

were volunteers, nevertheless
The POST—DISPATCH, St. Louis,
agrees with us that there are
evil results from vivisection
even on the vivisectors them—
selves. This editorial is
from the November 2nd issue.

Experiment at Yale

A story of man’s cruelty to man that is sur-
prising even in the light of fairly recent his-
tory comes from an experiment at Yale Uni-
versity in the psychology of blind obedience.

Forty men of various callings and ages,
recruited from the New Haven area, were
used as subjects. They were told they were
to participate in a study of the effect of pun-
ishment on learning, by giving a learner a
memory test. One after the other was seated
at a console bearing 30 switches and was
instructed to administer a successively se-
vere shock for every wrong answer from the
learner, seated in an electric chair in an
adjoining room.

Though the highest advance prediction
was that 3 per cent would go through all 30

 

switches, 65 per cent did so, including one
marked “Danger: Severe Shock,” and two
marked with ominous simplicity “X X X."
The learner gave cries of pain and banged
on the wall starting with the closing of the,
switches marked “Intense Shock.” But 26
of the subjects under repeated orders con-
tinued to the bitter end.

The pain to the learner was simulated, for
he received not a single shock. To the con-
trary the psychological suffering among the
subjects was intense, often apparently ago-
nizing, with no one can know what continu-
ing effects. Some became distraught. Four~
teen displayed such nervous manifestations
as “bizarre” laughter. A mature business
man who! went into the experiment “smiling
and confident” was, according to the report
on results, “within 20 minutes . . . reduced
to a twitching, stuttering wreck . . . rapidly
approaching a point of nervous cellapse.”
One became so violently convulsive that his
participation in the experiment had to be
halted.

In all this it seems to us that the more
genuine gauge of human cruelty was not the
subjects but the experimenters-mthat the
showing was not one of blind obedience but ‘
of; op‘eneyed. torture, with an adverse score
list '01? .65 per :ent'but of 100. The rationale
offered as justification is that it was in the
interests of scienceebut We have heard that
rationale before. It very much remains to be
shown that there was anything in the per-
formance Worthy of a great university.

 

 

 

 

Do you believe in a great T ruth? First, assure yourself that it is the Truth - then
stand for it even though you stand alone -—- and ﬁght for it though you may ﬁght alone.
If you have courage to endure you may die unknown, unhonored and unsung, but the
Truth will live, and future generations will come along, gather up your ashes and build

monuments to your memory.

protect fully against it, th e y
explained.

The ’flu virus in effect stays-
one step ahead of the vaccine
makers. The, least little change
can mean a vaccine won’t work
well, said Dr. Gordon B r o'w n
of the University of Michigan in

. a background news conference.

Morton Alexander

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vivisection is as criminally useless as it is uselessly criminal. There is something gruesomely
grotesque in a code of humane laws which forbids the overcrowding of chickens in a crate and yet

permits the slow and hideous torture of a myriad of harmless dogs. . .
1 Albert Payson Terhune

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




(Founded in. 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATEONAL ANTI-VIVESECTION SOCIETY

10% EAST 01129 STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

WASHINGTON BRANCH

April 23. 1964 sun's 7o:

, OCCIDENTAL Bumpme
1411 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE. N. W.
The Editor ’ '
. WAsHlNGTON 4. o. c.
Chicago SU‘ixi “Tiiaq
435 North Wahe sh hwenne
Chicago, Illinois will i.

Sir:

Your editorial in this morning‘s issue discussing the opposition of
Chicago humanitarians to the teleca sting of hullﬁghts from Mexico
City suggests the prohien: has an easy solution, offered in the
heading and repeated in the last line: ”Turn the Dial. "

We are not concerned with the “pleasures" of adults . If there are a
substantial number of mature individuals who can enjoy the spectacle
of a bull being tortured and horses disemhoweled, we merely pity
them; we are not interested in "reforming" them.

Subjecting adolescents to the temptation of watching such unmitigated
brutality, however, is quite a different matter, and your remedy for

the evil, "turn the dial, " does not apply. Many 'teen-agers (probably

a majority) today have TV sets in their own rooms, free from parental
supervision, and the normal curiosity of children unquestionably will
persuade them to watch something instinct probably tells them is
"forbidden fruit. " Additionally, Saturday night is traditionally one
which parents are “it on she town, " and baby sitters, usually in the
'teen-age hraohett iris wouid watch such a program with their charges,

1‘

too young to “no he owl “ even if they were so inclined.

There is ampie rein; ior our position i the fact that strenuous
efforts are has} n, ; ammo: to heap lard magazines and paper-
back novels we“? a «a and err“ oi’fi news stands and'out of reach
of children . Wouid we isliwi‘iwg oontend this situation could be
handled merely by scram adolescents not to buy and read such trash?
It seems to us the analogy is perfect.

Yours sincerely,

Clarence E . Richard
Managing Director

 

 




 

The Milwaukee JOURNAL, March 29, 1964

Humphrey Questions Honesty of Drug Tests

Washington, D. C.—/P—Sena- government operations subcom-

tor Humphrey (Dem, Minn.)
said Saturday that more than
15 drug manufacturing firms

mittee also have told of some
drugs inadequately tested be-,

had concealed from the govern- fore release on the market and
ment all details of payments to found later to have dangerous

doctors who tested the com-

panies’ products.

Humphrey said that disclo-

side effects—fatal in some in-
stances, crippling in others.

Humphrey’s remarks were in

sure of the size Of the fees and a statement which accompanied
the basis of payments could the .release Of 1,909 pages 01'
shed important light on wheth- testimony and exhibits received

er the tests were objective.
Some Drugs Fatal

The senator cited testimony
in his investigation of the drug
some tests of
drugs for safety and effective-
ness had been fraudulent. But

industry that

in a continuing inquiry into
drug industry practices.

He made public a letter from
FDA Commissioner George P.
Larrick which Humphrey said
he had received too late for in-

“We believe that drug com-
panies are under no legal com-
pulsion to furnish FDA detaiis

clusion in the big volume of .0“ testing fees. . . .”

exhibits. The letter said:

Names Not Revealed
“During a recent investiga-
tion (by FDA) involving two of
the 19 doctors whose work we
suspect, we visited about 30

doctors.

Humphrey did not reveal the
names of the companies or the

Humphrey’s statement point-
ed to testimony that false
reports from doctors on the
effectiveness of a weight reduc-

drug companies to which these ing preparation were used as

 

doctors had submitted clinical

the basis for advertising claims

 

 

tion about testers’ fees.

be emphasized that the testi-

mony showed “the overwhelm-
ing mass of testers are abso-

lutely honest.”

Witnesses before the senate

Humphrey said the food and data. These firms were asked
drug administration (FDA) ap- for details of payment for this
parently was powerless to com- work, and more than half 0f
pel disclosure of any informa- them declined to
with any such information.

 

and that a doctor who received
$13,000 in a year for testing
and reported on prescription
furnish us drugs was awaiting trial on
fraud charges.

 

 

 

HERALD, Princeton,

N.J., April 1, 1964

 

 

Letter of Dr. Sussman Is Answered

 

To THE PRINCETON HERALD:

I have read with interest the letters
about the dog pound situation. 'Cer-
tainly the Borough and Township of
Princeton should join in providing an
adequate and properly designed shel-
ter run under the supervision of the
Small Animal Rescue League, which
has done so well in the past.

Amongst the letters, I noticed one
by Dr. Oscar Sussman, who implies
that dog wardens must have humane
feelings for animals or else they
would not the dog wardens. One must
'be careful not to fall into such false
ideas of logic. A similar vein of
thought would indicate that garbage
collectors choose their occupation be—
cause they are fond of garbage. Gar-

bage collecting is quite arduous Work,
too.

Dr. Sussman also seems to feel that
dogs are a necessary factor in medical
research, and that dogs from the fu—
ture Princeton dOg shelter should be a
source of supply for this purpose. To
supply an easy source of dogs for
medical experiment invites the un-
necessary and wasteful use of such
animals. However, in order not to im-
pair the a-dvance of medical science
by withholding an animal absolutely
necessary to it for some great ad-
vance to knowledge. I propose that
the Small Animal Rescue lLeague, in
special carefully examined instances,
provide a dog from the shelter at a
fee in the neighborhood: of, say, $500.
This would [prolbably be enough to
insure that dogs do not 'become a
commodity to .be used carelessly.

 

ELIZABETH G. C. MENZIES

 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE, March 19, 1964

 

FLUORIDATION

IS UPHELD

 

 

. Chicago’s right to fluoridate
Its water supply was upheld yes-
terday by the Illinois Supreme
court. . Judge Samuel B. Ep-
stein, then in Superior court,
had upheld legality of ﬂuorida-
tlon on June 23, 1962, after six
years to litigation.

The Supreme court held fluori-
dation was “a reasonable and
proper exercise of the city’s po-
llce .power in the interest of
pubhc health.” Justice Joseph
E. Daily wrote that the evidence

 

s h o w e d fluoridation reduces
tooth decay in children, and in
the amounts used has no harm-
ful effects on the human body.
The suit had been brought in
names of four persons—a den-
tist, two housewives, and a
member of the Christian Science
church—who contended ﬂuori-
dation is a health hazard. The
court did not rule on the con-
tention of the Christian Scien-
tist that drinking ﬂuoridated
water violated his religion.

 

The Chicago TRIBUNE, May 11, 1964

Senate Eyes Medics’
Links to Drug Firms

Washington, May 10 (UPI) —
Sen. Philip A. Hart [D., Mich]
announced today that the anti-
trust and monopoly subcom-
mittee, of which he is chair-
man, has subpenaed 12 drug
companies and asked 100 others
for information about ownership
by doctors of drug manufactur-
ing and repackaging plants.

“The request for information
by these subpenas and letters
should in no way be construed
as an indictment of any of these
companies,” he said in a state-
ment.

“At this point we are simply
seeking information from rep-
resentative companies in order
to determine how widespread
these doctor-owned plants are
and what effect they may have
on the consumer.”

Must Answer Soon

The subpenas require the
companies to furnish informa-
tion by Wednesday.

The subcommitee, formerly
headed by the late Sen. Estes
Kefauver [D., Tenn], has been
looking into doctor-owned phar-
macies and drug manufactur-
ing companies.

Legislation passed by Con-
gress last year was aimed at
encouraging use of generic—or
chemical—names for drugs in
prescriptions rather than trade
names.

“However such things as

 

doctor-owned drug plants and
doctor-owned pharmacies could
frustrate this expectation,”
Hart said.

_He said the companies can
produce or repackage the basic
drug under their own trade
name and sell them at a ’much
higher price.

Consumer Is Loser

“When a doctor owns part
of a pharmacy or a drug plant
it is unreasonable to expect he
would prescribe by the generic
name which would return him
less profit,” said Hart. “Once
again it is the consumer who
loses.”

The subpenaed companies
are: .

Merit Pharmaceutical com-
pany, Houston; Para Pharma-
cal Products, Inc., Salem, Ore.;
Winters Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Kansas City, Mo.; Scott-Lee
Laboratories, New Orleans;
Mason Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,

Sacramento, Cal.; Deseret
Pharmaceutical company, Salt
Lake City; Carrtone Labora-
tories, Inc., Metairie, La;
Delta Drug company, Jackson—
ville, Fla.; Liquor Pharma-
ceuticals, Inc., Nutley, N. J.;
Palmedico company, Columbia,
S. C.; Reid Laboratories, Ate
lanta, and Sig Laboratories,
Marshall, 111.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

July 1, 1964

Dr. Robert A. Russell
Epiphany Episc0pal Church
100 Colorado Boulevard
Denver 6, Colorado

Dear Dr. Russell:

Your letter of June 27th has been received and
Mr. Hoover wants you to know that neither he nor the FBI is ,
involved in the situation mentioned in your communication.

Mr. Al Knight did write in May, 1964, concerning
messages sent to the Soviet Union. He enclosed data regarding the
planned attempt by his group to launch a dog-carrying satellite.

At Mr. Hoover's direction I sent Mr. Knight the
following reply:

"Mr. Hoover received your letter of May 17th, with
enclosure, and asked me to tell you that it is not within the authority
of this Bureau to either approve or disapprove of the challenge you
sent to Premier Khrushchev. He 'wanted you to know, however, that
your communication will be made a matter of official record. "

It is hoped the foregoing will clarify this situation for
you.

Sincerely yours,

ﬂaw

Helen W. Gandy
Secretary

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ance with the provisions of these by-laws; keep a
register of the post-ofﬁce address of each member
which shall be furnished to the secretary by such
member; and in general perform all duties incident
to the ofﬁce of secretary and such other duties as from
time to time may be assigned to him by the president
or by the board of directors.

Section 10. Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Sec-
retaries. If required by the board of directors, the
assistant treasurers shall give bond for the faithful
discharge of their duties in such sums and with such
sureties as the board of directors shall determine. The
assistant treasurers and assistant secretaries, in gen-
eral, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to
them by the treasurer or the secretary or by the
president or the board of directors.

ARTICLE VII
Committees v

Section 1'. Committee of Directors. The board of
directors, by resolution may designate one or more
committees, each of which shall consist of one or more
directors, which committees, to the extent provided in
said resolution, shall have and exercise the authority
of the board of directors in the management of the
corporation; but the designation of such committees
and the delegation thereto of authority shall not oper-
ate to relieve the board of directors, or any individ-
ual director, of any responsibility imposed upon it or
him by law.

Section 2. Other Committees. Other committees not
having and exercising the authority of the board of
directors in the management of the corporation may
be designated by a resolution adopted by a majority
of the directors present at a meeting at which a
quorum is present. Except as otherwise provided in
such resolution, members of each such committee shall
be members of the corporation, and the president of
the corporation shall appoint the members thereof.
Any member thereof may be removed by the person
or persons authorized to appoint such member when-
ever in their judgment the best interest of the cor-
poration shall be served by such removal.

Section 3. Term of Ofﬁce. Each member of a com-
mittee shall continue as such until the next annual
meeting of the directors of the corporation and until
his successor is appointed, unless the committee shall
be sooner terminated, or unless such member be re-
moved from such committee, or unless such member
shall cease to qualify as a member thereof.

Section 1,. Chairman. One member of each com-
mittee shall be appointed chairman.

Section 5. Vacancies. Vacancies in the membership
of any committee may be ﬁlled by appointments made
in the same manner as provided in the case of the
original appointments.

Section 6. Quorum. Unless otherwise provided in
the resolution of the board of directors designating a
committee, a majority of the whole committee shall
constitute a quorum and the act of a majority of the
members present at a meeting at which a quorum is
present shall be the act of the committee.

Page 6

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ - t, e; -- 166 colonabo so _. ”a...
’ «Denver: 6, coionabo

October 4, 1964

Mr. Clarence E. Richard
Managing Director

National Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street

Chicago, Illinois 60611

Dear Mr . Richard:

I write this as an ordinary, dues-paying member, not as president of
the society, to congratulate you and voice the thanks of all animal
defenders in the COuntry for the magnificent job you did in getting
from the governor of the great state of Illinois a proclamation on
WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS which included recognition of. our work
against vivisection. This is, indeed, a significant milestone in the
humane movement .

No supporter of the National Anti-ViVisection Society, I feel certain, g
Will fail to understand and be grateful for, as. I am persona 11y, this a
tremendou s. accomplishment . Your dedicated work Over the years, often
under the handicap of unjustified criticism,- is now producing results.

I request that you reproduce this letter in the next NAVS BULLETIN with
the hope that all members will share the deep gratitude I feel.

Paithfully yours,

WQWL

RobertA. Russell, D.D. President
National Anti-Vivisection Society

 

RAR/mc

the neveneno noaent a. uusseu, neccon
the neveneno mank a. caniney, assnstant to the newton

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Section 7. Rules. Each committee may adopt rules
for its own government not inconsistent with these
by-laws or with rules adopted by the board of di-
rectors.

ARTICLE VIII

Contracts, Checks, Deposits and Funds

Section 1. Contracts. The board of directors may
authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents of
the corporation in addition to the ofﬁcers so author-
ized by these by-laws, to enter into any contract or
execute and deliver any instrument in the name and
on behalf of the corporation and such authority may
be general or conﬁned to speciﬁc instances.

Section 2. Checks, Drafts, Etc. All checks, drafts
or other orders for the payment of money, notes or
other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of
the corporation, shall be signed by such ofﬁcer or
ofﬁcers, agent or agents of the corporation and in
such manner as shall from time to time be deter-
mined by resolution of the board of directors. In the
absence of such determination by the board of direc-
tors, such instruments shall be signed by the treasurer
or an assistant treasurer and countersigned by the
president or a vice-president of the corporation.

Section 3. Deposits. All funds of the corporation
shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of
the corporation in such banks, trust companies or
other depositaries as the board of directors may select.

Section 4. Gifts. The board of directors may ac-
cept on behalf of the corporation any contribution,
gifts, bequest or devise for the general purpose or for
any special purpose of the corporation.

ARTICLE IX
Certificate of Membership

Section 1. Certiﬁcate of Membership. The board of
directors may provide for the issuance of cards or
certiﬁcates evidencing membership in the corporation
which shall be in such form as may be determined by
the board. Such cards or certiﬁcates shall be signed
by the president or vice-president and by the secre-
tary or assistant secretary. The name and address of
each member and the date of expiration of the mem-
bership shall be entered on the records of the cor-
poration. If any membership card or certiﬁcate shall
become lost, mutilated or destroyed, a new card or
certiﬁcate may be issued therefor upon such terms

and conditions as the board of directors may deter-
mine.

Section 2. Issuance of Certiﬁcates. When a member
has been elected to membership and has paid any '
initiation fee and dues that may then be required, a
card or certiﬁcate of membership shall be issued in
hls name and delivered to him by the secretary, if the
board of directors shall have provided for the issuance
0? a card or certiﬁcate of membership under the pro-
vxs1ons of Section 1 of this article.

ARTICLE X
Books and Records
The corporation shall keep correct and complete

Page 7

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

(Source unknown;
See Page 5.)

 

0n East Coast

Burned Pup
Spunky Gets
, New Home

GREENSBORO, N.C. —-
(AP) —— Spunky, a stray dog
which a service station at-
tendant doused with gasoline
and set afire several weeks
ago in Muncie, Ind., has a
new home near here.

Spunky arrived by plane in
good shape, except for sores
on the back of her legs. She
will be the fifth dog of Mr.
and Mrs. William‘ D. Com-
stock of the Brown Summit
area near here.

 

 

The ComstockS, who once
had 19 dogs, adopted Spunky
through the Society fOr the
Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Judge Walter G. Tanner of
Muncie City Court ordered
20 lashes with a Sam

Browne belt for the attend-
ant, Franklin D. Campbell,
20, after he pleaded guilty
June 13 to burning Spunky.
A bailiff administered the
pants-down thrashing in
Tanner’s chambers.

The judge also sentenced
Campbell to walk six miles
daily from his home to the
veterinary hospital, w h e r e
Spunky was recovering, as
long as the dog was being
treated.

 

 

 

The UNION
Grass Valley
Nevada City

California

NOW,_THEREFORE, BE r1“ RE-
SOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF
THE CITY- OF GRASS VALLEY,
aszfollows:

; That no animal‘- impounded in
the- City. Animal. Shelter" shall ever
lie usedf—e. for" experimentation pur-
poses, and the use or delivery. of
at». such. : aniinal. for such , purposes
is... hereby expressly prohibited.

1 AWN-ED" as. a Resolution of
the Council of the City bf Grass
Valley at a regular meeting there-
of on the 23d day of July, 1963.

V“ v ‘

 

(Reprinted from OUR DUMB ANIMALS, official
organ of the Massachusetts S.P.C.A

What In Fundamental in Education?

HERE is no doubt that many an educator looks upon what is called "Hu-
mane Education” as a more or less trivial affair. Throughout our schools
and colleges at the present day there runs primarily the idea that the training of
the intellect is the chief thing to be sought. It needs but a slight knowledge of
history to realize that the advantages of the higher education are no guarantee of
moral character or of good citizenship. Some of the greatest crimes in history have

been committed by men of keen intellectualpower and wide knowledge.

It may be doubted if any thoughtful man will deny the assertion that the
springs of action and the forces that determine conduct are to be found in what
may justly be called "man’s emotional nature.” All the things that make for
character have their seat there. Justice, compassion, friendship, goodwill, the spirit
that binds man to man, that works for peace, and stands over against what seems
to be nature’s law of the survival of the ﬁttest, come to us out of that realm that
humanity has ever spoken of as “the heart.” Wherever, therefore, the chief aim
of the educator has been to train the intellect, neglecting this other side of man’s
being, he has missed the goal: the supreme goal that should have been the aim
of his calling.

Humane Education, while recognizing the value of scientiﬁc, literary, and
philosophical training, seeks to go deep into the life of the younger generations;
deep enough to reach the home of those emotions and impulses which are the de-

termining factors in the development of human character.

Unless back of all that our schools and colleges are so largely seeking there
is an awakened sense of justice and kindness, those who issue from these institutions
may use what they have acquired only to destroy the highest social and industrial
welfare of their state and nation. Teacher after teacher has borne witness to this
truth: That the child trained to deal with the animal world about him according
to the teaching of the Golden Rule will grow into manhood constantly moved to
apply this same law in determining his relations to his human fellows.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Suggested Form of Bequest to Our Society

For the information of those who have it in mind to remember us in their wills but
— like so many who have written us — are uncertain how their desires should be expressed
we suggest the following:

To the National Anti-Vivisection‘ Society, 100 East Ohio Street, Chicago,
Illinois, I give and bequeath the sum of .............................................................................

......................................................................... Dollars.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




a}; o M ‘ GTTSIIOOIT ME} M'
o GAY-T EUTITSJGCT 01:8
team ' mm ' SJ—M

 

 

[€91 '°N llWElad
"I‘ll 'OO‘V’DIHD

GIVd

BOVlSOd 'S Tl
'OHO lHOHd NON

 

 

“RAGS’

By Edmond Vance Cooke

We called him “Rags.” He was just a cur,
But twice, on the Western Line,

That little old bunch of faithful fur
Had offered his life for mine.

And all that he got was bones and bread,
Or the leavings of soldier-grub,

But he’d give his heart for a pat on the head,
Or a friendly tickle and rub.

And Rags got home with the regiment,
And then, in the breaking away —-

Well, whether they stole him, or whether he went
I am not prepared to say.

But we mustered out, some to beer and gruel,
And some to sherry and shad,

And I went back to the Sawbones School,
Where I still was an undergrad.

One day they took us budding M.D.’s
To one of those institutes

Where they demonstrate every new disease
By means of bisected brutes.

,

gasmo
marque
5H} #0
Slum!»
WI
3L9 aq 0}
3M 91V

H909 SEOUIIII “03901113
193.115 qu0 1333 001

hopes uonoosrArA-puv
[BHOIIBN mu.

 

 

 

 

'QOS-LO-Q HEBWDN NOILVHLSISEE ‘LDV
SNOILVLIOI'IOS EWEVLIHVHD VIEWDWOD
:10 .LDIHLSIG 3H1. UEOND GEHBLSIDEH

SAVN

 

 

 

 

 

They had one animal tacked and tied
And slit like a full-dressed ﬁsh,

With his Vitals pumping away inside
As pleasant as one might wish.

I stopped to look like the rest, of course,
And the beast’s eyes levelled mine

His short tail thumped with a feeble force,
And he uttered a tender whine.

It was Rags, yes, Rags! who was martyred there,
Who was quartered and cruciﬁed,

And he whinned that whine which is doggish prayer
And he licked my hand ———~ and died.

And I was no better in part nor whole
Than the gang I was found among,

And his innocent blood was on the soul
Which he blessed with his dying tongue.

Well! I’ve seen men go to courageous death
In the air, on sea, on land!

But only a dog would spend his breath
In a kiss for his murderer’s hand .

And if there’s no Heaven for love like that,
For such four-legged fealty —- well!

If I have any choice, I tell you ﬂat,
I’ll' take my chance in hell.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(Reprinted from THE ANTI—VIVISECTIONIST, magazine of
The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection)

THE B.U.A.V. AND THE INQUIRY

The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection was
founded to oppose Vivisection absolutely and entirely without
attempts at compromise of any kind, and to seek its prohibi-
tion by law. This object is embedded in its Memorandum of
Association, and therefore cannot be departed from. Nor is
there any wish to depart from it: one cannot compromise
with evil.

The very serious question arises as to whether or not the
Union should play any part in the Inquiry initiated by the
Government into the working of the Cruelty to Animals Act,
1876, which governs Vivisection in Britain. The chairman of
the Committee of Inquiry, Sir Sydney Littlewood, has already
indicated that it will be no part of the Committee’s work to
consider whether or not experiments on animals are justiﬁed
or have had any useful results. This means, as we pointed out
in our previous issue, that our two main grounds of argument,
dealing with morality and utility, have been side-stepped
right at the start.

It follows, logically, that the question of prohibiting vivi-
section will not arise. It is taken for granted that Vivisection,
right or wrong, useful or otherwise, will continue indeﬁnitely.

F UTILITY OF REGULATION

There are, in a legislative sense, three courses that can be
taken in respect of Vivisection: ( 1) leave it quite uncontrolled
and let the Vivisectors do what they like; (2) make it entirely
illegal; (3) regulate it. As (1) is out of the question, we are
left with the other two. Now, the more one thinks about it the
more obvious it becomes that ANYTHING LESS THAN
ABOLITION IS REGULATION, and that all the years of
regulation since 1876 have shown.that such measures are
futile and ineffectual. Complete prohibition is the only course
that has moral validity.

In 1876, anti-vivisectionists were willing to accept an
enactment legalising Vivisection provided every animal used
was fully anaesthetised and was killed before regaining
consciousness. This seemed reasonable enough, because
Vivisection would then have been no more than a form of
painless lethalisation. It would still have been unjust, but it
was the best that could be h0ped for in a world that, with the
exception of a very few people, accepted and still accepts the
need to kill animals for food. Their concession prove futile;
and the Act of 1876, in its ﬁnal form, protected the Vivisectors
rather than the vivisected, and has done so ever since. Hence,
the word “ Abolition ” was written into our Society‘s title,
and into its policy. f

What object could we have in going to the Committee of
Inquiry ? It is useless to ask for prohibition in view of the
Committee’s terms of reference, and we cannot ask for less.
What can we ask for that isn’t going to compromise us in the
eyes of the public by making it appear that mere amelioration
will satisfy us ? There is little or nothing by way of amelior-
ation that can be enacted by law. Moreover, the more new
regulations are adopted, however useless, the more the public
will be satisﬁed that all is now well and laboratory animal
suffering is minimal.

There is certainly one point on which we must be absolutely
ﬁrm: we must not ask for, or support, the exempting from
Vivisection of a particular species of animal. To do so would
make nonsense of morals and bring us into public contempt.

THE WRONG TIME

We have been strongly opposed to the appointment of any
ofﬁcial Committee or Commission of Inquiry into Vivisection
because the time is far from ripe. Indeed it is probable that,
in appointing the Committee now, the Government has made

a very clever tactical move. On the one hand they can say that
the investigation was none of their seeking but that they were
yielding, in a very democratic way, to public pressure;
while, on the other hand, they can at present expect a result
substantially in their favour (i.e., in favour of the conventional
medical viewpoint) which might not be the case in, say, ten
years from now, when one may reasonably expect that modern

 

drug therapy in particular will have become thoroughly dis—
credited and that new ideas will be emerging. At present, we
are only beginning to breach the walls of convention, ortho-
doxy and prejudice: all the weight of high medical authority
is still against us, and this weight will undoubtedly be brought
to bear on the Committee in an effort to ensure that no radlcal
change in favour of the animals is recommended or enacted.
The case against Vivisection is stronger than ever, and Will
become stronger still, but, as we have said, we are precluded
from presenting it to the Committee.

The B.U.A.V. refused to give any evidence before the last
Royal Commission on Vivisection (190642) on the ground
that there was no anti—Vivisection representation on the C om-
mission. The decision was probably wise, though the reason
for it was not adequate and was regarded in some quarters as
merely petulant. The present Committee, so far as one can
ascertain, is likely on the whole to be reasonably impartial.
The difﬁculty is to understand why, with the terms of reference
as they are, it was ever set up at all except as a tactical move:
that is, with a view to putting an end to the ever-increasmg
Parliamentary campaign of the anti-vivisectionists. lt .w111
certainly not do that, whatever happens. lf Vivisection 18 to
go on, then the ﬁght against it will also continue and be
steadily intensiﬁed.

It is odd to reﬂect, going back to ﬁrst causes, that the real
reason for the appointment of the Committee of Inquiry was
the campaign waged within the R.S.‘P.C.A., by those of its
members who were strong anti—vivisectionists, for the Society
to declare itself opposed to Vivisection. The position of the
R.S.P.C.A. was, and has been for a long time, that it was not
an anti-Vivisection society but that it was opposed to. all
experiments causing pain. Obviously, as a charity, this was
as far as it could go; and let it be placed on record that it has
at times shown not a little courage, and placed its status at
some risk, in being outspoken on some aspects of animal
experimentation. It could scarcely press for anti~vivisection
legislation, but it could, and did, press for an ofﬁcial inquiry,
and to such effect that the Committee of Inquiry is now in
being.

WE WHO KNOW

This result is no doubt cause for satisfaction on the pa rt of
the R.S.‘P.C.A. and also, as we have already said, on the part
of the Government. But those of us who have been in the
thick of the ﬁght against Vivisection for many years, who know
its history and its nature, who have seen its tentacles spreading
into so many realms of our modern, materialist civilisation,
and who have had bitter experience of the ignorance and
indifference of so many members of the public, feel differently.

A Committee of Inquiry, appointed at the wrong time and
with almost meaningless terms of reference, cannot give rise
to much hope for those who really care and who really under-
stand what is involved. It must be strongly emphasised that
the inquiry is not into Vivisection, but into the mere mechanics
of an ancient enactment. Not only are we debarred from
making our case against Vivisection: we also seem to be
debarred from presenting the positive side of our argument,
to the effect that there are humane alternatives to vivisectional
medicine and that in any case the fundamental job of the
medical profession should be to teach people to live healthily,
not to ﬁll them up with drugs and vaccines.

The only reform, apart from total prohibition of the ex—
periments, that could immensely reduce the sufferings of
laboratory animals, would be the wiping out of Certiﬁcates
A and B; but as abolitionists we cannot even press for that,
and we are abolitionists because our trust was betrayed once
before win 1876.

We should be wise to stick to our principles. We must ﬁght

the good ﬁght, and keep faith.

Nevertheless, at the time of writing this article the question
of what action, if any, we shall take is beinngully and carefully
explored, and initial steps have been taken to obtain clariﬁca~
tion on the question as to whether the Committee’s terms of
reference are really as narrow as they appear to be. We shall
be reporting in due course. ‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued from Page 11)

San Juan, all for the benefit of the American
Red Cross.

“This is the first time in the nearly 40 years
that I have been living in P. R. that such a
thing has happened.

“The bulls are not killed, but the cruel
‘banderillos’ are driven into their shoulders.
The exhibitions are very popular with tour-
ists from the continent. N o more need be said
when you know that the RR. tourist agency is
always on the lookout for new ways to attract
tourists.”

Puerto Rico is as much a part of the United
States as New York. Could these “exhibi-
tions,” certainly involving cruelty when ban-
derillos are used, be the entering wedge in the
campaign to legalize live bullfights in the
United States?)

***

O N April 21 the New York Herald-Tribune
carried a story signed by Victor Wilson, one
of its Washington correspondents, reporting
the FCC. had handed down a ruling confess-
ing it could do nothing to halt filmed tele-
vision showings of Mexican bull fights by a
Chicago station, though the program is too
gory for the station manager.

The story, carried on the wires to every part
of the country, continued:

“FCC’s admission came in a letter
to a Chicago law firm which had pe-
titioned the Federal Agency on be-
half of the National Anti—Vivisection
Society, to order the station to stop
the programs or face loss of its li-
cense. '

“FCC said it has ‘no power or cen-
sorship over programming, and may
not interfere with the right of free
speech.’ It does have, it continued,
power to see that TV licensees ‘pro-
gram in thepublic interest.’

“As to whether bullfight films
are in the public interest, FCC said,
that’s a matter of state law. It cited
a portion of an Illinois statute which
prohibits ‘any place kept or used for

 

the purpose of fighting or baiting any
bull, bear, dog, cock or other crea-
ture . . . ’

““It cannot be determined,’ the
FCC letter stated primly, ‘whether
(the law) is designed solely to pre-
vent cruelty to animals within the
state of Illinos, whether it is also the
public policy of Illinois that pictures
or bullfights held outside its jurisdic—
tion shall not be viewed as entertain-
ment.’ ”

***

All other avenues being closed to us, the
NAVS decided to institute legal action, and
on May 8 a complaint was filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois, Eastern Division, against the
FCC, demanding that it revoke the license of
WCIU unless it discontinued the bullfight
telecasts. (Newspaper story of this suit print-
ed elsewhere in this BULLETIN.)

The court allowed the FCC 60 days to file
its reply, and no further developments are an-
ticipated prior to July. It is interesting to
note that the FCC decision was not unani-
mous, one member having dissented, thus im-
plying he believes the commission does have
power of censorship through control of li-
censes.

We had gratefully accepted Mr. Weigel’s
invitation to state our position over WCIU
and to “educate” myself I watched one of the
telecasts, the first bullfight I had ever seen.
I was so personally outraged and sickened I
realized I could not be objective or effective
on the rebuttal program.

We wired Cleveland Amory, nationally
known for his interest in animal welfare, ask-
ing him to present our case, offering to pay
his expenses and his usual lecture fee. He ac-
cepted and the HSUS, on whose board Mr.
Amory serves, generously declined our offer
of payment, and assumed the considerable ex-
pense involved. Mr. Amory, whom-I intro-
duced, did a splendid job and undoubtedly
reached thousands of viewers who would not
have watched me or a lesser figure. Addition-
ally, he appeared on another Chicago telecast
the same night, the “At Random” program

 

 

 

 

 




(Founded in 1929 as o charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI .VIVISECTION SOCIETY

we EAST. omo STREET, CHICAGO» u, ILLINOIS

WASHENQTON BRANﬁH

woososnran BUlLDING
um eammsvnvame avenue. N. w.
WASHINGTON 4,116.

.May" 105,; 1964' . some 7o:

 

Mr. Oliver Evans, President a Chicago SUNuTIMES'
The Humane Society of the United States May 9, 1964
1145 ~ 19th Street, N.W, '

Washington, D.C. 20036 . Animal Socie’Y 3
Dear Mr. Evans: ‘ sues TO Bar TV
" ' ’ ' ‘ " ' ‘ " " ” ' " Ilﬁ'ht‘Film’s ‘
’l‘hank you for your generosity and c00peration 815:6 Nagom, Antivivisecﬁon
1n hav1ng the HSUS assume the eXpense of anew,unIaCmm,FmMy
Mr. Amory‘s trip to Chicago to present to the ﬁednmh1USJxamnCmnt
viewers of TV Stations WCIU and WBBM (the CBS Manammmtwsmpbwmsﬂ
outlet here) the reasons why this society is fﬂmﬁwnpmemmson(mmp

E~3‘:3'4'%k:'uag to halt telecasts of bulli‘ights from “’1 26 (”Wt

, . , The suit asks the court to
MGXICO over the former Statlono Order the Federal Coinmuni-

, ‘ cations Commission to call an
Mr. Amory, as we knew he would, did a splendid mmwmmefwmmgt0}#w§‘
3 Oh and unquest 1011.8.ny reached thousands who mme whether the new Stanon s

- a . . 1‘ ense .‘hould be revoked. The
would not have listened to me or a lesser ,iamd‘bmeknm bmnmm

figure. Mr. Amory and I discussed the problem pmmm3m1&mmhynQM&

raised by these offensive telecasts at some Lawyers for the society de»
length, and I asked him to convey to you, in CdeﬁmtmmmSmw‘WEm
more.detail, additional facts bearing on our a$3fmeh”‘mﬂmeummg

_' K - . . money for admission of people
de01S1on to undertake this progect. hmﬂmmgmgmxmgmﬁbwp

» . fights and" battles between
I havepositive information from sources I am omaaMmﬂamechdﬂm
sure are reliable that trial balloons have gone (mmmd ﬁSbmmFmﬁ‘bmF
up in two western states already to test public .ggzggﬁﬂ;§§my‘ﬁ me
and offiCial sentiment on repeal of state laws “ “f ‘
'“wniohwnow prohibit live bullfights:“’ ”" “““

z
!

 

 

 

 

 

THE THEORY IS THAT IF BULLFIGHT TELECASTS ARE . ,
ACCEPTED WITHOUT Too noon opens ITION, THEN IT Chicfggg ”2,11% NEWS
WILL BE LESS DIFFICULT TO PERSUADE LEGISLATORS 7 5 v" 57* em 2
‘ ' ‘ :4 A11" 1" " no
:11}? MIBgigFégggsggotﬁgcgggnomY BE TOLERATED Clevgalndigxgéogreggﬁ?fhe Matsisonal

Anﬁ~Vivisecﬁon Society’s reasons for
opposition to Ch. 26’s bullﬁghf tele-

If humane societies and humanitarians allow TV cﬁm
stations to establish bullfight teleoasts in
the public‘s mind as normal "entertainment,”
they will have only themselves to blame if, in _ _n, ,,f
a very short time, existing laws against bull- "(z-himggmmmﬁTV'

 

fights are repealed in state after state and WEEK
the brutal, senseless, depraved Spectacles now

_. . , , 7:454 ec‘cl ‘ - 2‘
prohibited, become a regular "attraction" on The’Ngﬂomg Anti—Vivisec-

Sunday afternoons in the major Cities of the tion 50%;” Presentsuifs
w * ~ , - reason starting a so no
country - Federal court in an effort.
to end telecosts of channel

This must not be allowed to happen, and certain~ 32?: b“"f‘9m‘f'°m Mm“)
_ly not by default —« failure oi humanitarians to ‘
pretestwith all the vigor at their Command ~~ .
. and; thzt is why the NAVS began its campaign (HicAGO SUN-TIMES,Sar., May 9,1964}
\aaains, an evil technicall outside the sec e . ~ v,
‘3’ . Y D Highhgh’rs

of its_work.

‘ . - 7:45 p.m.-26~—~The station granite the, Ann.
- . . VEvisecﬁen Society time in state its opposition»
Yours Sincerely, agemmmm.ceeem wa'wwm m

' ' ' ‘ ‘ behaéf of the semen", .
3 ' " ~ ‘ a . ' ‘ MA 12:29 am.-—-2--At Random guests are Ileana

~ ‘ ‘ in '” ' , p " ' , , . « - Rosettes anti Adan-Pechaehi, W esteem .. 3'5
» 1 Cl arenoe E ' iii-Char d ffom aCyomsend has; twist“ cnlemast Cleve
-‘ Managing Director 1mg ‘3" may; Mrs. toms senescent spa
- ” " - ‘ V pointer: to the Chicago Schooiﬁoard, and Irish
' newspaperman Michael Campbell;

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

BOSTON SUNDAY HERALD,

JUNE 14,

Isolation Reveals Psychotic Disturbances

Dogs Assist Study of Weird Behavior

Kaspar Hauser wasa German
boy and a study in bizarre
behavior. Released from a dun-
geon at 17 years of age, be
exhibited all kinds of strange
reactions when he was thrust
into the normal day-to-day life
”of the 19th century.

Today, his name is usedas
the code name for a study of
bizarre behatiior in animals.
These creatures were exposed
to the same deprivation and
stimulations as was Kaspar
Hauser in a recent series of
experiments at the Jackson
Laboratory at Bar Harbor,
Maine.

“Canine KasparHausers”. is
he name of the film that
depicts their strange reactions
even better than a scientific
paper, says Dr. John L. Fuller,
senior staff scientist at the
laboratory.

HIS PROJECT involved a
number of puppies matched in
pairs. Each pair was taken
from? the litter at three weeks
and each dog was placed alone--

in an isolatibn cage for the next .

12 weeks. All the dogs" were kept
warm and comfortable and
were in excellent health. -

Once, a. Week, one of the pairs

was taken from, isolation. Each
dog was put inte. a test. arena
for eight minutes—with its litter
mate.- In the arena were a
number of toys and an attend-
ant.

Another pair underwent simi-
lar outings, but with one small
difference. The pups were
mildly punished each time:

BOTH PAIRS of dogs, despite

their isolation and punishment,
thrived. At the end of their 12-
week test periods, all the pups

behaved normally and accepted

freedom with canine equanim-

A third pair of pups was kept
in complete isolation, never
seeing a handler or being
released, for the entire 12 weeks.
Their behavior “was a startling
contrast," Dr. Fuller says.

u
5-

.
n
.-
on.
c.
n

3-2-5} '._.jy.,§". y. :-:"‘
its ' ;

7; s _.:'-€v. :-
(£433.; :3. «sgg. . .-

DR. JOHN FULLER of Jackson Laboratory, Bar
Harbor, Maine, has been conducting studies of
the bizarre behavior of dogs reared in isolation for

Long periods, than being suddenly released to tree-
om.

1964

The pups fought the handler,
ignored the attendant when put
on the floor of the test arena
and either cowered in a corner
or “Raced frantically around
the room.”

THE FOURTH pair, isolated
for the entire 12 weeks like
their foregoing kin, were fed a
tranquilizer in their food before
being released for the first
time. When let out, they showed
none of the fear exhibited by
the others.

In fact, observed Dr. Fuller,
“they explored, played with the
toys and responded to the
attendant almost as well as
those that had weekly experi-
ence in the test arena.”

Subsequent and similar ex-
periments have shown that
there are slight differences in
the reactions between breeds.
They also indicated that the
conditions under which the
animals emerged from the
enforced confinement had a lot
to do with their reactions“.
Tranquilized animals seemed to
have their fears ameliorated:
and thus made an easy tran51- ,
tion.

THOUGH DR. FULLER has
not developed a complete theory
about these strange reactions of
isolated animals, psychiatrists
and psychologists who have
seen them say the weird
behavior is similar to that "of
autistic children.

Autism is thought to be an
infantile form of schizophrenia.

At the very least, the an}-
mals’ activities are closely akm
to those of psychotic persons,
the mental specialists say.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

books and records of account and shall also keep
minutes of all meetings of the board of directors,
members and committees having any of the authority
of the board of directors. All books and records of
the corporation may be inspected by any member or
his agent or attorney for any proper purpose at any
reasonable time.

ARTICLE XI
Fiscal Year

The ﬁscal year of the corporation shall begin on
the ﬁrst day of July and end on the last day of June
in each year.

ARTICLE XII
Dues

Section 1. Annual Dues. The board of directors
may determine from time to time the amount of in-
itiation fee, if any, and annual dues payable to the
corporation.

Section 2. Payment of Dues. Dues shall be paid on
the date that any person becomes a member of this
corporation and such dues shall be paid as herein
provided by these by-l‘aws as long as the person de-
sires to remain a member.

ARTICLE XIII
Seal

The board of directors shall provide a corporate
seal which shall be in the form of a circle and shall
have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation
and the words “Corporate Seal’. Illinois.”

ARTICLE XIV
Waive of Notice

.V‘Jhenever any notice Whatever is required to be
given under the' provisions of the General Not For
Proﬁt Corporation Act of Illinois or under the provi-
smns of the articles of incorporation or the by-laWS
of the corporation, a waiver thereof in writing signed
by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whe-
ther before.or after the time stated therein, shall be
deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.

ARTICLE XV

Amendment to By-Laws

These by-laws may be altered, amended or repealed
and new by-laws may be adopted by a majority of the
directors present at any regular meeting or at any
spemal meeting of the board of directors.

ARTICLE XVI
Parliamentary Procedure

All questions of parliamentary procedure at any of
the meetings of the members, board of directors or

committees shall be governed by ROBERTS RULES
OF ORDER, LATEST EDITION.

Page 8

 




 




 

 

 

 

  

. ButHe Got Big Fee's A

r'ooctr ‘Formed Out’ Tests,

“N

 

The Pittsburgh Press. Tuesday, September 29,1964

 

' ny JOHN TROA'N ,
. scrippseﬁoxyard SeienCe writer,
7 WASHINGTON, Sept. 29 ~—

A doctor who has been col-
‘ i'le‘cting “substantial ' tees” to

hire other, physiciansto do

""“questi5onable” drug tests is

under Federal scrutiny today.
This was. diSclosed in a‘vol- .

laxative on 100 patients.
---A $3000 fee to arrange

tests of at a tranquilizer

on 39 patients.

Names of . all individuals
companies and. drugs were
Withheld pending cempletion
of investigations by the Food

 
   
   
 
   
  

 

  
  

   

 
 

uminous report on “Drug Re- and Drug Administration
search and Regulation” just (FDA) and the Justice De-
issood by‘ a subcommittee Dartment-

 

 

      

   

headed? by Sen. 'Hubert' Hr
rI-Iumphrey, Minnesota Demo-
crat.

' In one instance, the report
said, the doctor received',$12,-
000 from a drag ﬁrm to test
alaxative on 1:17 women.

He then hired, two other,
physicians to do the tests, paid
‘them a total of $1500and ap-
parently pocketed“ the remain-
ing $10,500 for acting as a
medical go-between. ' '
Therceport also cited:
-,-",-A $3000 payment. to the
same (lootor through an
advertising agency to an
range testing of another

' In a memo to the FDA,
which the subcommittee re
leased, Senator Humphrey em«
phasized' that he didn’t know
'whe'ther any laws had been
broken. But, he said, the case
raises the possibility of a “ser-
ious breach” of medical ethics.

The FDA, in a preliminary
report. on its inVestigation,
said the doctor told its agents

“he had arranged for studies
of. ‘eight‘drugs since 1960” but
was “unable to ﬁnd”. records
of‘any of the results.

The FDA said it was partic-
' ularly interested in determin-

 
   

 
 
       
     
  
 

     
 
  

    
  
   
      
   

  
  

 

    
  

 
         
 

           
  
 

 

 

ing whether any “shortcut
ting or taking” occurred dur-
ing the tests.

Senator Humphrey said

one ﬁrm predicted, a few
days after hiring the doctor
to set up some tests, that
preliminary results would
‘be ready in a month and
[would Show the drug to be
“effective."

The'senator produced a let-

'ter the doctor Wrote to an-

other drug company, saying
a physician he had hired was

“bothered” about ”how he
could compose a report sum-
marizing his tests “without
appearing ridiculous.”

“Do you have any ideas on
it?” the doctor asked the com-
pany. “If so, why don’t you
write a paper that would ﬁt
the concept and let me go on
from there.

"‘I am not asking you to do

U

.S.Sayi:

my work. I just want tosbe,
sure that the manuscnipt will

come as close to what you
want as is possible.” ‘

In still another case, the
doctor complained, that are-
searcher to whom he had
farmed out some work quit
after discovering that deroga-
tory references to the drug
he was testing 'had appeared
in the Journal of the Amer-
ican Medical Assn. 42 years
ago. ‘

“Imagine a doctor going
back that far to‘. 100k for
trouble,” commented the
physician now under" inves.
tigation.

Senator Humphrey turned
over to the investigators evil-i
dence that the doctor'engaged
in “very broad solicitation of
testing business” and tried f‘to’
arrange deals tied” to several
other “medical organization?
and services” he has operated;

 

   
   
 
  
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
  
 

 

RED CHINA forbids, dogs as-pets because they
, eat too :much, and seems Americans for
theirlavish addiction to dogs.

What they don’t know over there is that
dogs are human. (Oh, stop growling, Fido, no
offense intended.) .

Unless there’s a panting canine pal tramp-
‘ing through the woods at your heels, what’s the
sense of being a boy? May as well be born grown-
up. How can a lad’fall comfortably asleep unless
'his‘chum isat the foot of the bed?

Eat too much? Well, maybe. But how can
you resist a quick toss of meat to your friend
when Mommy has stepped back into the kitchen?

Of course, in America, grownups, too, love
dogs. But that is because they had the good
Sense to begin life as children and to rely for
their rearing on their pets.

If we were to jot down all the virtues of
pet dogs, the list would reach all the way from
.here toRed China. That might not be too bad.
It would enlighten its benighted leaders who
think a dog eats too muchmand in times of
famine seem to think people eat too much.

 

COURIER—JOURNAL
Camden, N.J.
sept. 11, 1964

Health Institutes
Funds Protested

In April of this year the House
of Representatives approved a
budget for the National Insti-
tutes of Health calling for an
expenditure in 1965 of the ' in-
credible sum of $105,242,000.

The NIH is the Government
bureau that gives grants (over
which Congress has no control
once the appropriation is ap-
proved) for research in medi-
cal institutions, including some
profit-making, commercial lab-
oratories operated by pharma—
ceutical manufacturers and to
the other research organiza-

 

tions in this country. And, which
will come as a shock to some
taxpayers, money is even sent
to institutions in other countries.

Many of the vivisectors who
automatically get grants year
after year are doing the same‘
work (no longer an experiment,
but just repetitious inﬂiction of
suffering) year after year.

I fail to see how these experi-
ments beneﬁt the human being.

The animals cannot speak‘for'
themselves, but if you co'uld see.
their eyes they are pleading for
help, from you, the taxpayer. . ’

Write to your US. senator
in Washington and protest the
waste and duplication of your
tax money in the name of “re-
search."

MARION KARR
Haddonﬁeld

 

 

WORLD-TELEGRAM & SUN
New York

How Does This Relieve. Suffering?

Eighteen hours are not enough to have kept
a monkey’s brain alive. The doctors propose
putting brains taken from one .set of. monkeys
into the abdomens of other live monkeys.

We must admit that the abdomen is an un-
natural place ior the brain. Why then must the
abdomens of these animals be opened for this
unnatUral and merciless purpose? .

'Fromvearliest times the doctor’s oath was to
relieve Suffering. I should not care to answer
a final judgment as to how this pitiless act re

lieve's pain.

 

 

 

 

 

DONALD r. BARROW ' '

   

 

Cold Springs Harbor

 
 

 

 

 




 

“f‘;!§£’.. .. "D i.
w

 

 

 

 

 

 

WILKES-BARRE RECORD
WEDNESDAY, JULY 3. 1963

6 Dr. Bush Kittens Stolen;
$200 in Rewards Offered

Kittens are disappearing from the prOperty of Dr. Maxine C.
Bush. RD 2 Mehoopany. and the National Anti-Vivisection Society,
100 East Ohio Street. Chicago. offers $100 reward for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons
responsible for the theft of one or more of the animals.

Clarence E. Richards, managing director of the society. said
in making this offer: “The National Anti-Vivisection Society is
offering this reward with the sincere conviction the theft of these
animals. is harassment. as a result of the activities of Dr. Bush in
preventing the theft. of other animals for sale to laboratories.”

The $100.00 reward is also 0f-""”“"“""““”’“ ,_.,._~_..__
fered by The American Feline da eye i . . .
Society. 41 Union Square WGStdStgte Pnoﬁge Sgﬁaéﬁggltegnég
New York City. Robert Kendellierimes “theft. malicious mis-
F’I'951d9”t_ Of that 50019137 ex‘lchief and trespassinguhad been
pressed hls opinions and reasonsicommitted in one act. The police
for offering The reward: icar was seen driving up the road

“Human meanness .1135 t0 StOPBto her property to inspect the
somewhere. This maliCious act ISESCene and subsequently the six
apparently diI‘BCted at Dr. BUSh kittens made a sudden appear-
mtended to deter her well known ance, crying loudlv for entrance
humane work. which she has en- to the house and for food. They

gaged in nationally OVE‘I‘ the[returned after dark Saturday
yeaI'S. and is more recent-,evening,

1y stressing in her own area. This; The kittens of varigated colors

rash act is representative of juve-. , , ,
nile and adult malicious mischiefl‘li'frteh hm; 832L131; Lgotherls Day
generally rampant today.” a. e ou ro onva escent
Dr. Bush’s re act i o n ' “Of Home, Mehoopany. Fearing the
course this crude deed. was highway traffic .passing her
‘ ' home, Mrs. Harriet Foulkrod,

meant to discourage and intimi-
- . . owner, had turned them over
date me. No question about it. to Dr. Bush.

We are currently in a campaign . u .
of newspaper advertisements to Dr. Bush said: The thlef may
alert rural residents to beware have chosen to steal'these Foulk-

of dog and cat thieves and dog rod kittens thinking we wouldn’t
dealers, exposing atrocities the offer a reward or prosecute for
animals may suffer in vivisection Cats that were not our own par-
laboratorieg, Area residents are ticular pets. That thinking was
cooperating by turning their wrong. To us all cats are very
surplus pet population over to speCial: Instead of discouraging
me in the absence of a much us, this miserable act inspires
needed humane shelter in our us. to work and has created 119W
area. This theft is retaliation friends for the humane cause In
from the cruelty forces.” our area.

Six kittens disappeared from
the property of Dr. Bush. Fri-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

POST, Washington, D.C., June 15, 1963

Animals for Research

Your June 4 report of a
tour of Howard University
laboratories by newspaper

science writers, said to have
been arranged by “Washing-
ton doctors” as part of an ef-
fort ‘to “educate the public
and lawmakers to the con-
tinuing need for use of dogs
in medical research,” needs
clarifying comment. It was a
disingenuous performance, a
Potemkin village fraud.

The “tour” had nothing to
do, of course, with any need
for use of dogs (why just
dogs?) in research. The dra-
matics were simply propa-
ganda against several bills
pending in Congress that
would forbid recipients of
’i‘ederal research grants to
perpetrate cruelty on ‘-

mal .
I"ﬁﬁeporters were taken

only to one floor of one build-
ing of one medical school out
of the more than 9000 animal-
using research institutions in
the United States. Are the re-
porters (and Congressmen
and the public) supposed to
draw conclusions about the
need for a national law from
managed observation of a
hand-picked sample of less
than one ten-thousandth of
1 per cent of America’s
laboratory animal quarters?
Any scientist who suggests
such a thing condemns him—
self as a bad scientist.

Your reporter was admir-
ably objective in his report of
the “tour” but even he ap-
parently fell for some of the
hanky-panky of the perform-
ance. For example, he and
your caption writer describe
a Howard University dog said
to have been in process ’of
preparation for “open heart
surgery to remove worms.”
But open heart surgery is not
a method for removal of
worms—even heart worms.
The 'dog obviously was being
prepared simply for more of
the open heart surgery that
already has been performed
on at least 20,000 dogs in many
scores of laboratories over
many years. but which still
entrances great numbers, of
doctors who can’t think of
any original research.

Your reporter permits an
implication by his escorts on

the “tour” that the very mod- -

erate legislation pending in
Congress is a project of “anti-
vivisectionsts.” But surely
your science reporter knows,
and certainly the stage man-
agers of his “tour”_ know,
that all of the pending bills
have been violently opposed
from the beginning by every
major antivivisection, society
in the Nation.

HR. 4856 and other pending
bills of the same generalpur-
'pose are simply’ anticruelty
measures. It is amazingly
naive or else it is dishonest
for self-styled scientists to
stage a farcicab performance
like that at Howard Univer-
sity as argument against such
legislation.

OLIVER M. EVANS,

President. The Humane Society
of the United States.

. Washington.
‘ m

The June 4 article entitled,
“Tour Shows Care Given Re-
search Animals,” by Nate
Haseltine, states that animal
welfare bills pending before
Congress “would hamstring
animal experimentation.”

On the contrary.

The bill I have introduced-—
S. 533, co-sponsored by Sena-
tors Neuberger of Oregon and
Young of Ohio—does not seek
to abolish animal experimenta-
tion but to safeguard against
unregulated performance and
needless cruelty and neglect.
It is closely modeled after the
British law which has been on
the books for 87 years.

The admirable animal-care
facilities described —- scrub-
rooms, operating suit-es, medi-
cal facilities, rooftop run-
ways—and procedures—dogs
anesthetized for surgery and
sacrificed before the effects
wear off—are the objective of
my bill. Many animal-care fa-
cilities have equally high
standards for animal experi-
mentation as Howard Univer-
sity; unfortunately, many do
not. .

The Committee for Health
and Research of the area’s
medical schools, which spon-
sored with justifiable pride
this tour of Howard’s model
f a c i l i t i e s, should support
S. 533 to insure that other ani-
mal-care facilities meet these
high standards.

JOSEPH S CLARK,
Senator from Pennsylvﬂa.
Washington.

 

 

 

HAVE YOU CHANGED YOUR ADDRESS RECENTLY?

This bulletin is mailed to NAVS members
under the rate allowed charitable organi—
zations, the most inexpensive postage fee
available under government regulations.
Because the rate is so cheap, there are
certain disadvantages to its use. The
most important is that such mail is not
forwarded, but is returned to us. When
you move, please send us your new address.

 

WANT ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THIS BULLETIN?

This is an important bulletin, chiefly
because it announces the result of the
society's referendum on abolition vs reg-
ulation. Many members
additional copies. We
"print order" on this
substantially, but we
your order as quickly
want additional copies.

are certain to want
have increased the

particular bulletin
ask you to place

as possible if you

 

 

 

 




September 27, i963

I
1

TO: Mr. William Mapel, Administrative Vice-President
FROM: Col. E. M. Rowan, Director of Humane Work

SUBJECT: Vivisection Investigation League (VIL) Literature.

Attached hereto is a copy of the VIL full page spread
which appeared in the August 1963 issue of Town and Country
(enclosure 1). The other enclosures include the material

obtained through sending in a coupon attached to the bottom of
enclosure 1.

Enclosure 2 is the material directed
against the ASPCA.

Enclosure 3 is made up of statements
by famous people against vivisection.

Enclosure 4 is a Massachusetts SPCA
brochure on cut tails, on the back of which
is a copy of Massachusetts Law. (Imprisonment
is included in the penalty for cutting a
horse's tail).

It is a misdemeanor to violate the existing New York
Law (Sec. l95—A). This information was brought to Mr. Nichol's
attention in connection with no mention of imprisonment or of
misdemeanor in his suggested revision of Section l95—A.
Mr. Nichols phoned about 3:05 P. M. Thursday, September 26th,
to inform me that he is substituting "is guilty of a misdemeanor”
for specified amounts of fine for violation of Section l95—A.

‘ iii
[it/W 1/ Liam,

E. M. Rowan
Director of Humane Work

 




 

 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE, October 12, 1963

 

mrug Company Sued for 18 Millionl‘

Twelve million dollars in
punitive damages were , asked
yesterday from William S. Mer-
rell company, Cincinnati, 0.,
by 24 persons claiming in-
juries caused by their use of a
drug manufactured and dis-
tributed by the company.

The punitive damages are
in addition to a 6 million dol-
lar personal damages suit by

 

pany. The two suits were con-.
solidated, making the total
d a m a g e s asked 18 million
dollars.

Judge Cornelius J. Harring-
ton of Circuit court granted
John J. Kennelly, attorney for
the 24, authority to file the
supplementary petition seeking
the punitive damages.

The plaintiffs alleged that the

29:], caused eye ailments and
other afflictions.

The petition alleges that the
company falsified results of
animal tests of the drug in re-
ports to the United States Food
and Drug administration and
that the levying of punitive
damages would discourage
similar wrongful conduct in

 

the 24 persons against the com- 1 drug, triparanol [labeled MER dissemination of drugs.

 

 

 

 

CITIZEN—PATRIOT, Jackson, Michigan, Nov. 20, 1963

Doctor Ponders Effects of
Drugs on Internal Organs

BY DELOS SMITH
UPI Science Editor.

New York-(UPD-When Prof. Ru-
dolf L. Baer thinks of “the tre-
mendous variety” of unwanted
and. uncomfortable reactions
modern drugs produce on the

human surface: that is, the skin,
he shudders.

He shudders b e c a u s e his
thoughts have now been di-
rected to the human interior-
to those “organs and systems
which are not as readily observ-
able clinically as the skin.”

. What undesirable drug reac-
tions are lurking? He wonders—-
reactions which are not appar-
ent to the examining physician
and are not revealed by current
laboratory methods.”

Dr, Baer is professor and
chairman of the department
of dermatology (the medical
specialty of the human sur-
face) at New York University,
SchOol of Medicine. He was
lecturing physicians on the
“newer knowledge” of drug
eruptions.

. These eruptions are increas-
mg. 1n frequency as well as
variety, and not all of them
can be attributed to the com-
Plex drugs which only physi-
cians can use and which phy-
srcrans are trained to use with
care and respect.

There also is in the in-
greased tendency to self-medica-
uon which must ”be blamed, in
part atleast, on the intensive
advertismg campaigns for the
".5318 of proprietary drugs by
means of television, radio and

2 Press,” he said.
a result, Americans are
probably on their way to ‘be-

 

coming the most ovenmedicated
people in the world.”

From the physician’s stand-
point, one difficulty is the speed
with which new drugs are de~
veloped. It used to be drug
developmentwas at “a snail’s
pace,” and this gave physicians
ample opportunity to become
informed about each new med-
icament and its side effects.

“Nowadays, many physi-

cians find that they have just
become aware of side effects
of certain medicaments only
to learn that they are already
outdated and being replaced
by newer and hopefully more
effective and safer substi-
tutes,” he said.

Baer’s lecture was published
by the New York State Journal
of Medicine. He listed the
“newer knowledge” in catego:
ries. For instance, when broad-
spectrum antibiotics upset the
balance of bacteria which in-
hibit the human body, certain
surface bacteria gain enough
dominance to cause severe skin
eruptions which are infectious

 

and difficult to get rid of.

Other families of drugs have
subtle and varied “systemic
manifestations” Which come to
the surface masquerading as

skin diseases. Others cause hair
to drop out—-—~from the head, the
eyebrows and men’s beards, and
even from the legs.

The drugs are highly useful
in making sick people well——
or in prolonging their lives in
the case of anticancer drugs.
But they have to be used with
awareness of the possible side
effects—with cautious alert-
ness.

Baer cited the iodides con-
tained in “the mineral supple-
ments in vitamin preparations
and in prepared foods for so-
Called dietary control.” In some
skin eruptions he suspected
them of. being the cause. An-
other potential skin-erupter is
vitamin B42.

“If this fact were more gen
erally recognized it probably
would reduce considerably the
widespread use of this drug,”
he said,

 

 

THE PRESS
Houston, Texas

Proud to Be

On Animals
Editor The Press:

appearing in The

A ‘Humaniac’

The editorial by John Troan
Houston
Press Sept. 9 was headlined
“‘Humaniacs’ Label by Medi-
cal Society for Research Crit-
ics,” in which the viewpoint

placed on the housing' and care
of animals prior to use in re-
search, and this is an area
that cries for real improve-
ment, the article entirely
evades and skirts the issue of
deliberate cruelty to animals
in actual experiments, often
producing acute and prolonged
agony, charges which are am-
ply substantiated by docu-
me‘nted evidence placed before
Congress.

If objecting to deliberate
cruelty to animals in research
makes me a “Humaniac,” I
am proud to be onelmFRAN-
CES ZIMA, 4009 Ave. 0%,

EVENING GAZETTE
Worcester
Massachusetts

’The New Uproar
Over Vivisection’

To the Editor of The Gazette:

In the article, “The New Up-
roar Over Animal Viﬂm,”
by Albert B. Southwick in The
Gazette of Aug. 16, he cites
charges of specific crhelties in
medical laboratOries, and then
asks:

“Is this gruesome picture ac-
curate, or is it a sensational-
ized generalization based on a
relatively small number of
abuses?”

He adds that two research
men “warn against accepting
the emotional charges. . . with-
out checking the full story.”

Far from being emotional,
the quoted accusations of lab-
oratory brutality are starkly
factual down to the smallest
detail. A majority of the abuses
cited were based directly on a
few of the hundreds of leaf-
lets published in recent years
by our society. Remember,
please, these accounts of lab-
oratory cruelties are not
dreamed up by us. They are
simply the descriptions of ex-
periments written up in med
ical journals by the very men
who performed them.

The infamous torture of dogs
at Collimbia University was
condemned in a letter to the
Lancet, a British medical pub-
lication, signed by four English
vivisectors. They spoke of ex-,
periments “calculated to inflict
the maximum of injury con-
sistent with the temporary sur-
vival of the animals.”

If Mr. Southwick needs fur-
ther convincing evidence that
it is almost impossible for any
humanitarian to exaggerate
what goes on in laboratories.
we are prepared to furnish it,
in such quantity and so pre-
cisely documented as to pre-
clude any legitimate challenge.

CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing Director, National
Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohid St.,
Chicago, Ill.

 

 

When you move,
please send us

 

 

 

the new address.

of the AMA was presented. Galveston.

While great emphasis is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Disraeli had a formula for persevering in spite of opposition that should prove helpful
to anyone tempted to give up on a good cause. Asked how he kept on without seeing
results the nineteenth century British statesman replied: “Have you ever watched a
stonecutter at work? He will hammer away at a rock for perhaps 100 times without a

crack showing in it. Then at the IOIst blow, it will split in two.”

 

 

 

THE REV. ROBERT A. RUSSELL, D. D.

Rector
EPIPHANY EPISCOPAL CHURCH
100 COLORADO BOULEVARD
DENVER 6, COLORADO

 

This is the most important letter you will ever receive from The
National Anti-Vivisection Society. Read it carefully — read it
prayerfully — for if you do, and if you decide to act upon it,
your action can be the one that will bring ultimate victory for
our cause: TOTAL ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION — THE MOST
CRUEL OF ALL TORTURES INFLICTED ANNUALLY ON COUNT-

LESS MILLIONS OF HELPLESS ANiMALS DEPENDENT UPON US
FOR PROTECTION.

 

 

 

My Fellow Humanitarian:

You generously contributed tO The National Anti-Vivisection Society for one reason.
You want to see ViVisection abolished. You earnestly hope that it Will be done in your life-
time. You would like tO see it done now, for no anti-Vivisectionist can bear the thought of
the terrible suﬁering being endured right now by experimentalanimals because Of the atroc-
ities inﬂicted on them in the name of science.

 




 

l/i

over CBS-WBBM, to voice his opposition to
bullfights and their telecasting. The NAVS
is greatly indebted to Mr. Amory and the
HSUS for their whole-hearted cooperation.

In addition to his two appearances in Chi-
cago, Mr. Amory devoted his entire syndi-
cated column the following Sunday (also re-
produced in this BULLETIN) to our fight.

=i<>l=>l<

THE death of our chief counsel delayed
our program somewhat, but Mr. Douglas Ma-
loney, an associate of the firm of Penner &
Maloney, picked up Where Mr. Penner left
off and the suit will be prosecuted vigorously.

Whatever the decision in the lower court,
it is certain to be appealed, and it is possible
the case may eventually wind up in the Su-
preme Court of the United States. A decision
from that body would settle once and for all
Whether TV stations can and should be sub-
jected to censorship to prevent telecasting of
offensive programs.

If humane societies and humanitarians al-
low TV stations to establish bullfight tele-
casts in the public’s mind as normal “enter-
tainment,” they will have only themselves to
blame if, in a very short time, existing laws
against bullfights are repealed in state after
state and the brutal, senseless, depraved spec—
tacles, now prohibited, become a regular “at-
traction” on Sunday afternoons in the major
cities of the country.

This must not be allowed to happen, and
certainly not by default because of the failure
of humanitarians to protest with all the vigor
at their command.

The NAVS, having started this campaign,
will carry it through to the bitter end, sup-
ported financially thus far only by other anti-
vivisection societies and anti-vivisectionists.

To avoid any justification for the possible
Charge that money given to the NAVS to
fight vivisection is being spent on a project
technically outside the scope of its work, in—
dividual members, the writer among them,
have pledged themselves to underwrite the

 

 

ARIZONA REPUBLIC, Phoenix, May 17, 1964

Preposed Televising

Of Bullfight Hit
Editor, The Arizona Republic:

Like the pathologist who held
high the gory amputation of a
cancerous breast and ruefully
proclaimed, “What a beautiful
specimen,” we now have some
news columnists proclaiming
that the beauty and grace of
instrumental bullfighting are
such that they should grace our
television screens.

Proof of the malignancy of
this phony sport can be seen
on the candid camera shots of
the bored faces of some of the
attending celebrities, which is
sufficient evidence that th e y
are unsuccessful by this diver-
sion at escaping their own
chronic fears (of death?). Any-
how there are better and more
wholesome ways of escape.

And certain it is, this type
of bullfighting is the lecherous
cancer on the throats of so many
of this day. True sportsmen be-

come frenetic if one Just calls it
a sport. Horse lovers cannot
curse it enough. Catholicism,
fully cognizant of its evil im-
port, prayerfully Wishes for its
demise. Deep-sighted Latins are
dedicated to rid their people of
this scourge.

AND POOR OLD el toro longs
for the day when humane-min -
ed Latins will organize to de-
stroy this monstrous sarcoma
which debauches his body, and
painfully cuts through the ten-
dons of his neck —— all for the
sadistic pleasure of the callous
and the gain of the unprincipled.
Even music, color, and artistic
pageantry does not lessen his
pain or justify his misery to
him.

This blood-destroying leuke-
mia is one of the prominent
causes of poverty in these coun-

 

 

tries. Instead of learning to do
or produce something worth-
while, too many capable and
ambitious youths are dreaming
of fame and fortune through the
artistic and dramatic torture of
a fine animal. They wave a red
towel at the jab sticks into ev-
ery available calf, dog, or saw-
ﬂrse upon which they have fas-

tened horns and backacl into a
corner.

These dreams of fame and
fortune are crystallized through
the studious needlework of the
“novilladas,” w h e r e these

youths use smaller bulls for
nothing more than stabbing
bags to practice on until their
skill is complete for the cor-
ridas, or unless, of course, they
are killed or maimed before-
hand. Beautiful? Indeed. Better
they should learn to be a car-
penter, bricklayer, roadbuilder,
plumber, and so by this work
overcome the fundamentals of
the poverty of their own peoples.

AND LIKE AN infiltrating
cancer which inhibits, excludes,
and feeds upon normal tissue as
it putrefies in the center, so
does bullfighting inhibit and ex.
clude other worthwile sports as
it rots from within. Wouldn't
the arenas of Mexico City, fer
example, make a beautiful in-
ternational sports arena through
all the seasons? How busy the
hostelries, restaurants, feeder
lines and allied industries would
be from tourists who now shy
away. And by staying away,
they miss the other beauties,
artistries, and cultures of these
genteel people.

Yes, about the only way we
should p e r m it the televising
of these bullfights is for some
socio-pathologist to explain and
exclaim as he holds bullfight-
ing high, “Isn’t it a beautiful
cancer on the breast of civili-
zat'ion?”

DR. F. L. KOERBER

 

 

 

Philadelphia INQUIRER, May 21, 1964

 

Anti-Vivisection

Unit Fetes Aide

Agnes Chase. secretary of

 

 

totalicost through extra contributions SPECi"
fically earmarked for the campaign-

,g '

the American Anti—Yiyisgction
Society, was honored Wednes-
day at a dinner in the Bellevue
Stratford.

 

 

Miss Chase, who is also re-
search director of the society’s
magazine, AV, was presented
with a necklace. The presenta-
tion was made by Owen B.
Hunt, president of the society,

hich has its headquarters at

903 Chestnut st.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

:i-

 

 

 

FATE OF A CHILD’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




‘T "53“.“(3

MVH

 

 

 

 

And still they come -- the futile "vivisection regulation" bills, doomed at9
birth to die unnoticed and unsung. This one, the subject of an editorial in'
the September-October, 1964, issue of the National Humane Review of the American;_
Humane Association, did not even get a mention in any newspaper, so far as we 7
know, and we subscribe to several good clipping services. Now that Congress has
adjourned, the bill is dead. With the political conventions and the election .
occupying the attention of Washington politicians, the lowliest page boy in
Congress could have accurately predicted the fate of this measure. It remains

a constant mystery ~~ or is it? -— why these bills are introduced Session after.*
session when their sponsors know they have no chance whatever. Think about it!

Laboratory Animal Protection

Protection of laboratory animals has been given a forward push by US. Representative
Paul G. Rogers of Florida. Rep. Rogers has introduced a bill in the‘House of Representatives
(August 17, 1964) to establish a Federal law for the protection of laboratory animals.

(Rep. Rogers is from Florida’s 6th district. He is a member of the sub-committee on Health
and Safety of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. The sub-committee held
hearings on laboratory animal legislation September 28—29, 1962.) 7 ‘

Based in part on the success of the Federal Humane Slaughter Law, many provisions of
which are similar to Rep. Rogers’ bill, this bill would. effectively minimize the danger of
mistreatment of laboratory animals.

Rep. Rogers" bill, HR 12408, is wholeheartedly supported by The American Humane
Association. It has been unanimously approved by AHA’s Committee on Laboratory Ani-
mal Care and Animal Legislation Committee. This bill conforms .with the desires of most
humane organizations throughout the US.

H.R. 12408 differs from other related bills which have been introduced in Congress. it pro-
vides a strong, multi—pronged attack against impmper laboratory animal conditions by
providing for:

. The promulgation by the Secretary of the Department of Health, Education» and
Welfare of standards for good care and use of animals in laboratories after consul-
tation with the Advisory Committee. ,

2. Authority to collect and disseminate information relating to the humane care, treat-

ment and handling of laboratory animals and to ﬁx standards of education of animal
handling personnel.

3. The compliance with such standards by United States government departments and
agencies and by recipients of grants or contracts from the US. Government.
Authority for the Secretary to adopt rules and regulations to carry out provisions
of the act.

Authority for representatives of the Secretary to inspect institutions Subject to the
provisions of the act. '

6. An advisory committee with representation from interested groups to assist the

Secretary in determining the standards, rules, and regulations required to be pro-
mul ated. ' '

The adiisory committee and the use of federal power relative to contracts, including
grants, are similar to the Federal Humane Slaughter Law, Which is administered under
authority of the Secretary of Agriculture.

The features of Rep. Rogers’ bill represent the considered judgment of a great majority i
of: the active: members of the humane movement in the United States, thus opening the way

' to unanimity of support of the bill by the humane movement.

. HR. 12408 successfully meets objections which have been voiced to previously introduced

bills. Among objections to the other bills 1 are concerns over the need for large sums of money

through major appropriations. The bills range from being too permissive to regulating
day~to~day administrative details. Some of the bills, according to critics, imply intentional
criminal neglect and provide for amateur inspection of laboratory animals and facilities.

HR. 712408 would bring about correction and improvement by bringing out into public

View problems of care and use through professional evaluation and reporting. , .

AHA’s special Committee on Laboratory Animal Care, following its survey of maintenance,
and handling of animals in health professional schools and research institutions, recommended
that standards of care and handling of laboratory animals should be established and en-
forced. H.R. 12408 provides for setting standards which should be universally adopted.
Because of its - practical approach, objections to this bill by research workers should be
minimal.

The AHA Committee recognized that—because of the large number of animals and
personnel involved in the professional use of these animalswthere is a distinct possibility
of careless and thoughtless neglect which should be prevented. The Rogers’ Bill meets this
requirement.

Congress has had submitted a series of bills pertaining to laboratory animal care. We hOpe
that the Congress, having had multiple expressions of the need for regulation of this
activity will agree upon a practical, workable bill to protect laboratory animals. Con~
gressman Rogers’ bill, HR. 12408, is such a bill.

.01!“

 

 

 

 

 




 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

 

NUMBER 3

 

By CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing Director,
National Anti-Vivisection Society

BY a margin of approximately 2 to 1, members

of the National Anti-Vivisection, in a
closely supervised referendum, have voted to
maintain the fundamental principle which the
society was organized to advocate:

VIVISECTION IS A MORAL EVIL
THAT MUST BE TOTALLY ABOL-
ISHED!

In so doing, members rejected the argument
that regulation, even if it could be made to work
in limited fashion, is the solution to the problem
of ending laboratory animal’s unspeakable suf-
fering “in the name of science.”

[The ofﬁcial report of the auditing ﬁrm
which conducted the referendum will be found
on page 3.]

This clear cut mandate settles once and for all
the question raised by minority groups, com—
posed for the most part of non-members of the
society, of whether NAVS policy, because of
the acknowledged leaning toward regulation by
some humanitarians, truly represents the ma-
jority sentiment of its members, old and new.
There can be no further doubt about how the
membership stands and there is no longer any
necessity whatever for pointless and time-con-
suming discussion of the subject.

In recent months, correspondence over the
controversy created by the drift toward regula-
tion has occupied a disproportionate amount of
the society’s time, effort and resources, with
consequent impairment of its major activity—
the creation of NEW anti-vivisectionists by na-
tional direct mail drives seeking the numerical
strength needed‘to force legislators to enact a
law WITH TEETH, one that would not permit
vivisectors (as do all pending regulation bills)
to be the sole judge of their own work under

I

BULLETIN

N.A.V.S. MEMBERS VOTE DOWN POIIC Y CHANGE

certain circumstances, thus nulifying the very
objective sought by humanitarians.

OR some time now a vicious campaign of

intimidation has been carried on against
NAVS management in an effort to force the
society to compromise its principles and yield
to expediency by supportng a “popular” meas—
ure. Letters (obviously “inspired,” since they
frequently were couched in the same language,
word for word) have poured in on the NAVS
from non-members harping on the same tired
theme, “why don’t you get behind the regula-
tion bills, and don’t you know aII of your mem-
bers are dissatisﬁed with your ‘do-nothing’
policy?” Many of the letters were impertinent,
some were extremely abusive and all of them,
obviously, were completely out of order, since
only persons who belong to and support the
society have the right to dictate its policy and
activities. To the extent that our limited staff
would permit, we answered such letters courte-
ously, explaining our position in clear language,
but we serve notice now that all such future
communications from non-members of the so—
ciety will be ignored.

What the sincere advocates of regulation seem
to forget is that the real reason that it is pro-
foundly immoral to live by the rule that “the
end justiﬁes the means” is that nobody can know
what the ends will be (so often are they con-
trary to our best intentions), and all we CAN
regulate are the means we use; and if these are
cruel or evil,_they in themselves divert and
deﬂect the ends we. aim at. Thus, while “regu-
lation of vivisection” may seem to offer at least
temporary relief for animals, and be a “step
forward,” founders of the anti-vivisection
movement ﬁrmly believed that it would merely
give the practice a cloak of legal respectability
and would delay, and possibly prevent forever,
total abolition.

 

i
' -.

SEPTEMBER 1, 1963

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

[89L '°N .llWUEId

 

 

44444444¥44444444444444444444444

 

110d

SAVN

 

NI SNIM

 

 

N0ﬂl'l0ﬂV

 

 

(131830033 numau
‘HEILSVNLSOd

SIOUHII ‘II 0999HIZ)
mans onto 1983 001
Memos uopoasiAiA-puv [euopeN 9‘11.

 

 

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR, July 26, 1963 (See

letter, Pages 6—7)

State Of the Natians: The Animals of the Kingdom

Washington

One hesitates to write a
column about cruelty to ani-
mals in medical experimen-
tation. It brings in so many
letters. People feel strongly
on this subject, though their
protests don’t quickly move
Congress to act.

But the American con-
science won’t quite let the
callous mistreatment of ani-
mals in medical research go
unnoticed. The Humane So-
ciety of the United States,
the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, and other organiza-
tions, point out abuses.

And just now Cleveland
Amory, author of “The
Proper Bostonians,” has
written in the Saturday Eve-
ning Post, as he wrote earlier
in the Saturday Review, an
alerting message which
warns the public.

Wa’shingtonians well recall
the story which came out of
Virginia last March, report-
ing the discovery of scores

By William H. Stringer

Chief of the Washington Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor

of dogs in an unheated coun-
try barn, some starving,
some dead. The farm had
been leased-to a ‘ﬁrm sup-
plying animals to laborato-
ries, and one of its customers
was the United States Na-
tional Institute of Health.

This Virginia case helped
to make clear that there is
presently almost no legal
protection for animals, no
requirement for supervision
of medical experimentation.
However, there are ﬁve bills
pending before the House
Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Committee, designed
to supervise treatment of
animals used in research.

I I I

Mr. Amory says that in
American hospitals, medical
schools, and industries 300,-
000,000 animals are in use.
Even if many are rats and
mice, this is an incredible
number. The Humane So-

ciety says “several nundreds

of thousands” of animals are
used by the Department of
Health, Education and Wel-
fare.

Testimony before the Con-
gress committee indicates
that, while many Humane
Society members accept the
point that eXperimentation
on living animals is neces-
sary for medical advance to-

,day, there is also needless

inﬂiction of pain and suffer-
ing, there is duplication of
research—and there is too
much encouragement of even
high schoolers to conduct
callous and unskilled experi-
mentation.

The facts are grim. In an
experiment at one univer-
sity, researchers starved
dogs to extinction. At an-
other university, dogs were
forced to inhale ﬂame. Were
these experiments
sary”?

“neces-

 

The director of the Na-
tional Catholic Society for
Animal Welfare told of Visit-
ing “respected” laboratories
where animals “are truly
beaten, starved, burned,
frozen, blinded, drowned . . .
accelerated, deprived of
sleep, irradiated, skinned
and subjected to other meth-
ods of inducing pain and
fear. . . .”

In some instances, after
experimentation animals
were dumped back into
wire—bottom cages, with no
care, no exercise, no solid
space to sit or lie.

In many laboratories, of
course, animals are well
cared for.

I I I

The Humane Society of
the United States is sup-
porting a‘bill introduced by
Rep. William J. Randall (D)
of Missouri (HR. 4856). The

aim of most of the bills be-
fore the House committee is
to require humane care and
housing; license those who
wish to experiment on live,
vertebrate animals; require
the painless dispatching of
those suffering after experi-
mentation; and provide for
unannounced inspection of
laboratories using live ani-
mals.

The advantage of the Ran-
dall bill, according to the
Humane Society, is that it
would place enforcement not-
in the hands of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education
and Welfare—which itself
uses animals—but in a new
agency for laboratory ani-
mal control in the Depart-
ment of Justice;

The Humane Society be-
lieves Congress would get
around to approving such a
measure this year if it
weren’t so bogged down
with tax legislation, civil
rights, and a threatened
railroad strike.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER,CRAWLEY & WOOD

(BARRY, WAINWRIGHT, THACHER 8- SYMMERS)

AREA CODE 2|2
TELEPHONE: BOWLING GREEN 9-5lOO

HENRY W. PROFFITT CABLE ADDRESS“WALLACES NEw YORK”

JOHN C.CRAWLEY

PAUL L.CLUGSTON

JTPANKWOOD 40 WALL STREET
HOWARD B.NICHOLS

JOHN W-WHEELER NEW YORK, N.Y. 10005
EDWARD C. KALAIDJIAN

KURT W.LORE

JOHN B.McCUBBIN

STEPHEN B..WILSON

CORNELIUS» S.VAN REES

PHILLIP 'L.BROUGHTON

December 16, 1963

The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals

441 East 92nd Street

ﬂew York 28, N. Y.

ﬁtteotiOh; Mr. Williem_Mepel

Dear Sirs:

We head you herewith two copies of our brief on your
behalf as appellant in the action brought by Vivisection
Investigation League. The respondents'brief is one
Christmas Eve and we shall then have an opportihity to reply
to it. The matter will come before the Aopellate Division
sometime in Jenaery.

Very truly yours,

PHIZEH, CRAMLEY & WOOD
I "i... . .\\__ I 1“ 0- . //’Q’,.-~/ / {/2} A‘/['//’
”Z a"; C{'“€:yl4é:;’ ""’/ ~_ ‘ *im-«a—“ﬂiw .1wa ,ﬁ 2"»

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued from Page 14)

numbers of them, but the phrase “put to
sleep” too often is a euphemism. The
phrase is a substitute for kill, because the
word “kill” has a harsh sound.

The methods used in killing millions of
animals in many humane society shelters
and pounds range from painless to down-
right cruel. A few shoot the animals and
while this has a terrible sound, they are
being more humane than many others.

96 96 9(-

HERE are the most common methods:

l—Gas chambers, most of them using
carbon monoxide; a few using natural
gas, and some cyanide.

_ 2-—-Electrica1 shock.
3—Chloroform.
4—Strychnine.

5—Decompression, or “high altitude”
chambers.

6-—-Barbituates.

The humaneness, or inhumaness of some
of these methods depends largely on
how the apparatus is designed and to an
even greater degree on how they are ope—
rated. Relatively few animals die without
actual suffering and fear in a gas chamber.
If you doubt this, visit a shelter or pound
that uses such a'chamber and watch while
animals are being gassed. If you are told
that it only takes “thirty to forty” seconds
to kill an animal in a gas chamber, don’t
you believe it. It is a hard, fast rule in most
shelters to leave the animals in gas cham-
bers for at least a half hour to an hour before
removing their bodies. If they die in a few
seconds, why not take their bodies out im—
mediately? If they die in a few seconds,
why do so many of them scream in real
agony and struggle for fifteen minutes or
longer?

For years it has been argued that carbon
monoxide must be painless because so many
humans use that method to kill themselves.

They also hang themselves and use other.

painful means. The man who wants to be
sure of a painless death will blow his brains
OHt.

$6 96 96

A GAS chamber can be so constructed
sad so operated- as to Provide ,a. dsath free

of everything but fear, but space doesn’t
permit us to tell how this can be done. It is
only necessary to tell you that very few
people have ever seen a gas chamber. Hun-
dreds of them in daily use are nothing more
than boxes into which hot exhaust fumes
are piped from a motor vehicle. Death is
caused by slow suffocation, but not before
much agonized suffering and terror.

Some shelters and pounds insist they pro-
vide merciful death for their animals by
means of electrocution. Too often, this de-
vice consists merely of an electrical exten-
sion cord with clips on the ends of the wires;
battery clips operated with strong springs.
The clips are notched so they won’t slip off
the posts on batteries.

One clip is fastened to the dog’s ear, and
the other to the fleshy part of a hind leg.
Of course it howls in pain and fright, but it
is restrained by a choke stick held firmly
by a kennelman. The dog is then doused
with water and a switch is thrown. He im-
mediately stiffens and appears unconscious.
After a minute, the current is cut off. If the
dog struggles, the switch is again thrown
and the process repeated until he quits
struggling.

Many shelters put their animals “to
sleep” with chloroform. This has a nice,
hospital sound, and people think of anes-
thetic. One example will suffice. The
shelter was operated by a humane society.
It had a dark basement room in which there
was a large box, as large as a piano box, but
shaped differently and made of steel. The
steel was badly corroded; not from rust but
from chloroform fumes. So was all the
metal in the entire basement.

96 9(- ~36

DOGS were put into the box. Chloroform
was then poured directly on the dogs and
the lid was fastened down. After a half
hour, when all sounds had ceased, it was
presumed the dogs were dead. The chloro-
form used was what is known as “commer-
cial,” made for industrial uses and not at all
for anesthesia. It is vastly cheaper and can
be bought without prescription.

While there are only a few such boxes
now used for grown dogs, many shelters
still use small boxes for cats, kittens and
puppies. How much real agonized suffering -
is thus caused no one can calculate.

Strychnine is used by hypodermic injec-

tion, not only by some humane societies, but

by‘ some veterinarians. It is a deadly poison

 

 

 

 




 

The National Anti-Vivisection Society long ago declared war on this evil. We said it
would be total, all-out war, with no quarter asked, and none given. We pledged that we

 

WE ARE
A'I' WAR:

 

 

 

would never compromise. It is a war to the ﬁnish, for our oppo-
nents, the vivisectors, recognize their peril. They are fully aware
of the fact that we are rapidly gaining public support. More and
more newspapers are speaking out against the unspeakable cruelties
of vivisection. This is signiﬁcant, for until recently, most of the

inﬂuential editors in this country simply didn’t believe that the

suffering we exposed existed in the laboratories. In retaliation, the vivesectors are doing
their best to destroy The National Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

To ﬁght this “war” until we achieve a total victory, we must have an “army.” It has

to be a big army; as big as the army of vivisectors and their supporters at least. Without

 

WEAPONS
NEEDED:

 

 

 

such an army, we can’t hope to muster the strength we will need
to convince the nation’s lawmakers that vivisection must be abol-
ished. You enlisted in this ﬁght. You weren’t drafted. We’re
all volunteers and we enlisted for the “duration.” In this army,

we must furnish our own weapons; the means with which to ﬁght.
Our most powerful weapon is our voice. Our message must be heard

by many millions of people. This requires money; a great deal of money. Only our mem-

bers can supply the funds needed.

 

The time has come in this “war” for us to organize our “shock troops.” Shock troops

are chosen for offensive warfare by the military, because of their high morale, training and

 

JOIN SHOCK
TROOPS NOW!

 

 

 

discipline. But, we are not “choosing” you, or “drafting” you for
this assignment. We are asking you to volunteer. If for any
reason you feel you cannot volunteer for this vitally important
role in our campaign, we will understand. After all, the shock
troops are only part of the military forces, and the work that every
member of the military does is important to victory, even the work

of those who serve far behind the front lines. Our “shock troops” are asked to do two things:
pledge a monthly contribution to the “war chest” and help get new members.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FRIDAY. APRIL 3. 1964

 

The Press

Society slaps
back at critic

The National Anti - Vivi-
section Society disagrees with
Dr. E. T. Pengelley of the
University of California at
Riverside on the significance
and the morality of using ani-
mals for scientific experi-
ment.

IT ALSO claims that his re-
marks on the drug thalido-
mide are “specious” —- su-
perficially fair or just, but
not actually so.

The vieWpoint was ex-
pressed in a letter to Howard
H. Hays Jr., editor of the
Press - Enterprise, by Clar-
ence E. Richard of Washing-
ton, D.'C., managing director
of the society. It related to
an article in the Press on
March 20, quoting Dr. Pengel-
ley.

Riverside school authorities
and others were quoted as
saying that high school stil-
dents don’t operate on live
animals for experiment.

Dr. Pengelley was quoted
as saying that some of the
items in an anti - vivisection-
ist publication circulated in
Riverside were “simply mis-
leading” and an assertion on
thalidomide “positively un-
true.”

RICHARD himself had writ-
ten the thalidomide article,
saying:

“We have relied on experi-
ments on animals, tests con-
ducted on rats, rabbits, dogs
and other animals to protect
us from poisoning by new
drug products. The tests
were made in the case of
thalidomide. The tests did not
reveal the danger.”

Elsewhere Richard said:
“Only a hunch, a sixth sense
of a courageous civil servant,
saved us from more wide-
Spread suffering.”

PENGELLEY had said, in
effect, that this-assertion was

 

 

specious.

Dr. Frances Kelsey of the
Food and Drug Administra-
tion, he had explained, re-
fused to certify thalidomide
in this country because the
propor kind of tests, with
chick embryos, had not been
made.

Thalidomide was ‘g iv e 11
away as physicians’ samples
or acquired directly from Eu-
rope, where its sale was al-
lowed. Only from these sourc-
es was it used in this coun-
try.

Subsequently, Dr. Pengel-
ley said, embryo tests were
made and they demonstrated
the harmfulness of the drug.

“IF THIS had been done
prior to its release for hu-
man use,” he said. “disaster
could have been avoide .”

But Richard wrote in his
letter:

“Dr. Pengelley’s assertions
about thalidomide are spe-
cious. Our statement is posi-
tively true: tests on animals
were made. These tests did
not show the drug was dan-
gerous.”

As to Dr. P'engelley’s re-

mark that “disaster could.

have been avoided,” Richard
asked, “Does this not prove
our point that final tests must
always be made on hu-
mans?”

DR. PENGELLEY doesn’t
think it proves that animal
experiments aren’t valuable
for human welfare or that,
with avoidance of unneces-
sary cruelty, they aren’t fully
justified.

“I_ would rather all the mon-
keys in the world got polio 10
times than that a single child
should get it once,” he said
in the interview.

Herein appeared the essen-
tial difference between sci-
ence and the Anti - Vivisec-

tion Society. Richard’s let-
ter said:

“WE MAKE no statement
in the circular under discus-
s i o 11 about ‘unnecessary
cruelty.’ We hold, as do a
majority of philosophers, that
cruelty to man or beast can
never be justified under any
circumstances. Cruelty is of-
fensive in the sight of God
and to say that it is ‘neces-
sary’ is equivalent to t he
claim that murder, as distin-
guished from homicide, is
also justified if one individ-
ual so decides.”

To All Members:

Additional copies
of this BULLETIN
are now available
on a first-come,
first-serve basis.
Perhaps a friend

might be converted,

if you sent one.
No charge, ever.

 

Chicago's AMERICAN, March 19, 1964

Tobacco and the A.M.A.

HE AMERICAN MEDICAL association has declared it-

self opposed to labeling cigarets with a health warning. It
took this position recently in hearings before the Federal Trade
commission, and the kindest thing we can say about the
A. M. A.’s stand is to call it puzzling.

The trade commission is seeking to have cigaret packs
labeled with some such legend as “Caution—cigarets are a
health hazard.” In support of such a rule it cites findings by
federal investigators that cigarets are a cause of lung cancer.
[According to Dr. James M. Hundley, assistant surgeon gen-
eral, who testified before the commission, deaths due to smok-
ing are estimated by non-government experts at 100,000 a
year.]

The A. M. A., however, sided with the cigaret industry in
opposing any cigaret-labeling rule. In a letter to the commis-
sion, Dr. F. J. L. Blasingame, executive vice president of the
A. M. A., said the proposal wouldn’t do much good; labeling
cigarets, he asserted, “will not alert even the young cigaret
smoker to any dangers of which he is not aware.” This claim
may be right or wrong, but it is sheer guesswork.

Many state and local medical societies have called for
greater efforts to educate the public against the dangers of
cigaret smoking; it is remarkable that the top brass of the
A. M. A. should oppose this effort. It may be correct in argu-
ing that Congress, not the regulatory agency, should initiate
the labeling requirement. But here again the A. M. A. is speak-
ing outside its own area of competence. It is just offering an
opinion on a legal question that may have to be thrashed out
in court.

The A. M. A. recently received a 10 million dollar grant
from the tobacco industry to carry out research into cigaret-
cancer relationships. Its protest against the cigaret-labeling
plan may be intended to impress the tobacco industry with the
idea that the A. M. A. will approach the new research with
no opinions on the subject of health. But how can it make
such an approach when many of its members are already on
record on the health subject? As we said, the A. M. A.’s at-
titude puzzles us. It needs explaining.

—_._.L__._

 

 

Chicago TRIBUNE, April 30, 1964

+
+

A publicity item says that “researchers
at Cornell university said here today that
they found apparently permanent impair-
ment of mental ability of baby pigs in
which they had induced symptoms of kwa-
shiorkor.” It you do not repeat this above
a whisper, it may not get around.

THOMAS Moaaow

 

 

 

 




 

 

Seldom does a day go by that our clipping bureau
does not send us one or more newspaper or magaZLne
articles criticizing or ridiculing the current
tendency to "worship" any silly or useless project
if the label, RESEARCH, is tacked on it. And.many
editors are taking a good, hard look at the re-
sults obtained by the expenditure of millions of
dollars of taxpayers' money. One of the best of
such indictments is this article, reprinted from
The HERALD-JOURNAL, Syracuse, N.Y., July 2, 1964:

 

 

 

W.P.A. for Ph.D.s

By Alexander F. Jones
Executive Editor, H erald-J ournal

I attended a meeting Wednesday
at which an expensive report was
s u b m i t t e d summarizing several
years’ work for a certain organiza-
tion which shall remain unnamed.

Just leafing through it casually.

it was obvious that this report ‘rep-
resented the effort of many experts
and that it came under the head of
“research.”

And it was announced with almost
detached interest, a minor .detail
as it were, that the project repre-
sented an expenditure of $1.6 mil-
lion.

I am getting to the point where
I wince as though hit over the head
with a baseball bat at the mention
of the word “research.”

I know as well as anyone that
remarkable discoveries and inven-
tions are being uncovered daily be
cause of the work of scientists,
specialists in many lines of en-
deavor, and a constant probing into
the unknown.

Our entire life today is wound
, round the research of scientists into
the mysteries of the atom and of
nuclear power.

The day does not pass but that
some startling, and useful, article
is announced, from the laboratory
of some great corporation, or that
another breakthrough has been
staged in the business of making
life pleasanter or easier.

The latest example is a TV picture
with your long distance call.

V 7

Making a deep bow to all of these
busy ants in the job of making life

easier (and more precarious), I still

feel that there is a growing horde of
over-e d u c a t e d and statistically-
minded people, particularly in the
field of education and majoring in
the social sciences, who think of

4

 

human behavior as something that

can be reduced to a four-storied al-
gebraic equation.

And they haughtily .look down
their noses at anyone who presumes
to say that their new and sensational
social discoveries are as old as the
hills and contribute absolutely noth-
ing to the solution of modern day
problems — that as much -— and
more — was known generations ago
about human behavior as is known
today.

I will make it plainer than that
— a whopping percentage of so-
called r e s e a r c h being conducted
today is nothing but a W. P. A. for
Ph. D.’s.

A project starts with a handful
of workers.

In a matter of months, if it can
show any relation to reality at all,
it grows to 100 eggheads all bring-
ing their massive intellects to the
problem for which Jesus Christ laid
down the rules centuries ago.

They labor valiantly and produce
some of the most beautifully colored
and printed mice to be found any-
where.

Often these projects are paid for
with public tax money, although it is
the thing to do to interest some
foundation filthy with cash and short
on action ideas.

V V

If I may be allowed to make a
suggestion, I think that research of a
penetrating nature on how much
research on social concerns is di-
rected at achieving beneficial results
for the public and how much is the
effort of ivory tower curiosity would
save that despised little insect, the
taxpayer, millions annually.

And it would allow the big
foundations to go back to the job
they used to do' — like the Rocke-
feller pursuit of hookworm in the
SOuth.

I think Americans prefer that
type of research and action to the
breath-taking statistics on how many

school drop-outs hate their mothers.

 

 

N

N.Y. TELEGRAM, June 12, 1964

How Does This Relieve Suffering?

Eighteen hours are not enough to have kept
a monkey’s brain alive. The doctors propose
putting brains taken from one Set of monkeys
into the abdomens of other live monkeys. '

We must admit that the abdomen is an un-
natural place for the brain. Why then must the
abdomens of these animals be opened for this
unnatural and merciless purpose?

From earliest times the doctor’s oath was to
relieve suffering. I should not care to answer
a final judgment as to how this pitiless act re-
lieves pain.

DONALD F. BARROW
Cold Springs Harbor

ei?‘

Hudson DISPATCH
Union City, N.J.

0n Vivisection
545 Fifth st., Palisades Park
May 1
Editor Hudson Dispatch:

We are constantly exposed to
claims supporting animal experi-
mentation which, on the surface,
ring true. Newspapers, magazines,
radio, television bombard us daily
with the wonders of vivisection
magnifying the surface kanVIEdge
which alone is acquired from it.

Examine with me the claims of
vivisection defenders to determine
for yourselves how valid they
are. The public is asked to trust
and believe the statements of
vivisection defenders without
even looking into the matter at
all. It is demanded that the pub-
lic ignore the documented facts set
forth by even the medical men
themselves—those who refuse to
agree that vivisection is the bless-
ing its supporters paint.

For many years vivisectors and
their defenders have bitterly
denied the accusations against
them—assuring the public that
“on their honor” no animal ever
suffered in a laboratory.

Today, papers from coast to
coast concede the truth of the
anti - vivisectionists’ accusations
and call for reform. Here is the
point of all this. If vivisection is
justified, why can’t it be defended
and exalted on its own merit?
Why must its defenders make ex-
travagant demands and answer at-
tacks on it and the growing opposi-
tion to it with ﬂagrant lies? Honor-
able men do not seek to gain their
ends by dishonorable means. Will
you remember this if uncertainty
assails you in the future? What
seems to be believable coming
from vivisection defenders may
not be true at all and your doubts
may rest on a false foundation.

George MacDonald

ONLY FIRST CLASS
MAIL IS PORWARDED.
IF YOU MOVE, PLEASE
SEND NEW ADDRESS

 

 

.____————— v——-—“’

1\

1
l

2:;di #50532:

do‘Q-H’U'd.¢:”d




     
   
   
   

In addition to the general interest this story will have for many
of our members, it will answer a question frequently asked, even
though we have explained in previous BULLETINS. The question is,
"why doesn' t the NAVS go on television?" The answer is here: in
.the announced policy of all the national television networks to
sell time for "controversial issues." Few would deny, surely, ,
 that anti~vivisection is precisely that. This story is from the
,San Francisco EXAMINER, September 9,1964.

TV Turns Down the AMA

BY The “swat“ P'GSS 3"“ on local stations in. “20 or 30” curity cash benefits, has to know what is available to
United Press International

major cities. been passed by the Senate. them for the benefit of their

~— a- . . .
tiﬁglvleigggn ligevihieseygs: The Administration’ s medi- It faces an uncertain fate in health a 11tt1e difﬁcult to
terday confirmed reports that cal care bill, which combines the House. understand,” F. J. L. Blasin-
they refused about $750, 000 111 health insurance for the aged “We find this kind of cen- game, AMA executive vice

revenue offered by the Amer- with increases in social se- sorship over the people’s right president, said.
ican Medical Association for1 .
one-minute c o m m or c i a ls
dramatizing AMA opposition

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the ‘Mhson Administra. Miami NEWS , September 16, 1964 Milwaukee JOURNAL
tion’s medical care plan. 7 . .. September 251 1964
The AMA promptly charged Protest Against Research .
the action “censorship.” To The Editor: World Day for Anlmals
Spokesman for ' the Na Bitter complaints are coming from Social Security recip- T.0 The Jour “313 All over the world, e?‘
tional Broadcasting Co., the ients about inadequate income in our highly inflated economy. p 61C 1311 yt 1d“ thewwesdtern wprld, QC" 14 13
Columbia Broadcasting SyS~ Do these retired people cease to vote? Don’t they know the ce e ra e as or] Day or Anima s in
, . . . . m e m o r y of Saint Francis of Assisi,
tem. and. Amerlcan Broad. inflation is caused by our Pre51dent and Congress? whose day this is
castmg 00' tall 51319 It was Notwithstanding the preaching about economy in government This day was first set aside by Miss
agamst network Whey to sell spending, a budget of almost one and one-half billions for Margaret Ford the great English hu-
3 minute of time for a con- National Institute of Health was approved by the House of Rep- manitarian, as a day on which humani~
trovers1al1ssue. ' resentatives in April. The National Institute Of Health is the tartans the WOI‘ld OVEI‘ WOUld do all tha;
POLITICAL ADS government bureau that gives grants (over which Congress has :23k 3? (:1 13h etc rbrilrtig ugh thearaetteéitiglgrao:
,"They noted that such was no control once the appropriation is approved) for research ed against the? gﬁdlisnd :nimal iihidoms
not the case for political cam- in medical institutions, including some profit-making, commer- by man. It is on this day in England
paign 0011111le01318 for any cial laboratories ,owned by pharmaceutical manufacturers, and that the clergy make a special effort to
issue involving the electorate to other research organizations in this country. Money is even remind their congregations of their re- '
wsuch 35 an impending ref- sent to institutions in other countries. sponsib'rlities to the animal kingdom
erendum. , The September issue of the National Anti-Vivesection Society The ChurCh has a great responsibility
ArthurE. Duram, an, ex~ will show you ashocking waste of our money, if mommiecessary to remind man Of ms relations 1p m .
g . .7 1 . ,, . . all life, of the ecology of all living be
ecutlve Of. an advert-Isms cruelty to ammals does not concern you, because an unbehev- ings--that what hurts one hurts all. All
al.3911937, retained by the AMA able high percentage of experiments do not benefit humans. life is the reflection of God s Being And
gsald the AMAxprobably W111 Accurately, an editor labeled research W.P.A. for PhDs. love, kindness and compassion should
attempt to. place the ,pro- B. WALLUS Richmond Va. , bind us all together so that we can more
posed teleVISion advertising. ’ ’ truly bring about the reality of God’s per-
, ' fect world.

 

    
  

 

This is indeed a time for us all to re
flect uDon the great Dr. Albert Schweit- 1
zer, who has said:

“Our civilization lacks human feeling
sugges'ed Form Of BeCIUGSI' 1'0 YOUI“ SOCIETY We are humans who are insufficiently

humane! We must realize that and seek
to find a new spirit. We have lost sight
For the information of those who have it in mind to remember of this ideal because we are solely occu-

ed th th ht of men instead of re:
us in their wills butmlike so many who have written usuare' pl wl oug s

membering that our goodness and com—
uncertain how their desires should be expressed, we suggest passion should extend to all creatures.
the following: -

 

 

 

 

 

Rengion and philosophy have not insiste
as much as they should on the feet that
our kindness should include all living
creatures. ” ‘
MRS. JOSEPH E. THOMPSON, .
President. The Animal Protective League.
2545 N. 65th 51., Milwaukee.

 
      
 

 

    
  

To the National Anti-Vivisecﬁon Society, 100 East Ohio,
. Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611, I give and bequeath the Sum of

  

    
  
 
  

#—

 

     

oooooooo oocon...00.000ccaucuses-cocooopnoon'oco dallars
to, »

for the general purposes of the corporation. - If you move, please '

gnOtify us 0“’

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

EXCELLENT arguments “for” and “against”

regulation by advocates of unquestioned sin-
cerity and integrity were presented in the
material accompanying the ballots. No good
purpose could be served by repeating them here,
but it does seem pertinent to call your attention
to a letter to THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
MONITOR on pages 6 and 7 of this BULLE-
TIN. This powerful and unanswerable argu-
ment for total abolition is, of necessity, care-
fully skirted by supporters of regulation, since
the strictest supervision of all animal experimen-
tation would not in any way eliminate the
possibility of future tragedies such as the hor-
rendous result of the use of thalidomide,'a drug
thoroughly “tested” on animals and pronounced
“safe” for humans. Thousands of pitiful, de—
formed babies in all parts of the world today
are living proof that the results of experiments
on animals may not be applied to humans with-
out serious risk to health and life itself.

Year after year, not an issue of this BULLE-
TIN has failed to include one or more authentic
instances of the fallacy and danger of relying
on the results of experiments on animals in
treating humans. It would take a book of sev-
eral hundred pages to list these tragic failures.
In this issue, for example, there is additional
proof of the soundness of our arguments. We
should not fail to use this weapon in our cam-
paign, for it is obvious that abolition of vivi-
section would make regulation unnecessary.

It will be noted that only about half of the
eligible voters of the society cast a ballot. At
ﬁrst glance, this might be attributed to lack of
interest, but we know that is not true. The rea-
son is that a tremendous number of members
believe vivisection should be abolished, and will
support NAVS work for its chartered objective,
but at the same time they also believe that regu-
lation may have some merit and want to help
one or more of the organizations seeking legis-
lation for some form of restriction. These good
members see nothing inconsistent in their posi-
tion, and we respect and understand their
dilemma. Their attitude is perfectly expressed
in a letter from an NAVS member received
while the voting was in progress. Here is a
pertinent part of that letter.

***

”IF it is not too late, I would like to change

my vote—tO‘ leave the society as it now
stands, inasmuch as the strongest bill so far pre-
sented doesn’t eliminate all animal suffering.
(The member had voted for regulation.) “. . .

 

anti—vivisectionists are not popular, but to me
they have the highest moral standards and I am
enclosing my check for $100 to your society . . .
Many of us feel it’s wrong to use animals for
experimentation; and we ALL know it’s evil, to
say the least, to allow animals to suffer regard-
less of whether an experiment is commendable
or worthless. So, our policy should not be
changed.” This thoughtful member goes on to
say that the society itself should not support
regulation, but that members might be asked,
if they wished, to write their representatives in
favor of the Randall bill (the strongest of the
regulation measures) and concluded: “There—
fore, as an individual member, I’m for the bill
(Randall) but I would still want to light,
through an anti-vivisection society, ALL cruel-
ties to laboratory animals.”

This unquestionably is the feeling of those
members who did not vote in the referendum,
the same position outlined to us by the tre—
mendous number who wrote when the plan to
hold the referendum was ﬁrst announced.

NAVS management has given the problem a
great deal of thought. We were criticized for
holding the referendum, but its wisdom is now
obvious, since the issue has been resolved, the
atmosphere cleared and all factions know ex-
actly where they stand and what may be
expected.

THE National Anti-Vivisection Society will
not, of course, support regulation, but in the
interest of harmony, it will not openly and
publicly ﬁght the measures. There will, we are
sure, be a few intemperate ﬁrebrands who will
continue to harass us with letters in an effort
to nulify the result of the referendum. To
those who contemplate such action, assuming
they are members of the society, we make this
suggestion in the friendliest sort of spirit:
resign from the NAVS and give your support,
ﬁnancial and otherwise, to the organizations in
agreement with your own views. You will be
helping them and relieving us of acrimonious
correspondence which merely wastes time.

To the thousands of members who took time
out from their busy lives to read carefully the
arguments for and against regulation, and then
cast the vote representing their honest convic-
tions, the NAVS offers its grateful thanks. You
have contributed much toward the eventual
emancipation of laboratory animals for now, at
long last, the issue is settled and all of us can

get back to work with renewed vigor and hope.
Thank you again.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

VVIJIiEBElN 4k IiEIZ1EIC

ACCOUNTANTS

51 DOUGLAS AVENUE
ELGIN, ILLINOIS
SHerwood 2-7571

JOSEPH C. WUBBEN EDWARD R. REZEK

6257 N. Navaio Avenue 1033 Peale Avenue
Chicago 46, Illinois Park Ridge, Illinois
NEwcastle 1-8075 TAlcott 3-6704

August 5, 1963

 

ACCOUNTING

SYSTEMS -:- AUDITS oz- TAXES

 

 

Board of Directors

National Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street

Chicago 11, Illinois

In accordance with your request we have verified the
results of the referendum submitted to the members of the
National Anti-Vivisection Society on the question of amend-
ing the Society's Charter and By-Laws, for purposes stated
in the Proposition attached to the ballot.

We made a check of the mailing of ballots to satisfy
ourselves that an official ballot was mailed to each eligible
paid-up member. A self-addressed envelope was enclosed with
each ballot mailed to insure that we received the votes di-
rectly from the members. Only ballots received in official
envelopes and post-marked on or before July 31, 1963 were

counted. A tabulation of the ballots received discloses the
following:

48.78 Per cent of the eligible paid-up members cast
their ballots.

63.63 Per cent of the ballots cast voted (NO)
35.58 Per cent of the ballots cast voted (YES)
.79 Per cent of the ballots were invalid.

We hereby certify that the results as stated above are
a true and correct tabulation of the official ballots cast.

Respectfully submitted,

WUBBEN & REZEK

WKWMW

Uh C. Wubben

MEMBER -~ NATIONAL SOCIETY OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT$

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

 

w NUMBER ONE

BULLETIN

 

 

THEY ARE SAFE IN SLEEP

By CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing Director,
National Anti-Vivisection Society

(This is dedicated to the countless millions
of animals that have suffered and died in
vivisection laboratories, and to the count-
less millions, as yet unborn, destined for a
similar fate until vivisection is wiped off
the face of the earth.

Millions would escape vivisection if
EVERY pet owner would read and follow
the advice in this article.

It isn’t pleasant reading, because suffer-
ing and death can never be pleasant.

Too many humanitarians say, “anything
is better than death.”

They wouldn’t say that if they were the
victims of man’s inhumanity.

Read every word of this, and then pass
it on to another pet owner.

You Can help fight vivisection by at least
reducing the number of potential victims.)

 

VIVISECTION laboratories are killing
more than 300 million animals a year. This
very conservative estimate was given by
humanitarians at a congressional hearing
in September, 1962, and other estimates
made by vivisectors themselves, ran as high
as a half billion animals a year. They in-
elude nearly every species, but dogs and
cats alone total many millions. Mice, rats,
guinea pigs, hamsters and rabbits used for
laboratory “work” total hundreds of mil~
lions annually. They are, in every respect,
along with dogs and cats, the helpless vic-
tims of the vivisectors. They differ only
that most of them are bred for vivisection
purposes. ‘

Millions of dogs and cats are bred for

J v viviseCtion. Not intentionally,but they are

destined for that fate when they are born.

Pet owners, many of them anti-vivisec-
tionists, are contributing a large percentage
of the dogs and cats that end up on the vivi-
section rack each year.

Does this shock you? Do you find it un-
believable? Can such a statement be
proven? We intend to shock you, for we
are shocked. You can’t in good conscience
refuse to believe it, for it is true beyond a
doubt. As you read on, you may be in for
a bigger shock. You may determine that
YOU are guilty.

Let’s take a couple of minutes to look at
the facts. But first, let me ask some ques-
tions and you supply the answers.

1—Do you own one or more unspayed
female dogs or cats?

2——Do you allow them to breed?

3—--What do you do with the puppies and
kittens?

If your answer is “no” to the first ques-
tion, then you are not directly contributing
animals for vivisection. But, if you have
male pets and they breed with females be-
longing to others, then you are contributing
indirectly. If you have only female pets and
you do not ever permit them to breed, then
you are not breeding animals destined for
vivisection. '

If you (involuntarily) are breeding pup-
pies and kittens, your answer to the third
question may be found in this list:

1-—-“I sell all of them.”
2—“1 find good homes for them.”

3--—“Iturn them over to the‘animal shelter
(or pound)”

4—“I give them to children in the neigh-
borhood.”

5—-“I take them to a veterinarian and
have them put to sleep, or else destroy
them myself.”

 

 

JANUARY, 1964

 

 




 

 

 

but causes horrible convulsions. One “hu-
mane” society in the south that used strych-
nine had a standing reward for the arrest
and conviction of dog poisoners!

Approximately 300 humane society shel-
ters and pounds are equipped with decom-
pression, or high altitude chambers. Admit—
tedly, they are a vast improvement over the
methods described above. There still,
however, is considerable difference of
opinion as to whether animals feel any pain
before becoming unconscious. There are
reports of ruptured ear drums and other
organs as evidenced by bleeding. True, the
animals become unconscious in 30 to 40
seconds, but if removed under a half hour,
revivals are not unusual and the process has
to be repeated.

Skillfully administered barbituates come
closest to providing euthanasia, or painless
death. The word “skillfully” cannot be em-
phasized too strongly. Administered clum~
sily by one who is not expert, or well
trained, they cause pain and fright; even
prolonged suffering.

it 96 96

THIS is the most expensive method and
to be quite frank, that is why so few humane
societies use barbituates. Even some soci-
eties that have well equipped, staffed vet-
erinary clinics, don’t use them.

Nor should ordinary barbituates, made
for use as anesthetics and sedatives, be used
for purposes of euthanasia. When a bar-
bituate made solely for euthanasia is used
properly, death is instantaneous. They are

manufactured under trade names, such as
Euthanasia and have to be administered by
hypodermic syringe.

The number of animals put to sleep by
this method is infinitesimally small. N 0 one
but a veterinarian can purchase euthanasia-
type barbituates. N 0 one but a person train-
ed to use them can put animals to sleep by
this method. -

So, in discussing this problem involving
millions and millions of unwanted animals,
we come down to a problem that almost
defies solution. It shapes up somewhat like
this:

We are permitting 120 million kittens and
puppies to be born every year for which
there are no homes.

We are thus creating an enormous sur-
plus that feeds the vivisection laboratories.

It is utterly impossible for people to keep
all the kittens and puppies they permit to
be bred.

This problem wouldn’t exist if every pet
owner would control his pets and prevent
them from breeding, and even though such
control is relatively simple, not one person
in a thousand will attempt it.

As a humanitarian, you have a clear and
plain duty: you must see to it that YOU do
not unwittingly or through deliberate care-
lessness add to the total of surplus animals.
Put them to sleep in the way that satisfies
your conscience.

They are safe in sleep.

 

the following:

 

Suggested Form of Bequest to Our Society

For the information of those who have it in mind to remember
us in their wills but -- like so many who have written us -- are
uncertain how their desires should be expressed, we suggest

To the National Anti-Vivisection Society, 100 East Ohio
Street, Chicago, Illinois 6061], I give and bequeath the sum of

. . . . . ................ dollars

oooooooooooooooooooooooooo

for the general purposes of the corporation.

 

 

 

 

 




This may require individual sacriﬁce, and that is why we prefaced this letter with a
plea that you read it, not only carefully, but prayerfully. We are, as you know, most grate-
ful for the annual dues of our members. But, the annual dues of
all our members are not sufﬁcient to meet our minimum needs.
SACRIFICE We are able to “balance” our budget and expand our work only
REQUIRED! because some of our members are now making sacriﬁcial contribu-
tions every month. They believe in this cause with all their hearts
and consider no sacriﬁce too great. Why is there need to give
and pledge a monthly amount? Because there is not only the need for more funds by the
society, but there is a desperate need for every member to decide as to how important he or
she considers the work of The National Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

 

 

 

 

It is an opportunity for each of our members to face up to the question as to whether we
religiously adhere to the Christian values which we profess. In a world gone mad with the
lust for blood and cruelty we cannot give too much. And more
than that, we need to commit ourselves to earnest prayer. We
PRAY ABOUT urge you to pray and meditate upon the importance of Spiritual
YOUR PLEDGE Values, before making your pledge. It takes real courage to make
a sacriﬁcial pledge, which costs you something. That courage
comes to those who pray.

 

 

 

 

 

But, there is another purpose in our campaign for monthly pledges to the support of the
work of The National Anti-Vivisection Society and that is the blessing that comes with mak-
ing the pledge. Immediately following the decision to sacriﬁce through a monthly pledge to
support the work of the society, a spiritual impact is felt by the member. He or she will
have begun a new giving habit and will be motivated by a new sense of stewardship towards
his or her other talents and resources. Interest in the society will be increased. In short, a
new zeal and interest will be born in the individual member and a greater and stronger leader-

ship will be born in the society.

 

The possibility of our society raising the amount needed in monthly pledges depends
upon equal sacriﬁce, not equal pledges. If every member will make a sacriﬁCIal monthly
pledge, our money problems will be solved. The progress we make
in our campaign to abolish vivisection will depend entirely on the

GIVING amount we have in the “war chest.” That depends, of course, on
STANDARD the total raised in sacriﬁcial monthly pledges. We operate on a
strictly cash basis and our only 1ncome 1s from our members. We
do not have any signiﬁcant trust funds or invested endowment.

Our members want to see their contributions put to work to stop vivisection now! And we
Spend what we get.

 

 

 

 

 




An Im
POrtant M
You . essage Con '
and Anti-Vivisection cermng

29 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

(Founded in 19

THE N ATION AL ANTI -V1VISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

My Fellow Humanitarian:

f our civilization is the cold, calculated
at modern chamber of horrors: the
about this unspeakable suffering
lead for a few minutes of

One of the gre

brutality to helples

vivisection laboratory.
ume to e

you you,

National tion Society,

the many organizations campaign

before humane citizens...and wi

Will you read this with an open mind? Perhaps you have vaguely heard
about anti-vivisection, but it is unlikely you have had the sto
revealed to you in all its horror. Will you give us a hearing,
decide for yourself whether our position is sound?

Vivisection is as out—moded as the trolley car. It has utterly failed
f animals

y the unparalleled agony it inflicts on millions 0
ts of children, to satisfy

ial laboratories.

to justif
annually. Many of the Victims are pe
the ever—increasing demand of commerc

The recent tragedy resulting from use of the drug, thalidomide, tested
on animals and found "safe," has persuaded many thoughtful citizens
that the extravagant c ' for animal experimentation are false
and that the public need harder look at the picture.

Look at the photographs taken in laboratories; read what newspapers

Then examine your cience and

' a moral sin and ished.
'oining this society now —~ today?

say about unres
make up your mind.
Will you help in this crusad

Faithfully yours,

W4 ML

Rdbert A. Russell, D. D., '
The National Anti—Vivisection Society

E . Robert A. Russell, D.D
plphany Episcopal Church.

PreSide . Denver, Co
nt, National Anti-Vivisection Slggfedto
y

 

 




 

The TRENTONIAN, Trenton, New Jersey, March 27, 1964

N. 1. Science Fair Exhibit Touches Off Controversy

NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.
(UPD—The- Central New Jersey
Science Fair was engulfed in
controversy Thursday over an
experiment conducted by a Long
Branch High School senior.

Investigators from. the Hu-
mane Society spent the day por-
ing over student exhibits in
search of experiments which
may have violated the state’s
anti-vivisection law.

The society’s probe as touch-
ed oﬂi by a viv' 39% $0.11. experi-
ment conducte by “’ -year-old
Janet Perlman of Long Branch
who entered a display on work
she had done last summer un-
der the auspices of the National
Science Foundation.

When the senior coed arrived
at the Rutgers University gym-
nasium Wednesday for the one-
day fair, she found her display
had been removed.

She was told that the fair
committee had ordered her dis-
play removed for fear it might
violate the anti-vivisection law.

Vivisection involves scientific
experiments on animal-s.

Under state law, vivisection
experiments are not allowed un-
less conducted under surpervi-
sion.

But Miss Perlrnan said she

had done the work under the.»

supervision of the National Sci-
ence foundation last summer at

the University of Delaware.
The experiment involved the
reproduction of sleep wave pat-
terns in the brain of a cat.
Mrs. Pearl Krupp 04f Teaneck,
an observer at the fair for. the
Humane Society, said many oth-

er exhibits at the fair would be
investigated.
She said the fair directors had

_ been warned about the anti-vi-
visection law. “We want this

stopped,” she said.
Mrs. Krupp said the society

was not against vivisection ex-
periments in the interest of re-
search if the work is done by
qualified scientists. But, she
said, the society was very much
against vivisections being done
by children.

 

 

    

LAB EXPERIENCE _ Edwa‘hi“vi-fit:it
ers .College students, gain valuable ex-
perience 1n the biology laboratory.

AFRO-AMERICAN, Philadelphia, March 21, 1964

drievstudent dlssects a cat while ano-
ther takes notes anmm observes.

. ........

 

 

 

 

 

THE PRESS, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, May 17, 1964

High Students Study Tronquilized Hearts

Press State Wire

CANONSBURG, May 16 -
Ten students at nearby
Canon-McMillan High School
are completing five months of
heart research normally re-
served for colleges or hos-
pitals.

The students are learning
how tranquilizers affect the
cardiac cycle in frogs.

The research is under the
direction of Daniel A. De-
Figio, a biology and physiol-
ogy teacher at the high
schooL

Mr. DeFigio applied for ~—
and got—a $550 grant from
the Southwestern Pennsylva.
nia Heart Assn. in Washing-
ton. Pa., to finance the project.

 

Of that amount. $450 goes
to Mr. DeFig‘io for working
with the students after
school and Saturdays. The
other $100 buys equipment.

The 10 stridents have been
spending an hour a day, four
days a week, plus five to six
hours on Saturdays in the biol-
ogy laboratory since January.

Consumed in the experi-
ments have been ].7 dozen
frogs, 1000 milligrams of
five different types of
tranquilizers, h y p o d ermic
needles and ,a quantity of
graph paper.

The paper is used to record
and compare the heartbeats of
tranquilizcd frogs with those
of non-tranquilized frogs on a

 

device called a kymograph.

The kymograph, which cost.

$233. was donated by the
senior class for use in physiol-
ogy courses and experiments.

Two commercial d r u g
firms supplied the tranquil-
izer powder free of charge.

The powder is dissolved in
Ringer’s Solution——-chosen be
cause it does not upset the
body chemistry of the frog—-
and injected into the body
cavity with a needle.

Each frog is given one-tenth
milligram of tranquilizer solu-
tion for every 10 grams of
body weight.

The 10 students on the re-
search team are Anna. Mae
Allison, Edy Rene Cant-hie.

 

Carol Haught. Cheryl Mat-
yaz, Carol DiSibio, Paula
Feyche, D a v e Galbraith,
Evelyn O’Shinsky, 'Dave
Stutts and Beverly Novak.

The students —- all juniors
and seniors—were. selected for
their outstanding work in
science courses, ’

Mr. DcFigio helped them de-
velop a bibliography of outside
readings on tranquilizers as
part of. the research.

Students are preparing a
paper comparing the tranquil-
izers and suggesting possible
areas of future research.

High school heart research
was suggested by Mrs. Mary
Organ, executive director of
the Heart Assn. in Washing
ton and Greene Counties,

 

 

 

 




 

54

apt
)SE
bys

In-
ha
118
to

'e-r
re-

‘01'

ct— ‘

New York TIMES

TESTS 0N PATIENTS
LllllllED BY CITY

Written Consent and Full
Data on Research to Be
Required of Haspitals

w

 

The city announced yesterday
that new and stringent controls
0n research involving indigent
patients in voluntary hospitals
would go into effect in three
months.

'Dr, Ray E. Trussell, the Come
missioner of Hospitals, said the
action had been prompted by
the recent controversy aroused
by a cancer research project at
the Jewish Chronic Disease
Hospital in Brooklyn.

In that project, which came
to light last month, 22 patients
were injected with living cancer
cells. They had given their Oral
consent to the injections, but
they were never told What the
injections contained.

Under the new rules, both
written consents and full in-
formation Will be mandatory.

' Technically, the rules will
apply only to research involv-
ing patients whose care is paid
for by the city. But. Dr. Trus-
sell made it clear that he ex-
pected the voluntary hospitals
to adopt the program for all
research projects.

Penalty for Non-Compliance

If a hospital fails to comply
with the new rules, the city
will cut off all payments for
city-charge payments.

In effect, the voluntary hos-
pitals will have to adopt the
same rigid, professional screen-
mg procedures for research that
eX1st in the city’s 21 municipal
hospitals.

Of the 100 voluntary hospi-
tals, '80 treat city-charge-
patients in wards. These hos-
p1tals receive about $65 million
i" year from the city’s charitable
mstltutions budget for the care
of indigents.

voluntary hospital is a

nonprofit institution operated.
under private auspices.
_ The Board of Hospitals unan-
imously endorsed the new pol-
1cy at a meeting Feb. 19. It
was approved yesterday by City
Controller Abraham D. Beame,
Who administers the charitable
institutions budget.

Deadline for Compliance

Every voluntary hospital in-
volved must satisfy the Con-

troller and the board by June

hat the new l‘c ' ' '
instituted. , po 1 y has been
The key conditions of the
Emmy are that a doctor. seeking
4.0 do = research introlving- city
Patients . must get- written ap-
Pl‘OevarlegrOn: hisachief of service.
ues. , must then-2pc en-

gorsed by the hospital’s medical
or some arm of the

Dr, Trussell said that many

N

cars $200,000 To
STUDY "NEUROTIC"
RATS --- PART OF
IT YOUR TAXEs::

(Chicago ' 5 AMERICAN)

June 1, 1964

Study of Rats
to Seek Causes
of Mental Ills

A corps of neurotic rats at
De Paul university may help
shed new light this summer on
an old dispute—the origin of
mental disorders.

Observing the rats will be a
scientific team of psycholo-
gists and biologists.

Behind their research is a
controversy between two major
schools of thought on the cause
of mental illness.

One school contends that the
behavior associated with such
disorders springs from a per-
son’s environment—the shock
of disappointment, tragedy, or
maltreatment during childhood.

Make Rats Neurotic

The other holds that mental
illness is caused by biochemical
abnormalities in the brains of
mentally disturbed individuals.

In the De Paul experiment,
Dr. Glen D. Johnson, associate
professor of psychology, will
use various means to make
normal white rats neurotic.

The animals then will be
treated with tranquilizers.

Dr. Mary A. McWhinnie, pro-
fessor of biology, will study
their biochemistry during the
various stages of the experi-
ment.

Dr. McWhinnie is the recipi-
ent of more than $200,000 in
government and industry re-
search grants, and was chosen
last summer as the first wom-
an to take part in government-
sponsored research in Antarc-
tica. ~

MILWAUKEE SENTINEL

Saturday, July 25, 1964

 

CRUELTY + CURSE=6O DAYS

Cruelty to a little kitten and curse Words to a judge added
up to 60 days in the county jail Friday for Robert R0bbins.

19, of 1912 N. 13th st.

Police testified that they saw Robbins hurl the kitten
against a .car parked in a lot at 1248 N. 16th st., early
Friday. After christening the animal Harry, they took it
to the Wisconsin Humane society, police said.

“Cruelty to animals is as bad as cruelty to human beings,”
Judge Duffy said, as he sentenced Robbins to 30 days in

the county jail.

“You blankety—blank,”.Robbins said, as he was being led
toward the bull pen by deputies.

“Make that 60 days,” snapped Judge Duffy.

 

 

The POST
Washington, D.C.
June 10, 1964.

Research Animals

I have seen the new cages
for research monkeys at
N.I.H. in which many of the
poor creatures cannot stand
erect. One was somersaulting
in a tight circle like a frus-
trated ball of fur. Even sad—
der was a big fellow who sat
despondently in a cramped
little cubicle, legs and arms
folded to his side. There was
none of the old roomy cages.

These monkeys are lucky
compared to many that are
strapped down to chairs, day
and night, for weeks in an-
other ruthless space-saving
system of storage. It is hard
to imagine what the next step
will be in the restraint of the
monkeys so that more of
them can be packed into

 

buildings across the country
along with dogs that are held
in cages for years without.
release and cats stuffed in
shoe-box-size containers.

We have this vast, unnec-
essary torture because Fed-
eral grants to use animals
for research are increasing
each year, but there is no
adequate program to give
responsible people the au-
thority and funds to provide
care. ‘

WARDS wants a Citizen-
Professional B o a r d estab-
lished by Congress to plan
for the necessary modern
housing and humane, trained
manpower toestop this cruel
trend. Those on the job must
be efﬁcient professionals, not
superintendents of increasing
1y hideous systems of storage.

MRS. PEYTON H. DUNN,

Secs. WARDS (Welfare of Animals Used
for Research in Drugs and Surgery).

Washington.

 

 

 

voluntary hospitals maintained

such procedures. He stressedf
that the board was not trying;

to discourage reserch, but mere-
ly “assure uniform protection
to all patients cared for at
city expense." '

In' the Brooklyn controversy,
a state supreme court justice
ordered the Jewish Chronic Dis"-
ease Hospital on Monday to
turn over to one of the hos-
pital’s directors the records on
the cancer research project.

NEWS, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
Fighting Cruelty

Editor, The News:

I have sent the column published in The Ft.
Lauderdale News July 19 concerning Cleopatra,
the test mouse, to the Humane Society of the
United States. I have also written Mr. and
Mrs. Fleck, the parents of Robert Fleck, of
my action. Past experiences have proven that
the mouse today leads to the cat or dog

tomorrow.

There are eight boys, nine to fifteen years
old, in this group, more than willing to force a
live animal into a home-made rocket for the
unholy enjoyment of blasting it into space
regardless of the outcome.

If there is no compassion for the helpless
at this tender age, what can be expected when

they are adults?

This is a cruel, senseless, disgusting pas-
time. Play with rockets, blast off your rockets,
but leave the defenseless alone. If children
aren’t taught pity for the mute creatures of
this earth, God help the coming generation.

The Humane Society of the United States
isfighting cruelty to animals in all parts of the
country. I mean to fight it here, in my city.

BERNICE BOLIN

 

 

 

 

 




'2" Kﬁ‘kt"?

U
|

V A ' ‘
0‘3;Q.':”'1’:

 

 

 

(Continued from Page 2)

in history.”

But, the great social reform failed. It
failed despite the fact that prohibition was
backed by a solid majority of the nation’s
law makers. Crime and corruption fol-
lowed. A survey in just one small city of
200,000 revealed there were nearly 2,000
speakeasies. More people were drinking
illicit liquor than those who drank before
prohibition. The lesson was very clear, but
the prohibition forces refused to recognize

1t.

INSTEAD of working for public support,
they concentrated on measures for strict
enforcement, and when the public rebelled,
they couldn’t stem the tide and repeal was
the result.

Let us never for one moment forget that
lesson. If by some miracle the anti-vivi-
section movement could succeed in winning
a majority of the law makers to our cause
who would enact abolition measures, with-
out a solid majority of the peOple on our
side, we could not get the laws enforced,
nor could we prevent their repeal.

Women’s suffrage and abolition of slav-
ery were two reform movements that suc~
ceeded. For many years, the two move-
ments were intermingled. The anti-slavery
movement was first, but by 1829 the effec-
tive support being given by women, in turn
gave the women some help for equal rights,
the first aid they had had since the found-
ing of the Republic. Strange as it may
seem to us now, the question of equal rights
for women nearly wrecked the American
Anti-Slavery Society, but William Lloyd
Garrison and Wendell Phillips stood by the
women led by Lucretia Mott.

No reform movements in America were
more unpopular than those two. The
framers of the Constitution were over-
Whelmingly opposed to slavery, but left the
question out of the Constitution when
South Carolina and Georgia threatened to
stay out of the federation of states.
Women’s suffrage deadlocked the Consti-

 

tutional Convention and the controversy
became so bitter that it was decided to com-
promise by leaving the question up to the
states.

Abolition of slavery had no public sup-
port at all in the beginning. When Garri—
son took over the leadership and started
publication of the Liberator, it was said he
had less than a dozen staunch supporters.
He was denied the right to speak in public
buildings and squares; was refused the use
of every church in Boston, and his voice
was not heard until a small group of in-
fidels in Boston offered him the use of their

small hall.
:3 >1: .1:

THE first issue of his paper, the Liber-
ator, was published by Garrison on Janu-
ary 1, 1831. Penniless, he vowed to live on
bread and water if that became necessary.
He was seized by a mob and dragged
through the streets of Boston, and though
bloody, his “head was not bowed.” He
proclaimed:

“I am in earnest—J will not equivocatem-
I will not excuse I will not retreat a
single inch—~And I will be heard.”

Not all opponents of slavery agreed with
him by any means. He had to fight those
who would compromise and “regulate.”
He had to fight against the most powerful
and wealthiest “special interests” of the
period.

 

He had to take precious time to explain
to and reason with those of his supporters
who insisted on “putting the cart before the
horse.” To those who demanded that the
American Anti-SlaVery Society seek aboli-
tion through the federal government, he
answered by pointing out that the federal
government had no power over the system
of slavery in any state in the Union. He
knew that abolition had to come through
the individual states by force of overwhelma
ing public opinion.

.To this end he devoted all his time and
energy in the building of the society and
the creation of public support. He was a
pacifist and opposed the Civil War, but

(Continued on Page 14)

 

 

. mm 3-3/1“ ,,,,,,

 

 




 

 

 

 

THESE are the most common answers
given by pet owners. Only those who give
the last answer can be absolutely certain
that they are not breeding puppies and kit-

tens that will end up as victims of the vivi-
sectors.

You can’t be certain they won’t end up
in a laboratory or be otherwise subjected
to cruelty if you sell them, find homes for
them, turn them over to a shelter or pound,

dump them or give them to neighborhood
children.

Nor can you always be sure they will be
put to sleep when you take them to a veter~
inarian, unless you insist on staying until
he puts them to sleep and you yourself ex-
amine the bodies.

We warned you in the preface that this
would be unpleasant reading. The facts of
life, especially animal life, are seldom pleas-
ant. They are often gruesome.

If these facts sicken you, just remember
what they do to those of us who have to
deal with them every hour of every day,
year in and year out.

If by now you are wondering what hap-
pened to just one cute little butter ball of
a puppy, or a fluffy, playful kitten you gave
to someone, stop to consider what happened
to the approximately 120 million~ puppies
and kittens born during the previous 12
monthsw—born to die.

About ten years ago, the staff of the
American Humane Association conducted
a national survey. Enough reliable statis—
tics were gathered to convince them that
every hour of every day ten thousand pup-
pies and kittens were being born just to die.

99 96 96

USING the same yardstick today, in 1963,
that number has increased to 13,700 an hour,
or approximately 120 million a year.

Such statistics stagger the imagination
of the average pet owner. If they are ques~
tioned by the professionals who work with
dogs and cats every dayw—the veterinarians
and the people who operate animal shelters
and pounds—it is only because they think
they may be too conservative!

A female dog can produce two litters a
year, averaging five puppies to the litter, of
which three are certain to be females. She
will start breeding before she is a year old
and can continue to breed for ten years or

 

 

more. Taking all breeds and mixed breeds
into consideration, litters of less than five
puppies are the exception, while litters of
eight or more are common. So the average
of five puppies to the litter is accepted.

There are no reliable statistics on cats,
but the average female can produce four
litters a year. It isn’t unusual for an uncon—
trolled female cat to become pregnant while
she is still nursing a litter. The average
humane society animal shelter will receive
five times as many unwanted or surplus
kittens in a year as it does puppies.

Consider for a moment what could be a
case history of just one female dog. Ten
years ago when the AHA made its survey
and came up with the statistics we have
cited, and never used until the Humane
Society of the United States published its
well—known pamphlet, “10,000 An Hour,” a
female puppy was placed in a “good” home
by a well-meaning family. We qualified the
adjective “good” with quotation marks be-
cause the owners permitted her to breed.

’X‘ 96 96

LET’S be really conservative and say that
this female produced only one litter a year,
and that all female puppies descended from
her also produced only one litter a year, an
assumption cutting in half the potential
number. Let’s assume that the remainder
were placed in “good” homes, each female
producing her first litter of five by the time
she was a year old and so on and so on.

By projecting this potential, already cut
in half, at the end of ten years, the one
female could conceivably have a total of
1,682,808 descendants, of which 946,176 are
females and 736,632 are males!

Fantastic, you say? Not at all, because
puppies and kittens are being born at the
rate of 13,700 an hour, and the birthrate is
growing yearly.

Who is responsible? Everyone who per-
mits his female pet to breed is adding to
this tragic surplus and feeding the growing
demand by the vivisectors for more dogs
and cats for experimental purposes.

Even if you place into other homes every
puppy and kitten produced by your pets
each year, you are contributing to this evil
because you cannot possibly control the dis—

(Continued on Page 13)

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[89L '°N llWHEld
'Tll 'OSVDIHD

(llVd

HOV/130:! 'S 'n
'980 ”JO!“ NON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IMPORTANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

NILET‘IHH

 

 

 

'QOE-uLO-Q HBSHDN NOILVHLBlDSU 'LOV

SNOILVLIDl'IOB SWEVLlUVHD VIENH‘IOD

 

:10 .LDIULSIG EHJ. NEON” OEHBLSIDSU

 

 

(13182100311 NW3)!
‘HEILSVWLSOd

swarm ‘11 03mm
399418 ONO 19321 001
heroes u0!1008!A!A'-!1uv [unopuN BILL

Agents of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service in November, 1963, examined the
books and financial records of your society. The official notification of
the result of that audit is reproduced herewith for the information of all
members. Your contribution to the National Anti~Vivisection Society is an
allowable income tax deduction. We employ no solicitors or professional
funderaising organizations and pay no commissions to anyone.

 

Clarence E. Richard, Managing Director

 

 

U. S. TREASURY DEPARTMENT - INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

23:2, £13? NOTIFICATION T0 EXEMPT ORGANIZATION THAT NO FEDERAL INCOME TAx OR
INFORMATION RETURN Is NECESSARY

 

YEARFiscal Year Ended:

6/30/63

Our recent examination of your books and records f
from Federal income taxes for such year and that,
you were not required to file an annual information return for such year.

or the year indicated discloses that your organization was exempt
in accordance with section 6033(a) of the Internal Revenue Code,

 

I"

100 East Ohio Street
Chicago, Illinois

Luau-

 

NAME AND ADDRESS (Show number, street, city or town, postal zone, State)

”l

National Anti~Vivisection Society

.J

 

(“mar

District Director

 

 

IRS ‘ D. C.

 

FORM 3089 (5451)

 

 

 




The ceiling on giving will be set by the pledges of those members most able to give. For
some members, a monthly pledge will not involve a personal sacriﬁce, but personal sacriﬁce
is desirable and necessary for most members. This means giving
up a personal need for the cause. To pledge even $10 a month
would mean a great personal sacriﬁce for some. Others, using

 

SET YOUR

OWN AMOUNT this same standard, would consider $20.00, $30.00, $40.00,. or even
$50.00 a month as the amount they could sacriﬁce. Only you, after
prayerful consideration, can determine the amount of your pledge.
With this letter is a pledge card which we ask you to ﬁll out and return to us in the
enclosed envelope. Please don’t make your decision until you have considered the tremen-
dous needs of the society and the beneﬁt to yourself.

 

 

 

 

If, after prayerful consideration, you decide you must enlist in our “shock troops,” then
determine how much you can sacriﬁce each month.

 

Let me hasten to assure you that you can be “honorably discharged” from the “shock
troops” at any time. Conditions change, and change often alters our ﬁnancial circum-
stances. If this should happen to you, you need not feel em-
barrassed. If for any reason, you cannot, or do not want to con-
PLEDGES ARE tribute monthly, you may discontinue the pledge with no questions
NOT BINDING asked. Remember — we are asking you to volunteer for service in
our “shock troops.” We are not “drafting” you. If you have to
discontinue monthly pledge payments temporarily, or even perma-
nently, we will understand and there won’t be a hint of criticism from us. All we ask; all we
beg of you, is your regular help to the extent you can afford.

 

 

 

 

 

If you could see what we have seen; hear what we have heard, you would feel no hesita-
tion about making a real sacriﬁce. The screams of suffering animals; the moans of the ones
whose suffering will end in death, and the pleading eyes of the frightened ones in the labora-
tory cages waiting their turn on the vivisection tables, never cease to haunt us.

Help us put an end to their torture.

Help us — and them — now!

Faithfully yours,

ﬂuid/gawk

Robert A. Russell, D. D.
President
The National Anti-Vivisection Society

 




 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

 

NUMBER 3

JULY, 1964

 

 

 

CHICAGO SUN-JIMES
Sat, May 9, 1964

 

Animal Society
Sues To Bar TV

B ullfight Films

The National Antivivisection
Society, 100 E. Ohio, Friday
filed suit in US. District Court
in an attempt to step bullfight
television programs on Chan-
nel 26 (UHF).

The suit asks the court to
order the Federal. Communi-
cations Commission to call an
immediate hearing to deter-
mine whether the new station’s
license should be revoked. The
channel broadcasts bullfight
pictures on Saturday nights.

Lawyers for the society de-
clared that Illinois law orders
a $3 fine for anyone taking
money for admission of people
into bullfights, cockfights, bear-
fights and battles between
other animals. They called the
Channel 26 broadcasts “con-
trary to the policy of the
State of Illinois.”

 

 

 

NAVS OPENS WAR ON
BULLFIGHT TELECASTS

By CLARENCE E. RICHARD

Managing Director
National Anti-Vivisection Society

I N February of this year a new Chicago tel-
evision station, WCIU, began telecasting live
bullfights from Mexico City. The fights were
taped on Sunday afternoons and aired in Chi-
cago on Saturday nights from 8 to 10 p.m., a
period generally conceded to be prime view-
lng time.

There was an immediate and spontaneous
outburst of indignant protest from humani-
tarians to the station, to humane organiza-
tions and to the NAVS. The station’s mail
became so heavy—and up to this point no
organized opposition had appeared — that
John C. Weigel, its manager, felt impelled to
defend the program publicly. The Chicago
Tribune’s Francis Coughlin in a signed article
on February 25 said:

“Station WCIU agrees that bullfighting is
not a sport. Bullfights are presented, so a
condensation of the station disclaimer runs,
‘only as a portrayal of one phase of life in
Mexico.' They are not presented or intended
to be children’s viewing. We neither condemn
nor condone bullfights or bullfighting.’ ”

 

Mr. Coughlin had this pertinent remark
about WCIU’s defense: “All of which, if this
gringo reviewer may be permitted an observa-
tion, is pretty fancy rhetorical capework.”
(Not a single television critic on any Chicago
newspaper has had anything good to say
about the bullfight telecasts and even Mr.
Weigel publicly admitted he could not watch
them. “Too queasy in the stomach,” he ex-
plained.

As the controversy grew in extent and bit-
terness, members of the National society be-

 

 

 

A

 

 




 

 

 
 
 
 

 

1 V THE MILLENNIUM GUlLD, lNC.

it will arrive, not by force of divine fiat, u
t of the pla

g with God in

the working ou

 

comes,
been co-
al bliss.’

millennium
generations
millenni

"When the
men have for operatin
summation of that ’

 

r—

 

Mr. Ciarence E. '
ai Anti—Vivisection Soci

, The Nation
‘ ' 100 East Ohio Street
Chicago 11, iiiinois

 

Dear Mr . Richard:

y years bee

in this
'rety are be

e for man
iighting
their en

i hav
ize buii

fights in

 

wiii have

we
major deieat ior

. i predict that ii this atrocity is not haited at this point,
buiiiightin i ' s ooun ry within the next two years, a
N the humane movement .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUTS ,

  
 

 

Sincereiy y

 

sident

 

Curtis Freshei, Pre

of all

‘ 1
f the rights
which

CPin'i

a just consideration 0
he unnecessary evils of the world and one
f our fellow creatures for food, furs, so-calle
oral reasons why this is so.”-—-—-President

 

precept and example,

most among t

d slaughter o

s Association is to
ch that fore
al and m

“The object of
races, human and subhuman a
underlies most 0 ' n an
rth the physic
York 19,

medical research an
l

Curtis P. Freshe ,

 

 

 

r—v

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Can we believe what vivisectors and their paid apologists say in defense
of the evil inherent in animal experimentation? The answer must always

be an emphatic NO! The truth simply is not in them. This is a strong
statement, but it is backed by documentary evidence. Reproduced below is
an editorial from the MEDICAL WORLD NEWS, June 21, 1963. In the first
paragraph it is flatly stated that bills now before Congress to regulate
vivisection are being vigorously promoted by the National Anti-Vivisection
Society. The truth is that the NAVS has consistently and strongly OPPOSED
all such measures and will continue to do so until its members decree
otherwise. Dr. Fishbein is guilty of either colossal ignorance (which
should disqualify him from spouting off in public about matters beyond his
ability to understand) or of a deliberate lie. A copy of this accusation
has been sent to Dr. Fishbein and to the editor of the MEDICAL WORLD NEWS.

 

 

 

 

Antivivisectionists Lobby
For New Legislation

he 88th Congress is considering

seven pieces of legislation dealing
with the care of laboratory animals.
And the National Society for Medical
Research reports that at least three
more are pending. These bills, pro—
moted vigorously by the National Anti—
vivisection Society, would severely reg—
ulate experiments on animals. Some
are extreme in their proposed restric-
tions.

Scientists, including those in the
medical profession, are understand-
ably tired of this annual battle with an—
tivivisectionists. Some have apparently
grown weary enough to accept “restric—
tions we can live with.”

Such a point of 'view has histori-
cally been the opening wedge to control-
by—dictatorship. The battle for proper
animal experimentation is not a cam-
paign for the personal convenience of
anatomists, physiologists, pathologists,
immunologists or surgeons. Animal ex-
perimentation is one of the most im—
portant factors in furthering the knowl-
edge of physiology, control of disease,
the development of important reme-

dies—indeed, the entire advancement
in health and longevity. Compromise
on this issue is defeat.

Several states, including Massachu-
setts, New York, Ohio, 'Illinois, Wis—
consin, Minnesota, South Dakota,
Oklahoma, Utah and Connecticut, al-
ready have adopted laws specifying
that unclaimed animals in public
pounds be utilized in biological and
medical research instead of being de—

stroyed and thus sacriﬁced uselessly.

Animal care centers such as those
at the University of Louisville and Uni—
versity of Illinois schools of medicine
are models of proper care for animals.
At Louisville, Carolyn Verhoeﬁ, who
for 40 years demonstrated that love of
animals, common sense, and scientific
research can go hand in hand, has en—
dowed the post of animal care veter-
inarian at the university. The animal
care center in Louisville was named in
her honor.

Attempts at Self-Regulation

In New York City, 30 laboratories
and medical schools that use animals
for research participate in a voluntary
inspection program conducted by vet—
erinarians of the ASPCA, and the
number of participating laboratories is
expected to be doubled in a month.
The New York program reﬂects the
effectiveness of self-regulation.

In hearings before Congress, anti-
vivisectionists summoned the photo—
graphs and tales of horror that have
been their major support in the past. In
the Saturday Review Cleveland Amory
accepts as evidence and truth almost
anything that the antivivisectionists
cite in their support. Mr. Amory may
not know better, but the editors of the
Saturday Review should.

Those who would compromise with
the antivivisectionists should realize
that appeasement will never stop the

campaign continuously waged by
them. I

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It would be interesting to hear some adult vivisector try to explain how the "experiment"
described in the story reproduced below (Milwaukee JOURNAL, July 26) benefitted science.
It probably would be contended that "it was only a mouse and who cares?" What other
excuse is possible? There are many authorities in the field of child psychology who DO

care, and.who have publicly voiced their alarm, not over a mouse, of course,

Ut over

the possible effects on the character of adolescents who apparently lack that "rev-
erence for life" which Dr. Albert Schweitzer, among others, insists is as important

as genuine scientific achievement.

Publicity newspapers ive to childish dabbling in experiments involving cruelty to

animals encourages ot er 'teenagers to try one of their own, thus settin
reaction which could have serious consequences for generations to come.

off a chain
In Florida

recently, a humane society stopped a 21-year-old high school student from carrying out
a project to "orbit a dog around the world in a rocket.")

If the "value" of this sort of scientific play-acting is conceded, so far as an increase
in knowledge of racketeering is concerned, how would it have been lessened by the sub-
stitution of a 1 ounce piece of stone, for example, for the living animal? Will some

vivisector come forth with an answer to this question?

 

Rocket Ride Is Lust for Mequon Mouse

At 1:33 pm. Saturday,
Esop—a one ounce white
mouse—gave its life for rock-
etry in Mequon.

It crashed when the pay
load stage of a three foot,
three inch rocket dropped off
too soon.

Prodded by friends, chief
rocketeer Scott McElroy, 14,
of 11420 N. Parkview av.,
then fired the rocket in a sec-
ond test of his space age
dreams. This time it climbed
to its expected height of 1,060
feet.

Rocketman Scott said he

hoped that the humane soci-
ety woudn’t be mad about
Esop’s death, because the
whole project was intended
to further science. Scott was
the 1964 science prize Win-
ner at Wilson Avenue school
in Mequon.

You might think that send-
ing a mouse into the sky is
a simple task. The way Scott
and friends carried it out was
a home town version of a
Cape Kennedy operation.

The launching took place
in Scott’s back yard. Neigh~
bors stopped hanging up

clothes to watch. The young-
ster had to be careful about
the wires, batteries and the
push button control board.

William D. Schroeder, 13,
of 11851 N. Spring Dale ct.,
vice-president of the Astro-
caps—who send up rockets
now and then from Timmer—
man field—mwas on duty with a
walkie-talkie. His job was to
send instructions to William
Berrall, 13, of 4113 W. Frei-
stadt rd., the recovery man,
who also had a walkie-talkie.

“My job,” William ex-
plained, “is to get it. I run

after it and try to find it. We
wanted a live mouse.”

Data on every aspect of the
firing had been computed.
The red and yellow para-
chute to bring back the pay
load—meaning Esop—was
carefully packed.

The rocket ship, which
Scott needed a week to build,
was carefully inspected. There
was a countdown—starting at
five so the suspense would
not be as great as at Cape
Kennedy.

Esop’s weight at maximum
acceleration had even been

computed by Scott. Esop
would weigh three ounces.

After the failure of the first
flight, Scott reluctantly
tucked Esop back into the
rocket

In the second test, Esop’s
body floated down safely in
the parachute.

“I’m not going to launch a
mouse again,” Scott reflected.
“It was a living being.”

In the future, he said, he
will use eggs. If they didn’t
break when they came down,
he would have something, he
said.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Occasionally we get letters from discouraged members who cite the fact that

yivisection and lesser forms of cruelty are increasing all the time. The ask
are we really making progress?" What they forget is that awareness of, and

9

opposition to, mistreatment of animals are also growing. Here are two news-

paper stories that prove it.

 

 

 

 

The Chicago TRIBUNE, June 14, 1963

 

Sets Fire to Puppy;

Receives 20 Lashes

 

 

Muncie, Ind., June 13 [Spe-
ciall—For setting a stray puppy
afire, Franklin Campbell. 20,
not only was in jail today but
was still wincing from 20 lashes
with a policeman’s belt laid on
his buttocks in City court.

“I think you need to be hum-
bled,” Judge Walter G. Tanner
told Campbell, a filling station
attendant, last night in order-
ing the whipping along with a
10 day jail sentence and other
penalties.

The pants-down thrashing was
severe enough that after it had
been administered and Camp-
bell had been sent to jail, he
complained of pain and was
taken to Ball Memorial hos-
pital. But he was returned to
his cell after an examination
which jail attaches said showed
no serious injury.

Crowd “Wants to Hear It"

As he was being led into the
judge’s chamber, where a bailiff
delivered the lashes, members
of a generally approving court-
room audience yelled: “We
want to hear it out here.” The
judge threatened to clear the
courtroom, but the dog lovers
got their wish—the sound of the
blows was plainly audible to
them.

Campbell was charged with
dousing the mutt puppy with
gasoline and touching a match
to it. He at first contended it
was an accident but later ad-
mitted doing it intentionally be-
cause the dog, he said, had

 

bothered his chickens.
Says He’s Sorry

He pleaded guilty to a charge
of cruelty to animals. Asked if
he had anything to say about
the unusual deed, Campbell
said he was sorry but the judge
observed, “That doesn’t help
the puppy.”

The judge said he had con-
sidered giving Campbell -“the
full penalty this court is al-
lowed to hand down,” a 60-day
jail sentence and $200 fine, but
decided to order the ,whipping
because “you need to be hum-
bled.”

However, he also sentenced

Campbell to 60 days in jail
with 50 of the days suspended,
fined him $100 which was also
suspended, and ordered that
after he serves his 10-day jail
term he must walk the 6 miles
daily from his home to a veteri-
nary hospital as long as the
dog is being treated there. And
if the dog dies, the judge ruled,
Campbell must bury it.

Warns Mother

“Maybe you’ll learn by living
with the situation,” the judge
said. '

At the hearing, the judge
threatened Campbell’s mother
with contempt of court when
she protested the sentence, and
he ordered Campbell’s 14-year-
old twin brothers held for juve-
nile authorities.

The judge was advised by in-
vestigators that neighbor chil-
dren, who had witnessed the
dog burning, were afraid to
come to court because the twin
brothers threatened them that
“if you, squeal, we’ll take care
of you.”

 

(Ehitaun

{Erik une

SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1963

 

 

Legal Grounds Keep Astra

BY DAVID HALVORSEN

An 8-ounce hamster named ._

Astro was grounded last night
when five young scientists

bowed to the possibility they -

might be arrested if their ex-
periment were carried out.

. a Down to Earth Hamster

Edward Klaus, 12, of 2745 S. *'

Central Park av., spokesman .

for the Junior Science Club of
America, said the boys reluc-
tantly had agreed to cancel a
project to loft Astro to an alti-
tude of 2,000 feet by balloons.

Letter Made Public

Earlier in the day, the Anti-
Cruelty society had made pub-
lic a two-page letter calling on
the boys to stop the experiment
and warning them that they
might “be greeted by arrest
warrants instead of plaudits
if harm befalls Astro.”

The young scientists at first
decided to go ahead With a
secret launching of the ham-
ster anyway, but parental per-
suasion eventually prevailed.

Tells Safety Precautions

“We had prepared every
safety precaution we could
think of to insure his safety,”
Edward said. “We did not want
any harm to come to Astro. He
gets vitamins and the best of
care.

“I don’t understand it. When
kids do something bad, every-
body gets on them. Here we

 

[TRIBUNE Staff Photo]

Young Klaus and his hamster

 

 

try to do something good and
the same thing happens.”

The boys were reported to be
upset by the turn of events,
and their parents said they
hoped the boys would continue
with plans to send up a radio
transmitter. The parents said
they objected to the wording

of the Anti-Cruelty society’s
letter.

Warning from Society

The letter said that even if
Astro escaped harm, there are
state and city laws that make
persons conducting such ex-
periments subject to arrest.

Since the project first was
announced two weeks. ago, Ed-
ward has receiVed several let-
ters criticizing the young scien-
tists. He also received letters,
including one from a teacher
in London, praising the project.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Are We Next,

Mr. Vivisector?

“We know we aren’t human; we’re just
dogs, but we have feelings, just like you.

We sometimes hurt. We get hungry and thirsty.
We can stand those things.

“But please spare us from vivisection.

“You’ve used us for hundreds of years.
Millions of us have died in agony that you might
test this and that. We’ve been baked and
boiled, crushed and burned, out and gassed——
and little or nothing has been learned from us.

“You know we’d lay down our lives for you.
We always have, when the occasion demanded,
for that’s the way dogs are. And we don’t
really ask much: just to be spared the trip from
which no dog ever comes back the same.

“Maybe we’ll live after you’re through with
your knife. Maybe we'll even get an anesthetic
while the worst is going on, but there will come
a time when we'll be conscious again. We can’t
tell you, then, how much we hurt, or where.

We can only lie in our cages and suffer.

“ls vivisection really necessary? Can’t you,
wise and mighty men of science, find some way
to help humanity without torturing us? Try . . .
please. We didn’t ask to be born. We can’t
say when or how we’ll die. Those things are for
you humans to decide. But we do ask, humbly
and hopefully, if we can’t have those things all
dogs want—a home and loving master—
give us the very least we deserve:

a painless death.”

 

No matter what you have been told about vivisection,
IT IS an agonizing ordeal for animals. Anesthetics are
not possible in certain kinds of work, for authentic ﬁgures
prove subjects are put to sleep in only 5 of every 100
experiments.

Unrestrained vivisection as an aid to medicine and
surgery is questioned by a large number of physicians
and surgeons, and many of them say it does more harm
than good.

If you believe that medical students must use living
animals for practice, you have been misinformed. Such
vivisection has been forbidden by law in England since
1876, yet who would question the skill of British surgeons ?

The cruelty of vivisection should be stopped. Unneces-
sary suffering has no place in our civilization. Just as anti-
cruelty societies ﬁght ordinary abuse of animals, we are
battling laboratory cruelties—not the progress of medi-
cine and science!

Do you want to help? Then join this society today——
now, while you are thinking about it. Your contribution
will be used to bring this same message to others. Eventu-
ally, we will be strong enough to end “the greatest of all
cruelties.”

The National Anti-Vivisection Society is a non-proﬁt,
charitable association chartered by the State of Illinois
for nation-wide work, and recognized as an educational
tax-exempt society by the United States Government.

000‘
00000000000OO’QOooooooooooooooooo00000000000000.0000...00000000000000.oooo0100000oooooocoocoo0000000000009°°"'......

Vivisection concerns YOU in the way that any widespread immorality con-

cerns every honest and fearless citizen. That it may involve the actual sacriﬁce
WHAT VIVISECTION of something dear and precious to you is, of course, always a p0851b111ty.

IS and HOW IT
CONCERNS YOU

American ?

But the basic appeal to you is simply this: Do you, and will you continue to
tolerate cruelty for the sake of cruelty? Are you for or against the wanton
torture of living animals for no sane, worthwhile purpose? Can you support
barbaric and Vicious practices and still call yourself a thinking, upl'lght

We ask you to read this circular carefully. We believe it emphasizes why
certain energetic people are working to eliminate the wrongs of Viv1sectlon.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

CATHOLIC TRANSCRIPT
Hartford, Conn.

Anti-vivisecﬁon

To the Editor:

I have read, with emotion, the:
7 article, Ju ‘6th Transcript;

I “New W Center Shows;
Gainsml Research” by
JJ. Gilbert with connotations by
a Father Francis J. Connell of
the Catholic University of
America. A

Recently, in the weekly pub-
lication of a certain Catholic or-
der I was grieved to read ‘an arti-
cl‘e'on‘ vivisection which, unfor-
tunately, represents the order of
.thinking of a certain type of
theological moralist not at all
uncommon among those whose
mission in life is supposedly to
interpret the ways of God to
man, and to help man toward the
attainment of that goal which St.
Paul held up to the Philippians
in his. celebrated admonition,
“Let that mind be in you, Which
is also in Christ Jesus.”

This religionist had evidently
been incensed by certain attacks

upon him for his support of Vivi.
section. I do not condone any in.
temperance of utterance, :though
Iga’ppreciate- how hard it is to
control the explosive indignation
that deliberate torture inﬂicted
on animals by remoreless vivi-
sectors arouses in certain sensi~
tire natures, like my own, who
abhor cruelty, especially cruelty
practised on weak, defenseless

and uncomprehending animals. »

, Although, deprecating cruelty
and declaring, “I am notorious
for loving dogs, even cats,” our
critic wrote: “To talk about ani-
mals rights and Our duties
towards them is utter nonsense.
To think they are capable of the
same awareness of pain as hu-
mans is lopsided thinking based
upon ignorance of science . .
If they. (anti-vivisectionists) try

to stop Vivisection experiments
preperly’ conducted as some-g
. thing immoral, or scream about.
charity, or. animal rights being

violatede say they are talking
nonsense . . . We have no obliga-
tions to soulless animals.” (Ital—
ics supplied)

It will serve no useful purpose
to debate, the moral issue with

this priest nor with Father Con~. ,

nell who entertains such convic-
tions. I can, however, earnestly
pray that by a new and deeper
study of the gospel of Jesus they
both may be led into a higher
order of spiritual thinking. In
consequence, may they both

‘nmux‘ ;:'

STAR-LEDGER, Newark, New Jersey, September 27, 1964

Precepls of St. Francis recalled
for world day of animals

By WILLIAM H. HENDRIX
Next Sunday, Oct. 4, is theof-

ficial' World Day for Animals. ,

Other days have been observed
for the past week or so by varf
ic-us groups, which is OK, but the
official world-
wide date is
Oct. 4. _
This is the
date on which
St; Francis of
Assisi, the man
who “talked
with God a n d '7-
with all of His
creatures,”
died in the ear- .~
ly dawn in
1226. Still
comparatively young man, he
already had won renown for
his evangelism, particularly in
the field of inspiring mercy to
all living creatures. In this field

Hendrix

of mercy and compassion, St-

Francis perhaps will live fore-
ever around the earth where
men of good will plead for ani—
mals and cite him as the great
apostle of that concept.

1' III 3R

- IF EVER there was 'a time
when the precepts of St. Fran-
cist fit usefully into our pro—
gram of life, it is now. In the
mail this past week came a
huge brochure from a leading
humane Society, , emblazoned
with: “World Day ofor Animals
Oct. 4, Viﬁsection is Immoral,
Vivisection s ruel, Vivescec-
tion, is Futile.“

There also came a report of
astounding impact from another
hu‘m‘ane society, a group
backed by the largest Christian
church in America, which pro-
claimed the fact that the House

and Senate of the United States
has just OK’d a $1,058,992 ap—

propriation for 1965 for the ghast-

ly business of scientific “inves-
tigation” in the world of ani-
mals - in other words, vivisec—
tion.

More than a billion dollars for
experimenters, practitioners of

TlIoVoice

Alla

cruelty, which outstanding scien-
tists and medical leaders charge
flatly hasn’t done any good in
the past and is unlikely to do
so now.

 

 

 

 

*3.

SO WHAT? I feel that, ra—
tionally, we should stand up
today and ask what is going on,
anyhow. Here we have been

taught diligently, especially in.

«the past few years, that animals
are great for companionship
with Children -- how they help
guide youngsters away from the
brink of delinquency. And of the
futility of 80 per; cent of the

experiments on animals in com-
mercial laboratories seeking
new ideas in cosmetics, hair col.-
oring, and how long an animal

,can be frozen or kept in a heat-

ing device and still EVE. All
this sort of thing.

And we have the thoughtful
stand of dozens of great physic-
ians and other scientists, espec-
ially the great figures in Eng—
land’s medical circles, who pro-
claim that animals experiments
are unnecessary for medical
men or medical students to
gain the knowledge they need for
treating human beings.

Animals aren’t even useful
for medical tests. Take a look
at thalidomide. This drug was
tested on every type of animal.
No reaction showed its danger.
Yet, it was producing deformed
children at a terrible rate when
it was stopped by a. US. health
department order.

a: as III

BUT THERE is ample room
for all of us to observe World
Day for Animals in a way that
St. Francis wouldapplaud. Here
we are facing a great urban
problem -— the great horde of
strays which continually are
causing communities. enact laws
to suppress the problem. The
only answer to that one is: spay
and alter your animals. Birth
control is the only way. Homes

less animals are a great plague

in many places today, BSWC‘
ially in the major population
centers. They must be neutered
to stop it. p -

,7 H

 

 

M ‘

 

come to .view the. anti-vivisection
movement as did Cardinal Gib}-
bons, of blessed memory, who
described it as “this cause oi
true Christian merit,” and then
added, “I shall not fail to offer
a fervent prayer that God may
bless and prosper the movement,
founded as it is upon all that is
good, true and beautiful in life.”

From the religious point of
view it is inconCeivable that it
should be necessary for the hu-
man race to seek health and pro-
longation of life through the tor-
ture and suffering of fellow crea-

 

tures. Such an order, to me, par-
takes of the satanic, not of the
divine. _,

I can understand the defense
of vivisection from the point of
View of those who denyall moral

law‘ and purpose, hot when ‘

prominent representatives of
the Christian churches urge
painful experiments: on animals
as a moral duty, Ifeel. that [such
an interpretatiOn is 3 a . complete~
reversal 0f the principles given,
by its Founder. . , 7

; 2 Louis H. Spinning . '
Clinton“* ‘ ;

 

 

ADDITIONAL"
COPIES OF .

THE BULLETIN

MAY BE-uAD

0N REQuasr.
SEND ONE TO

i’FRIEso:

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

,THEWVVKANSAS CITY STAR,

 

Cat Man’s Relentless Patience
Serves an Insatiable Science

ON THE JOB no" on:

AT 50 CENTS A HEAD, BUSI-
NESS IS BRISK

During Country Sale at
Osceola, Mo., the Empty
Sacks Trade for Full Ones

r»...-._.

(By a Member of The Star’s Staff)

Osceola, Mo.——He was lean as
the land, sharp as the stones
underfoot, older than the trees. A
high-crowned felt hat rode his
brow, its generous brim sweep-
ing up and back at the sides, its
limp dome battered to de—
formity.

He sat on a hay bale up in-
side the closed-in bed of his red-
slatted farm truck, presiding,
waiting for the people to come
to him, knowing they would.

Restless in Crates

Behind him, where shadows
engulfed the stacks of crates,
something was moving—some-
thing perpetually, restlessly
movmg.

Country sale day, better than
Saturday, as good almost as a
holiday. All across the grid of
gravel section roads—with the
town, the sale barn, at the cen-
ter-the cars were coming and
the battered pickups, long dou-
ble feathers of white dust hang-
ing in the morning behind
them.

Five hundred people, finally,
with heavy shoes and wind-
burned necks, wandered through
the intentional and fantastic
clutter, sat drinking grape soda
from the bottle in booths set
under the sky.

Used chinaware~your choice
a nickel. A vase of green bubbly
glass for a dime.‘ Faded over-
alls. two pairs a dollar. A rusted
sheet-tin stove. A $20 coon
hound, sore—footed f r om a
night’s running, pedigreed by
his torn ears. Over it all the
nasal, frantic umbrella of
voices. And the old man,
perched with his timeless pa-
tience in the back of the
truck, looked out at them
through eyeglasses that had one
clear lens and one frosted white,
knowing they would come to him
as they always had, bringing
their burdens in' a burlap bag.

 

Next door, at a lunch coon»

ter inside the gas station, other
voices were chanting in the ef-
fluvium of grilled cheese and
old coffee.

.“Boys, I wish I could get
him,” said a man straddling

 

 

HE’S THE PIED PIPER of the Ozarks, who call

     

"M,

.. \
s

more

creatures with dollar bills than ever man did with a flute.
B. F. Tennison waits for business at the tailgate of his truck.

 

 

the end stool. “I sure do. But
there just isn’t no way.”

The man was dressed in a
uniform of 2-toned brown and a

Mountie hat. His badge said

State Humane Officer.

“The thing is, he’s legal,” the
humane man said. “What I
mean, he’s all right with the
law. Law doesn’t keep a man
from buying and selling ’em--
long as he feeds ’em and keeps
water in there.”

On the next stool, the hu-
mane man’s partner spoke up.
He was dressed in plain clothes.

Burst of Indignation
,“It’s what happens at the
other end that’s so awful,” he
said. “You ever been on the in
side of one of those serum
places?” The man’s lips trem-
bled with uncommunicable

 

rage.

“You ought to,” he said. “I’m
telling you, the more you’re in-
volved in this work, the more
it gets you.”

“Anyhow, he’s all right with
the law,” the officer said. “I
looked inside his rig.”

They paid for their coffee and
went out to their white panel
truck, full of wire cages, parked

on the other side of the high-
way. '

“It gets you just the same,”
his partner said. “It’s not
right.” They climbed into the
truck and turned it north out
of town.

The sun had arched higher
and the old ? man had, moved
back farther under the canvas
top. The people were coming
to him now, rewarding his pa-

 

tience-coming shyly, some of
them, for the money he peeled
off his roll of bills and the
empty sack he gave them for
their full one.

“How many you got there?”

“Five.”

The old man hefted the sack,
which was bound with cord at
its neck, then handed down two
dollar bills and a half dollar.

“1 must have 20 more out at
the place,” the seller said, tak-
ing the money. “Maybe I can

catch ’em next time you’re

through here.”

“Sure,” the old man said.
“Maybe you can.”

More people stopped at the
door, peering in at the
stacked crates and the rustle of
movement behind the wooden
bars.

“What you got in there? Rab-
bits?”

The old man shook his head.

“Cats.”

“No kidding. Say, are you the
Cat Man?”

“I’m him.”

“Well I’ll be damned. I seen
your ad in the paper, but I
couldn’t hardly believe it.
What’d you say you’re paying?”

“Fifty cents a head.”

“Well I’ll be damned!” The
questioner shook his head, and
passed on away from the door
of the truck.

Scorn by Some

“Lots of people think I’m a
scalawag,” B. F. Tennison re-
flected, a silent laugh detect-
able in his good eye. “They
think-helll—-Cat Man, he’ll do
anything.

“I’m just an old man trying
to make a living, and having
a heck of a time doing it.”

For 15 years, now, Tennison
has run his line of traps-wthe
public sales in farming com-
munities all over South Mis-
souri, Oklahoma and Arkansas.
At the sale in Osceola, he was
working to fill an order of 2,000
cats for a biological supply com-
pany in Chicago.

The procession to the back of
the Cat Man’s truck was not
fast, but it was steady.

“It’s a 60-mile round trip,”
said a rough-voiced man, hand-
ing up his sack, “but I couldn’t
bring m’self to shoot ’em.”

“What do they go for?” asked
another. “Science?”

“That’s right,” the Cat Man
said. “Scientific research.”

His biggest trouble, Tennison
reflected, was from the humane
society people.

Felines «Are Savage

“But cats, now, they’re not,
pets. They’re wild animals—~even
the law says so. They’ll get
gentle, sometimes.”

Companionship, and conversa-
tion, make Tennison’s occupa-
tion a pleasant one, he said.

“I meet a world of people, buy
cats from all kinds. Bought a

(Turn to Page 10)

 

 

 

 

 




I BE SENT RES I VEVlSECTlﬂN!

Te All ﬁAVS Members in New Yerk:

This letter from Mr‘ Michael Moukhanoff, £resident, International
Conference Against Vivisectien, is selfwexplanatory. If you

can write. wire er telephone, please remember this concerns

ONLY ﬂeW'Yerk State. Do NOT write to any legielator in

washington. If you do not know the names of your state legislators,
ask your local newspaper. In your letters you might point out

that if there is NO cruelty, a3 vivisectors claim, WHY do they

want to be exempt from humane laws.

 

The Intetuaﬁmal Enfemnm Against Vivisectiun

 

Mr. Clarence E. Riahard, Managing ﬁirector

The ﬁaticnal Anti»Vivisection Seciety

100 East th0 Street

Chicagc, Eilinoie 60511 February 8, 1964

mmem Dear Hr. Richard: gﬁGEﬂT URGENT

MXCHAEL :MOUKHANQFi‘
Ashamet
Av n, N w‘i rk 7 ,. . ‘ . _- . t '
T°P;ﬁ?, An acute emergency nae arisen in New Yosk State which
Mae.” 1 '3 en a

wwweemu malle fer immediate anﬁ concerted aetimn.
39GB Chemhu? Shae?
Phiiedeip‘nia 3, .913. .
mumaiswme Cempanien bills have been intreduced in the State Senate
. .I. 9 H S“ - . ’ ‘ _ .~ . . . , ,
2:@£:§M§" and Aeeembiy which, if paseed, weuld exempt all V1Vi-
aamemAKMWMM eectersg even t0 students dawn to the level of primary
358 Univershy Avenue ‘ ,.. . _ . “ .° ., . >
amazimwvw: schoele, Irom growieiene of the present humane law.
MRS. FERN WOODRWG
12V6? Gladstone r ‘ I
swmnGmWMa ‘ The bills would amend $ection 185 of the penal coae
m‘M“W£Q‘“5 which new defines cruelty to animals and fixes penalties
Mahocpany, Pennsyivoma

mmvmwum fer vioiaticn mf its provisions. They are:
1433 Pennsyivenia Avenue, N.W,
‘Wmhingicm 4, D.C.

gwwmmwaWy Senate 31 w 1195 by Senator Metcalf

MAX MANUELBAUM p

32‘ Mixture“ Wilding ASSembly Al ~ 2096
Pinsburgh i9, Pa.

Rewarding Sccwwry 5. Treasurer

Mﬁﬁmmetamﬁw if paeeea, the bills wmuld adﬂ this section to the prem

97' Tromm Straw
1303;511:3192 8, New Yak Sent law:
Exetunwe Commhwe:
M155 NINA ﬁAL‘V’EY, Choitmeh
ﬁgﬁﬂiﬁmiw$zﬂ. “NOthinq herein contained shall be construed
1 2‘1: (fin v» .2“ , . ‘- v ‘ ‘
am ‘ to prehibit 0r interfere With any selentific
GM*“W”M“@% experiments er inveetigatiene in any accredited
antiwi‘ﬁwcﬁon wane y

mmeHMCmem or degree granting inetitutien of the University
0f the State ef New Yerk."

A degree granting institution may, under the grovisions
cf.thie law, ailew bimlogy teaehere of all schools to
perferm experimente en living animale, a practice now
ferbidden in grade and high echeele by the New York code.

Assemblyman Wilson C: Van Duzer is vigoreuely oppesing
these billsg He painte out that: "In essence it would
xemeve all limite on terture, injury and cruelty which
might be inflicted in experimemts cenducted.” He further
states: "Anyone with any knowledge of the unnecessary
cruelties presently done to animals under the law can
enly be outraged and sickened by the actien of the

State Education Department in Seeking to set aside what
little protectien now exists fer dumb animals."

All possible action and speed are neceSsary to defeat
this bill. The Senate bill is now before the Senate

Committee on Codes, Senator John H. Hughes, Chairman.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

§aturday, May 30, 1964

 

Bow to Protests

THE MIAMI HERALD 9-A

‘Astrodog’ Plan
Abandoned by

Teen Racketeers

W I N T E R HAVEN
(UPI) —— A group of young
amateur rocketeers bowed to
public opinion and a threat of
possible court action Friday
and called off plans to launch
a dog into earth orbit this
summer.

Al Knight, a high school
senior and director of the

 

Spirits Lifted

. . . by canceled orbit

program, , said Friday the
group had received “many
protests” 's-inCe making the
announcement of the planned
launching May 15.

Young Knight said, that
although the group, did not

agree with arguments that

nothing. scientific could be
gained from putting the dog
into orbit, the members did
not want to go against the
Wishes of the public.

“Therefore, we will abso-
lutely not use any live animal
in any experiment now, or in
the future,” he said.

The plan to launch the dog,
Mielo, into orbit resulted in a
great deal of public dis-
pleasure and there were indi-
cations court action might be
taken to halt the project.
Knight said the grOUp still
plans to launch a satellite,
but without the animal.

He said the group felt that
if it continued the project
involving the animal, some
court action might result
prohibiting the entire pro-
gram and said that also, the
group could not afford the

4 cost of court action.

“We have received many
protests from average cit-
izens, various humane socie-
ties, including the American
Humane Society, and from
various newspaper editors,”
Knight said.

The group of rocketeers
had kept the location of the
rocket and dog-training site
seCret. The 30-foot rocket still
is under construction.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Minnesota Anti-Vivisection Society, Inc.

4419 Thomas Avenue South

Minneapolis 10, Minnesota

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHOPPING GUIDE MORNING TRIBUNE
Minneapolis Minneapolis
March 31, 1964 April 10, 1964

HAVE UNWANTED PETS? D%N'T duhmp vourBdoqs Kon hilghvno—y?
We will give a good home. Pet - ”n0 *9”; *0. 9‘59 ennes' 0"
Acres, KE 3-3107 —— 533-4845. i‘i%“'.hV3’rS..wi'ihl'y”dhabimf:.iiﬁés@533

8-2-3 Beise Kenylgls, Jordon

 

 

 

 

 

Here's the story of the fraudulent ads: they sounded like they were
placed by a humane society. The name, "Pet Acres," was particularly
confusing to Minneapolis readers, since there is a humane society
called "Pet Haven." (I believe this was intentional deception.)

We immediately began running our standard warning advertisement,
”not to give pets to unknown persons because they might wind up in
laboratories to be used in cruel experiments." Then we began an in—
vestigation of PET ACRES.

Our member, Miss Morrison, executive secretary of PET HAVEN, traced
the farm through the telephone number and paid it a surprise visit.
There were several Collies for sale, but when Miss Morrison asked
what happened to the mixed breeds brought to the farm, she was told,
"oh, we sell the mutts to the university. (We learned later the owner
of the farm was official dogcatcher for a nearby suburb.)

Armed with this information, we notified the Post Publishing Company
and officials agreed to withdraw the ads from the two shopping guides.
This was victory number 1.

The second was run in the_Minneapolis TRIBUNE, a newspaper with the
largest circulation in the Upper Middle Westo We needed no further
information about these kennels. Beise obtained a license to procure
animals for the university when the state pound law was passed. There
were many complaints about the owner and only last year he was arrested
on a cruelty charge.

We filed a complaint with the Better Business Bureau as well as the
TRIBUNE, contending that vivisection was not the issue, but that there
was a clear case of misrepresentation and fraudulent advertising. The
TRIBUNE cancelled the advertisements immediately. This was the second
victory in a week and we are proud, with justification, we think, of
having put an end to this evil.

Yours sincerely, ‘Cé£%é;éééfz
ﬂa/J’w WW

Beatrice Morosco Shebel, President
Minnesota Anti—Vivisection Society

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Pittsburgh PRESS, June 23, 1964

Rodenf’s Lawyer In ‘Orbit’

U. 5. Grounds ‘Mousetronaut’

weighs more than two tons. ,

SCHENECTADY, N. Y.,
June 23 (UPI)——An attorney
for “Gus the Moustronaut”
charged today the grounded
rodent and his schoolboy spon.
sors were “getting the run.
around” from representatives
of the F ed eral Aviation
Agency (FAA).

Several planned ﬂights into
space by Gus have been post-
poned because of FAA objec-
tions said Armand R. Riccio,
attorney for Gus and the nine
boys who want to launch the
mouse in “Spaceship Butter-
cup,”.a nine-ounce capsule de-
signed to climb more than a
mile into space, and then re-

turn the mouse to earth by
parachute.

Vim C. Hall, chief control-
ler for the .‘FAA in this area,
said the proposed ﬂight posed
a threat to passing aircraft.

“The flight is clearly pro-
hibited under part 101 of
Federal aviation r e g u l a-
tions,” Mr. Hall said. He ex-
plained that the regulation

_ established last year, for-
bids unmanned rocket
flights in control 1 o n e I
around busy airports.

‘ Mr. Riccio countered,
That’s a typical example of
Federal bureaucracy .at work.

“These rules and. regula-
tions are :strictly of‘a prehibi-
tive nature. Their entire atti-
tude has been negative and
so far the FAA has shown, no
interest in encouraging this
type of thing.”

The FAA suggested the
.bnm nihuhimmm no

dents, move their launch

site to a spot outside of the '

controlled ﬂight zones. That
presented problems, s in c e

the launching equipment have to,” said Mr. Riccio.

-“We’ll carry this ﬁght all
the Way to Washington it we

 

Chicago TRIBUNE
July 19, 1964

iMOUSTRONAUT
GUS KILLED IN
ERRANT ROCKET

Middleburg, N. Y., July 18 (1?)
—Gus the mouse, was killed
today when a controversial
rocket shot went astray to the
dismay of youthful planners
and the anger of humane so-
ciety 'officials.

The “moustronaut” and his
capsule crashed in a field near
this Schoharie county village.

About 400 persons watched
as the rocket, constructed to
carry the mouse 6,000 feet
straight up, instead went off at.
an angle. and zoomed across a
field before smashing into the
ground. The youths said they
would try again.

Officials of several humane
societies also studied the flight
plans and protested the ; action
’after receiving complaints. An
attempt was made today .to
prevent the launching but po-
lice refused to interfere, a
Humane society spokesman
said.

 

 

 

 

DOCTOR CONDEMNS CRUEL
"EXPERIMENTS" BY HIGH
SCHOOL STUDENTS...The
Evening NEWS, Newark,
N. J., June 18, 1964.

No Place for Surgery
To the Editor:

Cruel and damaging experiments
‘iipon living animals or birds ‘by' high _
school students is the Charge by the
NewJersey Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals in a case' to be
tried in East Orange Municipal Court
Friday.

The case greyv out of the exhibition
of ‘two chickens, with wings mutilated
by transplantation of cancerous ma-
terial, on ' April 6 and 7. at, a science
fair. The "experiment was conceived

and performed by a high school stu-
dent after reading a book called
“Youth Looks at Cancer.”

. Asa practicing physician, it is shock-
ing to find that ‘sur 'ery is being prac-
tlced and taught'by' igh school science
teachers, and perfOrmed by their. pu-
pils’. In the present case, students
ought instead to Spend several more
years learning physics, ph siolOgy, 'bio-
logical chemistry, micro iology and
virology, in order to understand the

history of this experiment, which was

well known 25 years ago and does not
need repetition, especially by school
children performing mutilating experi-
ments on captive animals.

No one who has pets or small chil-
dren wishes to see older children en-

.coura ed by schools to perform experi-

ment , whether “medical” 'or simplly
curiosity-type, ,on living creatures. t
is difficult enough to teach children
not: to be senselessly, thoughtlessly

cruel to other chidlren and to help-
less animals.

It would be wise, for the State of
New Jersey, which has such excellent
laws limiting those who are allowed
to conduct such research, to extend
these laws to cover high school and
grade school children-

ELEANOR CRISSEY, Mn.
Little York.

 

 

DAILY GAZETTE
Janesville, Wis.
June 16, 1964

Pnorss'r BULLFIGHTING!
Editor, the Gazette;

We are confronted with a
problem that is a definite
threat to our moral standards
as a nation, and what we do
about 1t will determine wheth-
er we are headed up or down.
Do we want bullfighting in this
country? As yet it is illegal in
all . 50 states, Promoters are
trymg to gain a foothold here

 

by procuring business firms to
sponsor televised bullfights,
thus gradually getting the pub-
lic accustomed to the atrocious
game and weaken our resist-
ance to the real thing. If we
do not protest now and vigor-
ously so, we are playing right
into their hands and plans.
It is puzzling that business
firms could be cajoled into

sponsoring televised bullfight-

ing as a moneymaking custom-
er-getting medium. Has our
taste for rougher sports really
become so evident that it war-

 

rants a try? I cannot believe,
that calloused and used to im-
morality and crime as We have

' become, that this too is going

to be accepted and tolerated
in our homes as suitable enter-
tainment.

Organizations interested in
the moral texture of our na-
tion are fully aware of the in-
sidious method being used to
legalize bullfighting in the US.
Let me advise those who have
no interest in the welfare of

animals, that educators and

social workers in fields entire-
ly apart from humane work

 

are concerned about the coars-
ening effect even the picturing
of such brutality has upon im-
pressionable people. These or-
ganizations as well as humane
societies are urging that pro-
tests be sent not only to the
television stations, the spon-
sors of these shows, to ‘ news-
papers, magazines but to our
representatives in Washington
D. C. If it is that important,
the time to protest is now!

LEONA LUDWIG
Rte. 3, Beloit

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET. CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

WASHINGTON BRANCH

surr: 701
OccmlmTAL BUILDING

JUly 31 1963 1411 PENNSYLVANIA Avnmug, N. w.
3

WASHINGTON 4. D. C.

The Editor

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR (::)
Boston, Massachusetts Y
Sir:

How is it possible that so many thoughtful writers apparently
are unaware of, or choose to ignore completely, the most tel-
ling argument for total abolition of vivisection, the principle
upon which this society was founded, and for which so many

other organizations have valiantly fought for more than 50
years?

It is to be expected that the country's orthodox press would
stress the fact that cruelty to animals, inherent in the practice
of vivisection, is a major reason why some form of regulation by
law seems necessary, but our members understandably are concerned
that the MONITOR, too, has overlooked the most compelling reason
why dedicated anti-vivisectionists insist that total abolition

of vivisection, not regulation, however stringent, is the only
solution to the problem of relief for laboratory animals and,_
certainly, the only guarantee that humans as well will not suffer,
perhaps even more than animals.

In his article, ”The Animals of the Kingdom,” your Washington
correspondent, Mr. William Stringer, follows the general pattern
when he deals only with the cruelty aspect of vivisection, re-
counting the excellent arguments in favor of the Randall bill,
the best of half a dozen seeking to regulate animal experimentation.
Is public memory so short that the recent Thalidomide tragedy

has been forgotten? How would regulation of vivisection, even

if honestly and strongly applied, prevent the evil effects of
applying the results of animal experimentation to humans? The
Thalidomide tragedy was the direct result of applying the
"successful tests" on animals to human beings. There can be no
denial of this fact. In the world today there are 3,000 (amnitted)
pitiful deformed babies who are living proof of the erroneous
belief that nature's secrets can be found in the tortured bodies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

:%.w.zr,:vi_t.._~ r? m r. H‘

 

 

 

 

“VIVISECTION?
It can’t happen to my pet!”

NONSENSE! . . ,Here’s what happened to
an American Kennel Club Pedigreed

Golden Retriever:

“Johnny” will never greet his master with a joyful bark
again—he has been de—barked—his vocal cords cut—and
one kidney removed. He was slated for a slow, painful
death from uremic poisoning—the remaining kidney was
to have been removed (an “experiment” already per-
formed innumerable times on countless animals and the
results reported). This Golden Retriever (his registered
AKC name is Geronimo) was lost on October 2, 1961,
when he disappeared from his home in Westminster. A
frantic search by his owners, Mr. and Mrs. Bill McGarry,
of 6712 Bestel Avenue, failed to locate the dog, either in

 

the neighborhood or the Orange County Pound. Daily
checks at the pound showed no result, until October 7,
when the McGarrys were ﬁrst told that the dog had been
destroyed, but later uncovered the information that
Johnny had been sent from the pound to an animal re-
search laboratory in Los Angeles. Swift Humane Society
action had the dog home on the following day, to end the
grief-stricken vigil of the 3-year old Kurt McGarry—
temporarily—for Kurt has not been told “Johnny” may
not have long to live.

 




Fatwa

\“ \.l a a ‘ . '

Hos-AMY“:-

C—MWE‘

53—: Qt.

 

 

 

 
 

YC‘I' :3" 005 03.593533

9.3

 

 

 
    

FIVE GOVERNORS HONOR swamp DAY F01!
ANIMALS” WITH 0FFICIAL PnoCL MAm S

 
  

 

 

 

In the center spread of this BULLETIN, the next two.
pages, there is a reproduction of the official proce

 

Chicago TRIBUNE lamation issued by Governor Otto Kerner, of Illinois,:
Sept. 29’ 1964 designating Sunday, October 4, as WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS.
1~_7, (The original proclamation will be framed for display
Anti-Vivisection Unit in the society S offices.) A

' Seeks Animals’ Day

TmeNmMmuAmpwwwamn Proclamations for an1mal welfare are not unique, but

mdamlmﬂﬂ(mmSmismg- Governor Kerner’s is the first in history in which
mgumtpmmmsmmmmmim cooperation with anti-vivisection societies in humanee
mewammuﬁammmsmmse work has been called important and signifies a growing
CRWImmmﬂsﬁrmﬁmgﬂE awareness on the part of government officials at a high
“MSGMUKWmWam”%%mm“ level that opposition to animal experimentation that
giiiioieafﬂiughifmgﬁglagd is almost always cruel and'frequently useless and dan—
-WmmlDw,mrAmmﬂ&wnw gerous to human welfareis increasing by leaps and bounds.
RmLRﬂmﬂAnmm%mSWEW Government officials do not make public opinion, but
pmﬂkm,&mimedmfﬁob conscientious executives sense changes and follow the
served in many churches hon- dictates of the citizens.

oring St. Francis of Assisi for
his devotion to all living crea-

mmg ' As this is written on WORLD DAY FOR ANIMALS, we have

‘ word that four other governors issued proclamations
for the day, and in one state, Wisconsin, its chief
executive issued one using precisely the same wording
Governor Kerner employed. (A copy of the Illinois proclamation was supplied to
the Wisconsin governor by the NAVS at the request of Mrs. Joseph Thompson, head
of the Wisconsin Animal Protective League.)

 

 

 

At the same time NAVS President Dr. Robert A. Russell appealed to Governor Kerner,
he sent a similar telegram to President Johnson, and our members were urged to
write and telegraph the president for a national proclamation. We regret to
report that not only did the president ignore our plea, but he failed even to
acknowledge Dr. Russell's telegram. We know (for copies of wires and letters

were mailed to us) that hundreds of our members did telegraph and write to the
president, seeking his cooperation in this humane effort, but so far as we are
aware at this time, no acknowledgement of their pleas was received from even

a secretary in the White House.

Despite the failure of President Johnson to respond, humanitarians have won a
notable victory, and anti—vivisectionists, in particular, have cause to rejoice.
In addition to those of Illinois and Wisconsin, proclamations were issued by
the governors of Arizona, New Jersey and Washington. In Arizona, proclamations
have been issued for the past ten years. Next year, let us do our best to
enlist the support of every governor of the fifty states.

October 4, 1964 The National Anti—Vivisection Society Chicago, Illinois

 

 




 

(Reprinted from The NATIONAL Magazine)

Noted Michigan Physiologist

Attacks Cruelty in Vivisection

During the annual meeting of the Federation of American Societies
of Experimental Biology, Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the De-
partment of Physiology at the University of Michigan, made the
following statement to the members of the American Physiological

Society, April 15, 1952:

“The National Society for Medical Re-
search would have us believe that there is
an important issue in vivisection versus
anti-vivisection. To a physiologist there
can be no issue on vivisection per se.

“The real and urgent issue is humanity
versus inhumanity in the use of experi-
mental animals. But the N.S.M.R. attaches
a stigma of anti-vivisection to any sem-
blance of humanity. Anti-vivisection is
their indispensable bogie which must be
kept before the public at any cost. It is
their only avenue towards unlimited pro-
curement of animals for unlimited and
uncontrolled experimentation.

“The N.S.M.R. has had but one idea
since its organization, namely—to provide
an inexhaustible number of animals to an
ever growing crowd of career scientists
with but little biological background and
scant interest in the future of man.

“Consider what we are doing in the name
of science, and the issue will be clear.

“We are drowning and suffocating un-

anaesthetized animals — in the name of
science.

“We are determining the amount of
abuse that life will endure in unanaesthe-
tized animals——in the name of science.

“We are producing frustration ulcers in
experimental animals under shocking con—
ditions—in the name of science.

“We are observing animals for weeks,
months, or even years under infamous con-
ditions—in the name of science.

“Yet it is the National Society for Medi-
cal Research and its New York satellite
that are providing the means to these ends.
And how is this being accomplished? By
undermining one of the ﬁnest organiza-
tions of our country: THE AMERICAN
HUMANE SOCIETY.

“With the aid of the halo supplied by the
faith of the American people in medical
science, the N.S.M.R. converts sanctuaries
of mercy into animal pounds at the beck
and call of experimental laboratories re-
gardless of how the animals are to be used.

“WHAT A TRAVESTY OF HUMAN-
ITY! THIS MAY WELL PROVE TO BE
THE BLACKEST SPOT IN THE HIS-
TORY OF MEDICAL SCIENCE.”

 

 

 

 




 

STILL $30.000 SHORE

Orbiting Of Dog

A ' Of
WINTER HAVEN (UPI) —- A
group of youthful rocketeers
said yesterday they hope to
launch a dog-carrying satellite
into orbit of the earth late this

summer, but said they lack $30,-
000 to complete the project.

Led by Winter' Haven high
school senior A1 Knight, the
group calls itself the Challenge
of Change Program.

Young Knight, who has suc-
cessfully l a u n c h e d several
homemade rockets, .- including
one carrying a nose' cone with
a mouse inside, said today the
group has begun work on “Proj-
ect Mielo.”

Mielo — a year-old mixture
of fox terrier and chihuahua —
is now in training for the pro-
posed flight, Knight said. The

Youths

equipment on the r o c k e t
amounts to about $30,000.

But he said they still lack
about that much to complete the
project.

The group has applied to
several missile industry firms
for grants to aid the project and
have offered the firms space in
the satellite for company proj-
ects in return.

“WE ARE ALSO applying for
a Ford Foundation grant,”
Knight said.

The small dog was put on dis-
play for a short time here yes-
terday, but members of the
group have kept its training
quarters and the location of the
rocket secret, fearing that the

St. Petersburg Times. Saturday. May 16. 1964

 

 

............

 

Dog Scheduled For Orbit

Winter Haven High School seniors Al Knight, 19, and

Judi Blair, 18, examine the year-old dog, Mielo, they plan
to rocket into orbit next August. The teen-agers are offi-
cers of the Challenge of Change Program, which has fired
over 150 rockets since 1957.

humane society might not ap-

group h0pes to launch the rock- prove of their project.

et in August.
Knight said the primary ob-

KNIGHT' SAID THE rocket
including the satellite, will be
30 feet long. He said it has
been under construction for the
past three years.

He said it is planned to send
the rocket 40 miles high by bal-
loon, then launch it by remote
control.

Knight said the group has had
the assistance of some missile
engineers living in central Flor-
ida, and that the work they‘have

jective of the organization would
be to discover methods or orbit-
ing satellites efficient and inex-
pensive enough to enable small
nations and universities to con-
duct their own space research
programs.

Outlines of the proposed proj-
ect have been sent to Russian
Premier Khrushchev and the
Russian newspaper Pravda in
hepes of improving relations
with Russia and Russian youth,

 

done, plus donated parts and

Knight said.

 

 

 

 

The National Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street
Chicago 11, Illinois

To The Editor _
The St. Petersburg TIMES
St. Petersburg, Florida

Sir:

Newspaper reporters are noted for their sense of

May 27, 1964

humor, seasoned occasionally with a dash of

irony, but the writer who turned in the story in
your May 16th issue of the Winter Haven teen-

agers' plan to orbit a dog in a nose-cone lifted
by a rocket must have had his tongue in his
cheek so far it choked him .

UPI must have bitten deep on the gag also when
it distributed this "world-shattering" story to the
papers on its wire service . Apparently they con-
sidered the whole affair a facetious bit, a fill-
in on a dull day when the news from Viet Nam was
a little slow in coming in, and not to be taken
too seriously. Otherwise the editors would have
been plagued by the many questions that surely
came immediately to their minds:

Has the whole country gone mad and blind about
kids in science? What is the actual cost of or-
biting a capsule with a dog in it? If it can be
done for $30, 000 or $60, 000 or $90, 000, then
our government should be let in on the secret.
The most brilliant brains of physical scientists
have been constantly at work night and day for
many years at a tremendous expenditure of time
and money; men have voluntarily been shot into
the atmosphere in terrifyingly satisfying jour-
neys around the earth, gathering scientific evi-
dence and data, while the whole world held its

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

summma
ALHVH 01

SElﬂS SAVN

 

Sta-é uaawnN nouvuisnoau
uS3SOdHOd 338V1IHVH3 303 SGNIH 30 N01133T103 GNV
N0|lV1|3l3OS 3H1 313130933 01 lOVn NV 830ml 033319933

 

 

 

amanbau mmum
‘IIEILSVWLSOd

 

[891 ’°N .llWElEld
"HI 'OQVDIHD

GlVd

SOVJSOd 'S 'n
'EDEIO lldOHd NON

swarm ‘II OSBOE‘IZ)
190-113 0H0 19921 001
thegoos uoyoasgAEA-puv [BuopBN 9‘11.

 

 

 

.000......CO..0...OOOOOOOOOICCCCOCCCCCOOOOOO.1

To All Members:

When copy for this BULLETIN went to our printer on May 29, contributions to
help defray the cost of the legal war against bullfight telecasts had been re—
ceived from the following organizations:

American Anti-Vivisection Society, Philadelphia, $100 .00; Animal Pro—
tective League of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, $100.00; Humanitarian League
of Rochester, New York, $25 .00; International Conference Against Vivi-
section, New York, $25 .00; Kentucky Animal Defense and Anti-Vivisection
League, Louisville, $50.00; The Millennium Guild, Inc., New York,

$1, 000 .00; Minnesota Anti-Vivisection Society, Minneapolis, $10 . 00;
New England Anti-Vivisection Society, Boston, $100 .00; New Jersey
Anti-Vivisection Society, Tenafly, $10.00; Mr. William A. Snyder, Ir.,
Maryland Anti-ViviSection Society, Baltimore, $100 .00, and Washington
Anti-Vivisection Society, Seattle, $100.00.

There have been additional donations, some of them of substantial size, from
individual members. Since the bullfight telecast battle is not strictly anti-
vivisection activity, the NAVS has made no appeal to its members, nor does it
plan to do so. It is gratifying, however, that so many NAVS supporters have
voluntarily subscribed to this fund. The litigation unquestionably will be of
long duration and expensive .

Clarence Richard, Managing Director .

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HEALTH BULLETIN is published weekly by Rodale Press, Inc., Emmaus, Pa. Subscription rates: 6 months, $3.50.
One year, $7.00. Second class postage paid at Emmaus, Pa., and at additional mailing offices.

 

 

 

ANIMAL TESTS MISLEADING. Be careful about applying results of drug tests on animals to human
beings, three men from the University of Missouri School of Medicine warned. Drugs may work in
opposite ways on different species or even on different sexes of the same species, the meeting was told.
The scientists reported that male rats slept about three times longer than female rats after being given
a barbiturate sleeping pill. In mice the results were turned around. The females slept longer than the
males. Such results hint at the difficulty of using animal tests to prove drug safety.

 

4444444444444444444444¥444444444444444444444444444

VACCINE RESEARCHERS WORRY ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS

People who refuse to be vaccinated on religious grounds or because they just plain don't like to
be medicated are sometimes held up to ridicule in the popular press. Quite frankly, they are looked
on as being some kind of nuts.

But the worm turns, as the saying goes. Now it is the most advanced-thinking physicians who are
questioning vaccination and immunization. Not only do they doubt the effectiveness of some vaccine pro—
grams, but they cite evidence of harm that can be done by immunization and look with questioning eyes
on predictions that respiratory infections, hepatitis and other’diseases Will soon fall before new vaccines.

Chief worry of the experts is the recent discovery that viruses play an important role in the cause
of cancer. Since certain viruses (present in vaccines either as impurities or as basic parts of the
formula) have been found to cause cancer in animals, there are ample grounds for concern. Scientists
feel that many years will pass before they can be sure that cancer will not be caused in some of the
hundreds of thousands of people who received Sabin anti—polio vaccine that was found to be contaminated
with a monkey virus known to cause cancer in animals.

Another possibility is that vaccines given to infants and children may develop active allergies later
in life. Animals given whooping cough vaccine are more likely to be hypersensitive to allergic materials
injected under their skin, Dr. Samuel J. Prigal says in his textbook Modern Allergy. ”One wonders what
role, if any, (vaccination) plays in the induction of allergy in the human being," Dr. Prigal states.

Caution is the watchword of many vaccine researchers today. One of the most cautious of all is
Dr. Robert J. Huebner, head of the Laboratory of Infectious Disease of the National Institutes of Health.
"Information acquired in the past few months would raise questions on available vaccines," he told the
American College of Physicians early this month. "We need to have more information."

 

4444444444444444¥444444444444444444444444444444444

AMERICANS ARE NO LONGER GETTING HEALTHIER, GOVERNMENT ADMITS
For the last 10 years, there has been no improvement in the American death rate. And what's

more, it doesn't look as if the U. S. is going to be able to get its death rate down to the level now en—
joyed by the healthier countries—Japan, the Scandinavian countries andthe Netherlands, for example.
Those two conclusions were made public last week by no less an authority than the U. S. Public Health
Service in a remarkable publication titled "The Change in Mortality Trend in the United States. "

The U. S. death rate declined steadily and continuously until it struck bottom in 1954. Its static
condition since then has been known. Until the mortality trend report was issued last week, Asian flu
epidemics were the official explanation for the failure of our death rate to improve. After taking a close
look at the situation, the PHS appears to have discarded the Asian ﬂu explanation. It now admits that
our failure to make progress against the chronic and degenerative diseases has stagnated the death rate
for 10 years. Heart disease, cancer, emphysema, diabetes, cirrhosis of the liver and congenital mal—
formations among children are the serious health problems on which our rate of progress has stopped
or slowed. The death rate from some of those diseases is even going up, and there appears little chance
that we can make serious inroads on them, the PHS says.

Basically this report reveals that we have lost the race to become the healthiest country in the
world. "After a long period of rapid and substantial decline, the death rate for the U. S. has reached
the point where further decreases as experienced in the past cannot be anticipated, " says the PHS.

That admission is all the more shocking when you remember that our expenditures for medical care
have skyrocketed in the last 10 years.

When the meaning of this report has had a chance to sink into the minds of governmental leaders,
it could Spark a new interest in preventing disease and a realization that the drug research laboratories
and vast hospitals are not the Spawning ground of true health. The Public Health Service points out that
the basic reasons for our failure to become healthier in the last 10 years could very well be "radioactive
fall—out, air pollution, and other man—made hazards. "

 

 

 




  
 
   

The Daily Register, Harrisburg, 111
TS ‘le Cruelty to

60A i. 222W “ my: ‘g‘is 229%
gritﬁ’h l‘t'l‘fs'r‘ 5331193 Trucillllivilgsl 58W ””3

(0' Wm \ed ‘m eke‘r’
. rave?!“ me
no 1’“ , information charging Elmo . “12:” “3“ lUEAl-EH “FINE”
C-k .
I“ mendW‘ (3035a 32d}: 3,- \p\

'ets Withou-

Nation’s Press Joining

[71> in Attack on Vivisection
Cruelty \- . 

10:“ rKep! in lcewater.
en Insane

PC SOY S? WATCH YOUR CATS . v Q
eagueM kc , , 2 j . '1.f..’1.;°‘:.33""e°°‘° ‘2" ‘° W: 0
Side Residente -'uy From / \ 009“o:\:5 Cog“? '3‘ 11:12.19“ Xsoﬂﬂ‘k’g e“ ‘4
w #2242? » «.2grzzéiisfsg‘2tﬁ?” yﬂm qe o\et\
r v Res°::'et:§r:‘“““)“k? “ WM“ 2:??? we g%\\\\N Nd \ wg$‘,1usiicei - - [He d
m eh“: \ (Sm \ B§:\:§\ we? “" A . Su P"6
I

~12 n intense

Put
'DOQ“OP‘“9;B 3051‘; The Daily Register Harrisburg, Hanoi.
Thum'Y. May 7 1353

 
 
 
   
     
 
 

 

in Goliath:

         
 
 
  

 
 
 

III., with cruel!)
- truck containing “er Ra .
or about one- at l

  
 
 

 

 
  
      

aaaa

    
  
 

   
 

     
 
 

  

I'

      
    

  

  

90“ p
““L“ “ill“ °“° 2 xx WW6?!) nmn‘1| Charges
n“ it?” 44%“ ’8‘6 5 . \ m“ “e \\ \CS hoo o 5 i
e a l ’C Um Revea\s.- Ring 0 / box \ oqo..z9‘:v§\ “if“: '. Dogcatcher Held: ~\l\ B\q\;eC\ :€S\F0r [a d J O ““oV‘sage‘uI‘gzr
o w j #1:? ﬁfe ‘_‘ .' . t , 1
VI visa “Lt/3‘5, Cot Hut“ “95311663.; .‘2‘ I" P9! Sale QUIZ .323; $233. “93.32222.“ W. °’

   

 

 

For more than fifty years anti-vivisection societies have with the vivisectors, telling their readers anti-vivisectionists
staunchly and consistently maintained that animal experi- were misinformed, they exaggerated conditions, and labora—
mentation involves suffering severe enough to warrant the tories “policed themselves” so honestly that abuses were
'use of the word “torture.“ All this time, vivisectors, their impossible.
apologists and more recently their highly-paid professional Now the picture has suddenly changed. Papers from coast
de/endeis, by evasion, outright falsehoods and Ital/ltrittlts, to coast, commenting on a bill in the 861/; Congress which
have bitterly denied the accusations assuring the public “on would allow vivisecfors “to regulate themselves” in the pre-
their honor” that no animal ever suffered in a laboratory and vent/on ofanimal torture which they previously denied existed
that the worst that happened was the pain ofa “mere pin at all, now concede the truth of the anti-vivisectionists’ in-
prick" when the victims were put to sleep. dictments and call for “reforms.” It has taken a long time,
When the issue of deliberate cruelty was joined as a result during which humanitarians were pilloried as “crackpots”
ofpublic hearings by this or that legislative body, newspapers and “enemies of science,” but truth has ﬁnally emerged.
oft/1e country (excepting only the Hearst press when William Here i5 what the papers say ”0W3
Randolph Hearst was alive) invariably aligned themselves

THE WASHINGTON POST, Washington, D. C.: . . needless pain is often in-

m ‘ flicted on living creatures through carelessness, callousness, ignorance and wanton

Twat}. ~ - .2. ‘ ‘ ' neglect in handling animals . . . Some setting and enforcement of standards are neces-
—~ sary to keep sadism from being confused with science.”

at!» (Emmi -
ml». . fr“ cwm'nat" THE COURIER-JOURNAL, Louisville, Kentucky: “Those who rejoice in the miracle
1"" A “MM blockade Cuba. of modern science could do so with a truly full heart if they could be assured that the
' animals used for experimentation have not suffered unneeded pain in the process. No
such assurance has been possible up to the present."

 

Tux Boost I'lmmml To Rl‘plmr' l mnh. Um 4mm llriilu w -I’n;_w 33

=22“: News-Sentinel '""" ‘
E2 22ml“ [kt NEWS-SENTINEL, Fort Wayne, Indiana: ”Surely the least we all can do to pay
SecondBig Aluminum“ orkers \X a 0" our great debt to those who share with us the mystery of life in the animal kingdom . . .

- _ is to write our representatives in Congress urging them to assure simple justice in their

' .. behalf."
311:: 715m ilnhepenhent

 

PASADENA INDEPENDENT, Pasadena, California: “. . . there is no reason, other
than callous disregard of suffering, why this work (vivisection) should be done under the
execrable conditions that exist in many laboratories today.”

TRIBUNE, Des Moines, Iowa: “The pressures of public opinion stirred up by humane
societies are creating problems to such an extent that the Federal government is being
urged to bring about some sensible balance between necessity and emotions."
:3, ‘.
$2

THE EVENING STAR, Washington, D. C.: “. . . the limited instances of appalling
cruelty which have been disclosed justify governmental action.” .

 

 

   
 
 

 




44

¥4¥¥¥¥444444444444444444444444444444¥44¥444444

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C@Egﬂa@@@ >
V \_./

\____/ ‘

V

WHEREAS, It is universally recognized that animals render an
important service to all mankind, and

WHEREAS, A World Day for Animals is a day dedicated as a
period in which ministers of the churches call attention to the
service given humans by animals in every area of their daily lives,
and

WHEREAS, Recognition and appreciation for the sacrifices
animals make for their human masters, and for the comfort and
companionship cherished pets provide for children and the aged
seems fitting and proper, and

- moo-

WHEREAS. It is deemed important to cooperate with the Anti

 

inkiriwkirﬁwkir*ﬁkirkikiwkirkitiwkirﬁwkitinkikinkitinkirinkiriwkiriwkJF¥L¥4L¥4L




 

 

 

n
.[I ,l

. -'; o‘ ' “t
A, n ~ , ﬂ '
r ‘ ”a .. *3‘;"'1-‘._V\'..‘“a2“- {Elf}.
'i):.“ ‘ [3,. ,1|-. _"‘1" .1 . r.‘
M! .w
..-u. ',‘t ‘ . ,_ V - ‘9“... ‘
. =.. I.“ -,‘ A". I, . "
ILf 1LT} ¢‘€.,.“ ' . ,1. A; " . ' ‘
, ‘~ ‘ ‘} I. V4.) " .!_“."'. . ‘ ‘nv‘g‘ a
’ ‘ . -. ’x , "". ' . ‘ _ H‘ t I
» ‘ ~i""".-..v-t=-: 5.. ...’«-.'m.».-’« , . .
317‘” . '\3.,,.'_‘;¢s‘j!,‘.., 4... ‘\N.;;"' .
’ '. A .. ',’ -2 y'- (f '.'|'O A" .' ‘un-f { ) . I_ 3. . .
. ‘ ‘ a ' '- “k" '.'T'\ " - .r'~' .. ‘l ._a _ \3.
c '- '23:" HI . “.‘-"'.‘ 14.3.“5'4. -. ., - . . Hunt?” '5‘,'« 1%,»); ”Fig.8..
:, “J.- 7| - 193.4%;(2nw . - o .A 5:" ‘ _ 3‘ K ‘$;_.$ ‘5'55' ; ,Y‘. 7
:-"5."- y _ .. , , . > - 4,,“ .' '.. ‘_.' . 7 '..
' -' "‘t-‘éwvs‘i‘ﬂ-p‘trrv” ' . mm ;c* 4 ~ ,.r:.u’,*‘3.-'~.'.-.-ﬁi. G.
.- r In. ’1‘. ..v V? =~‘ 9 2‘. ‘3 c I" d, f in. ~
1.« ‘ . U. _ - 0, ’5.“ .W '. I, ‘ ’b .- h ‘.
3:" ‘ v 4 t 1:. .7 ’1 .. -\_. .4” k. r p
. ‘ h" l O" ' J ’,,,
’ 'J ‘1 ~ ‘ r. 'é}'(~‘ '.'
1., )1 I

.BY CLARENCE E. RICHARD
Managing Director
The National Anti-Vivisection Society

Every person in the civilized world shares in the grief, the
loss, the killing or maiming for life of perhaps 10,000
babies, brought on by the use of the drug thalidomide.

This is no time for hysteria, for a search for scapegoats
or “fall guys”. Neither is it a time for ‘Business As Usual’.
We, the citizens of the United States, you and I, are
responsible, in the ﬁnal analysis, for what happens in this
country. We elect the legislators. We set the standards.

We have not protected our children from poisoning.
We cannot shift the blame to the doctors, or the drug
manufacturers, or the administration. If something fol-
lows thalidomide which causes greater havoc (it could
not be more heart-wringing, but it could be more wide-
spread in the disaster it brings) it will be because we
have permitted it to happen.

What is the lesson we must learn from thalidomide?
Is it that we should multiply existing safeguards for new
drug products? If the tragedy stemmed from something
like mis-labeling, or a failure to employ routine checks,
that would make sense. But that is not what happened.
Every known test and check was made, on thalidomide.
Only a hunch, the sixth sense of a courageous civil
servant, saved us from more widespread suffering. We
cannot always count on good fortune of that sort.

Limitations of Science Told

The clue to the real root of the disaster can be read in
the testimony of Mr. Eugene N. Beesley, president of
the drug manufacturing ﬁrm of Eli Lilly and Company.
Mr. Beesley, as chairman of the board of the Pharma-

 

 

 




ceutical Manufacturers Association, which represents the
makers of more than 90 per cent of the drugs sold in
this country, told an investigating committee of Congress
on August 20, 1962:
“. . . let us all be reminded that many of our health
problems stem not from any inadequacy of law or
law enforcement, but from limitations of present
scientiﬁc knowledge of complex life processes and the
way in which drugs may affect them.” (Italics supplied.
Testimony taken from the hearings of the Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, United States
House of Representatives.)

Animal Tests Proved Nothing

We have relied on experiments on animals, tests con-
ducted on rats, rabbits, dogs, and other animals, to pro-
tect us from poisoning by new drug products. The tests
were made, in the case of thalidomide. The tests did not
reveal the danger.

On May 15, 1962, before the tragedy came to light,
Dr. Robert A. Russell, president of the NatiOnal Anti-
Vivisection Society, wrote in an open letter to Senator
Gordon Allott of Colorado, “The results of animal ex-
periments are of an entirely different order of accuracy
from those of the body of scientiﬁc ﬁndings—a lower
order.” These prophetic words were based on long study,
explained in detail in the letter.

Did Science Take A Wrong Turn?

This society is convinced, on the basis of such studies,
that medical science took a wrong turn when it chose to
rely on experiments on animals, rather than on funda-
mental research and theory dealing with the complex
life processes Mr. Beesley referred to, which must, as
he points out, be understood in order to solve health
problems and develop new remedies.

Certainly, the proponents of animal experimentation
have had an opportunity to prove their case. Over the
past ﬁve years alone, careful estimates indicate that up-
wards of ten billion dollars have been spent on such
experiments. Probably more than two and a half billion
animals, of all sorts, have been used. Yet we had the
thalidomide tragedy.

Modern Alchemy

The men who carry on the business of animal experi-

ments suggest that perhaps we have‘ not had enough
animal experimentation. Their plea is reminiscent of the
medieval alchemists, who sought to transmute lead into
gold. With every failure, the alchemists asked for more
materials, more money for further “experiments”. Like
the animal experimenters, they had no fundamental
scientiﬁc theory on which to base their work. They were
merely convinced that if they tried long enough, made
enough tests, used enough different substances, they were
sure, at last, to hit on what they were looking for. Of
course they never did, and we know now that they were
searching in the wrong direction, seeking the impossible.

The alchemists squandered a lot of money, and wasted
a lot of their own time. They did not help the cause of
science. But the present situation, the matter of the
animal experiments, is much more grave. We have de-
pended on these procedures to safeguard the national
health, to protect us from poisoning. If common sense
will not warn us that tests on animals will not take the
place of fundamental scientiﬁc understanding of our
own minds and bodies, then the thalidomide tragedy
proves it beyond question.

Drugs No Guarantee of Protection

If we are going to expend huge sums on medical re-
search, arenit we at least entitled to research that knows
how its products operate, and why? Or, if we can’t have
that right away, aren’t the children, at least, entitled to
actual protection from poisoning?

If medical science took a wrong turning, in placing its
reliance on animal experiments, it cannot be too late
to go back and retrace the steps. It can only be too late,
if the error is not corrected, and a poison more subtle
and pervasive than thalidomide, with hidden effects
which perhaps do not show up for years, is introduced
into general use, and destroys us by the million.

We need the protection which only true understanding
of the complex life processes, in true scientiﬁc terms,
can provide. Let us insist on just that, as responsible
citizens and decent parents, and let our legislators known
that we want, and demand, an end to the uncertainty
and waste involved in animal experiments.

 

 

 




 

REGISTER, TorringtOn, Conn., November 14, 1963

 

 

 

Ill-Tempered Hamster Object
Of Operation By Yduthful Pair

By OWEN CANFIELD

If you have a hamster with a
mean streak, operate.

A pair of Torrington H i g h
School sophomores, Dave Gon-

ska and Billy Chause, had just

such an ill-tempered animal and
decided to put him under the
knife, in this case a sterilized

razor blade dipped in alcohol, to
see if they could find out why.

EXplains Billy, chief surgeon
and owner of the hamster, “We
thought it might be a tumor that
was making him so mean, or
that something was broken.”

The “patient” came through
the ordeal with flying colors, but
the two youngsters found ~ out
later that they had been guilty
of one mistake, that eventually
proving to be a fatal one to the
hamster.

The operating room was a
barn. in the rear of young
Chause’s house, with sever-
al witnesses, members, of th e
animal kingdom, looking on.
These included eight broth-
er hamsters, a ﬂying squirrel
and 13. aquariums full of tropical
fish, all Billy’s.

The boys began by putting the
animal to sleep. First they
rigged a tiny screen over the un—
willing creature’s nose, then
placed it in a small box with a
wad of cotton soaked in carbon
tetrachloride. The fumes sent
the hamster to unconsciousness
and the screen prevented it from
inhaling any of the liquid and
suffocating.

The two young vets scrubbed
up and went to work. Billy
wielded the b l a d e skillfully,
opening the animal’s, stomach.
“I had to be careful,” he told
us, “to cut through only the
skin and flesh. If I pressed too
hard, I’d have killed him right
there.”

The boys knew what they were
looking for but found nothing
out of the ordinary. Billy report-

 

 

ed that they even moved the liv-
er “and other stuff” aside and
checked the hamster’s heart
beat, which was quite normal.

When the search for the cause
of the six-inch animal’s unpleas-
ant disposition was over, the
boys tackled the job of sewing
up the incision. '

This was a delicate maneu-
ver for the two youngsters, who
learned some of what they know
about animals in school and
the rest from on - the - side
study. To do it they needed
only a needle, borrowed from
Billy’s mother, plain black
thread and a bit more alcohol
They sterilized the needle.
soaked the thread in alcohol and
proceeded with the business at
hand.

Fearful that the hamster
would die from an over-
dose of carbon tet, they revived
it immediately after completing
the tedious job. The animal
awoke, ill - natured as ever, and
refused to hold still while the
young team bandaged it- They
again subjected it to the anes-
thesia and escaped the danger
that the anima would injure its
artistically stitched incision.
Quickly, they bound the cut with
gauze and tape and revived the
hamster. The boys forced
some vitamins down the ani-
mal’s throat with an eyedrOp—
per and the one and one half
hour operation was over. While
the hamster remained anything
but sweet tempered. it did
survive, seemingly with no ill
effects.

The boys: placed the cream
and white pet in a cage which
they carefully covered with
cloth to protect against infec-
tion. For the next five days,
they watched its progress. The
animal was fine, except when
eating, when it seemed to be in
pain. The next day, Billy found
it curled up dead in the cage.

Since then, the boys have
found the answer to why it died,

 

in a book on the subject. The

hamster, they disclosed, has
two sets of skin. This they knew
when they set out to perform
the operation. What they did not
realize they say, is that the two
skins should have been closed
separately. They closed them
as one and consequently, the
hamster died.

Dave is the son of Police Offi-
cer and Mrs. Stanley Gonska,
Red Mountain Avenue, and
Billy’s parents are Mr. and Mrs.
William Chause. 71 Millard St.
Both are fond of and interested

in animals and both aspire to
be biologists.

Billy’s pets number one less
than they did a week ago. He
had been the proud owner of a
squirrel monkey, a small ani-
mal grown in Florida, which he
obtained t h r o u g h Charlie’s
Aquarium on Berry Street. A
predatory rodent, “probably a.
rat or weasel” caught the mon-
key alo and killed it, reports
the lad. owever, he’s still not;
without a pet or two. He has a
flying squirrel, obtained through
the mail from Louisiana and
kept in a special steel cage with
a glass front; his dogs, and
some 100 trOpical fish of many

varieties. His hamster supply
was recently chopped from 18 to
eight, when he sold 10.

Among Dave’s charges are
some 25 tropical fish, kept in one
large aquarium, a cat and two
hamsters. .

The boys also have other in
terests. Last June, the youthful
pair sent to Colorado for a rock—
et kit and to Texas for already
fueled rocket engines, assembled
'a 24-inch rocket and fired .a
mouse 1,000 feet into the air.
Their launching pad was located
at Bannon Street Playground. It
went off like clockwork. the

mouse parachuting to earth in
its capsule and the rocket float.
ing down on a second chute.
Both were recovered undam-
aged.

Billy and Dave will undoubt-
edly have another pI‘OJefit
inlthe works soon“ Maybe they 1]
take out an elephant’s tonsﬂs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




seems fitting and proper, and

. luv-Ir

WHEREAS, It is deemed important to cooperate with the Anti

Vivisection Society and the Humane Societies throughout Illinois
by official proclamation,

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Otto Kerner, Governor of the State of
Illinois, do hereby proclaim Sunday, October 4, 1964, to be WORLD
DAY FOR ANIMALS in Illinois, and request the appropriate observance

of this important occasion.

33mm yWWMWWWWM/ﬂ
@Wﬂww/meﬁawﬂ

[:57i3”~ fﬁﬁ$fi‘ ,4%Z¢ TWENTY FOUR 1g%9%€y¢75EpTE R ém,gz;,
“ ""‘v” /aw; (2m£2%¢2meéémxmmawmg -
mad SIXTY- FOUR ,WM% g/
%%WWMW FORTY~SIXTH. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

GOVERNOR

BY THE GOVERNOR :

1M .3, ﬂm '

SECRETARY OF STATE

44444444444444444444444444w44444444444444444444¥*-
‘***¥44444444444444444444444444444¥44444444444444

4444444444¥44444¥44¥44444#4444444444444444444¥44¥4444444¥44

 

 




IRWIN, DENEKE 8c PENNER

' , Y . w
HARRY o.mwm,(159:~195:) ATTORNE 5 AT L A AREA cone 3:2

ELMER F“. DENEKE51930‘I‘362) 7’7 W‘EST WABHiNG'TON STREET TELEPHONE 33E”6C¥35
HAROLD E. PENNER‘

DOUGLAS 9. MALONEY GHIKZ‘AQEQ ‘43

M~_............

PETER D. FITZGERALD

February 10, 1964

The National AntiMVivisoction Society
100 East Ohio Strsot
Chicago, Illinois 66811

Dear Sirs:

Recently you referred to us the problem posed by
the announced intent of Chicago's new ultra high frequency‘
television station, WCIUMTV, Channel 26, to telecast hullfights
from Mexico City, and you requested our opinion as to the pos»
sibility of legal action to oppose such telecasts.

In response to your request, we have reported to you
that, in our opinion, telecasting of bullfights would be in
violation of the Illinois Statutes concerning bull-baiting,
contrary to the public policy of the Stats of Illinois, and
would constitute a public and private nuisance.

The Attorney General of the State of Illinois and
the State's attorney for Cook County, Illinois have been no~
tified, alerting them to the announced tolecasts and we have
given them our opinion upon the subject. These officials
have been advised that your Society is unalterably opposed to
the telecast of bullfights, and that if such telecasts took
place, you would demand that immediate legal actions be in»

stituted to enforce the Illinois Statutes and abate the
nuisance.

Station WCIUMTV'did telecast bullfights on Channel 26,
Saturday, February 8, 1964, on its 8:00 o*clock p.m. program
and states that it intends to continue such toleoasts as a
weekly feature. You have now instructed us to take whatever
action is necessary to oppose these tslocasts.

We believe that the Attorney General and the State’S*
Attorney should first be requested to act and, accordingly,
demands will he filoo on your behalf with these officials to

take the accessory stops to prosecute the violation and abate
the nuisanco.

if these public officials do not take prompt action,
we are proparsd to file mandamus prooosdings and also independent
litigation for abatement of the nuisance, to shall pursue every
remedy diligently to protoct your rights in this matter.

Very truly yours, “WWW

j.

_, ‘\
marry grants 3.: PENNER )
f

A
_/

X h /m 4,” »
W1%?w»
B, f/w’“ ’1 ' ”Egg van-um“ #1}: ﬂ 1 ’v'é’JW

HEP:BES ' Harolo E. Former

 




 

 

 

a*¥¥¥*¥¥***¥*4****¥¥¥**44*4**4*¥¥*¥¥¥*

    

LLC)YI)

OPERATED BY POST -NEWSWEEK STATIONS ‘

BROA’DCAST IIOUSE

Vv’. 1)]‘1NNIS, JR.

Woo ,Prosz‘dmzt and General Manager

Mr

Managing
Anti#Vivesecticn Society
100 East Ohio Street
Chicago 11, Illinois

Dear Mr. Richard:

Many of our programs, like the one you appeared ons are
designed to stimulate discussion and result in a better
informed and more understanding audiencem

When I express my appreciation for your appearance on
FOCUS, I know that I‘m.speaking not only for our staff
people, but also for the great numbers of listeners
who make up the audience of this program,

It was a pleasure to have you with us and the knowledge
that your appearance made a distinctive contribution to

a
a

«a
4:

a

4x

a

4x

a

4:

4x

4x

4n

4(

a

4n

If at any time ‘¥
stimulating subjects for future programs, we would be w I
<¥

4:

4x

a

a

4x

a

4k

a

4n

4:

4;

4K

e44*444444444444#4444eeeeee4441441444e44441

  

WT OP RADIO

- VVA_SIII.NGTON 16, I). C.

November 7, I963

. Clarence E. Richard
Director

better understanding of your subjectg I knowg must be
source of rewarding satisfaction to you.

you hare any thoughts about new and

ul for your suggestions.

Sincerely, . w
Oxolﬂla

A DIVISION OF THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY

 

 

   
 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE INQUIRER, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, October 24, 1963

KN...

 

 

Hormone Pill
Peril ls Cited

By JOSEPH R. HIXSON

Special to The Inquirer
And N. Y. Herald Tribune‘

NEW YORK, Oct. 23.-—-The
head of the Government labora-
tory that studies hormones and
cancer has warned women who
take female hormones regularly
that they are “playing with
fire.” He meant cancer.

At least 1.5 million U. S. wom-
en are taking the hormones
daily, either for birth control or
to eliminate the menopause.

MEETING SIDELIGHT

The warning came as a side-
light while 300 cancer special—
ists were listening to highly
technical reports on the disease.

Dr. Roy, Hertz, for 17 years
chief of the hormone branch of
the U. S. National Cancer In-

stitute in Bethesda, Md., had
read a paper on the control of
a rare and singular form of
cancer in pregnancy. The occa-l
sion was a conference held
jointly by the New York Acad-
emy of Sciences, the American
Cancer Society and the insti-
tute.

But somebody in the audience

asked about the female hor~

mone, estrogen, and its role in
promoting breast cancer and
cancer of the female repro-
ductive tract.

FOR CURE ONLY

Dr. Hertz looked at his doctor
audience hard through his steel-
rimmed spectacles. He told
them there was no doubt in his
mind that pills containing as
trogen should be used only to
cure disease.

‘80, of course, the reporters
waited forhim outside. They had
been reassured by many recent
scientific reports that, though
estrogen did encourage the
growth of breast cancer, it
played no role in causing the
disease that kills one out of
every 16 American women.

But Dr. Hertz stuck to his

guns. He admitted that there
are no statistics showing pro-
motion of breast cancer by
long~term hormone dosage. But,
he said, virtually all animal ex-
periments have shown encour-
agement of breast tumors by the
hormone, and, more important-
ly, cutting off estrogen-from
young women with breast
cancer slows the rate of cancer
growth. '

SMALL REDUCTION

The Government scientist ex-
plained that the reduction in es-
trogen output obtained by cut-
ting out a breast cancer vic-
tim’s ovaries and her adrenals
is very small indeed.

The reduction, he said, is of
the same order as the added es-
trogen contained in the birth
control pills enovid and ortho-
novum. Dr. Hertz was remind~
ed that Johnson and Johnson
and G. D. Searle and Co. are
doubling the estrogen content of

their birth~control pills so that
[they will be effective in a lower

dosage and can sell for a lower
price. Dr. Hertz looked disap-
proving.

When Food and Drug Admin-

{outweigh the value of the pills.

istrator Commissioner George
Larrick was asked What he
thought about the estrogen con.
tent of the pills in view of Dr.
Hertz’s warning, he said he was
not familiar with' the technicah
'details. '

DOESN’T KNOW

Were the new, low-dosage!
forms of ortho - novum and
enovid about to be cleared by
FDA? Larrick said he did not
know about that, despite the re-
cent public announcement ~ by
Johnson and Johnson that clear-
ance of its pill was imminent.

What do practicing gynecol-
ogists think about the cancer
risk?

Reliable reports indicate a
50-50. split in the ranks of the
specialists in female medicine.
The conservatives tend to the
position that since there are
other control methods available,
the most remote chances of
cancer should be considered to

Other doctors concede the “es-
thetic” advantages of long-term
birth control by the pill and the
lower rates of conception dem-
onstrated for its users.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Findings on lower animals don't always
hold up when applied to man." Isn't this
what anti~vivisectionists have persis—
tently argued is a good reason for total
abolition of vivisection? NOW a Russian
Vivisector tells his American colleagues

to use baboons for they "are close to man."

Wednesday, November

INTERNATIONAL MEETING

6, 1963

Dallas Morning NEWS

Scientific Baboon Study Opens

SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP) _ -
More than 200 of the World’s top
scientists gathered in San Antonio
Tuesday for a 4-day discussion
about baboons.

The men. including one from the
Soviet UniOn, are attending the
first international symposium on
the use of the baboon as an ex-
perimental animal.

This meeting is sponsored by
the Southwest Foundation for Re-
search and Education, an institute
in San Antonio that started the
first baboon colony in the US.

The Russian is Dr. Boris A. La-
pin, a smiling extrovert who is
director of the Institute of Experi-
mental pathology and Therapy at

Baboons are coming into more
and more use as research ani—
mals because they are so close to
man. Findings on lower animals
don’t always hold up when applied
to man. And animals still closer
to man—such as chimpanzees-—
cost a lot more than baboons.

Lapin’s work in Russia has
been devoted mostly to comparing
ailments in baboons with human
troubles. His scientists have given
the baboons neurosis, heart trou-
ble and various infectious diseases
to see if they react the same way
as man. Quite often, he said,
they do. '

in a cage with a female baboon

Lapin said they gave one male,
baboon an ulcer by keeping him ’

ing her into a nearby cage with
another male.
The baboons in Russia developed
all kinds of mental problems,
Lapin said, when the scientists
disrupted the animals’ day-night
pattern. They got six hours of
daylight, then six hours of night.
This hurt the animals physically
and mentally, he said.

But when the scientists stopped

this treatment the animals soon
returned to normal.

 

 

Sukhumi.

until the mating period, then mov~

 

(This letter from a doctor
was in the WALL STREET
JOURNAL, October 23, 1963.
Please note the third par—
agraph, more evidence

that vivisection to gain
surgical knowledge is
considered unnecessary.

Letters .
To the Editor

Credo for Dying
Editor, The Wdll Street Journal:

Regarding the/article “The Funeral Fu-
ror" by Mitchell Gordon (Sept. 30), this is
my idea for a. sensible credo for dying:

Leave your eyes to an eye bank. ”You
may thereby give sight to some blind per-
son and, in a. very real sense, continue to
live on after death.

Leave your body to a medical $011001.
Every single advance in surgery has come
via. the studied cadaver.

If you cannot bring yourself to do either
of these things, specify that your burial
shall. be in a. simple closed coffin, sans ern-
balming. If, in dying, you cannot help'your
fellow man, at least do not leave behind the
senseless burden. of the cost of a “high-
st 1e” funeral.

y ROBERT FRANKEN, MD-
Som Angelo, Tex. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

. mm. 'uuu .—

ltummnmmmimuaummumuumnumw%1m42wifju»:vé—A‘.‘ w

The Palladium-Item and Sun-Telegram

 

Richmond, Ind., Friday, Nov. 15, 1963

 

 

r ,
Claims Misuse 0t Drugs On Animals

May Cause Illness,

KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)---
Misuse of drugs in animals is
bringing flirtation “with a trag-
edy that will make the thalido-
mide scare seem utterly insig-
nificant by comparison,” a
veterinarian said Thursday.

“Tons of antibiotics, chemi-
cals and hormones” are being

given to animals without pro-
.fessional guidance, said Dr.
Francis T. Candlin of Denver,
Colo.

These could very Well be the
cause of unexplained reactions
causing sickness or death in
humans, 'he told the American
Public Health Association.

The long-range effects of all

A).

 

 

Death In Humans \

these drugs in animals, or in
humans consuming animal prod-
ucts, are not known, Dr. Cand-
lin said.

Thalidomide was a sleeping
pill blamed for causing deform-
ities in babies after pregnant
Women had taken the drug.
That tragedy partly stimulated
recent tightening of testing re-
quirements for new drugs.

Seeks Restriction

Dr. Candlin declared no one
knows how much of the drug
sensitivity complex in humans
is related to the “misuse of
drugs in animal medicine. Un-
til we do we are morally obli-
gated to urgent restriction of
their use.”

Bacteria can develop resist-
ance to antibiotics and indis-
criminate use of these drugs in
animals may lead to develop-
ment of resistant germs that
spread to humans, he said.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

Most laboratories assure the public that they use animals humanely Perhaps this photo shows why the University of Pittsburgh is secre-
butmost of them refuse to allow effective inspection. This sign, in tive. This dog, alive, was found strapped to the table in a U. of
the University of Pittsburgh, is typical. Pittsburgh laboratory. No person was present.

HERE’S THE UNVARNISHED T

 

 

 

 

‘0": ' «.A ,
‘|‘ 2, m

 

 

u,,. ‘
,n H

I”...

In the Ohio State Veterinary school, these two cats died in this In Childrens’ Hospital in Cincinnati, monkeys wear heavy chains
cage, alone and unattended at the time of death. Our investigator even though they are confined in steel cages with wire-mesh floors,
was not working in this department and cause of death is unknown. The chains are fastened to rings in the side of the cage.

 

Drastic heart surgery has been performed on this dog at Leland Indiana University refers to this as a “stock room.” On day HSUS

Stanford University and it has been placed in a ”recovery" cage. investigatortook this photo, more than 75 dogs of all sizes and types
009 90" no post-operative veterinary care. were jammed into this room, awaiting use.




 

eys
niel

 

 

 

Is the thalidomide disaster an isolated one? Some- ,
thing that happened once but could not happen'
again? The‘answer seems to be a frightening "no.”

In Drug Topics, May 4, 1964, there is this alarm-
ing statement, casting even more doubt on the wis-
dom of dependence on animal test:

"The thalidomide tragedy can happen again; no
legislation can prevent it; no animal test can fore-
stall it.” Dr. Sidney Cohlan told a symposium on
"the Right to Use New Medicines” last fortnight in
New York City.

Dr. Cohlan is associate professor of pediatrics at
the New York University College of Medicine and
one of the physicians who warned against infant
malformations caused by drugs years before the re-
cent epidemic of such malformations attributed to
thalidomide.

The difficulties posed by new drugs in modern
medical practice were also outlined by Dr. Gustav '
J. Martin, research director for William H. Rorer,
Inc., Fort Washington, Pa., who stated that the di-
versity of human reactions to medicines makes it
impossible to lay down hard and fast rules.

themselves and friends. A report of the
Royal Commission on Vivisection (Eng-
land) stated, “the discovery of anesthet-
ics owes nothing to experiments on
animals.” Penicillin: a chance discovery
by Sir Alexander Fleming with no ani-
mals involved. Asepsis: Semmelweiss, by
a long series of clinical observations, dis-
covered the ghastly death toll from puer-
peral (childbirth) fever was due to
direct infection, and by the simple ex-
pedient of instructing his assistants to
wash their hands in chloride of lime be-
fore examinating patients drOpped the
mortality rate from 12.24 to 1.27 per cent
in less than two years. Blue Baby Opera-
tion: Blalock (US) developed one meth-
od in 1944, using dogs for practice; Brock
(England) introduced another in 1948
and a medical magazine article made it
clear procedure was devised without re—
course to animal experiments, since vivi-
section for “practice” is forbidden by
English law; a third approach was made,
by Barret and Daley of St. Thomas’s
Hospital in London, based on logical de-
duction as a result of an accidental
discovery, Cancer: authority after au—
thority, from Professor Gilford in 1933 to

Firm Fined $80,000
for Controversial Drug

WASHINGTON (UPD—A feder- the composition of Mer 29 [Tri-
al judge Thursday imposed $30,. paranol]. They advertised itas
000 in fines on the Richardson- an effective drug for lowerlns
Merrell Dru company, for fail- high chlosterol levels
are to spe out 903,151. td- body—e contrxbu
verse effect: from use of its heart d'"
controversial drug Met .29.

     

   

 

 

    
 

Itwasthoﬁuttimead

   

 
  
    
 
 

Dr. Starr in 1960, have argued “it is not
possible to apply to the human species
experimental information derived from
inducing cancer in animals,” yet millions
upon millions of animals are still being
used in fruitless cancer research today.
Lack of results can be found in mortality
tables and needs no emphasizing. Action
of Drugs: According to G. R. Boyes,
B.Sc., L.M.S.S.A., Ph.C., F.R.I.C., writ-
ing in The Pharmaceutical Journal, “not
only do trials on human subjects make it
possible to assess the value of a drug in
the prevention and treatment of disease,
and also to determine the effective dose
range, but they reveal side effects . . .
which cannot be determined from animal
experiments. (See story on drug firm
fined $80,000 for failure to spell out pos-
sible adverse effects of Mer 29, presum-

THE THALIDQMIDE TRAGEDY

No medical tragedy in recent years has received
more attention than the appalling disaster which re-
sulted from experimental use on humans of the drug
thalidomide, which caused the birth of perhaps 10,000
deformed babies throughout the world.

David Lawrence, nationally syndicated columnist,
says ”it can happen that drugs tested with good results
on animals may be injurious when used by human
beings,” and warned that the tragedy resulting from
the use of thalidomide may diminish confidence in all
drugs. Another widely read columnist, George Sokol-
sky, reported that "one sometimes has queer experi-
ences with new drugs put on the market with plenty of
laboratory tests but with inadequate clinical data.”

Stuart H. Loory, assigned by the New York He‘r‘aldv
Tribune to investigate the tragedy, wrote: ”Even today,
after all the reports of side effects, scientists have not
been able to kill laboratory animals with large doses
of thalidomide. in some experiments, they have fed '
the animals doses equivalent to three-quarters of a
pound, if taken by man, at a time. Such quantities
didn’t even put the animals to sleep.“ '

Fortunately for the United States, one doctor—a
woman pharmacologist in the FDA—did not accept as
final proof of safety the tests of thalidomide on ani-
mals. In an interview with a reporter of the Washing-
ton POST, reported in the Baltimore SUN of July 79,
Dr. Frances Oldham Kelsey said that European reports
of its lack of harm to laboratory animals left her ”very
unimpressed,” and added that she had ”lived through
cycles before in which a drug was acclaimed for a year
or two—before its side effects became known.”

 

ably routinely tried on animals in the
usual fashion, tests which obviously did
not reveal the potential danger.) These
examples are a few of the scores of thor-
oughly documented cases exhaustively
discussed in the book, “CLINICAL
MEDICAL DISCOVERIES,” by M.
Beddow Bayly, identified elsewhere.
Readers who may wish to satisfy them-
selves as to the authenticity of the facts
may obtain a copy of this 150-page, hard
cover book for $1 from the National Anti-
Vivisection Society, 27 Palace Street,
London, SW. 1, England.

 

 

 

 

 




(Founded in 1929 as a charitable educational organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI -VIVISECTION SOCIETY

. 100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

‘NaSHiNGTON BRANCH
12 February 1964 M w

some "1m
Occaosmrat BUILDING

um PEMNSYLVANEA avenue. N. w.
WASHINGTON 4, D. (If.

Mr. Clark George,

Vice President a Managing hireotor
Station WBBM

630 McClurg Court

Chicago, llliuois 606ll

Dear Mr. George:

On last night’s Six O‘clock News Report, WEBM~TV presented a piece
of propaganda in defense of vivisection so flagrantly slanted it is
certain to be resented by every individual not convinced that animal
experimentation (especially since the thalidomide tragedy) is the
unmitigated blessing its proponents would have the public believe.

We refer to the editorializing of John Justin Smith why "Fatso," a
laboratory dog, whose sufferings can only be imagined, should be
regarded as a "national hero," and the subsequent airing of the views
of Dr. Edward R. Annie, President of the American Medical Association,
responding to questions by your reporter, Sherry Blair, that "Fatso"
fully deserved the "honor” bestowed on him for his "contribution" to

the health of mankind, a contribution described in only the vaguest
sort of generalities.

It was not even claimed that whatever "Fatso" underwent resulted in

a cure for anything or even pointed to a specific line of treatment.

It was merely stated that the unfortunate animal had been subjected

to some sort of experiment (we can only guess what was involved) to
raise its blood pressure artifically so that workers in the Abbott
Laboratories (a nice bit of free advertising for a commercial pharmaceue
tical house, incidentally) could study the effects of various drugs.

In every laboratory in the country, on every day of the week, uncounted
thousands_of "Fatsos" are constantly being used in precisely the same
manner, without benefit of publicity; this is the baSis for our con—
tention the story of ”Fatso" was pure, unadulterated propaganda.

This organization, with thousands of members in Illinois and other
thousands in all parts of the country, respectfully requests the
privilege of "equal time," in keeping with WEBM~TV's frequently
announced policy, to present the other side of the "Fatso" story-~
the reasons why a respectable segment of the population opposes
viviseotion, seeks its abolition, and questions the fairness of
allowing laboratories free time to advance the aims of the National
Society for Medical Research unless organizations with an opposing
viewpoint are permitted to-offset such obvious propaganda.

Yours very truly,

 

Clarence E. Richard
Managing hireotor

 




 

 

 

THE CHRONICLE, Houston, Texas, August 9, 1964

PATRDLMAN JOHN MOBLEY NAMED ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDALIST
Shown With Wife and Sons, Michael and Mark and Family Pet Lady

Cruelty to Dog Appolls
Schweitzer Winner

Detroit—Detroit patrolman to
whom crimes of violence are a
common occurrence, was ap-
palled by what he found in
Wayne University medical
school when summoned there on
a complaint. He called the con-
dition of an experimental dog
“the worst case of cruelty I
have ever seen.” '

Patrolman John Mobley,
named Albert Schweitzer med-
alist for 1964 by the Animal
Welfare I n s tit u t e, reported:
“While working with Patrolman
Bloomfield, we received a radio
run to the Memorial Hospital
about a complaint. Upon arriv-
iing, the head nurse at the infor-
mation desk stated a dog in the
W a y n e University laboratory
was moaning and crying for
three hours. It was disturbing
the patients at the hospital.”

. “We went to the laboratory,”
,Patrolman Mobley continued,
€“and the night watchman took
ius to the basement where we
found two dogs in steel cribs.

 

One looked dead, but the other
was crying as if in great pain.
Blood and foreign matter was
pouring from the mouth. Some
of the blood was dry, indicating
the dog was left to suffer some
time. The dog seemed para-
lyzed, and the tongue was gag-
ging the dog to the point it
could not get stifficient air.

“I asked the night watch-
man,” the patrolman said,
“what doctor was in attendance
of the dogs, if they were in a
postoperative state, and he
merely stated that no one
watches them, and everyone had
gone home. He said they are
only interested in the time it
takes before they die.” Patrol-
man Bloomfield was made ill
by the sight. Patrolman Mobley
summed up both men’s views
when he said, “If this is called
for, in the advancement of sci-
ence, then God help us all.”

Patrolman Mobley called the
anti-cruelty association whose
investigation brought out con-

 

 

flicting reports from medical
school personnel, one stating the
dog had died during the night,
another that it was still living
and had now been debarked.
“Irregularities” noted by the
acting head of surgery were that
the dog should have been de-
barked earlier and should not
have been left in the basement
room with a window open.
The matter is under investi~
gation by the health commis-
sioner of the state of Michigan.

 

 

 

NEWS CHIEF
Winter Haven
Florida

Knight Says
Mielo Is Fine

“All’s well that ends well”!
and such is the story of Mielo,
the astrodog.

In May of this year much
hue and cry was raised over
the planned orbiting of Mielo
by a group of young , Winter
Haven scientists. So great was
the outcry against this proj-
ect that the group was forced
to abandon its plan to orbit
Mielo.

Al Knight. leader Of the
group, says that Mielo is now
safely in Memphis, Tenn. and
belongs to J. A. Chambers.
a resident of that city. Knight
said that he received a letter
from Chambers saying that he
had seen the dog’s picture in
the newspapers and would like
to buy him because Mielo
looked like a dog that he once
had.

When the proposed orbiting
was cancelled and Mielo’s fu-
ture- was in doubt, Knight
made arrangements with
Chambers and Mielo was ship-
Ded to Memphis Via air
freight from Tampa Interna-
tional Airport. Knight says
that Chambers has kept in
touch with him and reports
that Mielo is doing fine and
likes his new home.

The group is still planning
to make an orbital shot but
this time they will not be

orbiting a live animal. In»
stead, the satellite will con;
tain six test tubes of him al-
gae. Knight says that he hopes
that there will be no cries of
cruelty to algae.

The group. feeels that much
research is still .needed in
learning the possibilities of
using algae for food.. It is
theoretically possible to make
a closed system using algae
for food, thus eliminating the
necessity of using precious
weight and space allowances
for large amounts of food on
space trips.

By orbiting the .algae,
Knight and his group plan to
test the effects on the algae of
radiation encountered in space.

 

 

 




(Founded in; 19:29:68 a' charitable educational organization, inceorporawd in I llinois) V

THE NATIONAL ANTI VIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO ll, ILLINOIS

 

3 P E c 1 A L ’ _‘ _§; ‘ .February 25% 1964

 

TO ALL NEW YORK MEMBERS OF NAVS:

We have jugt been Tnfarmed that the~companiam bilTa Tntraduced
in the State Senate and Assembly which Wauld hava put an and to
all restricticns on Viviﬁectiﬂn hava been'wiﬁhdrawn by thNir
sponsors, Tue to the tremenﬁaus oppositicn generatad by New York
humanitarians.

In hig letter annﬁumcing that the bills are ﬁeaN, Michael Mcukhanofﬁi
President of the International Confaremce Against Vivigaction;
thanked the Somiety fer the way we had alerted Qur mambers, and we,
in turn, want t0 thank the many memberg wha, by their letters and
telegrams to their Senators Nnd Assemblyman,'braughﬂ abaut this
stirring triumph.

 

The Internatinnal [Inference 111135115? Wivisectiun

 

Presidanf

MICHAEL MOUKHANOFF ' February 3. 9 ,
Ashamee.
A‘ 4 N Y k
4cm ew or M]? ‘ G90rg8 Trap}?
Vicemesiden'ts

amuawmm Nablanal ﬁnfi VTTTN QCLTQN SoeTeLy
1waﬂwwMMN 100 East Ohia SLreeL
‘NN‘NN" N N Chicago 11. , 11 11.11013
WILLTAM A. SNYDER '
223 E... Presmn Sheet
Bahimcm 2, ”MT. Bear Mfg Trapp 2
MRS. MARTHA ﬁMHMGER "
353 Ursiversify Avemie ‘ _ ' ‘
NLLL,MWWT I am glaﬁ L0 be able Lo repart Lhat the bills

mmgﬁyxggmwe in Albany are dead. In fact the spanaara withdrew them
. ‘7 47-43 acne

mecmmma as a result of the pressure put Nut They also admitteé
m.mmmeaamg that Lhey aid nQL knew what the bills meant, and did mat

’NT:;N£§$;NN . even read them befere having Them TnLrnéuced

_ '14“ Nennsyiwnéa Avenwe, N. W.

.NNNN”NNN I wanL Lo Lhank the National AnLTmVTvisecLion
Carrespmding Secret-my

_MMHMN%WMN / Society for the very prompt and effieient way the matter
NTMLMWwwaQ ,. _ was handled Lo inform a11 yaur membera in New York Stat

‘ Fi-ﬂ'sbuygh 1?, .Fa.
Recrm'ding Secretary 53: Tramsurer
M133 EGTTL‘TA L. EUTTON .
T? Trerrecm! Tweet
Ramheaes‘ 3, New Yark ,
1 . L-.N ﬂ Years slnearely
..x:2<_:utwe Lammzhee;
MESS NWA HALVEY, Chﬂirmqn‘

V 43
it"f’: " ‘ E
:1’ 3 Chats? m: infuse? ' ,_.
1" 1. - g! -
.thsodeép?‘ 542 3, Panmyhanm , T N . g"
. Ora “ﬁr '3".
L. .. ‘ .FI'. V ”5"” - N ”N M;
Gm: @139st Tram-each ‘ _ ' ”My 5 fﬂmum
cmﬁwivisecﬁqn society , , . Q. 1 ‘
' ‘ > ' ‘ .x mswmu‘g; w.
.- member‘of the cmf‘aranm- ‘ = 7 W W 1..

 

"“""“’¢s|v Ava ‘9‘...

MTNhLel Maukhanoff
Presldent

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE STAR-LEDGER, Newark, N. J., Saturday, September, 19,

Suit against N .J . student
upsets U .S . scientists

By MARTIN GERSHEN
A New Jersey honor student whose experiments
with live Chickens for an East Orange High School
science project last year resulted in a lawsuit, may

find that his medical re-
search also might become
a legal test case with na-
tional reperCussions.

The broad implications of the
legal action,'still pending in the
Essex Co‘unty Court, were aired
(yesterday by the board of di-
rectors of the National Society
for Medical Research (NS-MR)
meeting in Rochester, Minn.

The group, representing 670
scientific organizations includ-
ing medical colleges and pharm-
aceutical houses, expressed con-
cern that if the East Orange
High School student’s case is
lost, scientific research across
the country can come to a stand-
still. V

The suit grew out of a study
by Barry Fugere,~l7, currently

an East Orange High School

senior, who injected live chick-
ens with cancer virus to learn
why some developed the disease
and "others became immune to
it.

The youth’s school principal,
Morgan T. Leesch, explained
the experiments were conduct-
ed under careful supervision.
. Fugere’s project was entered
in the greater Newark Science
Fair, last April, where it won
an honorable mention in biolog-

ical sciences and, the offer of a
summer job for the youth at the.

Schering laboratories in Bloom-
field.

He was unable to accept the
job because he was not old
enough to work, Edward Stan-,

ton, attorney to the East Orange
Board of Education, Said.

But as a result of the experi-
ments, the New Jersey Society

 

 

for the Prevention 'oI Cmelty to
Animals filed Suit against the
East Orange Board, charging
it was illegal for the school to
use live animals in student ex-
periments or classroom demon-
strations.

New Jersey law permits scien-
tific experiments using animals
when they are conducted by
non - profit organizations or
those supported by state and
local funds.

The statute does not list sec-

* ondary schools and drug manu-

facturers among the groups
which may experiment with
live animals.

The research society is 06117
cerned that if the SPCA wins the
suit, precedent may be estab-
lished which might lead to sim—
ilaractions against drug firms.
Several large firms, including
Ciba, Schering Laboratories and
Merck, Sharpe and Dohme do

considerable experimentation in
New Jersey.

The law suit is a test to deter-
mine whether schools and or-
ganizations not mentioned in the

statute may conduct research

on animals, said Ralph A. Rah-
weder, research society execu-
tive secretary.

Added research society presi-
dent, Dr. HaremE. Essex, “I
think it would be very sad if the
SPCA should win a case of this
kind.”

Meanwhile young Fugere has
been forbidden to discuss the
case. But Stanton noted the
youth is an A student and presi-
dent of the National Honor So-
ciety this year.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

WILLIAM G.CLARK
ATTORNEY GENERAL
STATE OF ILLINOIS
SPRINGFIELD

June 2, 1964

Mr. Louis Rosky

Vice President

The National Anti—Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street

Chicago, Illinois

Re: Registration under "An Act to
Regulate the Solicitation and
Collection of Funds for
Charitable Purposes".

 

Dear Mr. Rosky:

I am pleased to acknowledge receipt of your
registration statement.

 

It is my sincere hope that your organization
continues to serve the people of Illinois. Only through
such service--however large or small-—will people show
their appreciation and support of your charitable work.

The Division of Charitable Solicitations in my
office will assist you in any way possible.

The registration number assigned to your group
under "An Act to Regulate the Solicitation and Collection

of Funds for Charitable Purposes" is S 39.

Yours very truly,

W’GE ERAL

 

GN:er
Encl.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ROBERT BROWNING

I despise and abhor the pleas
on behalf of that infamous prac-

tice, vivisection.

DOROTHY THOMPSON

(Newspaper columnist, lecturer and radio commentator)

The psychologists feel more strongly than the other
scientists about introducing immature youth to ex-
perimentation upon animals. Among psychopaths
the most readily observable trait is lack of sympathy
and affection. Sight of pain and suffering does not
move them. This deficiency in warm and benevolent
emotional reactions usually dates, if it is not neuro-
logical and congenital, from some trauma or traumas
developed in childhood, and (as our forefathers know
and our most “modern" child psychologists have
relearned) the child cannot get or give enough of
lovmg—by which I do not mean indulgence. Any-
thing whatever, therefore, that develops callousness
to the suffering of others during childhood .and
adolescence is psychologically injurious.

RT. REV. MSGR. LEROY E. McWILLIAMS
(St. Michael's Church, Jersey City, N. J.)
Although man is the high priest of crea-
tion and all other creatures were made
for his service, it were to be devoutly
wished that the far reaching, all embrac-
ing sympathy of St. Francis would return
and make of all men the tender friend
and protector of animals as he was. . . .
To achieve knowledge through the un-
utterable agonies of those who trust us

has never been part of my credo.

MAHATMA GANDHI

Vivisection, in my opinion, is the black-
est of all the black crimes that man is
at present committing against God and
His fair creation. It ill becomes as to in-
voke in our daily prayers the blessings of
God, the compassionate, if we in turn
will not practice elementary compassion
towards our fellow creatures.

“'f---"‘--‘--"--r-“ - -— ——‘—'-‘-'—

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Kindness is the only service that
will stand the storm of life and not
wash out. It will wear well, look
well and be remembered long
after the prism of politeness or
the complexion of courtesy has
faded away.

FANNIE HURST

I am against vivisection because I see no rea-
son to believe that its benefits to humanity
justify the cruel practice. The scientific results
of all the years of the practice of vivisection
are nebulous. The ethical results are concrete.
So long as vivisection exists it means there
are still men and women who can crucify
dumb animals and betray their trust and
friendship. Let the vivisectionists cure that
moral sore by ceasing the fiendish practice.

________________l_____________-__i_-__

L.______________l__..______________

GEORGE BERNARD SHAW

Atrocities are not less atrocities
when they occur in laboratories

and are called medical research.

JOHN GALSWORTHY

When a thing exists which you really
abhor, I wish you would remember a
little whether in letting it alone you
are minding your own business on
principle, or simply because it is
comfortable to do so.

CLARE BOOTHE LUCE

(Ex-Congresswoman, Ex-Ambassador to Italy, and author of

numerous books and magazine articles)
It is diﬂicult to entertain a warm feeling for a
”medical man” who can strap an unanesthetized
dog on a table, cut its vocal cords, and spend
an interesting day—or week—slowly eviscerat—
ing or dismembering it. . . . I suppose that the
researchers do not deny this themselves—they
claim that despite the wholesale bloody experi-
mentation on animals, the only real proof of
the drugs found by the chemists or the operating
techniques suggested by the experimentation of
animals, must he in the end veriﬁed by trying
them on human subjects.

_ _________________________ J. ________________________

ALBERT PAYSON TERHUNE

Vivisection is as criminally useless as it
is uselessly criminal. There is something
grotesque in a code of humane laws
which forbids the overcrowding of
chickens in a crate and yet permits the
slow and hideous torture of a myriad of
harmless dogs.

VOLTAIRE

What a pity and what a poverty' of
spirit, to assert that beasts are ma-
chines deprived of knowledge and senti-
ment. Some barbarians seize this dog,
who prodigiously excels man in friend-
ship. They nail him to a table, and dis-
sect him living, to show the veins. You
discover in him all the same organs of
sentiment which are in yourself.

GEORGE ARLISS

Of course the vivisectors have made some marvel-
lous discoveries — but unfortunately they do not last.
As a rule, the first stage is headlines in the news-
papers telling us about the great discovery. The
second stage, is a certain shadow of doubt cast by
some other scientist. The third stage is a great si-
lence. The fourth stage is more headlines in the
newspapers telling us that the latest great scientist
has discovered that the other discovery was all
wrong, and that he has found something which is
the real thing. What about all these discoveries? We
know where they come from but where on earth do
they all go?

.I.————————-———————1_——————————————__

________________________ _l_

LEWIS CARROLL

Forbid the day when vivisection shall be
practiced in every college and school, and
when the man of science, looking forth
over a world which will then own no other
sway than his, shall exult in the thought
that he has made of this fair earth, if
not a heaven for man, at least a hell for
animals.

PRINCE RAINIER

I feel strongly about vivisection; and,
though scientists endeavor to explain
and justify it by the research value
that its practices offer, I cannot ad-
mit these arguments as really valu-
able in regards to one’s belief and
one’s faith.

C. S. LEWIS

(Professor at Cambridge University)

Vivisection can only be defended by showing it
to be right that one species should suffer in order
that another species be happier. . . . If we cut up
beasts simply because they cannot prevent us
and because we are backing our own side in the
struggle for existence, it is only logical to cut
up imbeciles, criminals,1 enemies, or capitalists
for the same reasons. Indeed experiments on
men have already begun. We all hear that Nazi
scientists have done them. We all suspect that
our own scientists may begin to do so, in secret,
at any moment.

JOSEPH R. SIZOO
(Professor of Religion, George Washington University)
If only some of Albert Schweit-
zer’s concern for the animal king-
dom might take possession of men
and women everywhere we might
take a forward step to a world
of greater understanding and

good will.

LUTHER BURBANK

Their very weakness and inability to
protest, demands that man should re-
frain from torturing animals for the
mere possibility of obtaining some
knowledge which he believes may be
to his own interest.

DR. WILLIAM I. MAYO. MD.

(of Mayo Clinic fame)

It is undoubtedly true that opposition to animal experi-
mentation has been brought about by physicians them-
selves. For at least four thousand years, the dog has
been man’s best friend and companion, and the prac-
tice of buying stolen pets for animal experimentation
has alienated the public. Moreover, the medical pro-
fession has been permitting untrained men to do
unnecessary animal experimentation without supervi-
sion, work which has been of little or no value. While
the medical profession, as a whole, has not encouraged
such unfortunate practice, it has not as a body, acted
to control it. If it is the wish of the medical profession
to continue this work, it must not furnish a market for
the thief, and it must protect the dog from the wanton
experimenter.

FOR MORE SHEETS, WRITE THE NATIOl‘IAL ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY, 100 EAST qIHIO STREET, CHICAGO I I, ILLINOIS

 




public conscience, or that their pioneering in a field far from
the "fashionable" one it is today, produced only sterile results?

It is a sad commentary on the humane leadership of America today
that recognition of the solid accomplishments of uncompromising

anti-vivisectionists should come from their opponents, rather than
from their co-workers in animal welfare work.

 

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH

FOUNDED TO IMPROVE PUBLIC UNDERSTANDING OF THE PRINCIPLES
METHODS AND NEEDS OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MEDICAL SCIENCES

III Fourth Street, 5. E. 0 Rochester, Minnesota 55901.
August 5, 1964

Telephone: 288-1877

Mr. Clarence E. Richard

Managing Director

The National Anti-Vivisection Society
C/o Lake Shore Club'of Chicago

850 Lake Shore Drive

Chicago, Illinois

Dear Mr . Richard:

Not a single point in your letter of August 4 meets any disagreement from
me.

I even believe in critical pressure on everyone, all of the time. Pressure
can sometimes be destructive, but when moderated or somewhat counter-
balanced, critical pressure helps people move in the right directions.

 

R h A. Rohweder
E cutive Secretary

 

 

RAR /aa
- - Vice President Secretary-Treasurer
President Vice PreSIdent
MAURICE B. VISSCHER W. T. S. THORP
HIRA E. WARD DARLEY .
Emeritus Prof: EispE: ' I Executive Direcfor Prof. and Chrmn., Dep't of PhySIology Dean: College ORE-Vet. Med.
May I:sordo V sto ogy Ass'n of Am Medical Colleges University of Minnesota UniverSIty of Inneso a
o oun a non . -
D' f Director Director Director
N alias/run HUGH HUSSEY H. STANLEY BENNETT WILLIAM N. HUBBARD. JR.
- - - - ' ' ' Dean, School of Medicine Dean. Medical School
S”Sl}vils§3'2”fa'czi33§"§” 0/1153;cicriel‘i'eliic’a‘fliiélfs Universiw °f Chicm ”mm” °‘ M‘c“'ga"
9 State University of New York
‘ TON J. CARLSON, Fo nder
RALPH A. ROHWEDER, Executive Secretary A” “

 

 

 

 

\

 

 




 

 

CITIZEN-PATRIOT, Jackson, Michigan, August 29, 1964

Animal Studies .verdone?

By Science service

SOUTHAMPTON, England -- ences ” "

ObserVing animals to find out
about man can be overdone, the

preSident of the British AssO- man’t relationship to his fel

ciation for the Advancement of

Science warned, members.

Speaking at the opening ses- any other animal. He faces dif-

sion of the association’s yearly

meeting, Lord Brain said it is in different ways.

important to remember that
man is different from other ani-
mals and that scientists should his
not think of animal behavior in

human terms.

“At present, at any rate, we

intelligence, ,

cannOt imagine what an animal nipulations' help him to increase

perceives,” he said, “but we
can avoid thinking that this is

 

his perception .-—- by use of a

like our own ideas or experi- increased perception in turn af- . _
‘ the comp'lexrty of our env1ron-

‘ fects his manipulations.
Most important of these ma-

Lord Brain pointed out that nipulations is the use of verbal

and printed symbols which we

lows and to the universe is call language
uniquely different from that of-

Of all known life forms, only
man is selfconscious, Lord Brain

ferent problems and solves them added. Only man is aware of

himself as a part of the greater
world, and only man has ideas

Man’s superiority is due ‘to of right and Wrong and theories
Lord, Brain concerning his feelings. These
said, and to his ability to magi'deas are a reflection of the so-
’ nipulate the-objects in the uni- ciety in which he lives.

verse around him. These ma- ’ 1

Lord Brain said the most im-
portant problem facing us today

 

 

of the world’s population and of

men. Increasing automation
and need for trained people are
causing the twin problems of
too little work for the many and
too much work for the few.

There also is a need today to
relate the sciences to each other,
and we lack the “specialists in
gene1alization” to do this, he
said.

Lerd Brain compared society
to the nervous system,composed
of many individual “cells”
which must werk together in

microscope, for instance --- and is the immensely rapid growth order to be effective.

(Continued from Page 7)

 

 

 

 

 

when it came, he supported the Union be—
cause victory for the Union would result
in abolition of slavery and the Constitu-
tion would be purged.

Garrison reached his objectives. He won
the support of millions, and his Liberator
published not only President Lincoln’s
proclamation of emancipation but also the
adoption of an amendment to the Consti—
tution forever prohibiting slavery.

His objectives reached, publication of the
Liberator was suspended and the American
Anti-Slavery Society dissolved. This man
who was dragged through the streets of
Boston by enraged mobs, lived to receive
the highest honors the United States and
Great Britain could bestow on a private

citizen.
>l< >i= >3:

ABOLITION of slavery was accom-
plished largely through the support of
women and their influence on their men-
folk. The women sought their own equal
rights at the same time, but their cause was
lost. For 50 years following the close of

 

the Civil War delegates of the national
suffrage movement went before committees
in every session of Congress with but one
demand—a 16th amendment to the Con-
stitution giving women equal rights.

It took those 50 years to learn a lesson:
Congress would not favor the amendment
until there was sufficient pressure brought
to bear on the congressmen by the various
states. The women started all over again,
working on state levels. Finally, at the
close of World War I, enough support had
been gained in Congress for approval to
submit the 19th amendment to the states.
It required nearly 100 years of constant ef-

fort to add just 28 words torour Constitu-
tion.

Reformation is a painfully slow process.
No one should seek it in the hope of a
quick, easy victory. Like Liberty, it has
its price. Vivisection, like slavery, must
and will be abolished. It will be abolished
only if we remember the lessons taught by
history. Whether we ultimately seek abo-
lition through the national Congress, or
through the individual states, victory will
be ours only when we have built up suffici-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 
 

 

Reprinted from "REVERENCE FOR LIFE," official organ

of The New England Anti-Vivisection Society, Boston

“The rights of the helpless . .

THHIIHHIIHIIHIIHIllllIIIIHHIHHIIHHHIIIIIIHI """""""""""""

. must be protected by those who have superior power.” —— William. James

Service on World Day for Animals
at English Cathedral

On Sunday, October 4th, at the Coventry Cathedral, there will be a V‘V'orld Dav for Animals
service to be conducted with the cooperation of many animal welfare societies. The sermon will
be preached by the Rev. A. D. Belden, D.D., and the lesson will be read by Lady Dowding, wife
of the now or former Chief Air Marshal of England.

So large an attendance is expected that admission will be restricted to ticket holders.

It seems appropriate that we reproduce one of Dr. Belden’s challenging articles. It follows.

The Violation of Animal Rights

“7 e question the assumption that man, Whether
Christian or merely civilized, has the right, to
treat animals cruelly. Vivisection is, of course,
only part of the total story of man’s hideous
cruelty to the animal creation. Nothing can be
said here of experimenting on animals con-
nected with the risks of war, involving gas~
poisoning, body smashing, drownings, freezings,
burnings; nothing of the cruelties of hunting, or
of research into industrial stresses and strains,
or into the effects of chemical products. One
would not like to be an animal these days.

But have these creatures rights? Any religion
that denies them such is guilty of setting a limit
to God’s Mercy and of denying His moral re-
sponsibility in the creation of such sentient crea—
tures. There is reason to believe that animals
are rudimentary souls and when domesticated
seem to develop even a degree of moral sense.

The New Testament represents animals, as
being under the Providence of God. Hence the
ox is delivered from the pit even on the Sabbath
Day, and no sparrow falleth" to the ground “with-
out your Heavenly Father.” , , ‘

To besmear the fair face of creation with the

 
  

  

 
    
 
 

deliberate, open-eyed cruelty of science may be
a natural product of the materialistic science
of our time, but it cuts sharply across Christian
belief and morality.

The Love—nature of God is the salvation of the
human soul and it cannot be consistently denied
in any soul’s activities without that salvation be
coming imperiled.

The Old Testament assertion that God has
given dominion to men over the other creatures
is to be understood in terms of trusteeship for
their welfare. The Christian reacts to such a
statement from the level of Christ’s own spirit

' and judgment.

As Dr. Albert Schweitzer has pleaded so elo-
quently lately, we need “a boundless ethic that
passes beyond men and includes all living
creatures.”

“God is not mocked and whatsoever a man
soWeth that shall he also reap.” If we treat God’s
other creatures with such irreverence and
cruelty for Our own selﬁsh ends, we need not
be surprised if we at length discover that we

have been also grossly cruel to humanity.

 

‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

crueltv to animals-is: one of the most signiﬁcant vices of a low and ignoble people.
Wherever one heroes them, ’ they constitute a sure Sign of Ignorance and brutality which
cannot be .gpainted over eyen by all the evidences of wealth and luxury. Cruelty to animals
cannot exist togetheraVVﬁh true edilcation and true learning.

ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT

Noted Scientist, Explorer
and Philosopher.

 

 

 

 

 
   

   
  
  
  
   
     
  
    
 
   
    

-— A ‘ WWM.M _.,, ._i__..... A 4

 

   
  

 

   

 

  

  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 

 
  
 

   
 
 
  
     
    
    
   

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

SUN-TATTLER, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA

Pe’r Doctor

By A. w. MOLLER. D.V.M.

 

Q—In school science fairs I have seen
experiments that cause pain and suffering to'
animals. Do these children realize they are
hurting these helpless creatures?

A—I am not an ,antipvivisectionist, but 'I have
strong feeling about causin unnecessary pain to
animals. In the case of exbi its and science fairs,
experiments often are carried out to demonstrate
a point that has already "been well established.
I object strenuously to this use of animals. For
example, a science project might deprive ani4
mals of vital minerals or certain vitamins. The
result will be drastic and obvious but will prove
nothing that has not already been proved time
and time again in controlled laboratory experi-
ments. We have ’a right to experiment with an-
imals when it will benefit other animals or benefit
mankind, but we have no right to conduct ex-
periments that will not impart n ew knowledge.
Animal experiments should be conducted only
under the supervision of trained individuals who
know the physiology of pain and the psychology
of animals.

 

 

REGISTER, NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT

 

Two Soviet Dogs Grafted Together

Dr. Anastas Laptchinski of the Central Surgical and ‘Re-
search Institute in Moscow displays results of a remarkable-
graft which holds tremendous significance for (human surgery.
The forepart of a dog, half red .Bratik was joined to the hind-
quarters of a black szganka hound. The creature had sur-
vived 38 days when this photo was taken. (NANA Photo)

 

 

 

 

the following:

 

Suggested Form of Bequest to Your Society

For the information of those who have it in mind to remember
us in their wills but— like so many who have written us—are
uncertain how their desires should be expressed, we suggest

To the National Anti-Vivisection Society, 100 East Ohio
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611, I give and bequeath the sum of

....................... dollars
for the general purposes of the corporation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

that this society, in accordance with its charter and bylaws, is
not anti—medical, anti—scientific, or "anti" anything except
cruelty and vivisection.

Taking advantage of the opening he gave me, I posed two questions

to Mr. Rohweder, which he answered prOmptly and concisely. I cal—
led his attention to a story (reproduced in our current BULLETIN)
from a Milwaukee newspaper reporting the killing of a mouse by
'teenagers in a rocket "experiment.” I asked him if, granting

the youngsters might learn something about the science of rocketeering
from their hobby, it was not a fact that THE VALUE OF THE EXPERIMENT
WOULD NOT BE LESSENED BY THE USE OF A ONE-OUNCE PIECE OF METAL OR
STONE INSTEAD OF THE LIVING MOUSE?. After all, it was reported, the
children were interested in how their rocket performed, not in

what happened to the mouse. Then, why the mouse? Only because it
is a fad these days to relate "science" to "animals."

Then I asked Mr. Rohweder, who is certainly in a better position

to know the facts than anyone else, if it is true that the pressure
of anti-vivisectionists over the years has been directly responsible
for cleaning up laboratories, better treatment for animals in them,
and, to that extent, a monumental decrease in the sum total of suf—
fering of experimental animals.

(His surprisingly frank and gratifying reply to these questions is
reproduced, with his permission, on the opposite page.)

The NAVS is an educational organization and, as such, the results
of its work are seldom tangible. A few unthinking critics have
contended that since we cannot point to a single animal "saved”
from vivisection, our work has been futile. Moreover, some com—
paratively new animal welfare societies, disregarding the obvious
fact that they are now reaping crops from fields cleared, plowed
and planted by anti-vivisectionists years ago, are publicly on
record as having declared "nothing was ever accomplished" until

they appeared on the scene to lead anti-vivisectionists out of the
dark wilderness.

Such arrogance is an unforgivable insult to the real giants of the
humane movement, living and dead, including Henry Bergh, its founder
in this country and a staunch anti-vivisectionist favoring total
abolition, George Arliss, Mark Twain, Irene Castle, Alfred Payson
Terhune, Minnie Maddern Fiske, Robert R. Logan, Clarence Darrow.
Ellen Glasgow, Reverend Robert A. Russell, Honorable Percival P.
Baxter, Mrs. Clinton Pickney Farrell, Bernard Shaw, Reginald B.
Chase, George R. Farnum, Curtis P. Freshel, and scores of others
equally famous in their respective fields. Would any sane person
contend that the cumulative efforts of these dedicated anti—
vivisectionists have been completely barren, that their publicly
avowed opposition to vivisection has had no lasting impact on the

4”)

 

 

 

 

 




 

Checking critical comments from the public after sending out more than a million
of our general circulars, the one most often heard was "what do you offer as a
substitute for vivisection?” To answer that question we are substituting the
material on this and the following page for the two pages discussing the Tha—
lidomide tragedy in our circular, available about October 15 of this ear.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fully qualified men and women, some V

of them leaders in their profession, have
testified that claims made for the results
of animal experimentation have been
grossly exaggerated, and that vivisection
has proved to be a definite and danger-
ous stumbling block on the road to
medical progress. There is a wealth of
indisputable evidence that in numerous
cases application of the results of animal
experimentation to humans has proved
to be seriously misleading and sometimes
even fatal. (The recent Thalidomide
tragedy is a perfect example.)

The primary objection to vivisection is
the simple premise that it is wrong and
cowardly to seek benefits for humans
through the infliction of unspeakable tor-
ture and mutilation on helpless creatures.

The medical side of the opposition is,

of course, highly technical, and “experts”
often disagree Violently over what pre-
cisely similar “facts” mean.
> M. Beddow Bayly, 1M.R.C.S., 2L.R.-
C.P., who until his death in 1963, was
acknowledged to be one of the leading
medical practitioners in 3England,
wrote: '

“There is always a right and a wrong
way of conducting the search for knowl-
edge; it would be contrary to any logical
belief in an ordered Universe to maintain
that the adoption of ethically objection-

52?

Cl

Us? {there an aﬂtemmaiﬁﬁwe C9?

52?

[3

aleClinical

 

Research!

able methods can be the sole means of
attaining knowledge for the achievement
of health and happiness by mankind . . .
The wide extent to which purely clinical
observation and experience have,
throughout medical history, been suc-
cessful in discovering and developing
methods of diagnosis, treatment and pre-
vention of disease is frequently unreal-
ised or lost sight of.

“There is no doubt whatsoever that
future research along similar lines holds
out the greatest hOpe, if not the cer-
tainty, of achieving still more valuable
results than in the past. Progress is likely
to leap ahead once the misleading inves-
tigations involving animal experimenta-
tion are abandoned and the study of man
undertaken in earnest.”
1Member, Royal College of Surgeons, England.
2Llcensee, Royal College of Physicians, England.
3Medlcal men in Great Britain may, without fear of

retaliation, express themselves freely on controver-
s1al subjects.

Anaesthesia: chloroform first used by
Dr. Simpson in 1847, ether by Dr. Mor-
ton 1n 1846, after experiments upon

"EVERY SURGICAL OPERATION DONE
TODAY IS AVDIRECT RESULT OF HUMAN EX-
PERIMENTATION.”

—Dr. Robert G. M. Ravdin, associate professor of

surgery of the University of Pennsylvania at Phila-
delphia, a panelist on a seminar for science writers

conducted by the American Cancer Society in Palm
Beach.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

(Founded. in 1929 as a charitable educationai organization, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTLVIVISECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIQ STREET, CHICAGO H, ILLINOIS

 

' LET] SEPTEMBER, 1 964

 

NAVS PRESSURE REDUCES ANIMAL
SUFFERING, 0PPONENTS coNCEnE:

By CLARENCBIE.RJCHARD
bﬂanaging Director

 

The National Society for Medical Research, chief spokesman for
organized medical research, including, of course, vivisectors
using living animals, has been critical of our attacks on "ex—
periments" by adolescents at the grade and high school levels,
especially the type of exhibits in the so—called "school science
fairs" and "independent projects" carried on in basements and
garages with no supervision by parents or teachers.

This type of ridiculous scientific play—acting by 'teenagers

(who should be learning to read and write, if we can believe
what we see in the newspapers about the shortcomings of high-
school graduates seeking jobs) has been a particular target of
the National Anti—Vivisection Society, whose opposition is based
on the increasing concern now being publicly expressed by many
psychologists, that calculated indifference to animal torture

is a real threat to the morals and character of growing children.

Mr. Ralph A. Rohweder, executive secretary of the NSFMR, and I
have had some interesting, off—the-record correspondence on this
issue, and recently he wrote to me (enclosing a clipping with
the detailed story) about a very young child in the East’who had
been proclaimed an authentic genius in chemistry. He suggested
that if anti-vivisectionists succeeded in stifling such latent
ability in other children, we would be doing a disservice to
human welfare. (Our correspondence stemmed from the recent
Florida incident in which the Lakeland Humane Society, by threaten—
ing legal action, forced a 21—year-old high school student to
abandon his plan to orbit a dog in the nose cone of a home—made
rocket.) ‘

I replied that we certainly would not oppose the development of
a genius, whatever his age, in chemistry or any other field in
which animal cruelty was not involved, and once again emphasized

 

 

 

 




 

breath and prayed until their safe and thrilling
return.

Meanwhile, back at the hideaway, in the face
of all the vital facts and information that have
already been accumulated and the billions of
dollars spent on this serious work, a group of
teen-agers, reputedly have successfully hidden
a thirty-fOOt long glorified scrap pile of parts
which they are making ready to launch as a
rocket for space travel, complete with an un—
fortunate dog named Mielo, whom they also hid
because'of a guilty conscience in the form of a
humane society agent. (Why hasn't someone
'told these young folk that dogs in space ships
went out of style Russian-wise years ago?) What
a tremendous tax on their honor it was not to have
divulged the secret of their work on this magnifi-
cent junk heap.

And why is our government not taking advantage
of a good thing also, if it doesn't get all the de-
tails of launching a balloon 40 miles into the air
as a tow for rocket ships? Cape Kennedy would
find itself out of business if the components of
the miracle fuel used in this project were known.

Are these "brilliant young scientists" to have the
full cooperation of the recovery ships of our navy

him to report his experience and reactions while
privileged to die slowly of hunger and thirst as
he whirls insanely about the earth. (?)

Did the kind missile engineers who have given
their invaluable assistance to this project do so
on their own time, and not on that of the govem-
ment which employs them for an honest day's
work for worth-while things? In View of the gi-
gantic cost of even the smallest rocket ship,
from whence came those "spare parts " which
were allegedly used in this amazingly inexpen—
sive imitation? Uncle Sam frowns on taking home
samples, we are told.

Is the Internal Revenue Service on the alert about
that $30,000 reputedly being collected, to see
that whoever is in charge of all this loose change
and the spending of it pays the taxes? Or is this
considered charitable,tax-free and philanthropic?

If these youthful blazers of paths into the un-
known are successful, why should they share
their secrets, paid for in good U .S . currency,
with Russian youngsters who have known all
about it anyway from way back when? They can
recognize a cheap publicity stunt even in Russia .

stationed in strategic places around the world?
There are quite a few talking dogs shown on tele-
vision these days . No doubt Mielo, the elected
space dog, will be taught radio communication
systems and a sufficient vocabulary to enable

 

Yours sincerely,

Clarence E. Richard, V
Managing Director

 

 

 

SCHOOL DISCLAIMS RESPONSIBILITY

—With Student’s Plan To Orbit Dog—
Animal-Lovers File Pro tests

BARTOW (By Staff Writer)
-—Polk County School Supt.
Shelley S. Boone has been
bombarded ‘ "
with l e t t e r s
from . animal
lovers through-
out the state
protesting a
Winter Haven
t e e n a g e r ’ s
plans to orbit
a dog in a
h o m e m a d e
rocket.

    

The i r a t e
dog 1 o v e rs, Boone
however, obviously are un-

der the wrong impression,
Boone said. They think the
planned canine shot by 19-
year-old Al Knight is either
sponsored or in some way
connected with the county
school system.

Not so, said Boone.

“Any experiment'in rock-
etry, either involving live
animals or not, are in no way
connected with the public
school system,” Boone de-
clared.

Boone said he called Knight
soon after the mail began
coming in and asked the am-

ateur rocket scientist to clear
up the question “for every-
body’s peace of mind.”

Knight replied by letter to
Boone, stating he thought it
best if the superintendent is-
sued a statement.

Boone received letters of
protest yesterday from St.
Augustine, Palm Beach and
Silver Springs.

Knight, a Winter Haven
High School student, plans
to orbit the dog Mielo in a
homemade rocket late this
summer. “We will try to re-
cover him,” the young, man
said.

 

Cleveland PLAIN DEALER
March 21, 1964

4 Admit Railing Dog,
Insist It Was Dead

Four boys were arrested last night by Garfield Heights
police as the ones" who tied a dog-to railroad tracks Mon-
day, then watched a train run over it.

The'boys, two of them 13 and two 14, said the dog was
dead before they placed it on the tracks of the Penn-
sylvania Railroad near the Broadway-Miles Avenue-Tur-

ney Road intersection.

EARLIER REPORTS STATED the boys placed a live
dog on the tracks. -

Capt. William C. Horrigan of ”the Garfield Heights
police said he and Detective Leroy Worcester talked to
“nearly 100” boys in the neighborhood.

He said the four boys readily admitted placing. the
dog on the tracks.

The four boys were released later last night to their
parents after questioning.

THE BOYS TOLD POLICE one of them wanted the
dogs heart for a school biology clasTs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE JOURNAL, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, May 20,

 

 

 

 

1964

   
    

The West Allis astromouse
died in a rocket launching
Tuesday. David Sampson,
1940 S. 91st st., and Daniel
Schendzielos, 1356 S. 95th
st., both 15, attempted to
launch the mouse in the rock-
et Sunday in a field, but the
missile failed. The mouse sur-
vived. On Tuesday, the mouse
again was placed in the nose
cone (upper left) and the
rocket was fired (upper right).
The thin white line in the
smoke is a metal rod that
guides the rocket straight up.
After rising about 100 feet,
the rocket fell baCk to earth.
The launching booster had
failed to generate enough
heat to ignite the main sta e.
Lower: David sorrowfully
displayed the lifeless mouse
to neighborhood children at-
tracted to the missile site by
the smoke and the noise of
the crash. —Journal Photos

 

 

 

 

GREENSBURG W

Established 1910
Consolidated With Weekly
Democrat and St. Paul Record

Published every m
The Greensburg Times Co., 101 East
Main St., Greensburg, Ind. Phone
663-3111.

 

 

SMILEY FOWLER
Editor

lmpressionoble Age-—

The “science fairs” in public
schools, which have developed as
popular exhibitions in the last six
years, are having some results of
dubious educational value.

Competition inspires extra ef-
forts in study. And results may be.
particularly good in electronics,
mechanics and physics. The stimu-
lating effects in biological studies
should also have great merit, but
unfortunately they produce, in too
many instances, a damaging moral
and ethical breakdown in young
minds.

Many biology teachers, encour-
aged by fantastic reports in scien-
tific journals, are no longer con-
tent to dissect dead forms in the
presence of their pupils but use
live' animals — mice, hamsters,
chickens, frogs, dogs, cats—and en-
courage pupils to conduct experi-
ments in their homes. In some
cases light anaesthetics are used
at the start of an. experiment,
sometimes none at all.

In studying the effects of dis-
ease inoculations, animals are
often kept under observation for
Weeks or months. The same is true
in nutrition tests. Pupils are
coached in “control” experiments
-—one group of animals properly
fed and a similar group given a
non-nutrition diet or completely
starved.

In electric and radiation and
many other extremely painful ex-
periments, full consciousness of
the victims is maintained. These
include shock-producing, b 0 n e
breaking and setting demonstra-
tions. Some schools are even at-
tempting transplan‘ts of Vital or-
gans. .

Pupils are shamed out of their
natural squeamishness and taught
a total disregard for the sufferlng
of inferior creatures. In their most
impressionable age they are 1m-
pressed that kindness and sympa'
thy are to be despised.

It appeals to me that the school
room is not a proper place for 1n-
struction in destruction of charac-
ter. Rather, it might well be, m
the phrase of Dr. Albert Schweit—
zer, a place to teach “ the rever-
ence for life.”

 

 

 

 




(17'0qu in 1929 as o charitable oduoosouol organisation, incorporated in Illinois)

THE NATIONAL ANTI -VIVISECTION SOCIETY

ENDEMSTINMKDSTREET;(EﬂCAGOIULILHRKHS

U R G E N '1' WASHINGTON BRANCH

SUITE 701

To All NAVS Members ‘ Occmsmvu. BUILDING

I4" PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE. N. W.

in NEW YORK STATE: ‘ WAsmNGTON 4. o.c.

The letter reproduced below is self-explanatory. we are happy to
cooperate and urge our members to comply with this request.

Clarence E. Richard, Managing Director

 

fmends 0f ammals, 2716. 17 West 60th Street, New York, N. y. 10023 01rd: 74077
February 2h, l96h

IMMEDIATE ACTION NEEDED

To All Humanitarians,

or major importance to the humane movement are bills now before the
New York State Legislature to increase the spaying of pets and to reform
the New York City ASPCA. Action on these measures will not only save
millions of animals from abandonment, starvation and death.but will set
a pattern for the rest of the nation in reducing surplus animal pepulations.

 

Your help is urgently‘needed. Please write to the leaders of the
New York State Legislature, addressing your letters to The Capitol,
Albany, New York.

In support of Assembly Bills (Introduction Numbers and Sponsors:
380l-Curran, h305—Black, hh2ﬁ-Curran)

The Honorable Joseph F. Carlino, Speaker
The Assembly of the State of New York

In support of Senate Bills (Introduction Numbers and Sponsors:
1083+»Marchi, 326u—Speno, lOBE-Marchi)

The Honorable'Walter J. Mahoney,.MsJority Leader
The Senate of the State of New York '

The Bill to reform.the ASPCA (ates—1086) would give the members the power

thev now lack to select the directors and also requires the ASPCA to take

part in the spaying movement. If you are personally a member of the ASPCA
please mention that fact in your letter.

Please let all of your New York State friends know about these bills
so that they too may write their Senators and.Assemblymen. If you would
like additional copies of this letter, please let us know at once. The
Legislature closes in a few short weeks.

Your efforts will be of great importance in assuring the success of
this effort to reduce the surplus of suffering animals.

Humanely y urs
President

mamas: M rs Ludwig chclmam, Mrs J Chem Cawdin, Mr. James J. Davis, Pagan: Fitzgerald,
Mr Stephen Ketten, Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. Schmid, Mr. 1. Stanley Sharp,

vs'mumnv anvxsom Leon F. Whitney, D. V. M

 

 

 

 




 

 

gan to voice demands that we “do something”
about the matter. Unfortunately, not all sup-
porters of humane societies are anti-vivisec-
tionists, but all anti-vivisectionists are inter-
ested in every phase of animal welfare work
and it would be safe to estimate that 99 per
cent of NAVS members belong to and support
one or more animal shelters and humane so-
cieties.

The NAVS heretofore has resisted pleas
that it “invade” the field of general humane
work, however worthy a particular project,
not only to avoid duplication of effort, but be-
cause it was organized to concentrate on its
specialty, and existing humane societies have
the experience and know-how to handle their
problems more efficiently and effectively.

The bullfight telecasts, however outraged
so many of our members, that we finally in—
quired what, if anything, the humane societies
were doing about them. The HSUS at the
moment had its hands full with important
work already started, but promised all possi-
ble support and cooperation; no other animal
welfare organization displayed any interest.

NAVS directors considered the matter and
finally directed its attorneys to explore the
possibility of legal action against WCIU to
halt the telecasts. Our chief counsel, the late
Harold Penner, outlined a course of action
and it was approved.

The first step was a formal demand made
by us on the Illinois attorney general and the
Cook County states attorney that they bring
action, on the theory that since bullfights
were illegal in Illinois a telecast of them
would also constitute a violation of the law.
This theory was rejected by both officials,
and they refused to act.

The second step was a petition to the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to order
WCIU to eliminate the programs or face loss
of its license.

We conceded that the bullfights were pho-
tographed in a foreign country, and represent
a national custom in Mexico, but we insisted
their showing on TV was against American
public interest and a display of cruelty to an—
imals and added “would not a telecast of such
a monstrous exhibition be considered psycho-
logically and spiritually dangerous to many

 

people, and particularly to children? We con-
tend that this sort of TV program makes the
most bestial type of cruelty socially and
morally acceptable.”

While we were waiting on the FCC. to
reply to our formal demand for action, it be-
came apparent that our decision to wage war
on the bullfight telecasts did not meet with
unanimous approval.

Chicago newspapers began to editorialize
on the matter, most of them contending we
were seeking to impose unjustified censor-
ship. (See editorials and our reply to one of
them reproduced in the center spread of this
BULLETIN.)

***

TWO other points were raised by a few of
our members. First, since bullfighting is not
vivisection by any definition of that word, did
the NAVS have the legal and moral right to
spend time, effort and money on a matter out—
side its sphere of activity? Second, even if
our campaign succeeded, the bullfights them-
selves would continue in Mexico; we would
not be ending cruelty, merely preventing its
wider display in this country.

The censorship angle was covered, logical-
ly, we think, in a letter which the Chicago
SUN-TIMES carried two days later after its
own editorial raising the question was printed.

I discussed the question of our right to initi-
ate this campaign over WCIU itself on May 9
when the station generously gave us time to
state our views. I said:

“Members of the National Anti-Vivisection
Society are citizens as well as anti-vivisection-
ists, interested in anything and everything
affecting them as a part of the general public.
Many of them are parents, too, concerned, (as
well they might be) with the possible conse-
quences of all the blood and gore confronting
us wherever we turn the TV dial these days.
Contrary to the image our opponents try to
foster in the public mind, NAVS members
support many types of charities whose bene-
ficiaries are humans, not animals, and they
are as conscious of their civic responsibilities
as any other class of citizens. In short. they

(Continued on Page 10)

 

 

 

 




 

TO ALL MEMBERS :

For maximum safety of the funds entrusted to it by legacy and donation for the
fight against vivisection, your society has turned over management of its port—
folio of securities to an investment counsel corporation. The letter repro—
duced below is self—explanatory.

 

TRIGON 3mm Come!

120 SOUTH LA SALLE 0 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS-60608 0 TELEPHONE Fl 6-8215

October 31, 1963

Mr. Clarence E. Richard, Managing Director
The National Anti-Vivisection Society

100 East Ohio Street

Chicago, Illinois

Dear Mr . Richard:

It is indeed a pleasure to welcome you as a client of Trigon
Corporation, Investment Counsel. We appreciate very much your con‘
fidence in selecting our organization as your Counsel.

It is our understanding that the terms of our arrangement with you
are as follows:

Method of Operation " We are to direct purchases and sales of securities

for your investment account at our discretion. Copies confirming
the transactions to be mailed both to you and Trigon.

Term of Agreemen - One year from November 1, 1963, with 30'day
cancellation privilege by either the Society or Trigon.

Fee Basis * One eighth of one per cent per quarter of market value of assets
managed up to one-million dollars.

Payment to be made quarterly in advance beginning November 1, 1963
based on valuation of assets at close of business on last business day
of preceding quarter.

Counsellor " Leigh A. Cord, Vice President of Trigon.

If the above details are according to your understanding, please sign
the enclosed copy and return to us.

Very truly your 8,

 

mam “TWO

Clarence E. Richard William} D. Heer, ‘Jr.
for the NAVS President

W “21"63

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




