 

 

‘r’

NOTICE.

The Secretary respectfully requests subscribers,
members, and others,'to transmit to the Society’s
ofﬁce, any extracts from newspapers or other pub-.
lications which may come under their observation,
bearing upon the objects of the Society; and also
such BOOKS treating on natural history; or of any
character which might possibly add to the value of

the
Library of the Society,

thereby greatly aiding the Executive Ofﬁcers in
coming to correct conclusions upon the various
subjects which come under their cognizance.

The donation of a ﬁrst class ENCYCLOPEDIA
would be much appreciated.

Ofﬁce of the Society)
No. 696 Broadway,
‘ Cor. Fourth Street, New-York.

 

 




 

 

CONTENTS.

 

A

Abandoning Horses 49, 56 51, 53, 54, 62

Adoption 01 By —Laws xV iii- I64, 69.

Adulteration 01 Food 111. 50.

Agents of the Society to Appoint, 65.

A assiz, Professor s I etter 6.

A teration of By- -Laws xviii,

Annual Election x. 46.

Annual Meeting x. 1. 1
B l

Bank of Deposit xiiii, 37,

Bear Fighting 63,

Beating Animals 47—57,63,

Bequests 32—35.

Bequests form of 78

Boundaries of Society vii, V1,iii

Branch Societies, 79

Brooklyn Branch Society, 79,

B1111 Fighting, 63,

By-Laws V1i.v"'

 

         

. - '081

C

Calves and Sheep 447, 50, 51, 55.
Cattle, by Railroad 12, 6o, 61.
Cattle, Ad111teratedl1‘ood of 10
Cha1ter v—vii, xiv,

Checks 011 Bank xv.

Clerk 38,

Cock Fights 18.52. 56 63,
Committees xii. xiii. xiv,
Convictions, 47— 57,

Convictions, Mode of Pro. 66—68,
Corporators, V1. Vi.
Corresponding Mems. 1 iii.ix.

D

Debt, as to xvi. xvii,39,

Detective Ofﬁcers. 12. 27. 38,
Disabled Animals, to kill 64, 65
District Attorney, 31,

Dog Carts I icensed 64,

Dog Fights, 1.8 63,

Donations, 71—76,

Drivers, Cars and Omnibus, 11,
Dues, ix.

 

E

Election of Ofﬁcers, 1v 39 45.46.
Flection of Membeis, 47.
Enclycopedia, ii.
Frie County, N. Y. Branch Soc. 79.
Executive Com e iii, iv. Vi x xv 46
” Repo1t, xi 37- 44,
” Powers, xv-xvii
Ex. Ofﬁcio Members, viii. 1x.

F

 

Fines, as to vii. 9, 47—57. 65.
Flscal year of Soc. x.

Food, adulteraded 111. 5o. 1

l1 ood and \Vater to be supplied 6o. 63
FoVVls picking alive 4. 48.

H

Honorary Members, viii. ix
Horses, adnl‘g food of 10.
Hydrants 29.

I111ponnding animals 63«

L

Laws, 3. 58- 66

I ite Membuship ix.
I 1111.1111111 x1V.
1.1‘il11aiyii. vi. xiv.

M

Maryland Society 3
Meetings of Society xi.
Members viii. 71—76.

” to vote x-xi.
Milwaukie pavements 14.
Misdemeanors 59. 62—65. 66.
Mutilating animals 63.

N

New Jersey Society 3

Nicholson pavement 13-18. 41-44.
Nom. C.om Re port 44—46.

Non. Resident Mem s viii ix 71- 76
Notice ii.

0

Obitua1y Reco1d 77,

Objects of the Society v iii.
()fﬁcers 1ii iv. vi x. 45.46.

()hio Socie13ty

Omnibus (111V ers 11.

Order of business xi.

Or1gin of Society 2.
Over-driving 52 62.
Over-loading 49. 51. 53. 54. 55. 62.

P

Patronesses ix, 47. 71—76
Pavements 13- 1.8. 40—44.
Penalties to be increased 9.
Pennsylvania Society 3.
Permanent fund 32.
Picking live fowls 4. 48.
Police Force vii. 31. 65.

” Gen. Order to 69.
Presiding Ofﬁcer iii. v1. x. xii 45.

” address to Legislature 22.

Press 30. 31.
Proceedings 1- -47.
Piosecutions 47- 57.
Mode of obtaining 66- 68.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Q

Quorum xii. xvii.

R

Rail Road Car drivers, II.
” Transp’ g Cattle 12.
Real Estate vii.
Remit A11. dues xvii. 39.
Removal of members ix. x
Remov, of Mem. Ev Committee xvi.
Report of Secretary 2— 35.
Report of ”'lieasurer 36.
Report of Executive Committee 37-44.
Report of Nom’ g Committee 44-45,
Resident Members iv 38.
Ridicule, of Soc’ y efforts 8.
Roads 13-18. 4044.

S

Salaiies xiv. xvi. xvii. 38

Seal of Society xiv.

Secretary iii. vi. x. xiii. 45.

Secretary Report xi. 2- 35.

Secretary of Committees xiv.

Sheep and Calves 4. 47. 50.5 5.1 55.
Shenffs to designate Agents 65
Special Meetings xi.

Stone pavements injurious, I7. 42. 43.
Summons to issue, 67.

 

T

Tellers of election oxiii. xiv. 46.
Title of Society viii.
Tormenting Cattle 47—57. 62.
Torturing Cattle, 47—57.
Treasurer Ill. iv. v1. _x. xv. 46.
Treasurers Report xi. xv. 36.
Turtles, 5. 48.

Turtles, Prof. Agassiz on 6.

V

Vacancies in ofﬁce, &c.xvi. xvii. 38.39.
Vehicles may attach 64.

Vivisection 19—27. 65.

Vivisection London Soc’y &c. 21. 24.
Vice Presidents 1ii. vi. x. 45.

W

Warrants, to issue 68.
Work performed 27.

Z

Zeal of Oﬂicers, too much 28.

 




 

1867.

Ollleers of the Society elected at the Annual
Meeting in May.

PRESIDENT.
H ENRY BERGH.

VICE PRESIDENTS.

John T. Hoffman, . Henry W. Bellows, D. D.
Peter Cooper, James Brown,

Benj. D. Hicks, George T. Trimble,
William H. Aspinwall, Moses Taylor,

Marshall D. Roberts, Horace B. Claﬂin,

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

James T. Brady, Samuel B. Ruggles,

John D. Wolfe, Henry Grinnell,

August Belmont, Richard A. Southwick,

Henry Bergh, Daniel Butterﬂeld,

Frank Leslie, Thomas C. Acton,

John A. Kennedy, William H. Webb, '
Wm. C. H. Waddell, John B. Murray,

Joseph P. Beach.
SECRETARY.
WM. COVENTRY H. WADDELL.
TREASURER.
WILLIAM MCMURRAY.

 

[Va/eu-«For /l’.’51;g‘lzations, 6536., see next fwgt.

 




 

 

 

 

 

iv
HONORARY MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY.

ANDREW JOHNSON,
President of the United States, Ex Ofﬁcio.
BENJAlWlN F. WYADE,
Acting Vice President United States, EX Ofﬁcio.
REUBEN E. FENTON,
Governor of the State of New—York, EX Ofﬁcio.

STEWART L, WOODFORD,
Lieut. Governor State of New—York, Ex Ofﬁcio.

EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.

The Right Hon. the Earl of Harrowby, President
of the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, London.

John Colain, Esq. Secretary of the Royal Society
for the P. C. A., London.

RESIGNATIONS AND ELECTIONS SINCE THE
ANNUAL ELECTION.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,
SINCLAIR TOUSEY, ESQ. in place of Gen. Daniel
Butterﬁeld, resigned.

OLIVER H. PERRY, ESQ. in place of Joseph P.
Beach, Esq. resigned.
TREASURER.

JOHN B. MURRAY, in place of William McMurray,
Esq. resigned.

 




4...};‘3; >

 

CHARTER.

AN ACT To incorporate the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Passed April 10, 1866.

The People of the State of New-York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. 1. ,That John T. Hoffman; Henry Grinnell,
J. J. Astor, Jr., George Bancroft, Shepherd Knapp,
Jas. T. Brady, John A. Dix, Marshall 0. Roberts,
Jas. Brown, Horatio Potter, T hos. H. Taylor,
Erastus Brooks, Chas. P. Daly, Moses Taylor,
George T. Trimble, John D. Wolfe, Henry W.
Bellows, Peter Cooper, Francis B. Cutting, Wm.
H; Aspinwall, John Van Buren, Hamilton Fish,
Daniel Parish, John J. Cisco, A. Oakey Hall, John
McCloskey, Wm. C. Bryant, Edward G. Steele,
Horace Greeley, Samuel B. Ruggles, Jas. Lenox,
August Belmont, Moses H. Grinnell, Wm. H.
Webb, Jas. Gallatin, Harper Brothers, Jas. J.
Roosevelt, C. V. S. Roosevelt, Alex. Stuart, D. C.
Kingsland, James W. Gerard, Joseph P. Beach,
Geo. T. Olyphant, Oliver S. Strong, Henry Clews,

Archibald Russell, Benj. R. Winthrop, John A. V

Kennedy, Daniel Carpenter Geo. W. Dilks, Chas.
Addoms, Geo. Griswold, Simeon Draper, Robt.
L. Stuart, Andrew Warner, Alex. T. Stewart, Dan-
iel Butterﬁeld, A. C. Kingsland, E. A. Washburn,

 




 

 

 

 

vi.
M. S. Beach, John D. Jones, Frank Leslie, Wm.
Coventry H.Waddell, Chas. A. Bristed, T hos. C.
Acton, Wm. McMurray, Jas. Leonard, A. D. Rus«
sell, Henry Bergh, all of the City of New-York, and
such other persons as may be associated with them
in conformity to this Act, and their successors, are
hereby constituted and created a body corporate, by
the name of “The American Society for the Pre-

vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Sec. 2. The ofﬁcers of the said corporation shall
consist of a president, ten vice-presidents, one sec-
retary, one treasurer, an executive committee of ﬁf-
teen members, and such other ofﬁcers as shall from

time to time seem necessary to this Society.

Sec. 3. The foregoing ofﬁcers shall be chosen

from among the members of the Society.

Sec, 4. A library may be created for the use of

the Society.

Sec. 5. The said Society, for ﬁxing the terms of
admission of its members, for the government of the
same, for the election, changing and altering the ofﬁ-
cers above named, and for the general regulation
and management of its affairs, shall have power to
form a code of By-Laws, not inconsistent with the
laws of this State or of the United States, which

code, when formed and adopted at a regular meet-

 




 

 

 

 

BY-LAWS.

CHAPTER I.
'rrrLF;

The title of the Society is “THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRIIEI/I‘v To
ANIMALS.”

CHAPTER II.
(HgECTS.

The objects of the Society are to provide eﬂective
means for the prevention of cruelty to Animals
throughout the United States.

CHAPTER III.
M EM BERS.

The Society shall consist of Resident, Non-Resi-
dent, Honorary, Corresponchng, and EX—ofﬁcio
Members and Patronesses.

1. Resident members are those residing in the
City of New-York, or its vicinity.

2. Non-Resident'members are those residing at
least twenty-ﬁve miles from the city.

3. .Honorary members shall be chosen 011 account
of some conspicuous act of mercy to the brute crea-
tion, or matarial aid to the purposes of the Society.

4, Corresponding members shall be chosen from
those who have aided the advancement of the objects
of the Society; including members of the press.

 




 

1X.

5. Ex-ofﬁcio members shall be chosen from
among the most eminent persons associated with
foreign and domestic societies of kindred character
and purposes; and from among distinguished indi—
viduals either at home or abroad.

6. Ladies shall be eligible as members of the So—
ciety under the designation of “Patronesses.”

7. Resident, Non—Resident, Corresponding, Hon-
orary and Ex-ofﬁcio members and Patronesses shall
be elected as follows: all nominations of candidates
shall be openly made in writing at a meeting of the
Society, or the Executive Committee, by a member
thereof, and, together with the name of the member
making them, entered on the minutes. The persons
thus nominated, when elected by the Society or the
Executive Committee, shall become members of the
Society accordingly.

8. The name of any member of the Society may,
by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Exe—
cutive Committee, be dropped from the roll of its
members.

CHAPTER IV.

ANNUAL DUES.

I. The annual dues for the Fiscal Year, shall be,
for a Resident member, Ten Dollars; for a Non—Re-
sident member, and for a Patroness, Five Dollars;
in both cases to be paid immediately 011 election.

2. Any member of the Society, not in arrears, may
commute for life all dues for membership, by the
payment at one time, if a Resident member, of One
Hundred Dollars; and, if a Non-Resident member,
Fifty Dollars; and, if a Patroness, Fifty Dollars.

3. The name of any member of the Society, 11e-

 




 

 

 

 

X.

glecting for two successive years to pay the annual
dues, or at any time wholly refusing to pay them,
may, by the Executive Committee, be erased from
the list of members of the Society.

4. The Fiscal Year of the Society shall, for all
purposes, commence 011 the ﬁrst day of May, and
end with the thirtieth day of April, in each year.

CHAPTER V.
OFFICERS.

I. The ofﬁcers of the Society shall be a President,
ten Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and
an Executive Committee of ﬁfteen members.

2. The ofﬁcers of the Society shall be chosen from
among its members; they shall be elected annually
by ballot, and shall hold their ofﬁces respectively
until others are elected in their places. I

3. All ofﬁcers of the Society, to be chosen at any
election, may be voted for on one ballot.

CHAPTER VI.
ANNUAL MEETING.

I. The annual meeting of the Society shall be
held on the ﬁrst Thursday after the ﬁrst day of
May in each and every year hereafter, when the
annual election of the ofﬁcers of the Society shall
take place; and if, from any cause, there shall be a
failure of the annual election at the time above de-
signated for that purpose, the same may be held on
the Thursday next following, that is, on the second
Thursday after the ﬁrst day of May in each year,
and of which due notice shall be given.

2. Every member of the Society, who has been
such for twenty days or more, and who is not in ar-

 




 

 

rears for his dues, shall be entitled to vote at the
said election.

3. At the annual meeting of the Society, the EX-
ecutive Committee shall present a general report of
its proceedings, and those of the Society during
the past year; and the Secretary and Treasurer
shall also present their annual reports.

CHAPTER VH.
SPECIAL MEETINGS.

I. The Society unless otherwise specially order-
ed by the Society, shall hold its meetings for the
transaction of business on the call of the Executive
Comnnttee.

2. The President, or in his absence, one of the
Vice Presidents, may, and, upon the written request
of ﬁfteen members, shall call a special meeting of
the Society, by giving three days’ notice thereof in
two daily newspapers, published in the City of
New-York.

CHAPTER VIII.
ORDER on BUSINESS.

1. At all meetings of the Society, for the trans—
action of ordinary business, the order of proceed-
ings shall be as follows:

I. Reading of the minutes.

2. Reports and Communications from ofﬁcers
of the Society.
Reports from the Executive Committee.
Reports from other Committees.
Nomination of members.
Special Orders.
Unﬁnished Business.
Miscellaneous Business.

90s swine-c.»

 




 

 

 

 

Xii.

2. All propositions presented for the action of
Society, at any of its meetings, shall be in writing
when requested by the presiding ofﬁcer, or any
member. A proposition, thus presented, when
seconded, and the question thereon stated from the
chair, shall be deemed to be in the posseSsion of
the Society, and open for discussion; but may be
withdrawn by the mover, at any time before amend-
ment or decision.

3. No member shall speak more than once upon
the same question until all the other members pres-
ent desiring to speak shall have spoken; nor more
than twice on any question without leave of the
Society; 'nor more than ﬁve minutes unless by con-
sent of the meeting.

CHAPTER IX.

QUORUM.

At all meetings of the Society, nine members
present shall constitute a quorum for the transac-
tion of business, except at the annual meeting,
when the members present, without regard to num—
ber, shall be empowered to act.

CHAPTER X.

COMMITTEES.

All Committees authorized by the Society, ex-
cept the Executive Committee, shall, unless other-
wise specially ordered, consist of three members
each, and be appointed by the presiding ofﬁcer.

CHAPTER XI.

PRESIDING OFFICER.

At all meetings of the Society, on the arrival of
the appointed hour, and the presence of a quorum,

 

 




 

 

)(iii.

the President, or, in his absence, one of the Vice-
Presidents, or, in the absence of both, a Chairman
pro tem., shall immediately take the chair, call the
meeting to order, and preside. He shall have only
a casting vote. He shall preserve order, and decide
' all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Society. He shall, also, unless otherwise specially
ordered, appoint all Committees authorized by the
Society, except the Executive Committee; and, at
every annual election, before the opening of the
polls, he shall appoint two Tellers of the Election.

CHAPTER XH.
SECRETARY.

It shall be the duty of the Secretary to conduct
the general correspondence of the Society with incli-
viduals and associate bodies. He shall keep, in suit—
able books to be provided for that purpose, at the
Society’s Ofﬁce, true copies of all letters written by
him on behalf of the Society; and shall preserve, 011
proper ﬁles, at the said Ofﬁce,all letters received by
him on the same account; and at each stated meeting
of the Society or the Executive Committee, shall re-
spectively report the correspondence, and read the
same, or such parts thereof as may be required.

It shall be the duty of the Secretary also, to give
due notice of the time and place of all meetings of
the Society, and to attend the same. He shall keep
fair and accurate minutes of the proceedings of the
Society, and record the same, when approved, in the
Society’s Journal. He shall give immediate notice
to the several ofﬁcers and committees of the Society,
of all votes, orders, resolves and proceedings of the
Society, affecting them or appertaining to their re-
spective duties. He shall prepare a list of the mem-
bers of the Society entitled to vote, to be handed to

 




 

 

 

xiv.

the Tellers before the opening of the polls at each
annual election. He shall ofﬁcially sign and affix
the corporate seal of the Society to all diplomas, and
other instruments or documents authorized by the
Society or the Executive Committee. He shall have
charge of the Corporate Seal, Charter, By-Laws,
Records, and General Archives of the Society, ex—
cept so far as they may be expressly placed under
the charge of others. He shall certify all Acts
and proceedings of the Society, and shall notify the
Executive Committee of the death, resignation, or
removal of any ofﬁcer or member of the Society.
He shall have charge of the Ofﬁce of the Society,
and shall perform all such other and further duties
as may, from time to time, be devolved upon him
by the Society or the Executive Committee. He
shall receive, for his services, such salary or pecun-
iary compensation as shall be determined by the
Society or the Executive Committee; but neither
in the Society nor the Executive Committee shall
he have a vote on any question relating to or affect-
ing his salary or pecuniary compensation.

All documents relating to the Society, and under
the charge of the Secretary, shall be placed in such
depositories in the Ofﬁce of the Society as the Exe-
cutive Committee may provide and designate for
that purpose.

The Secretary shall also be the Librarian, and
shall have the charge an darrangement of the Books,
Maps, and Collections belonging to the Society.
He shall cause to be kept in the Ofﬁce of the So-
ciety a Registry of all Donations to the Library or’
Collections of the Society, acknowledge their receipt
by letter to the donors, and report the same, in
writing, to the Society, at its next meeting.

The Secretary shall be, Ex—Ofﬁcio, a member of
all Committees, and act as Secretary thereof.

 

 




 

 

xvi.

funds of the Society; and shall designate an incor—
porated Bank in the City of New—York, where the
said funds shall, from time to time as they accrue,
be deposited by the Treasurer.

2. They shall make and establish from time to
time all rules and orders for the government of the
Ofﬁcers of "the Society.

3. It may frame its own By-Laws, not inconsis-
tent with the Charter or By-Laws of the Society, and
shall keep complete records of its proceedings.

4. It may, from time to time, determine the sal-
ary or pecuniary compensation of the Secretary; and
shall also appoint the necessary agents, clerks, and
servants of the Society, with such powers, duties,
privileges, and compensation, as it may, from time
to time, determine; and may, at pleasure, revoke
such appointments, and make others in their stead.

5. It shall have the power to ﬁll, for the unex-
pired term, any vacancy that may occur in any of
the ofﬁces of the Society.

6. ”It shall have the power, at its discretion, to
declare vacant the seat of any member of its own
body who shall have been absent from its meetings
for three successive months; and also, by a vote of
a majority of the whole Executive Committee, to
remove from its own body any members thereof for
cause; but in such case it shall be the duty of the
Executive Committee to report every such vacancy
or removal to the Society, at its next meeting there-
after, when such cases shall be subject to review
by the Society.

7. It shall not without an approving vote of the
Society, at a meeting thereof, make any contract
whereby a liability in amount above one thousand
dollars may be incurred by the Society; nor, without

 

 




 

 

xvii.

such vote, make any sale or disposition of the prop-
erty of the Soc1ety exceeding that sum in value.

8. The Executive Committee may, in its discre-
tion, remit the annual dues, of any member of the
Soc1ety.

9. No member of the Executive Committee, ex-
cept the Secreta1y, shall receixe any sala1y or pe—
cuniary compensation for his services.

IO. The Executive Committee shall have power
to ﬁll for the balance of the year for which they
may have been appointed any vacancy which may
occur in their own body.

II. The Executive Committee shall hold meet-
ings for the transaction of business, at least once
in every month, the place of meeting to be desig-
nated by the President of the Society.

12. At all meetings of the Executive Connnittee,
ﬁve members present shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.

CHAPTER XV.
GENERAL PROVISION AS TO DEBT.

No debt 011 account of the Society, beyond the
funds in the Treasury for its payment, shall, for
any purpose, at any time, be incurred: and if at any
time, it shall appear that there are resting upon the
Society pecuniary obligations beyond the funds in
the Treasury for their liquidation, no appropriation
of funds from the treasury whatever, except for the
necessary current expenses of the Society, shall be
made, until the said pecuniary obligations shall be
fully discharged, or the funds necessary for their
extinction shall have been set apart for that purpose.

 




 

 

XViii.
CHAPTER XVI.

ALTERATION OF THE BY—LAWS

No alteration in the By-Laws of the Society shall
be made unless openly proposed at a meeting of the
Society, entered 011 the minutes, with the name of the
member proposing the same, and adopted by the
Society at a subsequent meeting, by a vote of two—
thirds of the members present.

CHAPTER XVII.
ADOPTION OF THE BY—LAWS.

The foregoing are hereby adopted and declared
to be the By-Laws of the Society.

 

 




 

 

ANNUAL MEETING

()1: ’l‘ H E

American Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals.

1867

Oﬂw (3/ {/18 Safety, 696 Bram/way. (07’. 4l/z—st.,
N]? [V— VORIC, 2d My. [867.

At the Annual Meeting of the Society, held at
their Rooms, this evening, HENRY BERGH,
Esq. President in the Chair.

T he minutes of the last meeting of the Society
were read and approved. The next business in
order being REPORTS FROM OFFICERS OF THE
SOCIETYz—the following report of the Secre-
tary was read, accepted and ordered on ﬁle.

 




 

 

Secretary’s Report.

[I] HUM/Midlife RIM/L 817/. 3x7], (3/- (Via/5. V/, (f
//M 7/? I-Lawx (3/ ﬂat Soak/"y.- ///(.'
Sl‘zv’cfmg' /\_’(1€/>(7(zfzz//y A’zyﬁm’fx:

In this, his ﬁrst synopsis of the proceedings of
the Society: That it had its origin in the exertions
of its President, who, during a temporary residence ~
in Europe, became aware of the great beneﬁts
which had resulted from the action of similar
societies in England, and on the continent; and
co—operating with several of the gentlemen now
composing its board of ofﬁcers, procured a Charter
from this State; and organized under the same,
at a meeting held on the 23d of April, 1866.

Before the formation of this Incorporation, so
little attention had been given by the people of this
country, to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals:
that many of the best informed persons, and those
of the most benevolent characteristics generally,
appeared to be unconscious of the gross ignorance,
thoughtlessness, indifference, and wanton cruelty
to which the brute creation were daily subjected;
while at present, very little attention to the subject
will serve to convince, even the most casual obser-
ver, that a great reform has been effected in the

 

 




 

 

3

general tone of public feeling and action in this
city, and throughout this State, as well as many
other portions of the United States; recognizing the
necessity of an observance of tenderness and
humanity towards the inferior dependants of man-
kind. Through the instrumentality of this Socie-
ty, a charter for a similar institution has already
been. obtained in the State of Pennsylvania; and in
the: States of New Jersey, Maryland, Ohio, and else—
where, measures have been taken, either to procure
special enactments for the formation of similar
institutions, or for the organization of branches
in connection with this Society.

Laws.

At an early day it was apparent that we labour~
ed under great disadvantages, in carrying out effect-
ively the objects for which the Society was created,
owing to the want of sufﬁcient laws on the statute
book, to punish crimes of the character which par—
ticularly came under our cognizance. Therefore,
with great care, and much consultation, suggestions
were received, and drafts of more effective laws pre-
pared for submission to the Legislature; and as late
as the commencement of the preparation of this
Report, the President of the Society was in Albany,
urging with his characteristic force, their enactment
————which were subsequently enacted under the title
of an Act, “For the more effectual prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”, a copy of which will be ap—

 




 

 

 

 

 

4

pended hereto—by the aid of which we shall be
able to carry out in future, much more effectively
the objects for which we were created.

Sheep and Calves.

The ﬁrst cases which we were able to make
effective, had relation to the cruelties then practic-
ed, in the transportation of sheep and calves—tied
and otherwise shamefully abused while on their
way to the shambles after the manner represented
in the paintings now on the walls of your business
ofﬁce: but the conviction of the offenders, caused an
immediate reform in that particular; so that now
an instance of such cruelty is almost sure to bring
to the aid of the suffering animals, the interference
of those heretofore indifferent or unobservant of
such matters; and to insure from the brutal offen-
der, not only a respectful hearing, but a prompt
compliance with those demands of humanity; whilst
before these convictions we were met with contume-
ly and abuse.

 

Picking Live F owls.

Early in the progress of these reforms, acom-
plaint was made of great brutalities being inﬂicted
011 poultry, by plucking off their plumage, and
plunging them into boiling water, whilst in a living
state, under the pretence of its being an easier mode
of removing their feathers. And although our
ofﬁcers were fully cognizant of the crime, and it

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F‘—K——-————*A_-*;‘_. _ 7. 7.; . ._

6

remarks which so abounded in the newspapers at
that time, as to whether the turtle was a ﬁsh or an
animal, or whether such creatures possessed any
feeling at all, along with other similar absurdities,
many of which statements have doubtless been pe~
rused by members of the Society. But it is much
more agreeable in this connection to quote a letter
to the Society, from the learned Professor Agassiz,

' refuting such errors, viz:

Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard
College,

Cambridge, Mass,

Sept. 27th, 1866.
Dear Sir:

It would give me the greatest pleasure to co-
operate with your society; for l sympathize heartily
with the objects you have in veiw. But my life is
absorbed with other duties and with the best will, I
cannot do more than what I have already engaged
to do.—Excuse me therefore, if I answer but brieﬂy
your special questions; but to meet you in New-
York and expound publicly my veiw upon such
subjects is out of the question. '

I need not tell you that men have always excuses
enough to justify their wrong doings; so it was
with the slave trade, so it is to-day with the turtle
market; and though black men are more likely to
be protected hereafter, their former sufferings dur-
ing long sea voyages are on record, and humanity
shudders at the tale.

 

 




 

 

7

Whether men may ever be reﬁned enough to feel
their guilt when they torment animals, remains to
be seen, and your society will no doubt do its share
in educating them in that direction.

But to say that turtles do not suffer when drag-
ged from their natural place, tied that they may
not be able to move, turned upside down, etc., etc.,
is simply absurd. It is true that they can live for
a long time without food or drink; but they do feel
pain and are indeed very sensitive to some injuries;
that of turning upside down among others, is sufﬁ-
cient for instance to prevent their eggs from hatch—
ing. Their suffering may be inferred by the violent
and convulsive movements to which the perforation
of their ﬁns gives rise, and yet to this proceeding,
dealers in turtle generally resort, in order to tie
them more closely and pack a larger number in a
smaller space. Of course when tied in this manner
they may suffer less by being turned upon their
backs, because the ﬁns are thus relieved from the
pressure of their whole weight; but the best evidence
I can afford that they suffer in that position, is that
they DIE if it is much protracted; and yet turtles
are among the animals which resist longest priva-
tions of all kinds. Is not the fact that they die
merely from the attitude in which they are forcibly
kept, the most complete evidence of their suffering?
For what else would cause death, if not pain and
the unnatural pressure of parts brought into unac-
customed positions?

Having gone so far, let me call your attention to
the dangers arising from the ill treatment of beef

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

8

cattle before slaughtering them. While in Brazil,
I learned that the city of Para suffered from the
quality of the beef sold in the public market, deter—
iorated because the oxen and cows killed in the
city were brought in from a considerable distance,
were often kept many days without food. The
matter grew so bad that a company was formed to
bring to the city, by steam, beef killed upon the
farms; and everybody felt the difference in the con-
dition of the meat and its nutritive qualities.

Very Respectfully, Yours,
L. AGASSIZ.

To HENRY BERGH, ESQ.

Whilst admitting that these latter cases gave rise
to much ridicule among unreﬂecfting persons; never-
theless it is now very generally conceded, that these
lively comments, far from being a detriment to our
cause, were, on the contrary, a positive advantage;
by reason of the great prominency which Was there-
by given to the Society in the public mind, by
drawing attention thereto; as well as the increased
moral consequences resulting from the contempla-
tion of the quality of mercy; as applicable to a class
of beings hitherto regarded as being beyond the
sphere of the humanities of life.

Proﬁtting by the fortuitous termination of these
incidents, the ofﬁcers of the Society augmented
their zeal and activity in the discharge of their

 

 




 

 

9

merciful mission; keeping steadily in mind the in-
disputable fact, that no living thing which the all-
wise Creator has condescended to call into being, is
beneath their protection from cruelty.

The Secretary does not intend to unnecessarily
burden his report by a recapitulation of all the
cases of cruelty which have come under the notice
of the Society; nor the many vexatious trials and
e111barrass111ents which the executive ofﬁcers have
experienced, in bringing to justice, those persons
who have done violence to the moral sense of the
community, by abuses inﬂicted on the , brute crea-
tion; nor yct vainly to inveigh against the want of
sufﬁcient laws to meet the various cases which
have arisen.

From an examination of the statements appended
hereto, especially in reference to cruelties imposed
on the horse, it will be a source of gratiﬁcation to
perceive that the ﬁnes and penalties imposed by
our humane and intelligent magistrates, on the
whole, have been materially increased, as we have
progressed in our labors; and that where in the
earlier cases, a ﬁne of $10 was meted out, for gross
abuses; now for similar, and even less ﬂagrant cas-
es, not only ﬁnes of $25 to $100 are imposed 011
offenders, but in addition thereto, they have been
subjected to imprisonment;
istrates—Justice Dowling—has given notice, that
ﬁnes alone having failed to prevent a recurrence of
these cruelties, he will, hereafter, add imprisonment
to ﬁne. .

 

and one of these mag-

 




 

 

 

as“. M.” ?*w‘.w<~.

 

IO

In the tabulated statement which will be appen-
ded to this Report, will be found deplorable ac-
counts of many of the expedients resorted to by
man to carry out his wayward feelings, or to serve
his cupidity—without regard to the cruelties there-
by inﬂicted 011 the brute creation: these toiling
animals which add so much to our pleasure and our
proﬁt. The brief memento furnished by this state—
ment carries its own comment.

The officers of this Society hope by increased en-
ergy to shorten this list in future publicati011s————both
in kind and degree and virtually to carry out the
sentiment which we have adopted as the name of
our Society—the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Adulterating Food for Horses and Cattle.

In this connection, it may perhaps be well to
take notice of a case, as showing the great variety
of expedients which are resorted to, to impose on
the willing servants of mankind, and although we
failed to convict the offender, the proceedings of the
Society tended to the entire reformation of the evil.

. A complaint was laid before us that certain mill—
ers in the city of New-York were in the habit of
adulterating the food of horses and cattle, by mix-
ing plaister with ground grain. To our satisfaction,
it was apparent that attempts of that kind had been
made, but unfortunately for the ends of justice, our
principal witness not only failed to sustain himself,

 

 




 

 

II

., but was made available on the other side, and the
case was consequently abandoned. The character
and magnitude of the wrong inﬂicted 011 these poor
brutes through the instrumentality of this cruel
aliment, caused great vigilence to be exerted by the
ofﬁcers of the Society, in order to bring the case to
a successful issue; but owing to the causes assign-
ed, no penal results ensued.

Omnibus and Railroad Car Drivers.

The Secretary records with much satisfaction
the efficient aid which the Society has received of
late, from some of the presidents and superintend-
ents of those railroads and omnibus lines, to whom
complaints have been made by us, of the abuse of
horses, by drivers. The Society on several occas-
ions having requested that these drivers should be
reprimanded for their want of kindness to their
horses,‘had the satisfaction of ﬁnding that these
requests had not only been complied with, but that
the offenders were also promptly discharged from
employment. One of these officers remarking: “We
‘annot hope to avoid entirely such monstrous acts
of inhumanity, but we can and will refuse to give
employment to men who perpetrate them.” And
the president of a line employing many hundred
horses, informs us, that he “does not allow a whip
to be used on that line, under ANY circumstances.”

 

 




 

 

 

I2

Transportation of Cattle by Railroad.

At the same session of the Legislature at which
our Charter was obtained, and by the same iuﬂuen—
ces which caused our Incorporation, a law was en—
acted, having apparantly on its face the prevention
of much cruelty, which had long been inﬂicted on
cattle, in transporting them in a starved condition
by railroad cars in this State, after they had been
in a similar condition in other States, before reach—
ing our lines. The law provided that, “No railroad
company in this State, in the carrying and trans-
portation of cattle, sheep or swine, shall conﬁne the
same in cars for a longer period than twenty-eight
consecutive hours, unless delayed by storms or
other accidental causes, without unloading for rest,
water and feeding for a period of at least ten con-
secutive hours.” In estimating such conﬁnement,
the time the animals have been conﬁned without
such rest 011 connecting roads from which they are
received, shall be computed; it being the intention
to prevent the continuous conﬁnement beyond
“twenty-eight hours, except upon the contingencies
herein stated.” But this wise proviso was frustrat-
ed by the following clause. “Nothing in this Act
shall require the unloading of cattle, sheep or swine
from the cars of the Buffalo State and Line Rail-
road before their arrival at Buffalo, and the Atlan-
tic and Great Western before they arrive at Sala-
manca.”

The Society sent its detective ofﬁcers all over
this State where cattle might be carried by rail, in

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

I4

viding something better than those stony ways
which are at present a reproach to humanity and
civilization. The Nicholson Pavement seems to
strike the minds of all as a most excellent struct-
ure, suitable for the travel of horses; and to bear no
comparison to any other, except, perhaps, the ad-
mirable earth roads—built with well laid stone
foundations, in the Central Park, N ew—York. The
resistance to wear in the Nicholson Pavement
may not possibly be equal to that which its cost
calls for—still, as far as the objects of this Society
in the prevention of cruelty to animals are con-
cerned, we could scarcely have a better one; and
the projectors assert with the conﬁdence, that this
description of pavement is very enduring. In-
deed I have seen a certiﬁcate as follows—which
appears to conﬁrm the durability and advantage
of this description of pavement, beyond controver-
sy, Viz:

 

Milwaukie, 5th April, 1866

We, the undersigned ofﬁcers of the City of Mil-
waukie, and property owners and taxpayers of said
City, hereby certify that in the year, A. D. 1861,
West Water street in said City, was paved with the
“Nicholson Pavement;” and such pavement has
ever since been used in said street. This street is
in constant use, especially for heavy teams, as there
are several large ware houses, packing houses and
rail-road depots in and adjacent to it. Most of the
heavy teaming is done on said street; and it is the
most public thoroughfare in the City.

 

 

 

 




  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

15

AﬁmTiéi€aif ‘ -'.:= .; ~:M 3:25.42.

:=rﬂ¢:.rW

After nearly ﬁve years use, this pavement is sub-
stantially as good as when ﬁrst laid down, and no
repairs have been made thereon. It has been worn
down during this time only about one-eighth of an
inch, and the wear has been even and uniform. We
regard this pavement as the cheapest and most du-

rable of any in use. In ﬁve years it will save its ,i
entire cost, in its advantages, in respect to the wear
and tear of bone, flesh and carriages over stone. It
is free from dust and noise; and the cost of repairs ll,“

 

l
l
5

alone of stone pavement, say fm ﬁve or six yeai s, is:
we have found to be equal to the costs of laying .,
the Nicholson Pavement; while the cost of repairs ?
to the “Nicholson” we have found to be merely '
nominal. There is also a great difference in favor a
of the Nicholson over stone, in respect to cleaning;
the former being more easily and cheaply cleaned 3’.
l
than the latter. ,
I,
l

The Nicholson makes a smooth even and good
road; pleasant to ride upon; and as much so as the
best mecadamized road.

Since the Nicholson was so laid in West Water
street, it has given so much satisfaction, that no
other than this style has been laid in this City;
with the exception of a single block of 150 feet,
which has been laid with stone.

On the other hand, the stone pavement has been A:
taken up to lay down the Nicholson in its place,
in following streets, East Water Street, Reed Street
South Water Street, and Ferry Street.

 




 

 

 

 

  

16

All the Nicholson pavement that has been laid
in this City since it was laid in West Water Street
has proved equally satisfactory.

We cheerfully recommend the Nicholson pave-
ment as the best, the cheapest, and most durable,
and the most pleasant we know of in use.

No repairs to it have been necessary since it was
laid here, and it has been of no expense here, ex—
cept that merely of cleaning it, which is very tri-
ﬂing, as compared with stone; while we have found
that stone pavement requires almost constant re-
pairs; and to be relaid entirely as often as once in
every ﬁve or six years. When well laid, we believe
that the Nicholson pavement will last at least twen-
ty years without repairs of any considerable amount.
In fact, we think it would be cheaper to property
owners to relay the Nicholson every siX years; than
to have the stone pavement free, and pay theincreas-
ed cost of its repairs, cleaning, and cost of the stone.

Signed by the Mayor, Controller, City Surveyor
and the District Attorney of that City; by the presi-
dent of the Nat. Bank of Wisconsin, President of
the Wisconsin Marine and Fire Ins. Co. Bank, Cash-
ier of the Merchants National Bank, and a large
number of the most respectable mercantile ﬁrms in
Milwaukie, Wisconsin. The importance of this sub-
ject will perhaps be sufﬁcient excuse for the Secre-
tary’s making a brief extract from a treatise on this
subject, by Dr. F. G. Johnson. The writer says:
“We must have the horse; we cannot dispense with

 

 

 

 




 

 

17

him; nor can we give him his native sod to travel
on. But we CAN try to give him something better
than solid bare rough rocks; which unavoidably jar
his limbs, bruise .his feet and ossify his joints. On
these rock—like pavements he is not only cruelly
abused, but half his usefulness is destroyed. So
economy and humanity both call for a pavement
better adapted to his nature. And since the horse
must be iron shod, the paving material employed
must be sufﬁciently hard and resistant to sustain
the action of the shoe and tire, and yet of such a
nature as to modify the concussion: action and
re—action; so as to take off that stunning rock like
shock, so ruinous to boneand muscle. All through
the mechanic arts it is well known that the results of
concussion are modiﬁed by bringing materials of an
unlike character together. A wooden maul and an
iron hammer of the same weight may have the same
power in driving a chisel to frame a building, or to
drive a stone cutters’ implements, yet the results of
the forces are different. A wagon made entirely of
iron, though its weight and strength be the same as
one made entirely of wood, will have a very different
effect upon the passengers they carry. In fact, the
effects of applying the same billet of wood end—wise
or side-wise to any purpose, are as different as if ma-
terials of an unlike nature were employed; both as
to the results produced by or upon the wood, whether
the mode of action be that of concussion or friction.”

So vital in importance to the comfort and prevention
of animals from cruelty and destruction is the pre-

paration of the roads and pavements over which they

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

I8

shall travel, in pursuing their daily round for the
convenience of man, that too much reﬂection cannot
be given by us to the necessity which exists for pro—
viding a surface, which shall tend'most to the pre-
servation of the life of the horse, and that which is
inseparably connected therewith, the prevention of
cruelty to him whilst in our service, and consequent?
ly economy will thereby be conserved. But I am
happy to observe in the Evening Post of last even-
ing that, “Within the past few weeks the Common
Council has passed resolutions (and the same are
before the Mayor for his approval), to pave with
Nicholson pavement, Broad street,from Wall street
to South street; Nassau street, from Pine to Spruce
street; Mercer street, from Canal to Eighth street;
and Pearl Street, from Wall to Beekman street.”

Dog Fights, Cock Fights, etc. etc.

Besides the cases which have been referred to,
the attention of the Society has been called to a
great variety of other modes of cruelty, which have
been devised by the ingenuity of man; in attempts
to serve his cupidity, such as dog fights, and cock
ﬁghts; the brutal and reckleSs modes of slaughter-
ing cattle and other animals for food, the feeding
of snakes and reptiles with live animals; vivisection
or the dissection of live animals, assumed to be per-
formed for scientiﬁc purposes; and many others
which may be enumerated, such as the worrying of
cats, rats and other animals by dogs; tying live fowls
to stakes, to be torn to pieces by the shots of ama-
teur sportsmen; wanton injury of animals and

\

 

 

  

 




 

 

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     

I9

suffering them to die a lingering death, etc., etc.

The Society has not only been enabled to cause
merited punishment to be visited on the perpetra-
tors of many of these acts of cruelty; but also to
exert a moral inﬂuence on the community at large,
in aid of their efforts to abate such practices.

If more evidence were wanting to prove the prac—
tical beneﬁts resulting from the creation of your
Society, it is furnished by the numerous and con-
stantly increasing number of arrests and convict—
ions which are daily recorded in the newspapers.
Many of these arrests have been stimulated by the
small rewards offered by the Society; but at the
same time it is evident that a healthy sentiment
begins to pervade the public mind in relation to the

rights of the lower animals.
Vivisection.

In the opinion of the Secretary, the subject of
Vivisection seems to demand more than the casual

allusion thereto.

The Societies in England and in Europe gener-
ally, have been for some time using exertions to
prevent the dissection of living animals, and al—
though the ofﬁcers of this Society are aware that
those cruelties are practiced here, under the same
scientific pretense, still the Secretary must be al-

lowed——even at the risk of being tedious—to make




20

an extract from the ﬁrst communication which was
received 011 the subject, after the organization of
the Society; and which hastened our immediate
action therein—the writer says:

 

“I have seen, in a college amphitheatre in this

M city, the stomach of a live dog cut open, and a large

metalic tube sewed into it, then the dog was allow—

, ed to crawl about, till he survived the immediate

i effects of the operation. One of his kidneys was

then removed through an incision in his back, he

was then operated on a third time, and the spleen

cut out; how long after this last torture he lived, I

do not know; he was abandoned to his fate in order
to watch the effects of the experiment.

 

_ I have seen the thorax of a, dog cut open, and his
‘ heart exposed, so that its pulsations were noticeable
, 1 I 5 minutes after the operation.

I I have seen, in another dog, the stomach expos-
‘ ed and cut out, a pig’s bladder was then sewed to
the oesophagus, ﬁlled with water, and stuffed into
‘ 5, the abdominal cavity, the external wound was then
' sewed up, and a powerful emetic injected into the
veins of the animal, the poor brute dragged him-

i self several times across the ﬂoor, in the greatest
I agony; vomited up the contents of his artiﬁcial stom—
\ ach, and he was then dispatched with the stilletto,
this experiment lasted 4 5 minutes.

 

I have seen the most sensitive nerve in a cat laid
bare, pinched, cut and galvanized, while the animal

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

The Secretary intentionally refrains in this place
from entering further into the details of these terri-
ble cruelties, inﬂicted upon the mute servants of
mankind; in the outraged name of science; and con—
tents himself, while passing in reveiw, the inci-
dents resulting from this correspondence, to express
his belief, that the Omnicient and merciful Creator
of all things never designed, that living creatures
endowed by Him with a wonderful and beautiful
organism, should be thus disﬁgured by the hand of
man; and made to suffer the tortures of a thousand
deaths, under the specious pretext of acquiring
knowledge.

President’s Address before the Legislature.

Your Society having presented to the Legislature
a .Bill for the enactment of a law, “for the more
effectual prevention of cruelty to animals”———the
President of the Society, animated by that zeal
which has characterized all his ofﬁcial acts, deemed
it proper to seek anopportunity of laying his views-
in the form of an address—before the Legislature;
and the Assembly chamber at Albany was granted
him for that purpose. During his address before
the Legislature, he took occasion to cite authorities,
ancient and modern, condeming in the most un-
qualiﬁed terms, the inutility and inhumanity of
those practices. Shortly thereafter at a meeting of
the State medical soeiety, held at Albany, a pro—
fessor of physiology in the college before alluded
to———with reckless disregard—charged our President
with exaggeration and 111isstate1nents. Sensible of

 

 




 

 

23

the injustice of this charge, a letter was prepared
and sent to each member of the Legislature, where-
in it is believed every assertion made by the Presi-
dent in his address before the Legislature, was sus-
tained by the highest testimony known to the scien-
tiﬁc world.

At the risk of extending this his ﬁrst report to
too great a length, the Secretary furnishes some
what copious extracts from that letter. In refer—
ence to the denial by the professor, that“ similar
barbarities are enacted in America, as charged by
the President in his address,” our letter states that
“Two agents of this Society have lately been. wit—
nesses of viviseetions performed in. one of the
Colleges of this city, on one of which occasions, the
brain of several creatures was removed, some of
which died under the operation, until at length one
was obtained by the Professor, which was able to
endure the fearful torture long enough to explain.
his dreary theory to the young men before him.

Nor was any anaesthetic whatever employed in the
operation, and was so avowed by the experimenter.”

“In another instance, a dog was put under the
temporary inﬂuence of chloroform or ether, and the
spleen completely removed from the body, through
a great incision made therein; after which it was
sewn up, and the animal sent to rejoin some others
of its own race, there to endure the dreadful muti—
lation as best it might; and that repetitions of these
and similar experiments go 011 in the surgical
colleges of this city and elsewhere, as I am inform-

 




   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

  

24

ed, at very short intervals during a lengthy portion
of the year; and the amount of misery needlessly
inﬂicted in the outraged name of science, on the
defenseless creatures conﬁded to the merciful care
of mankind, can neither be adequately described
nor imagined.”

The authorities quoted by the President, 011 the
occasion referred to, are the following:

“In the report of the London Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, whose chief patron—
ess is the Queen, and published in 1863, allusion
is made to a commission appointed by that body to
visit the French Emperor, in order to lay before him
a statement of the shocking barbarities THEN prac-
tised on dumb animals at Alfort and elsewhere,
and praying his interference.”

“In the same report is found the result of a prize
competition offered by that Society for the best
essay on vivisection, the successful one having been
awarded to Mr. Fleming, on the unanimous recom—
mendation of a committee, composed of the follow—
ing distinguished men: I

The Earl of Harrowby; His Imperial Highness
Prince Louis Lucien Bonaparte; Right Hon. Earl
Stanhope; Right Rev. Lord Aukland; Col. Buck-
eridge; Dr. Carpenter; Dr. Frazer; Dr. Lankester;
Dr. Quain; Proszuxler; Marshall; Owen; Spoon-
er; Simonds; Varnel and others. From this essay
I propose to make some extracts. It says: “We
will now refer to the RECOGNIZED MODE of carrying

 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

25

out the vivisections at the Imperial School of Alfort
vouching that it is not an OVERCHARGEI) PICTURE,
but the veritable stereotyped programme of DAILY
perform ances. It dates no further back than the
SPRING AND SUMMER of 1863.”

After detailing the apportionment of students;
the number of horses to be sacriﬁced; the number
of attacks each horse is to be subjected to by burn-
ing and cutting instruments, viz: SIXTY-FOUR! he
proceeds:

“Those performed while the horse is in a stand—
ing position, and held in restraint, are as follows:
Bleeding from all the more important veins access—
ible on the head, neck, body and limbs. Each
student bleeds from the jugulars on both sides of the
neck; setons of various lengths, from a few inches
to two feet, are inserted over the body; the tail
nicked and docked; the aesophagus opened; the
trachea cut down upon. and opened. Then follow
ligaturing and puncturing the carotid and other
arteries; perforating the chest and abdomen; re—
moving the ovaries in the female; exposing the
ureters, or canals which lead from the kidneys to

the bladder, &c.”

“When all these and more have been done, the
exhausted animal is thrown down and secured, and
the next series of operations are gone through with,
These are trepanning the frontal and maxillary sin-
uses of the head, castration, penetration of the blad—
der, amputation of the penis, puncturing of the cor-
nea of the eye, cauterizing with red hot irons every

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
    




 

 

 

26

part of the body, forming long deep lines along the
spine, the shoulders, the quarters and limbs; divis-
ion of the nerves of sensation in each leg, removal
of the cartilages of the foot, tearing away the soles
with pincers, drawing Off pieces of the hoof, amp—
utation of the ears, and, to finish up with, tenotomy
or division of the ﬂexor tendoms of all the limbs I”

GALEN asserts “that nothing can be more fall—
acious than these experiments,” SIR CHARLES BELL

declaimed against experiments on living animals,
“as not only cruel, but leading to no useful results,
not as easily acquired by operating on dead sub-
jects.” “Confusion is a monster of science,” he
says, “and I, am justiﬁed in adding that this mon—
ster is vivisection.” Colin, the author of a treatise
on physiology, wholly condemns vivisection. Dr.
GEORGE WILSON says: “In every department of
physiological inquiry, where the mutilation of ani-
mals has been resorted to, the same unvaried round
of discrepancy and error prevails.” A director of
one of the imperialschools of France reviewing the
long series of vivisections, exclaims: “Is there one ‘
of the experiments I have described which has pro-
duced for humanity any advantages commensurate
with the sufferings they have occasioned? I have
no hesitation in replying in the negative.” LON-
GET, after years of slaughter, confessed “that all
his inquiries tended to mislead in their application
to human beings.” ABERNETHY pronounces these
dissectors as “ﬁlthy-minded fellows.” SIR ASTLEY
COOPER, who was at one time a great experimenter

 




27

on living animals, nowhere attributes his fame or
skill to this cause.

“And, ﬁnally, I come to that detestable monster
MAGENDIE, who, after tormenting the lives out of
some four hundred of Heaven’s creatures with his
own infernal hand; shortly before his death advis—
ed his friends against vivisection; frankly avowing
“that no true physician would consult any surgeon
who obtained his knowledge from so uncertain a
source, and one that would be so sure to mislead.”

And although this letter places the reputation of
the Professor in no enviable light; and is sustained
in its assertions by such exalted scientiﬁc authori-
ties; yet the Professor has thus far maintained a
profound silence on the subject.

Work Performed.

Whilst offering our grateful testimony to the
liberality of the Patrons of the Society, it is proper
to remark that its usefulness is vastly effected, and
increased through the inﬂuence of money, judicious-
ly employed. In proof of this it is only necessary
to cite, that indispensible agency of the cause, the
Detective system, which though costly is effective
in proportion to its numbers.

In connection therewith, the Secretary would lay
before the members of the Society, a brief state—
ment of the constantly increasing ofﬁce work, which
must be performed and pressing, of course, upon
its Treasury. During the short period of one year
that we have been organized, viz: The number of

 

 




 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

28

ofﬁcial. letters received and ﬁled was 460, the num-
ber written and recorded amount to 611. Besides
which, the printed publications of the Society have
been very extensive, but they were less costly than
they otherwise would have been, had not Mr. Frank
Leslie generously placed at the service of the So-
ciety, numerous beautiful and effective illustrations.

Too much zeal in the Officers.

Considering the vast amount of labour which has
been performed, and the incalculable good effected
thereby; it is not a little discouraging to be charg-
ed as the ofﬁcers have sometimes been and that,
too, by sympathising friends of the Society; as be—
ing “OVER ZEALOUS ;” although it must be admitted
that a chcrge of this character is rather novel, in
connection with societies and corporations of this
description.

 

 

But then, on the other hand, we turn with much
satisfaction to the sympathy and approval which we
have received from the press and the public, especi-
ally in this latter portion of our ofﬁcial existence;
which presents, we think a strong contrast to the
studied attempts to throw ridicule on our efforts in
the earlier portion of our organization; by elaborate
descriptions of meetings of animals in “Union
Square” and elsewhere, to discuss their views of
our proffered aid; and articles of kindred character
hereinbefore referred to. Men and women, in the
humble walks of life have brought their mites into
our treasury, accompanied by the warmest express-
ions of their regard; and have ranged themselves

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
    
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

3O

  

lieve the wants of this speechless class of creatures,
unable to make their requirements known—though
often suffering cruel pain from thirst.

A design was selected in sufﬁcient time to have
had these hydrants erected ere this; but being de—
sirous of having the full approval of the Croton
Board in this City and the engineering skill of Al-
fred W. Craven, Esq., their chief engineer, and the
failure of our ﬁrst contractors to comply with their

 

engagements; caused unavoidable delays.

We are, however, now in hopes, that several will
be erected in this City and Brooklyn during the
month of June; after which we hope to extend their
beneﬁcial results throughout the State, as our
means will permit; and, perhaps, before the close of
the ensuing summer, we may inﬂuence the erection
of several in other cities and states.

They will be constructed of iron—of very impo-

 

sing appearance and will each have cast thereon,

the name of the Society.

Thanks to the Press and other Influential
Adjuncts.

The Secretary would do great injustice to the
feelings of every ofﬁcer of the Society, should he
omit to mention, and even to repeat our acknow-
ledgements, of the great aid and assistance which
we have derived from the proprietors of Frank Les-

 




 

 

 

    

3I

lie’s Illustrated News, and other publications from
that establishment; in their setting forth in the
most attractive form, many of the striking incidents
in the life of the Society; in furnishing us, grat-
uitously, from the burins of their artists, engrav-
ings for our ofﬁcial publications, and in various
ways affording us assistance. To the Sun News—
paper of New-York, for its gratuitously publishing,
and continuously and gratuitously repeating daily
without intermission, all our advertisements of re-
ward or of caution; and to the press generally, for
the use of their columns, enabling us to defend or
suitably explain our position, where indiscreet writ-
ers may have subjected ou ‘ acts to erroneous im-
pressions. Nor can we omit to note with satisfact-
ion, the services which we have received from the
Metropolitan Police force generally, ever since the
general order was issued by its efﬁcient Superinten-
dent; recognizing our ofﬁcial position as a mission—
ary in the cause of the prevention of cruelty to ani—
mals; and in connection therewith, we would record
with commendation, the constantly increasing high-
er tone which the police justices and magistrates in
New—York City and Brooklyn are exerting against
offenders, who recklessly injure and abuse the
dumb chattels which we have taken under our
charge. To the District Attorney of the City of
New-York, for advice and efﬁcient services, the So-
ciety are under many obligations, and we are only,

(probably) unable to return similar acknowledg-
ment to ofﬁcials of like position in other counties of

this State; because the Society is still comparative-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

32

ly in an infant state, and have as yet been so much
conﬁned to New-York City andits vicinity, as not
to have had opportunities to call on the ofﬁcials of
other counties for their services in our behalf.

The Secretary has further to report, in connect-=
ion with the general ﬁnancial affairs of the Society;
that its present status will be reported by the
Treasurer this evening; that printed subscription
rolls have been prepared, with a view to procuring
signatures thereto; the ultimate purpose of which
is to obtain a Permanent Fund, of sufﬁcient magni—
tude, to be vested in the Society; the interest of
which shall be adequate, if possible, to our current
expenses.

It is manifested in the experience of other socie-
ties, that the policy of sustaining Benevolent Insti-
tutions—through the medium of Annual Dues—is
defective; and results in capricious and uncertain
support.

The President of the Society has personally taken
this matter in hand; and is at present engaged in
carrying it out; and it is to be hoped that these ef-
forts will meet with entire success, convinced as the
public must be, by the efﬁcient action of this Insti-
tution; the only one which offers organized protec—
tion to the dumb dependants of mankind; that it is
eminently entitled to their favor.

Bequests.

One of the earlier friends of the Society, Dr. D.

 




  

 

    

33

C. Morehead, whose deeease has just been announc-
ed, was a faithful and devoted protector of the infer—
ior animals. A short time previous to his death he
donated to the Society a large and original oil
painting, now on the walls of the Society’s office——
estimated to be worth ﬁfteen hundred dollars and

which will be preserved as a memento of his regard.

 

Under the head of Bequests, the Secretary has
great pleasure in noting the following, a letter from
Benjamin D. Hicks, Esq; lelllOllI'lCillg a bequest of
sixty thousand dollars, a copy of which letter is
herewith appended.

North Hempstcad, L. 1., 3, 13, 67.
Dear Sir:

I have just returned from a ﬁve weeks’
pleasure trip through the Southern States and Cuba.

I ﬁnd your two letters on my table awaiting me,
my absence will explain their remaining so long un-

answered.

Before I left I called to see you in reference to the
proper form of inserting a bequest to your Society
in my will, which I was having drawn up at the time.
As that instrument now stands, my mother, who is
6 5 years of age, has the use of my entire estate dur—
ing her life. Then twenty thousand goes to your
Society direct; and another twenty on the death of
a cousin now over so. My mother has also insert—
ed a clause in her will, giving the Society twenty

. ::::::

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

444444

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   

34

thousand dollars in case I should die before her.
This latter sum you will have in any case, for
should I live to inherit her estate, I shall leave it
eventually precisely as her will now directs.

These bequests are made to the Society uncondi-
tionally. I agree with you that it would be better
to allow the Society the use of the interest only.
Mother and I continue to be more and more favora-
bly impressed with the manner in which the Society
is striving to ﬁll the wide ﬁeld of action which is
open before it. 'We only wonder that you accom-
plish so much where the work seems so limitless.
I wish that I was still a resident of the city, and

could give you my personal assistance in your ar-

duous labors.

I hope to meet you at the Society’s rooms before

very long.
Meanwhile, I remain very sincerely,
Your friend,

BENJ. I). HICKS.

To HENRY BERGH, Esq.

As intimatcdin the commencement——this Report
is strictly a statement made by the Secretary PER
SI—C under the requirements of the By-Laws.

This provision enables the Secretary in this—the
and in connection with

 

conclusion of his report
the subject of Bequests, now under consideration,
to record a fact—which, taking into view the char-

 




 

 

    

35

acteristic desire of the party, to avoid any thing
which might be deemed ostentatious—the announ-
cement certainly would not appear in this form,
under other circumstances.

\Vith this preface, therefore, to his concluding
statement—the Secretary announces on his own re-
sponsibility, that the President of our Society,
Henry Bergh, Esquire, has bequeathed by Will to
the Society, a property, now producing an annual
income of seven thousand dollars.

This was the ﬁrst bequest which we had announc-
ed to us ,and although the Secretary is conﬁdent that
every one now addressed, would at any time greatly
regret the receipt of the avails of this bequest; cou—
pled as it would necessarily be, with the deprivation
by us of his personal devotion and efﬁcient services
in our cause; still we cannot but accord the appre-
ciation due to his head and heart for this muniﬁcent

appropriation.

RHSI’EC’I‘FULLY SU 3MI’1‘TED,

Wm. Coventry H. Waddell,

SECRIV‘ARY.

The following Report from the Treasurer, sub—
mitted in accordance with Chapter XIII, of the By-
Laws, was then. read, accepted, and ordered on ﬁle.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

TREASU RER’S REPORT.
Dr. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals with Wm. MeMurray, Treasurer. Cr.

 

 

1867. I867”
May I. To Cars/2, paid 0222‘ from 23. Ap7211866, to dare, May I. By Cash, 762622 222770222 23, Aprzl,1866,2‘o 2722':
2272226, (25 under
Lifer Membership. . . $4600 00
Resident and Non- Resident Members
and Patronesses . . . . . . . 1030 00

as nadir——

Rent, one year. . . . . . . $1000 08
Gas...........3oo

Furniture. . - - 533 76 Donations
. . . .I 8 00
Old Carpet 501d for - - ' 5 00‘ 528 76 Fines to I. March .1867—$592—one 55

Stationery . . . . . . . . . 16010
Printing . . . . . . . . 562 38 halfofwhich is . . . . . . 29600

Salaries Ofﬁce . . . . . . . . I434 42
Salaries, Detectives. . . . . . .978 03

Traveling Expenses . . . 38 59
Returned unexpended. . . 25 99— 112 60
Postages . . . . . . . . . . 30 81
‘Rewards . . . . . . . . . . 83 00
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . 154 62

On hand—Bank . . . . 235I 77
Drawer . . . . 84 43—2436 20

 

 

 

$7484 00 7484 00

 

I867. May I. By Balance . . . . . . . . $2436 20
E B. May 1.1867.

WILLIAM M CM URRA Y,
Treasurer.

 

 

.mn.‘ . ., —-I
.1

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38

2. To make rules for the government of the ofﬁ
cers of the Society.

Under this clause of their instructions, your Com-
mittee have, by sundry special resolutions, devolved

upon the President and Secretary, the employment
of detective ofﬁcers and a clerk, at the rooms of the

Society; and that harmonious action has been evinc—
ed therein.

3. To frame its own By-Laws, and keep a record
of its proceedings.

That the Committee have not deemed it neces-
sary, so far, to frame any special, By-Laws for its

government, not having, as yet, felt any necessity
therefor; they have, however, caused a complete
copy of their Records to be kept by the Secretary
of the Society, who,under Chap. xii, of the By—Laws,
is Secretary of each Committee of the Society.

4 The Committee are required to ﬁx the salaries
of employees.

Under this clause they have ﬁxed the salary of the
Secretary at $800. Of detectives, at $16 per week,
or $832 per annum, and their travelling expenses in
addition thereto; and a clerk at the rooms at $2 per
day, or $730 per annum.

5. To ﬁll vacancies occurring in any ofﬁce of the
Society.

Under this head, the only ofﬁcer whose services
have been lost to the Society, is A. T. Stewart,

 

 




  

 

    

39

Esq, who, whilst evincing his continued interest in
the affairs of the Society, felt himself compelled to
resign his official position as Vice President; and
your Committee have been enabled to avail them-
selves of Horace B. Claﬂin, Esq, to ﬁll that vacancy.

6. The Committee are empowered to declare seats
in their own body vacant for cause, but have had no
cause to exercise that power.

7. In this clause the Committee are restricted to
the incurring of any liability on the part of the So-
ciety, to $1000, and have kept themselves within
this judicious limit.

8. The Committee are authorized to remit the an-
nual dues of any member of the Society; but have
not been called upon to exercise that power.

9. It is provided that no salary shall. be allowed
to any member of the Executive Committee, except
the Secretary, and they have complied therewith;
and availing themselves of the Secretary of the So-
ciety, have allowed no salary for his services to this

Committee.

10. The Committee having power to ﬁll vacan-
cies occuring in their own body, have availed them-
selves of that power as follows: upon the resignation
of Charles Addoms, Esq, they ﬁlled that position by
electing John B. Murray, Esq; on the resignation
of John J. Cisco, Esq, they elected Richard A.
Southwick, Esq; and on the death of Simeon Drap-
er, Esq, they elected Henry Bergh, Esq.

 

 

 




 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

40

II. By this clause the Committee are to hold a

meeting once a month; but after very persistent ef-
forts by the President and Secretary, to obtain a
quorum, they have failed in strictly carrying out
that requirement. And the

12. ' Requiring the Committee to observe the
rule of having a quorum of ﬁve members, has been
complied with; and the Committee having availed
themselves of a perusal of the Report of the Secret—
ary of the Society, to be made at this annual meet-
ing, under the requirements of the By-Laws; and
containing as it does, a full history of the action of
the Society during the past year, feel that there
exists less necessity for them to dilate thereon;
they, however, feel compelled in addition to the
statements contained in the Secretary’s Report to
further upon your consideration, the subject of

Roads and Pavements.

This subject claimed and received the considera—
tion of your Committee, immediately after the organi-
zation of the Society; and several meetings were
held (through a sub-committee appointed specially)
to examine into the best mode of remedying the
great evil which we all so painfully experience; in
the cruelty, which especially our pavements in cit-
ies, inﬂict upon the horse. Various descriptions of
pavements were submitted for our examination ;_ and
although some were inclined to the opinion that the
Macadamized road seemed to suggest the best mode

 

 

 




    

 

    

4i

of pavement; and some favoured the idea that a sof—
ter description of stone than that now used in the
Russ and the Belgian pavement: though to be laid
in the manner in which the Belgian pavement is
laid, would be the best; still the suffering which
must necessarily be inﬂicted on the horse, by being
obliged to travel on these stony ways, in bruising
his limbs, destroying his feet, and lessening his use-
fulness in a very brief period of time; compels us,
as a Society formed for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, to ﬁnd some mode for the construction
of pavements which will obviate these evils.

Your Committee called into consultation, at one of
their meeting, Alfred W. Craven, Esq, Chief Engi-
neer of the Croton Department, and charged more
immediately, perhaps, with the consideration of pave—
ments generally in this City, than any other person.
Mr. Craven at that time remarked that he had heard
of a description of wooden pavement, which had
been used in Chicago and other western cities,
which was very favorably spoken of as a pavement,
having all the qualities we were desirous of obtain-
in g: as urged by the Committee: Mr. Craven kindly
undertook to correspond with the proprietors and
projectors of this description of pavement; and also
if practicable to cause a sample of the “Nicholson
Pavement,” by which name it is known, to be
placed on some thoroughfare street of New-York.
Subsequently Mr. Craven was enabled to carry out
these suggestions, and Nassau street, between Pine
and Wall streets, has now for some months been
laid with this pavement.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42

No pavement which your Committee has been
able to bring under their notice, appears to combine
as many admirable qualities as this pavement.
Some of the reasons urged in favor of a ﬂat even
surface, with a sure foothold for the horse, is so

apparent, that your Committee fully adopt the

following suggestions as their own.

“No device or skill of man can change the foot
of the horse, its form and skill are unalterably fix—
ed;therefore the pavement must conform to the horse
and not the horse to the pavement; the shape of
his foot is ﬂat at the bottom, and made to come
into contact with the earth on the outer portion of
the hoof; while it is absolutely indispensible that
the frog of the foot should be protected, which is ac-
complished by providing a ﬂat and even pavement.”

Here again the cobble stone pavement, with
which many of the streets are paved, is shown to be
not only a defective and absurd device, but an in-
vention to inﬂict untold suffering and cruelty upon
the noble horse.

“The oval stones of the street, and the deep de-
pression formed between them, makes it impossible
for the horse to ﬁnd a flat resting place for his foot;
or any two like places or uniform surfaces upon
which to tread with assurance and conﬁdence. Thus
his feet are being continually wrenched from side
to side, while the upward oval projections of the
stones are continually pressing against and bruis—
ing the frog of the foot, on which No pressure
should be allowed, which is not only inhuman to

 

 




 

43

the horse, but destructive to his usefulness to man.
The free and easy stepping of the horse depends
much upon. the assurance afforded him, by a ﬁrm,
level and uniform roadway. He soon acquires the
muscular habit or habits of motion, adapted to the
thoroughfare on which he travels; but where there
is no uniformity of surface, he acquires no feeling
of conﬁdence or habit of an easy mechanical move-
ment. The free and natural gait of a horse does
not depend, wholly upon a ﬂat surface and foothold,
but upon his assurance of ﬁnding the foothold just
on. the spot where his foot may fall. A horse sub-
mitted to uncertain foothold and indeﬁnite sliding,
soon acquires a mixed and hobbling gait, and con-
stantly suffers whilst undergoing such abuses; and
the Russ and Belgian pavements do not obviate
this evil; and although not precisely germain to
these remarks, this pavement would cause an ab-
sence of noise, and a consequent prolonging of
human. life.

Your Committee are of the opinion that the pave-
ments of the city of New—York are generally in the
worst possible condition, as regards humanity to
the horse; they think that no possessor of a horse
which is compelled to travel over these ﬂinty un-
even roads, whether he considers the immediate
well-being and comfort of his horse or not, if he
only takes into view the matter of economy in the
endurance and life of the animal, would not object
to a poll tax being laid on each horse; for the rais-
ing of a sufﬁcient amount to pay the interest on,
and contribute to a SINKING FUND to discharge a

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44

loan, to be raised fo1 the special purpose of placing
the best pavement— ‘The Nicholson Wooden Pave-
ment” ——in all the st1 eets of that city. They there-
fore, respectfully but urgently press the consider—
ation of this sucrgestion upon the Corporate author--
ities of this city, and the Lewislature of this State

RESPEC’I‘ 1m LLY S U BM 1'1"1‘1«:1),

AUGUST BELMONT, Chairman.
HENRY GRINNELL.
WM. COVENTRY H. "WADDELL.

COM M ITTEE.

The Secretary then read thc

Report of the Committee on Nominations 3

VIZ:—

At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
the 5th April, it was

Rb SOLVED, That a Committee of Three be appointed
to nominate suitable persons to be supported
for Ofﬁce at the next annual election.

WHEERP UPON, Messrs. Sinclair Tousey, Oliver H.
Perry and Charles E. Jenkins, were appoint-
ed such Committee.

 

 




46
FOR TREASURER.
William McMurray.
FOR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

James T. Brady, Samuel B. Ruggles,
John D. Wolfe, Henry Grinnell,
August Belmont, R. A. Southwick,

Henry Bergh, Daniel Butterﬁeld,
Frank Leslie, Thos. C. Acton,

John A. Kennedy, Wm. H. Webb,
W. C. H. Waddell, John B. Murray,
Joseph P. Beach.

SINCLAIR TOUSEY, l
O. H. PERRY, Lima/Inlay:
CHAS. E. JENKINS, J

IVew-Ibrk, 11/41) I, 1867.

.m

—""';=="“""::: 17—???" ,

Teas—J .=-

The President then directed the poll to be opened for
the ANNUAL ELECTION.—-On motion it

was

RESOLVED, That the appointment of Tellers be dis-
pensed with.—

The result of the Poll was the UNANIMOUS election
of the several persons, recommended by the
Committee on Nominations, to the several pod
Sitions therein named. and, thereupon it was

 

RESOLVED, That the said election be conﬁrmed——

 

 

 




    

    

47

On nomination the following persons were duly
elected as Resident Members, Silas C. Her-
ring, Esq.; John Farrell, Esq.; Elijah T.
Sherman, 'Esq.; W. J. F. Dailey, Esq.; and
as a Patroness, Mrs. Cora F. Syme.

On a call of the Chair the Secretary then read, the
“Act for the more Effectual Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals,” passed 12th April,
I867:———and, after some brief comments there-
on from the Chair the meeting adjourned.

W m. Cowm‘ry f]. Waddell,

SECRETARY.

Prosecutions and Convictions,

1866.
April 25. Manz, a butcher of Brooklyn, carrying calves in his cart,

piled on top of one another, legs tightly bound, and one so
disposed of as to bring an eye in contact with a sharp stick,
threatening, at each motion of the cart, to tear it out of its
socket. He was promptly ﬁned ten dollars by the Magistrate.

April 26. Jacob Roth, butcher, New-York, for carting seven live
calves and four side of dead sheep, in a very small wagon;
the calves’ legs were tied together. In West Broadway one
fell out again and struck the pavement head foremost. He
was ﬁned ten dollars and imprisoned one day.

April 26. Isaac Serthenier and Francis Kenney, for carting calves in
the same manner; were each ﬁned ten dollars and imprisoned
one day.




 

48

April 26. Chas. Lacel, adriver of a truck, for cruelly beating one
of his horses over the head with a cart rung. Fined ten dol- -
lars and reprimanded.

May 26. Earnest Weber and Thomas McGinniss, for plucking the
feathers from fowls while alive, and killing then in a barbar-
our manner. The defendants’ witness testiﬁed that the brains
had been ﬁrst stabbed, and that the killing of these fowls was
the usual method employed in the business. Acquitted on
the ground that the evidence did not show any wilful or
malicious cruelty.

May 28. Thos. McGinniss, cartman, for cruelly beating his horse
with a stick, 2 feet long, I if Wide and half a pound weight.
Defendant’s council justiﬁed the beating because the horse
was baulky. Fined ﬁve dollars.

 

Nehemiah H. Calhoun, Captain of the Schooner Active,
for transporting turtles from Florida, in a cruel manner by
being laid on their backs, deprived of food and water and
having holes bored in their ﬂesh and cords run through
to secure them. Acquitted by the Magistrate 011 the ground
that “No greater pain was inﬂicted than by the bite of a
mosquito,” afterwards brought before the Grand Jury, and
defendant indicted. The Captain brought suit against Mr.
Bergh for false arrest; but dismissed by the Judge on ground
of absence of malice. '

 

Peter Beglan, wood peddler, cruelly beating his horse,
which was badly ruptured; with a sore on his back and unﬁt
for use. Fined ten dollars.

 

George Brown, peddler, for fastening a rope around the
neck of his horse and attaching it to another cart, which
when started tightened the rope, causing strangulation.
Fined ten dollars.

June 14. Henry Van Santer, cruelly beating his horse with the butt
end of a whip. Fined ﬁve dollars.

June 14. Christopher Brown, beating his horse with a cart rung, was
ﬁned ten dollars.

 




    

    

49

July 17. Richard Ferinan, driver of car 41, Seventh Avenue and
University Place Railroad line, for driving a lame horse.
Fined ten dollars.

July 25. Jacob Ever-land, severely beating his horse in Grand street
Brooklyn, was ﬁned ten dollars. li‘or interfering with the
ofﬁcer in the discharge of his duty, Andr. Sleiniel was ﬁned

eleven dollars and ﬁfty cents.

Sept. 17. Michael li‘arrell,beating his horse with a cart rung, was
ﬁned ten dollars.

Sent. 20. Richard Claffey, Brooklyn, abandoning his horse in a lot
where it died of neglect. Acquitted for want of testimony
showing ownership of horse.

Oct. 13. Jacob Soth, Brooklyn, E. D., wounding a goat with a pistol
of which the animal died, after lingering in pain two days.
1? ined twenty-two dollars.

Oct. 16. Jas. Moran for beating horse with paving stone. Fined
Fifteen Dollars.

Oct. 16. Patrick Averill, overloading a truck, horse having a sore
back, truck loaded with 2100le of menchandise. Fined
Ten Dollars.

Oct 19. James Sturges and Sylvester S. Manfrin, cruelly treating
Q . i . V 7
a horse which was baulky, by puttlng a rope around the body
then fastened to a truck and thus dragged forward. Acquit-
ted, there being no proof of injury to horse.

Oct. 28. Isaac Schular. for whipping horse on head; at the request
of several Citizens, he was reprimanded and dismissed.

Oct. 30. Eugene Rousseau, for cruelly beating a horse. It appear-
ed, during the trial, that at Bull’s Head sales stables, it is
the practice while testing the draught qualities of a horse;
to harness him to a wagon,, and then run a stick from one
wheel to another, thus preventing their revolving. The
horse is then whipped up and if he fails to pull, he is cruelly

ﬂogged. Fined ten dollars.

 




 

 

 

 

 

50

Oct. 31. A horse abandoned in 35th Street, offender brought before

the Judge. Case dismissed on the representation of a Nich—
olas Skillan, that the horse had been taken care of and sub-
sequently shot, on account of one of its legs being broken.

. 15. Edward Frost, for cruelly driving a lame horse was ﬁned

ten dollars.

. 22. Hezekiah Tuttle, for having a calf tied by the legs in a

cart, was ﬁned Twenty-ﬁve Dollars. This man made repeat-
ed attempts to escape from Mr. Bergh, who arrested him, but
failed.

. 23. Andrew Win, Brooklyn, for abandoning a horse. Convict-

ed and a ﬁne imposed of only Five Dollars, on account of
his poverty.

. 24. N. Beecher & Co., New York, for selling adulterated feed,

Case abandoned by the Society on account of the doubtful
character of the witness for veracity.

. 25. Edward Kraus, carrying 24 calves crowded in his cart.

Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars.

. 4. Philip Rodman, carrying calves tied, the accused preferred

to be tried by a jury, convicted and ﬁned one hunderd dollars.

. 4. Francis McGoo, for driving a horse, lamed by being pricked

While shoeing. Fined ﬁve dollars.

. 28. Micheal Hynch, for turninga starving horse out to die,

was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars.

. 30. Hugh Allen, for driving a horse which had large sores on
both sides of the neck under the collar, and sore foot and
knee, totally unﬁt for service. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars,

. 3o. Jas. Hynna, abandoning a horse corner of Greenwich and

1867.

Hubert sts, Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars.

Jan. 1. Parties for shooting chickens on New Year’s day for sport.

 




    

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

    

SI

and thus mangling the fowl till it could not stand. Dis-
missed by Justice Connolly as an “old sport for the boys, and
he would not interfere with it!”

9. Driver of car 49, Broome st, Division, 7th Avenue and

Broadway Railroad, complained of, for driving a lame horse
so unﬁt for service that it fell on its breast and nose and was
then beaten with an iron hook to get it 011 its feet. Com—
plainants failed to appear, on the ground that the superinten—
dent and president of the line ought to suffer,and not the driver.

IO. Harsten & C0,, packing calves so as to bruise them, and
allowing them to fall out of the cart. The complainant being
unable to give name of the driver, the case was abandoned.

18. Wm. \Valtermire,for having 116 head of cattle conﬁned in
his yards without shelter. Found guilty and judgment

suspended.

18. Edward Kennedy, driver of a car on the 7th avenue and
University Railroad, for driving a lame and emaciated horse,
Fined ﬁve dollars.

18’ Henry Green, for driving a horse with one of his legs
broken. Fined ﬁve dollars and the horse was killed.

18. Daniel Farrel, for cruelty to a horse. Fined ten dollars.

18. Allerton, Dutcher 8: Moore, conﬁning cattle in their yards
without shelter. Defendant’s witnesses swore that cattle
preferred the snow to shelter. Dismissed by the magistrate!

22. Wm, Kling, milkman, abandoning horse with his hip dis-
located, Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars.

26. Francis Jacobs, driver, beating the mules before a heavily
loaded truck. Warrant issued for his arrest but he had ab-

sconded.

29. Micheal Murtagh, abandoning horse with broken leg. Dis-
missed by the Magistrate on the ground that due notice had
been given to the authorities.

 

 

 




 

 

Punishment for Misdemeanor.

Revised Statutes, Title 6; Part iv. Section 55; Fifth
' Edition; Vol. iii; page 980.

Every person who shall be convicted of any mis-
demeanor, the punishmeut of which is not prescribed
in this or some other Statute, shall be punished by
imprisonment in a County jail not exceeding one
year, or by ﬁne not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty
dollars, or by both, such ﬁne and imprisonment.

Suggestions for the Guidance of Persons desirous
of Prosecuting Individuals Guilty of
Cruelty to Animals.

__.._.—

THERE are three modes of proceeding, viz :———I. By
giving the Offender into the custody of a Policeman,
Constable, or other Ofﬁcer. H.——By the issue of a
Summons. UL—By the apprehension of the accus-
ed under a Warrant.

I.

By giving the Offender into the custody of an Ofﬁ-
cer authorized to make arrests.

This is the best course to adopt when the offence
is committed within the City of New-York, and all
other towns where Magistrates sit daily, as the per-
son can be conveyed immediately into Court and

 




 

  

67

punished forthwith. If a Policeman or Constable
is not within reach when the cruelty is witnessed,
or cannot be obtained soon afterwards, it will be
better to proceed by Summons.

ll.
By the issue of a Summons.

First obtain the name and address of the Offender,
and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and lay the
complaint before a l\‘lagistrate.

Make a note of the time when, and the street or
place where, the offence occured. If for driving a
horse or other animal with galled neck or shoulders,
or other wounds, note the size and situation of such
wounds—especially if raw, discharging, or in con-
tact with the harness;~if for ﬂogging, or beating,
note the instrument, the number of blows, on what
part of the body inflicted, and the effect if any, on
the skin of the animal; if for lameness, weakness,
or inﬁrmity; or overloading, as manifested by the
trembling, falling, unusual perspiration, or exhaust—
ion. of the animal, or if for mutilation, such as dock—
ing tails of horses, cutting tails or ears of dogs, or
any other torture, observe minutely and take down
in writing the character in detail. If for transport—
ing sheep, calves, game, fowls or other poultry, or
animals while bound by the legs or otherwise, in
any part of this State, either on land or water. Re-
member the language of the accused at the time.

 

 




 

HI.
By the Apprehension of the Accused under Warrant.

This is desirable in all cases where there is reason
to believe the Offender will evade the Summons, or
is a resident of another State, or is about to abscond.

Direct application to this Society to prosecute i11-
stead of the Witness. »

Any respectable person calling at the ofﬁce of the
Society, No. 696 Broadway, New-York City, between
the hours of 9 and 5, daily, or upon any of its
Agents, or, if out of the City of New-York, by ad-
dressing the Secretary of the Society per mail, and
furnishing the particulars of any act of cruelty, a—
long with sufﬁcient evidence, the Society will c011-
duct the prosecution without expense or trouble to
the witness whatever, except in so far as may be
necessary for the conviction of the offender, and in
certain cases, pay a reward on conviction.

It is earnestly hoped that the triﬂing inconveni-
ence arising out of proceedings to protect animals
from the outrages of cruel persons, will not deter
friends of humanity from co-operating with the So—
ciety in its efforts to promote its beneﬁcent purposes.

 

———o

The following order to police captains has been
issued by Superintendent Kennedy :—

 

 




 

7O

ing cattle sheep or swine, conﬁne them in cars for
a longer period than twenty-four consecutive hours,
without unloading for rest, water or food, and for
a period of at least ten consecutive hours; and shall
not receive or unload any such animals from an-
other railroad, that have not been rested at least
ten consecutive hours preceding such loading, and
been watered and fed within the time. The
penalty for every violation is one hundred dollars,
to be paid by the company offending, and to be re-
covered by suit by any person in the name of the
People of the State of New-York, in any Court
having jurisdiction, one half of the penalty, when
collected, to belong to the informer, and the bal—
ance to the county in which the penalty shall be
collected.

The “Act to incorporate the American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” Chap-
ter 469 of 1866, constitutes the gentlemen named
therein, a body corporate, The object of the Soc-
iety is expressed in the title of the act. The. 7th
section of the Act provides that the police force, in
places where police organizations exist, shall, as
occasion may require, aid the Society, its members
or agents, in the enforcement of all laws for the
protection of dumb animals.

You will, therefore, instruct the members of your
command, to be watchful and diligent in regard to
the offences referred to by these several enactments;
and in every case where a violation may occur in
their view or knowledge, to arrest offenders and
enforce penalties.

JOHN A. KENNEDY, Superintendent.

DANIEL CARPENTER, Inspector.

 




71

List of Members and Donations.

A mmmz‘ Pa 2d

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DM’I‘I _S1Ibscriptio11 Donation.
ASTOR, JOHNJAcoP,JR. ”111311123 1866 ......... .. ..
Aspinwall, W111. H.. .3 do IOOOO
Addoms, Chas ............ 23 do 1000 40 oo
Acton, T.C ................ 23 do IO‘OO
Anderson Robert ........ 23 do “
Appleton, D. S ........... 21 May, 1866 10000 ' 1
Armstrong,D.Maitland21 do 11
Alstyne, John ............ 5Jan’ y 1867 100 00
Aspinwall, Lloyd ........ 29 Nov. 1866 1000 4000 1
American News Co ..... 9 Mar. 1867 2500 V
BRADY, JAS. T ........... 23April, 1866 10000 ‘
Brown, James ............ 23 do 100 00 1
Brooks, Erastus.........23 do 1
Bellows, H. W. D. D..23 do *
Bryant, W111. C ......... 23 do 11
Belmont, August ....... 23 do 100 00
Beach, Joseph P ........ 23 do 1
Beach, Moses S.........23 do IOOO 4000 1
Butterﬁeld, Da11iel.....23 do [COO 4000 ‘1
Bristed, Chas. A........23 do
Bergh, Henry ........... 23 do 100 00 1
Bennett, Jas. Gordo11..23 do 1oooo 1
Bixby, J. M ............... 21 May, 1866 10000 .. ‘
Berghaus, Albert ........ 21 do 1
Banks, R. L .............. 26 June, 1866 500 1
Booth, Edwin ............ 20 Nov. 1866 10000
Black, W111 ............... 20 do 1000 23 33 1
Ball, Henry .............. 20 do 1000 23 33 1
Baldwin, Henry ........... 1 Mar. 1867 1000 1

 




 

72

 

 

 

Amount Paid.

 

 

 

DATE. Subscription. Donation.
COOPER, PETER, ......... 23 April, 1866 10 00 4000
Cutting, F. B., ........... 23 do
Cisco, John J .............. 23 do 10 00 40 00
Clews, Henry ............ 23 do 100 00
Cunard, Edward ......... 26 June, 1866 100 00
Caldwell, S. B, ........... 20 Nov, 1866 1000 2 50
Claﬂin, Horace B., ...... 20 do ..
Cranston, Hiram, ........ 20 do ..
Collins, Mrs. E. C., ...... 2 Mar. 1867 500
Colgate, Jas. A ........... 29 Nov. 1866 1000 15 00
Craven, A. W., ............ 5 April, 1867
Clark, Jas. A ............. 22 Nov. 1866 500
DRAPER, SIMEON, ....... 23 April, 1866 10 00 40 00
Dix, John A., ............ 23 d0 .
Daly, Chas. P., ........... 23 do
Dilks, Geo. W., .......... 23 do 1000
Duncan, Win. Butler,..21 May, 1866 100 00
Dinsniofe, Wm. B., ..... 21 do 100 00
Dolan, Miss Ellen,......12 Feb. 1867 10000
Dodge, W111. E., ......... 31 Jan. 1867 10 00 4000
Dodge, Wm. B, Jr.,....31 do 1000 4000
Dailey, W. J. F., ......... 2 May, 1867 1000 15 00
Delaplaine, Isaac ........ 23 April, 1866 100 00
ELLIOTT, G. T. JR., M. D. 5April, 1 867
FISH, HAMILTON, .......23 April, 1866 100 00
Fargo, Wm. G., ......... 21 May, 1866 10 00 40 00
Francis, Sain’l W., ...... 20 Nov. 1866 10 00
Farrell, John, .............. 2 May, 1867

 




 

    

xii/[(71

mt l’aia’.

DATE. Subscription. Donation.

1000 40

GRINNELL, H EN RY, . . . . 23— April 1866

Greeley, Horace, ......... 23 do
Grinnell, lV’I. H .......... 23 do
Griswold, George,.......2 3 do
Gallatin, Jas., ............ 23 do
Gerard, J. W., ............ 23 do
Gardner, A. K., M. D.,2O Nov. 1866
Gilbert, F. E., ............ 27 Mar. 1866
HOFFMAN, JOHN T, . ..23 April, 1867
Hall, A. Oakley ......... 23 do
Harper Bros .............. 23 do
Hicks, Benj. D.,.........21 May, 1866

Hicks, Elizabeth T.,... 9 Jan. 1867
Haughwout, E. V.,.....21 May, 1866

Hoey, John, ............... 21 do
Hudson, E. D., M. D.,.21 do
Hunt, Mrs. W., ......... 20 NOV. 1866
Hawk, Samuel, ......... 26 Jan. 1867

Hodghkins, Thos. G., 9 do
Hollis, Geo., Rev’d ....... 5 April, 1867
Howland, Meredith,....29 NOV. 1866

Holland, Alex., .......... 29 do
Herring, Silas C.,.........2 May, 1867
JONEs, JOHN D., ......... 23 April, 1866

Jaffray, EdwardS., ...... 21 May, 1866
Johnson, Rowland, ....... 5 April, 1867
Jenkins, Chas. E., ........ 5 do

KNAPP, SHEPHERD, ..... 23 April, 1866
Kennedy, John A., ...... 23 do

 

 

Kingsland, A. C ......... 23 d0

100 00

IO
10

10
100

50
50
IO
10
IO

‘10
IO
10

100

100
100
10

oo 4o
00 40

OO

00

00
OO

00.... .

oo... ..
oo......
00 4000
00 4000
oo......
oo......
00 4000
oo 5ooo
oo 4ooo
oo......

00
OO
OO

1000 4000
1000

 

 

 

 

10 oo 40 oo

 

  




 

74

DATE Subscription. Donation.
Kingsland, D. C ......... 23 April, 1866 10 00 4000
Kedenburg, Mrs. J. F..26 June, 1866 500
LENOX, JAMES, ........... 23 April, 1866 100 00
Leonard, James, ......... 23 do 10 00
Leslie, Frank, ............ 23 do - 100 00
Lyle, John S., ............ 21 May, 1866 10000 ..
Lord, John T., ............ 21 do 100 00
Ludlow, Edw. H., ....... 21 do 1000 40 00
Livingston, Mrs. C.,...26 June, 1866 500
Law, Geo, ................ 20 Nov. 1866 10000
Low, Abiel A ............. 20 do 10 00 15 00
Laurie, John, ............ 15 Jan. 1867 2500
MCCLOSKEY, JOHN, ..... 23 April, 1866
MCMurray, W111., ........ 23 do 10 00
Murray, John B., ........ 23 do 100 00
Morgan, Homer, ......... 23 do 10 00 40 00
Murray, John B., Mrs.,.26 June, 1866 5 00
Moses, A. R. B., ......... 26 do 1000
Minturn, Robt. B , ...... 20 Nov. 1866 10 00 40 00
Morris, B. (3., Jr., ....... 20 do 10 00 2 50
Monheimer, Asher; ...... 20 do 10 00 40 00.
Mayer, John, .............. 15 Jan. 1867 1000
Monroe, Ebenezer, ...... 28 do 10 00 23 34
Minture, Thos. R., ....... 5April, 1867 .
Moore, Richd. H. M.D...5 do
Moore, Miss Maria L....5 do 500
Mudie, John, ............... 5 do ..
Mo‘rehead, D. C., M.D.,.26 June, 1866 10 00
OLYPHANT, GEORGE T.,23April, 1866 ......... ..
Otto, Mad. Antoinette,.2o Nov. 1866 500 25 00

 

 

Amount Pa I'd.

 

 

 

 




75

I) \11 Subscription.

POTTFR, HoR T10, R1«:v. 23 April 1866
Parish, Daniel, ........... 23 do
Packer, Daniel, .......... 23 do
Powell, Miss Mary E.,...6 Sept. 1866
Park, Joseph, J1‘.,.......2o Nov. 1866
Perry, 0. H., ............. 20 do

Ro1~:1«:1<’1‘s, 1V1/\R81~1A1.1.(>)23 April, 1866
Ruggles, Samuel B.,...23 do
Roosevelt, C. V. S.,.....23 do
Russell, A1‘e111ba1d,......23 do
Russell, A. D., ........... 23 do
Rod111an, Wash 11, Rev. ,2o Nov. 1866
Robbins, George A. ,....29 do
Root, N W. Taylo1, Rev. 5 Ap1il,1866

STOKES, Jas., ............. 31 Jan. 1867
Stokes, A. G. P., ........31 do
Steele, Edwa1d G, ...... 23 April, 1866
Stuart, AleX., ............ 23 do
Strong, Oliver S., ....... 23 do
Stuart, Rol 1e1t L., ....... 23 do
Stewart, Alex. T., ....... 23 do
Spies, A. W., ............. 21 May, 1866
Southwiek, R. A., ....... 31 do
Suekley, Rutsen,........26 June, 1866
Spofford, Paul, ............ 26 do
Stebbins, Henry G.,....2o Nov. 1866
Spotts, Mrs. Jane B.,...2o do
Steel, Jas. E.; M.D.,....20 do
Stevens, Parian, ......... 12 Feb. 1867
Speyers, James, .......... 5 April, 1867
Speyers, Albert, ......... 5 do

IOOOO
IOOO

IOOOO

10000..
1000..

 

 

Solomon, Barnet L.,.... 5 do

bizmmf ./ ’a id.

10000 .

1oooo...
50o..

10 OO 20

10000 ...

IOOOO

1000 40

1ooo 40
1000 40

10000

IOOOO......
sooo.....

1000 40

10000

IOOO

IOOO

 

 

 

Donation.

Iooo 15

soo
1oooo

 

1000 23

 

 

 




 

76

DATE.
Solomon, Judah H.,. 5 April, 1867
Solomon, Isaac S.,.... 5 do
Syme, Cora A., Mrs., 5 do
Sherman, Elijah T., 2 May, 1867

TAYLOR, THOS. W., 23 April, 1866
Taylor, Moses,........23 do
Triinble, Geo. T.,....23 do
Triinble, Merritt,.....2 3 May, 1866
Tiffany, Charles L.,..21 do
Tilford, John M.,.....20 Nov. 1866
Thompson, C. P.,... .20 Sept. 1866
Trevor, John B., ...... 29 Nov. 1866
Tousey, Sinclair,..... 5 April, 1867

WOLFE, JOHN D.,.....23 April, 1866
Webb, W111. H., ...... 23 do
Winthrop, Benj. R.,.23 do
Warner, Andrew,.....23 do
Waddell WCV’try H.23 do
Waddell Mrs.W.C.H.21 May, 1866
Wood, Chas. B., ...... 21 do
Wells, Henry,.........21 'do
Wier, Mrs. Mary A.,.26 June, 1866
Walker, Mrs. John,.. 9 Jan. 1867
Waln, S. Morris,......14 Mar. 1867

Additional Donations.
Anonymous, $1, 1, & 10 ..............

Met. Police Ofﬁcer Fairﬁeld .........
Met. Police Ofﬁcer Gillespie, ........

Ammnzf I‘m'n’.
Subscription. Donation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1000 2333
1000 2333
1000
10000
1000
1000
10000
1000 1500
500
1000 1500
25000
10000
10000
1000
10000
1000 4000
500
500
10000
......... 1200
...... 300
...... 300

'563OICPIESESIQQ

 




77

 

 

 

 

OBITUARY RECORD.

 

During the year the Society has had
occasion to mourn the loss of the l
following distinguished members.

DANIEL CARPENTER, Esq. I
Hon. SIIVIEON DRAPER;
Hon. JOHN VAN BUREN, 1
Hon. ISAAC C. DELAPLAINE,
DAVID C. MOREHEAD, M. D.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

78

To those who may feel disposed to donate by
\YILL, to the benevolent objects of this
Society:—-—the following is submitted. as a

gown/1x of 35mm.

I give and bequeath to the American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, incorpor-
ated by the State of New-York, the sum of ............

- ................. f ..................................... t ........... Dollars

 




 

79
3360/1405» OOCIQ/ITI/QO.

Erie County Branch, Buffalo, N. Y. Org. 4th April, 1867.

President,
SILAS KINGSLEY.

Vice Presidents,
MILLIARD FILLMORE, C. J. WELLS,
w. G. FARGO, E. G. SPAULDING,
HIRAM BARTON, WM. KETCHAM.
O. R. BABCOCK, E. S. PROSSER,
STEPHEN CHAMPLIN, WM. A. BIRD,
G. W. TIFFT, F. H. ROOT,
H. MARTIN, N. H. GARDNER,
S. G. AUSTIN, GEO. HOWARD,
JAMES MILLER, S. G. CORNELL,

E. G. GRAY.

Secretary,

DAVID D. NASH.

Treasurer,

HENRY HOWARD,

Brooklyn Branch, Brooklyn, N. Y. Org. 8 April, I 867.
President,
J. CARSON BREVOORT.

Vice Presz‘denz‘s,

HENRY G. MURPHY, CYRUS P. SMITH,
G. T. REYNOLDS, , GEORGE HALL,
JOHN GREENWOOD.

Ree. .S'eerez‘ary,
A. F. MUDIE, M. D.
Cor. S'erretary,

EDWARD CARY.

Treasurer,

E. S. MILLS.

 

 

 

 




AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE ‘

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

[Ilc‘m'pnrzzlaz’ by z‘lw State of Mm“!- Var/c.

FIRST "

Annual Report.

Reprint,_.18r97; ,
including all typographical errors in original.

Office 696 Broadway, corner Fourth Street,
' NEW—YORK.

 




  

AMERICAN SOCIETY

1“ O R TH E

if
r Prevention of Cruelty to Anrmals.
:‘ [llt‘ﬂl‘f’ﬂl‘U/HI] by Mr S/a/y ()f/UW— )"brlr.
F 1 R s T
lb:
Annual Report.
l . Reprint, 1897,

including all typographical errors in original.

 

 

 

 

Office 696 Broadway, corner Fourth Street,

 

  

N EW—YORK.

«. ‘;\.Iv *‘VOM: ‘ I

 

 




 

- — 7 »-.- . —~ , -.. , .. ._ 4nw‘uiwmz"""t=;"l

Vii.
ing, shall, until modiﬁed or rescinded, be equally

binding as this act, upon the Society, its ofﬁcers

and members.

See. 6. This Society shall not, in its corporate
capacity, hold real estate exceeding in \‘ZLlllC, at any

one time, the sum of one hundred thousand dollars.

Sec. 7. The police force of the city of New—
York, as well as of all other places where police or-
ganizations exist, shall, as occasion may require,
aid the Society, its members or agents, in the e11-
forcement of all laws which are now, or may here-

after be, enacted for the protection of dumb animals.

Sec. 8. One half of the ﬁnes collected through
ths instrumentality of the Society, or of its agents,
for the Violation of such laws, shall accrue to the

beneﬁt of said Society.

Sec. 9. The provisions of this act shall be gen-

eral, within the bounderies of the State.

Sec. IO. This act shall take effect immediately.

State of New-York, L
Ofﬁce of the Secretary of State. l
I have compared the preceding with the original law on
ﬁle in this ofﬁce, and do certify that the same is a correct transcript
therefrom, and of the whole of said original law.
Given under my hand and seal of ofﬁce, this twelfth
m 7M! (lay of April, in the year one thousand eight hundred
i L. S. i and sixty-six.
f ERASTIYS CLARK, Deputy Secretary of State.

 




 

 

XV.

CHAPTER XIII.
TREASURER.

The Treasurer shall have charge of, and safely
keep all contracts, certiﬁcates of stock, securities,
and muniments of title belonging to the Society.
He shall collect the dues and keep the funds of the
Society, and disburse the same under the direction
ofthe Executive Committee, and so often as the said
funds in the hands of the Treasurer shall amount
to one hundred dollars, he shall deposit the same
in the name of the Society, in some incorporated
Bank in the City of New-York, to be designated
for that purpose by the Executive Committee; and .
the said funds, thus deposited, shall be drawn out
of the said Bank 011 the check of the Treasurer
countersigned by the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, or the President of the Society, and
only for the legitimate and authorized purposes of
the Society. The Treasurer shall, previous to the
annual meeting of the Society, prepare and submit
to the Executive Committee, for audit, a detailed
account of his receipts and disbursements for ac-
count of the Society during the past year; and
which annual account, duly audited, he shall pre-
sent, with his annual report, to the Society, at its
annual meeting. He shall produce to the Execu-
tive Committee or any Sub-Committee thereof ap-
pointed for that purpose, all original papers, books
of account and other evidence of receipt and dis—
bursement whenever he maybe so required.

CHAPTER IV.
EXECUTIVE COMAHTTEE.

I. The Executive Committee shall have the man-
agement and control of the affairs, property, and

 




 

 

5

was fully represented in evidence before the magis-
trate; nevertheless the testimony on the other side
being to the effect, that insensibility had been pre-
viously produced by piercing the brain of the fowl,
with the blade ofa small knife; the case was dis-
missed without, however, satisfying our witnesses
of the truthfulness of the assertion or the correct—
ness of the decision.

Turtles.

About the same time a complaint Was laid before
us of cruclties perpetrated on green turtles, in the
transportation of them on shipboard to this port
from the Tropics—their fins pierced and tied with
thongs—lying for weeks on their backs without

 

nourishment and on their arrival here, exposed
for sale in the same condition. Much ridicule was
attempted to be thrown on, the Society, by a portion.
of the public and the press, for these efforts to bring
to punishment the perpetrators of such cruelties; on
the ground, that the inferior character of the crea—
ture, placed it too low in the scale of being, to re-
ceive the sympathy of mankind. Without regard—
ing these attempts to diSparage their exertions, the
ofﬁcers of the Society proceeded against the guilty
party one Nehemiah H. Calhoun, captain of the
schooner “Active,” and a Bill of Indictment was
found against the “offender; although he was after—

 

wards Suffered to escape from the hands of justice.

The Secretary might, in concert with thoughtless
observers and flippant writers of the press, seek to
enliven his report by availing himself of the facetious

 

 

 




 

 

I3

contravention of these benevolent enactments, for
the purpose of having the law rigidly enforced
wherever these cruelties, for which it was apparent—
ly enacted to forbid, might be practiced; but the re-
sult proved that the law was entirely inoperative,
by reason of the proviso above referred to. By the
ingenuity of parties interested in the expenditures
and proﬁts of railroads, that proviso was, as the
Secretary believes surreptitiously inserted; for upon
examination it was found that the very points ex-
cepted thereby to wit: “before their arrival at Buff—
alo,” and “before their arrival at Salamanca,” were
the very localities which ought to have been left
amenable to the general provisions of the law.

Pavements and Roads.

The general character of the pavements in the
cities of this State, inﬂicting as they do, great cruel-
ty on those animals which are compelled to pass over
their surfaces, very naturally, at an early day at-
tracted our attention; and although the subject was
one which vitally affects the objects, which we have
in view in the prevention of cruelty to animals;
still, we have not been enabled to do more than to
cause a small portion of the streets of New-York—
more as an experiment than otherwise—to be paved
with the “Nicholson Pavement,” a wooden structure,
on which the travel is made to pass over blocks of
wood placed endwise 011 the surface; which, however
was productive of one good effect at least, that of

awakening the public mind to the necessity of pro-

 

 




 

 

2I

was alive, and not under the inﬂuence of an anaes—
thetic; the brains of pigeons removed in part, and
the birds left to die a slow, lingering death; the
facial nerve in the rabbit divided, and the inﬂam-
mation of the eyes and face which follows; and .I
have seen atrocities practiced every year in this
city, upon these poor dumb creatures sickening
and disgusting.”

The London royal society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, having set the example of striv-
ing to suppress the practice of dissecting live ani-
mals; (which is now and has been for many years
performed in France;) based upon the conviction of
its demoralizing tendency, as well as entire inutility;
as claimed by the most scientiﬁc physiologists of
England; the ofﬁcers of this Society felt constrain-
ed to exercise ITS inﬂuence in the same direction here.

In accordance with these views the President ad—
drcssed a communication to the chief ofﬁcer of one
of the leading medical colleges in the city of New-
York, respectfully enquiring “whether the practice
in that branch of surgery known as vivisection,
could not be wholly dispensed with, or so modiﬁed
without detriment to science, as to exempt from suf.
fering (by the employment of anaesthetics) the ani-
mals operated upon.” The substance of the corres-
pondence (which has already been published,) is
that such experiments were to a certain extent per-
formed therein; and subsequent enquiries, conﬁrm-

ed by ocular evidence, made us aware that they are
carried on elsewhere in that city.

 




 

 

29

side-by—side with those who were enabled to contrib-
ute larger amounts from the beneﬁcent provisions
which the Almighty in His kindness had blessed
them. Whilst in other portions of the United
States, in aid of Auxilliary Societies, now form-
ing, or in seconding the immediate action of this
Society, our correspondence shows that, we have
earned a well deserved reputation and have caused
a great reform in the community, in. regard to the
special objects for which this Society was created.

Commencing, therefore, with merely relieving an
inferior portion of creation—Sheep and calves—from
the awkward and painful mode in which they were
then carried through our streets; we have impress—
ed the community with a moral conviction, that
cruelty of all kinds and degrees should be suppress-
ed; and that already we have through these infer—
ior animals, exerted a beneﬁcial inﬂuence on man
himself. So many are the subjects and so great
are they in variety which crowd upon the com—
pilers of such a report as this; that it seems almost
impossible to make any thing like a classiﬁcation
and order in its arrangement—or even to feel like
drawing the report to a close. '

Hydrants.

At an early day, with the concurrence of the
Executive Committee, proposals were issued for de-
signs for the erection of hydrants and drinking
fountains for horses, cattle, and the smaller ani-
mals; so that we might be able, in a measure, to re-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

37
The Secretary then read the

Report of the Executive Committee

which was accepted, and adopted, and ordered on file,

viz:

At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
the 5th day of April, 1867, it was

RESOLVED, That a Committee of Three be appoint-
edon the part of this Committee, to prepare
and submit the Report of the Executive Com-
mittee at the Annual Meeting in May next.

\VHEREUPON M ESSRS. Belmont, Grinnell, and VVad—
dell were appointed such Committee.

In pursuance of the requirements of Sec. 3, Chap. vi of the
By-Laws of the Society, the Executive Committee
Respectfully Report, that their duties as prescrib-
ed under Chap. xiv, of the [By-Laws is:

 

I. To manage the affairs, property and funds of
the Society, and to designate a deposit bank for the
Society.

That, under this head, they would respectfully
refer for a detailed statement of the management of
the funds and property of the Society, to the Report
of the Treasurer, to be laid before you at this meet-
ing; and that the bank of deposit designated by the
Committee, for the funds of the Society, is the Na--
tional City Bank, of the City of New-York.

 

 

 

 

 

 




    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    

45

The Committee on Nominations for the Annual
Election of Ofﬁcers of the American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals——

May 1867

 

Respectfully Report, That when they take into
view the energy displayed by the present
Board of Ofﬁcers of the Society;———during this
ﬁrst year of the existence of the Institution
——they cannot more satisfactorily fulﬁl the
duties which have been imposed upon them,
than by re—nominating for election those who
now ﬁll the responsible positions provided 1.,
for in the Charter. ,

They, therefore, submit the following ticket for the 11',
suffrages of members at this election, to wit: ,,1

FOR PRESIDENT. ,1,
Henry Bergh.

FOR VICE l’ RI‘ZSI DENTS.

John T. Hoffman, H. W. Bellows, l). 1).,
Peter Cooper, James Brown, Ii,
Benj. D. Hicks, Geo. T. Trimble,
W. H. Aspinwall, Moses Taylor, in;

Marshall 0. Roberts, Horace B. Claflin.
FOR SECRETARY.

Wm. Coventry H. Waddell.

 




 

 

 

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feby.
Feby .
F eby.
Fe by .

Feby.

Feby.

2.

5.

5.

7

7.

52

A ﬁght between cocks took place this evening at Wm.
Gallagher‘s, 3d Ave. near 6Ist street, 16 of the spectators
were arrested, the others escaped, among them the principals.

Dismissed by the Judge on the ground that the ofﬁcer’s com-
plaint did not state that either of the prisoners was the pro—

prietor.

Andrew Jordon, for driving a horse lame, and leg enor-
mously swollen, and galled shoulder. Fined three dollars
and ﬁfty cents.

John McDonald, beating a horse with club. Fined ﬁfteen
dollars; the horse had a ton of coal in the cart, and in en—
deavoring to“back,” it got restive and was struck severely.

Arch’d Sullivan, and Francis Hughes, leading a lame horse,
which had the hoof of one of its feet hanging to the leg by
a piece of skin and bleeding profusely. Fined three dollars.

A carman, while urging his horse over a piece of ice with
a wagon loaded with 20 bags of feed; struck him on the legs
with a cart rung of the heaviest make and iron shod. Im-
prisoned for 10 days.

John Redburn, driving 2 horses, with their shoulders badly
wounded, and blood ﬂowing therefrom, before a wagon heav-
ily loaded. Fined ten dollars.

Wm. F. Allen, cruel treatment to a horse. Fined ten
dollars.

Patrick Carroll, same offense. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars.
P. Quinn, same offense. Fined twenty dollars.

Wm. Cutler, same offense. Fined twenty dollars.

Jacob Beck, cutting a dog’s nose, ﬁnad ten dollars.

. Jacob Portlein, driving a horse with sores 011 his back and
breast, ﬁned ten dollars.

Jas. Kilkenny and Mich]. Feeny, overdriving a horse and

 




 

    

53

leaving him standing tied to a lamp post, on a new cold day,
ﬁned twenty dollars.

Feb. 13. John Navins, stage driver, cruelly beating one of his horses.
No action was taken on account of the complainant’s negli-

gence.

Feb. I4. Garrett J. Post, driver, cruelly whipping his team, ﬁned
ﬁfteen dollars.

Feb. 16. Horse found starving in a stable 255 West 4th street, was
cared for by the Society.

Feb. 16. George Saville, for exercising a dog on a wheel training
him for a ﬁght,was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars.

Feb. I 6. Jas. Hanna, truck driver, for abandoning a horse, that had
laid down from sheer exhaustion. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars.

Feb. 16. Wm. H. Fowler, stage driver, driving a lame horse in
Broadway, ﬁned ten dollars.

Feb. 23. Jacob Simmers, Philip Cann, and Jacob Butil, for driving a
horse totally emaciated; dragging him by the head and
whipping him. Fined nine dollars.

Feb. 23. Jas. Fitzgerald, cruelly beating a horse, ﬁned ten dollars.

Feb. 23. John Schmidt, overloading and severely beating a horse,
unable to draw the load over a snow-bank, ﬁned ten dollars.

Feb. 23. Morris I’helen, Brooklyn, for keeping a large number of
cows conﬁned in a stable without ventilation; this case was
defended by able council, but the evidence was so strong
that the magistrate decided to send it to the Grand Jury.
Case still undecided.

Feb. 23. Chas. II. Rogers, on the same charge as the preceeding
one, not yet examined.

Mar. r. Isaac D. Hammond, striking a horse on the neck, and
thereby knocking him down. Fined. twenty-ﬁve dollars.

  




 

54.

I. Moses Westervelt, car driver, knocking his horse down
with an iron hook. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars, and one
month imprisonment.

1. Wm. Nichols, cruelly beating his horse, ﬁned ﬁve dollars.

3. Michael Lally, a butcher, for cruelty to an ox before
slaughtering. Not yet tried.

5. Patrick Martin, whipping his horse, and striking him 011
the head. Fined ten dollars.

8. Jas. Riley, for dragginga horse almost dead with a rope
round his neck attachedto another horse, and beating the
latter horse with a board to urge him on. Fined twenty
dollars.

8. John Connolly, driving a horse with a running sore on its
leg. Fined ten dollars and ten days imprisonment.

9. Augustus Bennett, Brooklyn, beating his horse with a club.
Fined ten dollars.

9. Peter Brand and Michael Mally, for dragging a horse with
a rope round his neck. Brand was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars,
Mally discharged because he acted under Brand’s orders.

. 14. John Marion, New-York, for abandoning a disabled horse
in Williamsburgh. Fined twenty dollars.

. 14. Philip Callahan, driver of a coal cart, for striking his
horse with a coal shovel over the head. Fined ten dollars.

. 18. McKenna, driver of a stage, for cruelly lashing one of his
horses. The owners of the line in answer to our request for
his discharge from their service, promptly acceded thereto,
and no further action was taken.

. 18. Bernard Cullen, overloading his truck, and cruelly beating
his horses. Fined ﬁfteen dollars which was afterwards re-
mitted.

 




  

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

lVIar.

Mar.

Mar.

55

18. John W. Fickett, driver of a Greenpoint car, for driving a
horse with sore feet. Dismissed for want of sufﬁcient evi-
dence.

19. Frank Wanzer, overloading his truck which had on eight
barrels of syrup. Fined twenty-ﬁve. dollars, and ﬁne re-
mitted.

20. Wm. Waltermeyer, for still continuing to keep cattle
without shelter in his yards. Owing to his sailing for
Europe, serving of warrant was deferred.

2o. Chas. O’Connell, for attaching a rope round the neck of a
horse and pulling him by the aid of another horse; and
beating him with an iron bar. Fined ﬁfty dollars and ten
days imprisonment.

20. Daniel Campbell, cruelly driving a horse with sores on his
breast, side and back, and unﬁt for use. Fined ten dollars.

22. Michael Farrell, cruelly beating his horse, was ﬁned ten
dollars.

23. Two drivers 011 the University Place railroad line, for
drivinga horse with a great swelling on right hind leg,
ﬁned twenty dollars.

25. Peter Slobohm, for conﬁning 19 cows ina ﬁlthy and ill-
ventilated stable, ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars.

25. J. Shaughnessy, and J. Hennessey, for crowding 18 live
sheep into a small one horse cart; Hennessey standing upon
them; ﬁned twenty dollars.

30. David Heath, for taking a cat by the hind legs, and placing
it on a truck, and with his crutch beating out its brains.
Sentenced to 10 days’ imprisonment for the oﬂense; on hear-
ing which he remarked that the ofﬁcer ought to be disem—
boweled; whereupon the Court added to the sentence a ﬁne
of twenty-ﬁve dollars.

30. Paul Sheeman, cruelly beating a disabled horse; the de—

 

 

 

  




 

56

fendant was discharged with a reprimand at the request of
complainant.

Mar. 30. Paul Kavanagh, keeping cows cruelly conﬁned; ﬁned ﬁve
dollars; ordered to lessen the number of his cows, and im-
prove the condition of his place.

April I. Aman for urging 2 cocks to ﬁght, was reprimanded by
Magistrate and discharged.
*3
o . n . {‘1 o o
Aprll 2. Nathan Goldschnndt, for drivmg a wagon containing 11
calves with their legs tied together, ﬁned ten dollars.

April 2. Jas. Flynn, conﬁning cows in a ﬁlthy and ill—ventilated
stable, ﬁlled twenty—ﬁve dollars and ﬁve days imprisonment.

April 5. Edward McCarty, for beatingahorse, ﬁned ten dollars.

April 5. Francis Vock, for beating a horse ﬁned twenty dollars.

April 9. Michael Kennedy, for driving a lame horse, ﬁned ﬁve
dollars.

April 11. J. McCormick, keeping horses in a badly ventilated stable
convicted and judgement suspended.

April T4. Patrick Riley, driving a horse with sore foot and tail
gashed. Fined three dollars.

April 14. Nicholas Organ, for cutting a horse in the haunch, wound
eighteen inches long, and three inches deep. The wit-
nesses who were with Organ, declared that they saw the
whole aﬁair and did not see the prisoner cut the animal.
The magistrate in passing on the case said that the com-
plainant had given different testimony when examined be-
fore his associate, and that he would give the prisoner the
beneﬁt of the doubt arising from the evidence, but had he
been convicted he would have been punished to the full ex-
tend of the law. Acquitted.

April 16. Zacharias Halle, driving two cows tied together by the
head. Reprimanded and discharged.

 




 

    

57

April 20. H. Ohlrogge, for breaking the back of a dog, ﬁned ﬁfteen

dollars.

Apail 20. Michael Haggerty, for causing a dog to bite a cow, ﬁned

ten dollars.

April 20. Hugh Donaldson, for starving a horse; one month im-

prisonment.

April 20. Mathew Rudden, for cruelly conﬁning cows in an ill-ven-
tilated and contracted shanty. The magistrate in consider-
ation of certain circumstances in his favor, ﬁned him ten
dollars, and admonished him as to the future.

April 29. ’aul Sherer, for throwing a dog overboard from a Jersey
City Ferry boat, convicted and judgi'nent suspended.

April 30. John \Nhalen, driving a lame horse attached to an omnibus.

Case dismissed.
April 30. John Smith, driving a lame horse, ﬁned ten dollars.

April 30. John Logan, for driving a very lame horse attached to a
loaded 'agon. Convicted, but having been locked up several

days, sentence was suspended.

 




 

    

 

 

    

58

State, County and Health Board Laws,

RELATING TO THE OBJECTS OF THIS SOCIETY.

O

 

 

LAWS ENACTED PRIOR TO 1867.

AN ACT

To Prevent the Adulteration of Milk, Conﬁning, and
Feeding of Cows on Unsuitable Food.

Laws of New-York, Chap. 544, page 1195—1864.
An act to amend chapter four hundred and sixty-
‘seven, of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-two,
entitled, “An Act to prevent the adulteration of
milk, and prevent the trafﬁc in impure and unwhole-
some milk.”——Passed May 2, 1864; three-ﬁfths be-
ing present.

The. People of the State of New-York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as fol-
lows :— '

Sec. 1. Section one of chapter four hundred and
sixty-seven, of the act entitled, “An Act to prevent
the adulteration of milk,” passed April twenty-third,
eighteen hundred and sixty—two, is hereby amended
so as to read as follows: Any person or persons who
shall knowingly sell or exchange, or expose for sale
or exchange, any impure, adulterated or unwhole-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

59

some milk shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction shall be punished by a ﬁne of not
less than ﬁfty dollars for each and every offence;
and if the fine is not paid, shall be imprisoned for
not less than thirty days in the penitentiary 01‘
county jail, or until said ﬁne be paid.

Sec. 2. Any person who shall adulterate milk,
with the x'ie\\'()folle1‘i11g' the same for sale or ex-
change; or shall keep cows for the production of
milk for market, or for sale or exchange, in a crowd-
ed and unhealthy condition; or feed the same on
food that produces impure, diseased or unwholesome
milk; shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
on conviction shall be punished by a ﬁne of not less
than ﬁfty dollars for each and every offence, and if
the ﬁne is not paid, shall be imprisoned for not less
than thirty days in the penitentiary or county jail,
or until said ﬁne shall be paid.

Sec. 3. Any person or persons who shall, in any
of the cities of this State engage in or carry on the
sale, exchange or any trafﬁc in milk; shall have
each and every can in which the milk is carried or
exposed for sale or exchange, and the carriage or
vehicle from which the same is vended, conspicuous-
ly marked with his, her or their names, also indicat-
ing by said mark the locality from whence said milk
is obtained or produced; and for every neglect of
such marking, the person or persons so neglecting
Shall be subject to the penalties expressed in the
foregoing sections of this act; but for every viola-
tion of this act by so marking said cans, carriage or
vehicle, as to convey the idea that said milk is pro-
duced or procured from a diﬁcerent locality than it
really is; the person or persons so oHending shall be
subject to a ﬁne of one hundred dollars, or impris-

 

 

 

 

 




 

6o

onment in the penitentiary or county jail, or both, in
the discretion of the court.

Sec. 4. The addition of water or any substance,
other than a sufﬁcient quantity of ice, to preserve
the milk while on transportation to market; is here-
by declared an adulteration. Any milk that is ob-
tained from animals fed 011 distillery waste, usually
called “swill,” or upon any substance in a state of
putrefaction or fermentation, is hereby declared to be
impure and unwholesome.

Sec. 5. This act shall take effect immediately.

AN ACT

For the Preservation of the Health of Animals for
Human food, passed April 13, 1866. Laws
of New-York vol. 2, chap. 560, page 1210.

Sec. 1. “No railroad company in this State, in
the carrying and transportation of cattle, sheep or
swine, shall conﬁne the same in cars for a longer
period than twenty-eight consecutive hours, unless
delayed by storms or other accidental causes, with—
out unloading for rest, water and feeding, for a pe-
riod of at least ten consecutive hours. In estimat—
ing such conﬁnement, the time the animals have
been conﬁned without such rest, on connecting
roads from which they are received, shall be com-
puted, it being the intention to prevent their con-
tinuous conﬁnement beyond twenty-eight hours, ex-
cept upon contingencies herein stated.” Nothing
in this act contained shall require the unloading of
cattle, sheep or Swine from the cars of the Buffalo

 




    

    

61

and State Line railroad, before their arrival at
Buffalo, and the Atlantic and Great Western rail-
road before they arrive at Salamanca.

Sec. 2. Provided the owner or person in charge
of said animals refuses or neglects to pay for the
care and feed of animals, so rested, the railroad c0111-
pany may charge such expense to the owner or c011-
signee, and retain a lien upon the animals, until
the same is paid, and provided further, that no
claim of damages for detention shall be recovered
by the owner or shipper of any animals, for the
time they a1e detained undei the provisions of this
act.

Sec. 3. Any railroad company, owne1,co11sig—
nee or person in charge of said cattle, sheep or
swine, who shall violate any provision of this Act,
shall for each and every such violation be liable for
and forfeit and pay a penelty in the sum of one
hundred dollars, to be sued for and collected in any
Court having jurisdiction, by any person, in the
name of the people of the State of New- York, one
half of the penalty, when collected, to belong to the
informer, and the balance to be paid to the State
Treasurer of the State of New- Yo1k.

Sec. 4. This act shall take effect immediately.

AN ACT

Better to Prevent Cruelty to Animals—Passed
April 19, 1866—Laws of New-York, V01. 2,
Chap. 682, Page 1456.

 




 

62

The People of the State of New-York, represented
in Senate and Assembly; do enact as fol-
lows :—

See. I. The twenty-sixth section of title six,
chapter first, part four, of the Revised Statutes, is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:

§26.——Every person who shall, by his act or ne—
glect, maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture
or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox, cattle, sheep, or
other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemea-
nor.

Sec. 2. Every owner, driver or possessor of an
old, maimed or diseased horse or mule, turned loose
or left disabled in any street, lane or place of any
City of this State, who shall allow such horse or
mule to lie in any street, lane or public place for
more than three hours after knowledge of such dis—
ability, shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty of
a misdemeanor.

LAWS OF 1867.
AN ACT

For the more Effectual Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals—Passed April 12, three-ﬁfths be-
ing present.

The people of the State of New-York, represented in
Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows :—

Sec. 1. If any person shall over-drive, over-load,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or

 




    

    

63

unnecessarily or cruelly beat, or needlessly mutilate
or kill, or cause or procure to be over-driven, over—
loaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly
beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed, as afore—
said, any living creature, every such offender shall,
for every such offence, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Sec. 2. Any person who shall keep or use, or in
any way be connected with, or interested in the man-
agement of, or shall receive money for the admission
of any person to any place kept or used for the pur-
pose of ﬁghting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock,
or other creature, and every person who shall en-
courage, aid or assist therein, or who shall permit
or suffer any place to be so kept or used, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misde-
meanor. '

Sec. 3. Any person who shall impound, or cause
to be impounded in any pound, any creature, shall
supply to the same, during such conﬁnement, a suf-
ﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and
water, and in default thereof, shall, upon convict-
ion, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Sec. 4. In case any creature shall be at any time
impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be
without necessary food and water for more than
twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any
person, from time to time, and as often as it shall be
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound, in
which any such creature shall be so conﬁned, and to
supply it with necessary food and water so long as it
shall remain so conﬁned; such person shall not be
liable to any action for such entry, and the reason-
able cost of such food and water may be collected by

 




 

64

him of the owner of such creature, and the said
creature shall not be exempt from levy and sale up-
on execution issued upon a judgment therefor.

Sec. 5. If any person shall carry or cause to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise, any
creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and whenever he shall be
taken into custody/therefor by any ofﬁcer, such ofﬁ—
cer may take charge of such vehicle and its contents,
and deposit the same in some safe place of Custody;
and any necessary expenses which may be incurred
for taking charge of and keeping and sustaining the
same, shall be a lien thereon, to be paid before the
same can lawfully be recovered.

Or the said expenses or any part thereof remain-
ing unpaid, may be recovered by the person incurr-
ing the same of the owner of said creature, in any
action therefor,

Sec. 6. Every person who shallhereafteruse any
dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or helping
to draw any cart, carriage, truck, barrow, or other
vehicle, in any city or incorporated Village, for busi-
ness purposes, shall be required to take out a license
for that purpose, from the Mayor or President there—
of. respectively, and shall have the number of said
license and. the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon, and for each violation of this sect—
ion shall forfeit and pay a ﬁne of one dollar for the
ﬁrst offence, and a ﬁne of ten dollars for each sub-
sequent offence.

Sec. 7. If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled
creature shall be abandoned to die by any person
in any public place, such person shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and it shall be lawful for any

 




 

    

65

magistrate or captain of police in this State to ap-
pomt suitable persons to destroy such creatureif
unfit for further use.

Sec. 8. Any agent of the American Society for
the Pre\ ention of C1uelty to Animals upon being
designated thereto by the Sheriff of any county in
this State, may \\ ithin such county make arrests and
bring before any Court or 111agistrate thereof having
jurisdiction, offenders found violating the provisions
of this act; and all ﬁnes imposed and collected in
any such county under the provisions of this act
shall enure to said Society, in aid of the benevolent
objects for which it was corporated.

Sec. 9. This Act shall take effect on the ﬁrst
day of May next. And the said American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals shall
cause thes same to be published once in each week,
for three weeks, in four daily papers published in
New—York City, or in default thereof, shall forfeit the
right to receive the penalties and ﬁnes as provided.

Sec. 10. Nothing in this act contained shall be
construed to prohibit or interfere with any properly
conducted scientiﬁc experiments or investigations,
which experiments shall be performed only under
the autl1orit3 of the Faculty of some regularly 111-
corporated Medical College or University of the
State of New-York.

 




 

 

69
Order to Police Captains,

Office of the Superintendent of MetrOpoIitan Police.

300 Mulberry St,
New-York, May 10th. 1866.

(leneral Order No. .453. To Captains of the Pre-
cincts of the Metropolitan l’olice.

The Legislature at its last session, passed three
several acts to Prevent Cruelty to Animals, the lead-
ing features of which it is proper should be made
known to the Members of the Force, without delay,
to enable them, as far as possible, to render assis-
tance in the proper enforcement of the Laws.

The “Act better to prevent cruelty to animals,”
chapter (>82 of 1866, amends the revised statutes
and provides, that “every person, who shall, by his
act or neglect, maliciously kill, maim, wound, in-
jure, torture, or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox,
cattle, sheep, or other animal. belonging to himself
or another, shall upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor,” it further provides that
“every owner, driver, or possessor of on old, maim-
ed or diseased horse or mule, turned loose or left
disabled in any street, lane or place of any city in
this State, who shall allow such horse or mule to
lie in any street, lane or public place formore than

.three hours after knowledge of such disability,
shall on conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misde-
meanor. ’ ’

The “Act for the perservation of the health of
animals for human food,” chapter 560 of I866, pro-
vides that no railroad company shall, in transport-

 

 

 

 

 

 




