 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@RIEEORMS T

Manufacturers of
UNIFORM CLOTHING
HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

(LONDON) LTD BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
A 1/ enqum. es t 0 description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) ' V will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ff R. S. P.C.A.

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

ll To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this

 

 

 

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested :—

‘l bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTT TO ANIMALS, founded l
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall ill
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy shOuld be exr

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.
,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4‘

 




 

 

 

 

May 1955

 

    

Mrs Cahalin, llford Auxiliary Co. hon
secretary, sent this picture of herson Colin
with Lassie. Lassie is now six years old.
She was once a stray and was adopted
by Mrs Cahalin

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District,

A bridge drive organized by Mrs Donovan, Branch
hon sec, in Brentwood raised £11 2s. for branch
funds.

Essex—South, Southend and District Mrs Vero-Lambert,‘

Althome auxiliary hon secretary, organized a bridge party
and raised £10 for branch funds.

Forest Hill and Sydenham A whist drive organized by Mrs
Ratcliﬁ‘e raised £23 for branch funds.

Fumess and Barrow Mr R. Hampson, Barrow-in-Furness
auxiliary hon sec, presenting the annual report at the
Barrow-in-Furness auxiliary annual meeting said that
receipts of £413 18s. 4d. were the highest ever. Mr H. C.
Barber, auxiliary hon treasurer, said that the balance was
higher than last year’s. Canon C. E. Nurse was the_guest
speaker and Inspector Morris reported having investigated
ﬁfty-three cases of cruelty. . .
Hampshire—Winchester Mrs Wallis Power, Vice-chairman
of the RSPCA Council, performed the opening ceremony at
the new RSPCA Animal Welfare Centre in St Clement’s
Street, Winchester. Mr W. P. Dickinson, branch chairman,
presided at the ceremony and the Rev G. C. Streatfeild,
Rector of St Thomas’s, led prayers of dedication. Lady
Alleyne, a member of the branch committee, presented Mrs
Wallis Power with a basket of anemones, and Visitors were
shown over the premises by Inspector Hallam. Among other
members of the committee present were Captain Sir John
Alleyne, branch honorary treasurer, Mrs Lombard Hobson,
branch hon secretary, and Mr L. K. Fearon. .
Headquarters Clinics Mr and Mrs P. Knight organized a
programme of poetry and music and raised £14 7s. 6d. for
the Mayhew Home. ,

Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Miss Masters,
Wellingborough auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a
whist drive raised £8 0s. 6d.

Lancashire—North, and Borders The Mayor of Morecambe,
Councillor E. B. Clegg, presided at the branch annual
meeting at the Empire Cafe, Morecambe. He was accom-
panied by the Mayoress. Reports on branch work were

' made by Miss Shaw, branch hon secretary, Mr G. W. O.

Ashworth, branch hon treasurer, and by Senior Inspector
gxley. Lt-Col Coventry spoke on the general work of the
ociety.
Loughborough and North Leicestershire A rummage sale
held at the Deaf and Dumb Mission, Loughborough, raised
£17 4s. 1d. for branch funds.
Middlesex—North-West . Mr R. Soames, branch hog
secretary, reports that Senior Inspector Hancock addresse
members of the Harrow-on-the-Hill Townswomen 3 'Guild
on the work of the RSPCA. A collection amounting to
£2 103. was made for branch funds. '
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Miss Patience Harbord, hon
secretary of the RSPCA Animals’ Home, NOTWICh, reports
that a ijble sale held at the Home raised £32.

THEANIMALWORLD 59

Northumberland West Miss Cowan, Bellingham aux hon
secretary, organized a whist drive and raised £6 15s. for
branch funds.

Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey
aux1hary hon secretary, reports that a whist drive raised
£17 for branch funds.

Preston and District Mrs Leslie, Adlington aux hon secre-
tary, organized a whist drive and dance at the Ambulance
Hall, Adlington, and raised £39 lls. 3d. for branch funds.
Mrs Leslie has also launched an animal defenders’ move-
ment at Adlington Congregational School. Inspector Clarke
answered questions from the children.

Rochdale Miss F. Osborne, branch secretary, reports
that Mrs Ogden organized a coffee morning and raised
£45 3s. 4d. for branch funds.

Rotherham and District Miss Nancy Collinson, branch
hon secretary, presented Sub-Ofﬁcer Desmond Smith, of
Rotherham Fire Brigade and son of the town’s chief ﬁre
ofﬁcer, with an RSPCA framed certiﬁcate for rescuing a cat
stranded in the ﬂood waters of the River Don. The presenta-
took place at Rotherham Fire Station.

*

Miss Collinson, Mrs Lodge (branch vice-chairman), and
Mr C. A. Stevens (branch hon treasurer), organized the
branch annual ball in the Town Hall Assembly Rooms,
Rotherham. Mr and Mrs Shearer helped at the ball.

Senior Inspector Young addressed the Rawmarsh Di-
vision, West Riding Police Special Constabulary.

Shropshire Mrs Brehany has organized several whist drives
and raised a total of £20 11s. for branch funds.

Sittingbourne Division Mrs M, Draper, division hon secre-
tary, reports that a jumble sale raised £10 3s. for branch
funds.

Somerset—South Miss P. Archer, Minehead auxiliary hon
secretary, reports that a session of ‘Any Questions’ was held
at the Congregational Church Hall, Minehead.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch The
Mayor of Stockport, Coun J. W. Bennett, branch president,
took the chair at the annual meeting. Col Coventry addressed
the meeting. A report on the meeting has been received from
Mrs S. Nabb, branch secretary.

Suffolk—East, and Ipswich There was a good attendance
at the branch annual meeting at which Major Chapman
spoke on the work of the RSPCA. Ofﬁcers re-elected
were: President, The Lord Ailwyn; chairman, the
Mayor, Mrs Lesley Lewis; and hon secretary, Mrs E. E.
Crawford.

Surrey——Weybridge Mrs E. Martin, branch hon secretary,
reports that a jumble sale raised over £70 for branch funds.

    

The Kingfisher (Biyth) Group of Animal Defenders

 

 




 

 

 

May 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 51

 

The RSPCA has always been opposed to the training and exhibition of wild animals for entertainment pure
poses. The view is one that meets with much opposition, and it is therefore heartening to ﬁnd a sane view given
wide publicity by the BBC. Here a humane voice is raised in protest against putting——

WILD ANIMALS IN SMALL BOXES
' by C. A. Joyce

 

‘2

The headings used in this picture are only a few of many collected recently by the RSPCA from British newspapers,

and the lion jumping through the burning hoop was photographed at an actual performance

Well, I told you that the opinions I expressed
were my opinions and not those of the BBC, and
I think I ought to repeat that again because the
two items of news that have bothered me most are
both extremely controversial—though you may
think the ﬁrst one is quite unimportant. But
anyhow, recently a newspaper had a picture of a
circus training cage and here’s the headline:
‘Enter a fully—grown lioness, straight from the
African jungle. Always, always, the newcomer
attacks. Armed only with a whip, a chair and a
revolver loaded with blanks, the famous lionvman
faces the charge.’ And during this week, one
headline said: ‘Circus lions kill tamer’.

Now, it appears from the paper that I read that
this young man, whose death we all very much
regret, had just joined the circus and was unv
known to the lions. He went into their cage to put
them through their paces, and, at one stage, he
called out a lion and put his foot on it, as he would
have done during the act; but because he was a
stranger the lion turned on him and the others
jumped down from their stands to join in.

Now, as I said,- I’m sorry to think that the
tamer was killed, but on no single night this

week have I had that lion out of my mind. I
can’t help wondering what happened to it
afterwards and how far the provocation, or
the fear of a stranger, was more than it could
stand. It’s neither my intention nor desire to
offer a wholesale criticism of circuses as such,
but this incident raises once again for me the
whole question of the treatment of animals,
which, in my view, is very much part of a
Christian’s business.

Trained Animals

Animals, in one way or another, play a very
large part in our lives—working for us or giving
us pleasure—and for both these things obviously
they must have some training. I mean, neither
your horse nor my dog would be the slightest
use or joy without it, and, moreover, I’m quite
sure that the animals themselves get a great deal
of pleasure when they know they’re doing a good
job and doing it well. You watch a sheep dog at
work: if he sees a sheep making an effort to get
away from the ﬂock, up go his ears and then with
a hasty glance at his master, as much as to say:
‘Now, you watch me’, he’ll be off and he’ll have
that sheep back with the rest in a minute; and

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW.)

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT .
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

*ALLJBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., ERCA, FCIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS, R. C.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., ERSA HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS 0F
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ., MBE SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP *HUNTER, MISS SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B., MBE, TD, JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS w. *WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ., FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FClS, FSS

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer——LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS ESQ, MBF, ACIS
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, ERCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

‘ USED &TRUSTED TH EWOBlD OVER

..............

  
  

 

FLAG DAYS

Branches organizing Flag Days are reminded it is
advisable to order their equipment at an early date,
preferably about four weeks before the collection is
tO take place. Early ordering is not only Of assist-
ance to Headquarters but helps Branches in the dis-
tribution Of supplies to collectors, allowing sufﬁ-
cient time in which to obtain additional equipment
if necessary.

While Headquarters will always do everything
possible to meet late orders it will be appreciated
in such cases there can be no guarantee that sup-
plies will arrive in time.

Provincial Flag Day organizers are also asked to
be good enough tO return their materials as soon
as possible after the collection to facilitate re-
labelling Of tins, etc., for further use.

SAIL. '
SUITE 71?th Kg

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALI. ANIMALS

.ICCIES AND SHElVOKE [TD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 - ENGLANO
5456

  
     

 
   

 

 




Incorporating eThe Winged Messenger”

 

VOLUME L No 5 , THREEPENCE MAY 1955

 

Photo] [Eric Lewis

Happy Trio

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




May 1955

 

THE ANIMALWORLD f '57

 

the number of deaths and accidents which have
been caused and the cruel nature of the perv
formances and training, he will introduce legis—
lation to prohibit the exhibition of wild animals
and turns in which they appear.

MAJOR LLOYD’GEORGEz'NO, Sir. I have seen Press
reports of a recent fatal accident, butI am not
aware that the number of fatal or other accidents
is large.

MR FREEMAN: Is it not a fact that only last week
one man was mauled to death by four lions, and
in another case a man only just escaped with his
life? Are not exhibitions of this description far
more dangerous for children to see than any
horror comics? Will he not take some action to

prohibit these undesirable and sadistic exhibi—
tions? .
MAJOR LLOYD'GEORGE: I do not know that I
would agree about a lion looking like a horror
comic. I think that it is a very beautiful sight,
which many children are happy to look upon. If
that were not so, there would not be so many
toys made in that form. While I have not com—
plete records, so far as I have been able to ascerr
tain there have been only two fatal accidents in
the last twentyaﬁve years, and very few minor
ones. *

SIR T.‘ MOORE: Would not the case be met by
prohibiting imports of all wild animals eXcept
those required by approved zoological societies?

 

FORBIDDEN TO KEEP ANIMALS
First Case

The ﬁrst disqualiﬁcation under the Protection of
Animals (Amendment) Act, 1954, was imposed
by the Magistrates at Llandilo when a man was
imprisoned for three months for causing un’
necessary suffering to a cow by neglect. The
solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said that
Inspector Waddleton found a cow, belonging to
the defendant, roaming in very cold weather on a
mountain. There was no food of any kind about.

Icicles were hanging from the animal’s ears,
there was frozen snow on its back and its feet
were in a terrible state, and the cow had traversed
the mountain trying to ﬁnd food.

The cow was removed for veterinary examina’
tion and, with the owner’s consent, was humanely
(destroyed. The defendant admitted that he was
ﬁned £25 by the magistrates four years previously
and sentenced to three months imprisonment for
causing unnecessary suffering to a bull.

The solicitor acting for the RSPCA submitted
that the defendant was not a ﬁt person to have
«custody of animals and the Court disqualiﬁed
him from having the care Of ‘domestic animals’
as deﬁned in the Protection Of Animals Act, 1911.
((A.9281.)

Footnote.——‘Domestic animal’, in the Protection
Of 'Animals Act, 1911, means any horse, ass,
mule, bull, sheep, pig, goat, dog, cat, or fowl, or
any other animal of whatsoever kind or species,
and whether a quadruped or not which is tame
or which has been or is being sufﬁciently tamed
to serve some purpose for the use of man.

PONY WAS HIT FURIOUSLY

For ill—treating a ﬁveayear~old pony and allowing
his friend to hit it with a hedge stake a rag’and'
bone merchant was ﬁned £5 and ordered to pay
£3 35. costs by Tonbridge Magistrates.

Three witnesses told the court that they saw
the defendant, with another man, drive the pony,

pulling a cart loaded with furniture, furiously
hitting it across its ﬂanks with the reins, up a hill. ‘
The defendant’s friend was beating the pony with
a hedge stake at the same time. The second man
could not be found and a summons could nOt be
served upon him. _ _
The defendant said that he tried to 'stop his
friend beating the pony. '(Senior Inspector A. L.
Smith, A:8981)

CALVES UNDER IRON GATE

Abattoir conditions criticized

Fining two men £5 each at Leeds City Court on
a charge of causing unnecessary suffering to
ﬁfty'eight calves at an abattoir, the chairman Of
the Bench said: ‘I am asked to say the Bench is
very much disturbed at the condition at the
abattoir which this case has revealed. We con'
sider the Corporation should lay down conditions
as to the number of calves to be housed in this
particularly small area.’

He added: ‘It is an unconsciously callous attia
tude which has grown to be more or less prac—
tice.’ The two men were a drover and a stock
man. They were each ordered to pay £9 13. costs.

A solicitor, prosecuting on behalf of the
RSPCA, said that a police inspector and Inspector
King RSPCA, visited the abattoir and found two
calves in one pen under an iron gate weighing
threerquarters of a hundredweight. A number of
calves were standing on the gate and they released
the two calves. One was in a very distressed conv
dition and unable to stand. In a second pen a
number Of calves were lying on top of one
another and one was dead.

Giving evidence for the defence one of the
defendants said the accommodation at the abat'
toir was the only accommodation available at the
time and he was satisﬁed they were not over—
crowded. It was not unusual to find dead calves.

The other defendant said the system at the
abattoir was ‘ﬁrst come, ﬁrst served’. He did-not
think the calves were overcrowded. ‘(A.9189.)>~

 

 




 

 

 

May 1955

THEANIMALWORLD . 53

 

THE VOICELESS VICTIM

It would be unfair to give the impression that-

H. V. Morton, in his book A Stranger in Spain
(published at 183. by Methuen and available from
all booksellers), speaks of nothing but bullv
ﬁghting. In a crowded work of over 370 pages,
the writer ranges graphically over the present and
past of this fascinating country, and always with
charm and skill, but its interest for Animal
World lies in the passages devoted to this topic.

Far from being an ordinary traveller, Mr
Morton shows his penetration in such phrases as
that used as the title of this article—a quotation
from one of his page headings. The voiceless
Victim is no less than the unhappy mount of the
picador. Who, reading this (from page 174), can
see romance in bullrﬁghts?

‘There are . . . picadores, who lance the bull
in the neck and wheel their horses so that the
animal may have something to attack and gore.
It seems hardly possible that such miserable
horses can walk upright. They are poor, terri’
ﬂed old crocks, black with sweaty fear. . . .
Their right eyes are bandaged so that they
cannot see the bull when he comes to tear out
their guts.

‘Not everyone knows that their vocal
cords are cut, because the scream of a horse
isa sound that even a bull—ﬁght crowd would
not enjoy.’ ‘\

Black Fury

Even the supposed thrill—which plays so
prominent a part in the attraction offered to the
tourist—is revealed as a sham in the honest
writing of this stranger in Spain.

‘The door of the bull—pen’ (he writes, page 175)
‘is opened and one would like to be able to say
that several tons of black fury hurl themselves
into the ring. Instead, a rather small black bull
ambles out with the idea that he is free and that
in a moment he will catch up with the herd. Then
he, knows that something is wrong. . . . As he
emerged from the pen, someone, to smarten him
up, had stuck a dart in his left shoulder. . . .’

For sacriﬁce

Can anyone doubt the barbarity of bull—fighting?
Can anyone doubt the wisdom of the British
legislature in having forbidden such exhibitions
for more than a century? If so, let such a person
read (on pages 175 and 176):

‘The matador retires and a picador rides in
astride his voiceless victim. The bull must now
be bled. It is said that no man could kill a bull
on foot with a sword unless its neck muscles
had been so much weakened that it lowers its
head for the sacrifice. . . .

‘The picador, grasping a six’foot lance,

drives the point into the bull’s neck, and so
they stand a moment, the man thrusting, the
bull pushing. Suddenly the animal breaks away
from the spear and rushes at the horse. There
is a leathery bang as the horns hit thé peto, or
protective mat, but the horse is so feeble that
he cannot remain on his feet. He falls not
because the bull is powerful and fierce, but
because he is so old and weak.

‘He falls with all four legs in the air, his belly
exposed. There is a confusing scramble as the
picador rises to his fee-t, and other members of
the troupe come out to help him; but the bull,
having at last found something tangible, slashes
the horse’s belly right and left.

‘The terriﬁed creature lifts a long, stringy
neck; its unbandaged eye is bursting with
fear; its mouth is wide open, exposing
those poor old brown teeth. But no sound
comes from it; and the bull goes on lifting
and slashing.’ '

Entrails
The grim description continues:

‘ . . . The bull leaves the horse. A big
rosette of blood is bubbling on his shoulder,
where the lance went in. The horse lies, its
mouth open, giving gasping breaths. A man
runs up and pulls at the bridle. He aims a
kick at the bony ribs, and, with a ghastly
effort, the poor framework rises, but it is
more a caricature of a horse than ever.

‘lts hindrlegs are out of action. It squats in
agony, turning its head to left and right. I hope
it is dying; but no, suddenly it manages to
stagger to its feet. Entrails hang from its
stomach in different shades of red. A man
takes a handful of tan from the ring and tries
to push them back, but they fall out again like
red eels. They drag the horse out of sight. He
will die behind the scenes or perhaps, if he can
stand, straw will be packed into his wound
and he may be forced into the ring again.’
(Another notice of A Stranger in Spain, by

H. V. Morton (Methuen, 183.) will appear in
next month’s Animal World.)

WILLIE’S RETURN

Mrs H. PugherEvans, branch honorary secretary
for Monmouthshire, sends the story of how Mrs
Probert (co honorary secretary for Usk Aux—
iliary) nursed an injured seagull found in the
snow.

After convalescing, the seagull was allowed to
ﬂy away. A 'year later, during severe weather, Mrs
Probert noticed a seagull overhead and called the,
name ‘Willie’ as she had named the bird whilst
he was being nursed by her the previous year.
She was astonished when the bird came and he
turned out to be the same ‘Willie’.

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALTH

EWORL)

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol L No 5 New Series

MAY 1955

PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

INNOCENTS ABROAD

It would appear that there is nothing the law,
abiding citizen loves better when he quits these
shores than to leave behind him all respect for
the standards of behaviour on which he has
prided himself at home. Unless we believe that
this is so, how can we account for the response
he will make to the sensational advertisements
inducing him to go abroad for the thrills of the
bullvﬁght?

We are reminded of these reﬂections, which are
often in the minds of humane folk, by a reading

of H. V. Morton’s latest book: A Stranger in'

Spain.

Deciding to go to a bull—ﬁght, Mr Morton was
making his way to his seat when he ‘looked
through a gate and saw butchers erecting a scaf—
fold with pulleys and ropes and sharpening their
knives to cut up the dead bulls’. We wonder how
many tourists would be tempted to visit any
country to see bull—ﬁghting if this type of scene
were depicted on the posters and in the news
paper advertisements, rather than the romantic
scenes with which we are all familiar? However,
more illuminating extracts from the book (which
is published at 183. by Methuen and is available
from all booksellers) are given in a review else;
where in these columns.

Our intention here is to throw light upon
a question of morality. Is it right that we
should encourage abroad standards of be'
haviour on which we would frown at home?

For, make no mistake, it is the tourist who
must accept part of the blame for the horrors of
the bullvring. When Mr Morton was seated in his
place, he found himself, as we should have
expected, sitting next to young girls of a type that
adored successful matadores. However, and this
is more signiﬁcant, he says that every foreigner
in Seville was present. He heardEnglish, French
and German spoken around him.

Evidently, the travel agents, in offering the bulla
ﬁght as a special attraction, had properly gauged
the tastes and the morality of their customers.
Spain is a country of great fascination, as Mr
MortOn shows, and we do not seek to dissuade
intending visitors from enjoying the good things
it offers.

What we do say to British tourists is that the
keeping or using of a place for baiting bulls has
been forbidden in England since 1835. By that
date, we had, in effect, become so enlightened
that the thought of enjoying so barbaric a spectacle
as the bull—ﬁght became odious to us. A law is an
expression of a people’s enlightenment; it is not
a characteristic of a country—like some his—
torical monument. As a person behaves at home, .

so should he behave abroad.

How newspapers published in this coun'
try can, through travel advertisements, induce
people to go abroad and do things that would
be illegal in their own country seems more
than puzzling to us. For such advertisements
are within the law.

What, then, can be done about it? If every
person intending to visit a bull—ﬁghting country
were to assure the travel agent that the bull’ﬁght
was not an attraction, the time would soon come
when this unpleasant feature of travelaagency
advertising would no longer appear in newspaper
columns.

To prevent this form of advertising might
seem an insigniﬁcant enough achievement, but
we believe that protests by visitors would
bring about even better results. There are
already many people in Spain who feel that
bull—ﬁghting is decadent and should be abol-
ished. If they could say that its practice
offends visitors, they would be strengthened
in their battle against an outmoded and cruel
tradition.

EDITOR

 

VAGABOND DAYS by Sandy. (Author: George Gill.)
Publishers: The Mitre Press. Price 63. 100 pages.
Every dog should have his day, and in his own
words Sandy is having a glorious day.

It might have been a different story, for in his
ﬁrst home Sandy had neither training nor disci'
pline, and then by a lucky chance he found his
present owner.

(N.B.-——This book is on sale at all booksellers,
but is not obtainable from the RSPCA.)

 




 

May 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 55

 

 

Photo by courtesy of George W. F. Ellis Ltd, Bodmin

SPADE WORK

Soldiers help the RSPCA Inspector to dig a passage through
a snow drift at Redgate

hundred yards of the farm with his van and then

rang back to Bodmin barracks, asking for help

from the soldiers. Twenty—six men soon arrived,

followed shortly by their Commanding Ofﬁcer.

.They then dug through snow drifts six or
eight feet deep and cleared ways to pig houses,
poultry houses and goat houses. Fifty sheep
were located and fed.

The Inspector heard that ponies Were possibly
on the East and West Moor. As he could not
traverse the moors by road, he called upon the
RAF, who made a reconnaissance by Hanson
aircraft, and when the animals had been located
helicopters were sent up with fodder.

Senior Inspector Thwaites, writing from
Okehampton, said that he had to prod the
snow in front of him as he went along, to
avoid the risk of falling into gullies. With the
help of volunteers he fed sheep and ponies,
though he was able to report that farmers on
his part of Dartmoor had this winter brought

P. A. Reuter Photo

THE BLlZZARD CANTEEN ARRlVES

Dartmoor ponies crowd round Senior .ln-

spector Mallard when he stops near

Princetown, Devon, during his tour of the

Moor to distribute hay to marooned
animals '

in their bullocks or brought them to the edge
of the moor and hand fed them.

In the North

In the Fell country of Westmorland, Inspector
Harland rescued many ponies and horses in an
exhausted state. One six—monthrold foal was too
weak to stand and had to be taken to Kendal by
handvdrawn sledge. A police constable helped
the Inspector in this merciful task. Brandy was
administered to the foal on the way, and he
seemed to revive but died next day from er
haustion.

Photo by Mr W. Parker

Hay has been put
down and hungry
ponies, at Prince-
town, come to feed

 

 

‘It was terribly cold out on the wolds,’
wrote Senior Inspector Heath, from Hull,
‘the east wind was so bitter one could hardly
breathe when walking across the ﬁelds to the
farm buildings. . . .’ In the face of such diﬁi-
culties, the Senior Inspector distributed bales
of hay to starving animals.

Senior Inspector Brown (Carlisle) was enerv
getic in organizing the distribution of fodder to
isolated farms.

 

 

CONSOLATION

From Mrs Donovan, Brentwood Auxiliary hon
secretary:

A girl rang up tearfully for a dog as she had
broken with her boy friend and felt that a dog
would help her forget him. She was sixteen years

old! ~

TALKING TO HIMSELF

Mr Harold Rothwell, Jun, leader of the Alsatian
Animal Defender Group, is a ventr'iloquist and
his two dolls, Billy and Johnny, are both Animal
Defenders. Billy always attends Group meetings.
The Group membership is about 600.

 




  
 

THEANIMAL WORLD May 1955

 

 

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

' MARCH 1955

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,158 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Oﬁender imprisoned.
148 Ofenders ﬁned.
52 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
845 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting... . . . 7
CATTLE—Neglecting, overcrowding, exposing in an
unﬁtstate 7
SHEEP—Neglecting l
PIGS—Neglecting, starving, beating 45
DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, scalding,
attempting to kill in improper manner, etc. 24

CATS—Neglecting, performing operation in improper
manner
Poms—Neglecting, conveying and exposing for sale in
an un‘ﬁt state, stoning, etc.
PIGEONs—Neglecting, shooting and wounding . . .
SWANs—Shooting and wounding ..
PHEASANT-f—Conﬁning in sack when injured
RABBITS—Neglecting . ..

HHNNUI 4‘

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Conﬁning in small cages . ..
Beingin possession of recently taken birds. . . 1
Oﬁering for sale other than a close—ringed specimen
bred in captivity .
Using nets . . .
Using‘ traps
Shooting
Injuring

D—th—lHH—p N0

VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Permitting in oﬂ'ences

. ' 6
Aiding and abetting in offences 4
Causing in oﬁ‘ences . .. 2
Infringements of the Slaughter of Animals (Pigs)
Act‘, 1953 3
Infringements of the Transit of Animals (Amend—
ment) Order, 1931 2
Keeping dogs when disqualiﬁed 2
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 149

I

During MARCH, 1955, Magistrates, at the re uest o
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed THIRTEEN persons from owning a dngtld:
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for Life; THREE for 10 years; FOUR for 5 years; ONE for 3
yecirs; TWO‘ for 25gears; ONE for 12 months.

11 MARCH, 19 , FOUR persons were dis uali ed r '
animals for the following periods: q ﬁ f om owning
Disqualiﬁed for LIFE from keeping pigs; disqualiﬁed for 10
years from keeping pigs; disqualiﬁed for 6 months from keeping
pigs; disqualiﬁed for 5 years from keeping animals.

 

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 6,913
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 334
Total number of CAUTIONS from January 1st 2,553

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats 3,687 Dogs 3,363 I\1iscellaneous 554 Total 7,604

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,957

PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number of animals handled:
Cats 14 Dogs 99 Miscellaneous 2 Total 115

NIGHT STAFF

Number of calls received: 1,293
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,069
Number of animals rescued: 1

Number of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 207

NORTH WALES IINIT

First—aid cases:

Cats.15 Dogs 39 Adiscellaneous 4 Total 58
Number of animals handled by the Unit:

Cats 48 Dogs 75 Niiscellaneous 8 Total 131
Number of miles covered by the Unit during the month: 2,105

AWARDS

Cases considered 62
Certiﬁcates 17
Bronze Medals 3
Bars to Bronze Medals 3
Silver Medals 2

RECORDS FOR 1954

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS ... 27,790
CONVICTIONS 872
CAUTIONS 9,657

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls: 18,849

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled: 2,537

AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving 1%
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving 6
Bars to the Bronze Medal 2
Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 1
Margaret Wheatley Cross

 

 

  




 

ﬂ THEANIMALWMNMJ)

Addy 1955

 

 

then when the ﬂock has been rounded up and
put into the fold, well, you know how much
response there is when you say: ‘There’s a good
dog’. He knows he’s done his job well, and I
honestly believe he revels in it and that’s the
result of training. ' , .

I’d like to tell you about something I saw in a
show ring at Shaftesbury some years ago. Avery
well—known lady rider put her horse at one of the
jumps, but his take—off was faulty and he broke
the obstacle and, incidentally, he threw his rider
over his head. Now, what do you think she did?
There was no anger nor any display of temper;
she got up, collected the horse and walked with
him up to the obstacle and there they stood for a
second; and then she said: ‘Look at that. You are
a silly boy’, and then she remounted and I was
very interested as they approached the jump a
second time to see the horse’s ears go forward
and he took the jump perfectly. That’s what I
call right relationship.

Intriguing

Thousands of people love animals and get the
very greatest joy from their antics and tricks, and
it’s when an animal is behaving naturally and not
artiﬁcially that he’s most intriguing. When I used
to give my dogs—well, I had seven at one time—
a football bladder, they used to play with it with
all the zest and enthusiasm and excitement of two
teams in a cup ﬁnal. They’d jump and punt the
thing about and barge each other and scream with
excitement and it was all the greatest fun. The
dogs thoroughly enjoyed it; the children loved to
watch it and so did I. But if I had dressed them up
in striped jerseys and little football boots do you
think they would have enjoyed it? I believe they’d
have felt as silly as they looked—all naturalness
and dignity gone. .

Now, I believe that whenever you make an
animal do anything that lowers his natural
dignity, you will have to use cruelty to do it
because it will be foreign to anything he would
do naturally; and I feel that it’s wrong, abso—
lutely wrong, to subject animals to an arti—

 

 

HEROES’ CORNER _
Clothes Ablaze, Corporal Rescued Dog

With ﬂames pouring out of an overturned army
truck at Thomsons Falls, Gilgil, Kenya, Corporal
Peter John Randall of the Royal Army Veterinary
Corps made his way to the rescue of a dog trapped
in the vehicle. The Corporal had already rescued
colleagues who were travelling in the truck at the
time of the accident and his clothes were ablaze.

After the incident the condition of Corporal
Randall was so serious that his wife was ﬂown out

 

ﬁciality and a thoroughly unnatural life merely
to provide human beings with entertainment.

I have seen many acts in a circus in which the
natural ability and joy of an animal has been en—
couraged and used to the full, and I feel fairly
sure that the animals themselves may well enjoy
it. I’ve also seen animals made to do many things
they don’t enjoy, but they’re made to do them
just the same.

Carted Round

I’ve never been persuaded that there’s anything
digniﬁed or kind about putting wild animals in
small boxes, in which, fairly, they spend a great
deal of their time and carting them all round the
countryside. The only release they get is the brief
appearance during their act, and what does that
release consist of? In some cases, it’s the escape
from one form of purgatory to another. Occa'
sionally one hears of an animal breaking loose or
going mad; then the chase is up, and more often
than not in the end, the poor devil has to be shot,
because, through being frightened, he’s becoming
dangerous.

Now, what’s worried me all this week is that
the tamer went into the cage of his own free will,
but the lion didn’t, and, quite frankly, I think. it’s
time we grew up. Children enjoy circuses because
for the most part they don’t think about any’
thing but the immediate present and they know
little or nothing of what goes on behind the
scenes; but in my submission, grownrup people,
who call themselves Christians, ought not to be
party to anything that goes against the principles
of kindness in its highest form.

Listen: All things bright and beautiful; all
creatures great and small; all things wise an
wonderful, the Lord God made them all. Well,
for God’s sake, let’s treat these creatures reason
ably then.

NOTE: This article is based on a broadcast made by

MT Joyce in the Light Programme of the BBC on
February 20, 1955. His talk was in the series: Late
Sunday Special’.

 

 

urgently from England to be with him: We are
now pleased to learn that he is making go?
progress in a Military Hospital in England.

For the rescue of his colleagues the Corp.oral
has received the George Medal and his CllSI'C’
gard of danger in saving the life of the dog has
gained for him.the RSPCA’s highest award, the
Margaret Wheatley Cross. ,

The award to Corporal Randall heads the 111051?
recent list of RSPCA silver and bronze me a
wmners.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

54 THE ANIMAL WORLD

HELICOPTERS TO THE RESCUE

 

Photo by courtesy of George W. F. Ellis Ltd, Bodmin
A WHITE WORLD
Ths picture shows the bewildered plight of a pony when a
blizzardtransformsthe familiarworld into one that is white,
frozen and unfriendly. It was to relieve the sufferings of
such creatures that the RSPCA promptly organized the
distribution of fodder ’

‘The only alternative’ was an air—drop, wrote
Senior Inspector Mullard (Plymouth), in a
stirring report in which he described the diffi—
culties of reaching isolated animals with
fodder, when a heavy blizzard struck Dart—
moor in February this year.

Photo by Mr W.

Parker

A fire is lit as a
guide to the heli-
co pter pilot near
Princetown

  

Snow was lying in ﬁfteen feet drifts, and a
twenthafourvhour telephone service was main,
tained so that places where help was needed
could be plotted on an operational map. Calls
were coming through at all hours from the police,
the National Farmers’ Union and the AA Patrol.

a.

   
   

Photo by courtesy of George W. F. Ellis Ltd, Bodmin
Animal welfare, twentieth century style, is depicted here
where an RSPCA Inspector and helpers are seen loading

hay into a helicopter for the relief of animals marooned by
heavy snow in the area of Bodmin Moor

May 1955

‘

Helpers, including Royal Marine Com.
mandos and a party of Inspectors from Head—
quarters, came forward willingly and, in the
face of every difficulty and hardship (men
sometimes carrying a bale of hay for two or
three miles through deep snow), food was
sent to every possible place where starving
animals were marooned.

Appeals were ﬁnally received from places
inaccessible—and the Senior Inspector, realizing
that an airadrop was essential, called on the
services of the RAF at St Mawgan, where the
Commanding Ofﬁcer provided two helicopters,
which worked from Roborough and Princetown.

The blizzard struck with swift and sudden
force, and stock could not be removed from
the moors. At ﬁrst, Senior Inspector Mullard,
with Inspector Ambrose, could do no more
than feed the several hundred cattle and
ponies who were found trying to obtain
shelter.

\When reinforcements arrived, the pace of the
rescue work quickened. Many hundreds of sheep
were dug out of snow drifts, over 117 in one day.
Animals were moved to lower and more sheltered
places; quite a number of sheep, helpless as a
result of exposure, had to be carried by Inspec’
tors, sometimes for two or three miles. Feeding
restored these animals to their feet within a day
or two.

Many sheep were found dead, others were

frozen to’ the ground; some, past help, had to be
humanely destroyed.

Photo by Keystone
Press

Reinforcements
leave RSPCA
London Head-
quarters for
Plymouth. No-
tice the rescue
equipment with
which they are
‘armed’

Many ponies were found in poor condition,
some injured and others with overgrown feet;
some were so emaciated and weak that they had
to be humanely destroyed.

Digging Through
Bodmin Moor was struck by the same blizzard,
and Inspector Grinnall received one call from a
woman farmer at Tor Farm asking for help. At
his ﬁrst attempt, the Inspector could not get
through to the farm, where animals were burle

in snow drifts. The next day he got Within a few.

  




 

5'6. THEANIMALWORLD

May 1955

 

 

BIRD—NESTING
Horror was expressed by the RSPCA recently at
the announcement that the Home Secretary pro—
poses to make an Order under the Protection of
Birds Act prescribing a number of birds in
England and Wales whose eggs are not to be
protected.

The avowed object of the section under
which the Home Secretary is making the
Order is to avoid making bird—nesting by
children into a crime. The RSPCA contends
that more damage will be done to the moral
ﬁbre of children by giving them the impression
' that nests can be riﬂed with impunity. Eggs are
a form of life and it is wrong to rear children

in the belief that life can be taken lightly. .

They live already in a world where atom
bombs are exploded and where the atrocities
of war and concentration camps are a com—
monplace.

The RSPCA is only too well aware of the
behaviour that results from the deterioration in
the morals of children. Despite the reluctance
of the Society to take children guilty of cruelty
before magistrates it was compelled to bring last
year no less than eighty children before the
Juvenile Courts. In one case, two boys, aged
eleven and sixteen, threw a knife at a jackdaw and
stabbed the bird four times, cutting out the
tongue and ﬁnally cutting off the head. The

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT

Transit of Animals (Horses)

MR JOHN HALL asked the Minister of Agriculture
if he will prohibit the import from Eire of live
horses for slaughter in this country.

-MR AMORY: The Horses (Sea Transport) Order,
1952, and the Horses (Landing from Northern
Ireland and the Republic of Ireland) Order, 1954,
are designed to protect horses brought from
Ireland from unnecessary suffering while in
transit. I have no general power to prohibit or
restrict their import. '

Irish cattle (Deaths in Transit).

MR J. JOHNSON asked the Minister of Transport
and Civil Aviation the numbers of Irish store
‘ Cattle who died of exhaustion While being con—
veyed by rail from Holyhead‘through Rugby to
the South Of England during 1954..
MR BOYDvCARPENTER: Records of the number of
cattle dying in transit are not kept by the British
Transport Commission, but they tell me that
during 1954 four Irish cattle were found dead at
Rugby. Two of these came from Holyhead.

 

 

RSPCA has heard of instances where children
have trampled on ﬂedglings.

Suffered Enough
During the recent winter, birds have suffered
acutely and the RSPCA has been heartened by
the generous response of the public to whom it
has appealed for help in feeding the birds. It
seems a pity that after eﬁorts have been made to
preserve bird life, which is so rewarding a part

of our heritage, encouragement should be.

given to the destruction of eggs. Although the
proposal is that only the eggs of the birds listed
below shall be included in the Order, we wonder
how many children can be certain that the egg
they are taking belongs only to these species.
How many eggs of rare birds are likely to
be destroyed?

Blackbird, chaffinch, coot, greenﬁnch,‘
black-headed gull, hedge—sparrow, wren,
linnet, moorhen, robin, Skylark, missel‘
thrush, song—thrush.

Thwarted—for the Moment

Despite every effort made by the RSPCA and its
supporters, the Home Secretary has, we learn as
we go to Press, introduced the Wild Birds (Eggs
of Common Birds) Order, 1955, which removes
protection from the eggs of the thirteen birds
listed. The RSPCA will continue to strive for the
reversal of this ruling.

Steeplechasing

MR AWBERY asked the Secretary of State for the
Home Department if he will now introduce
legislation to regulate steeplechasing so as to
avoid unnecessary cruelty to horses.

MAJOR LLOYD—GEORGE: No. The hon Member .

will be aware that certain changes are being made

this year to ease the hazards of the Grand
National course.

Transit of Animals by Air

MR RIDSDALE asked the Minister of Agriculture
when he proposes to bring in regulations govern’
ing the transit of animals by air.

MR AMORY: The transport of those classes of
livestock by air whose movement I have at
present powers to control is ona comparatively
small scale. I do not think there is any need Y€t
for regulations but I am keeping a close watch on
developments so that suitable steps can if neceSv
sary be taken in the light of experience.

Performing Wild Animals (Exhibition)

MR PETER FREEMAN asked the Secretary of State
for the Home Department whether, in View 0

44 I“,




 

‘58 ’ THEANIMALWORLD

May 1955

 

 

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Miss W. Baker, former hon sec of Surrey——
Purley Branch; Mrs Jacobs, member of Surrey—
Sutton branch committee for twentyveight years;
Miss Godman, former hon sec of Lyndhurst

auxiliary; Mrs Clapham, former hon sec of Tile’.

hurst auxiliary; Mrs B. O. Lazenby, hon sec,
Worcester E and W Warwicks branch, and for
many years hon sec of Bromsgrove auxiliary;
Mr Robert True, chairman of Peterborough
branch for twenty years; and the following
supporters: Mr Ramsay and Captain Agnew.

REMEMBERED

‘It is four years’ said one school lecturer ‘since

‘

I spoke in the schools in this area.’ However,
many of the boys and girls still remembered her.

Since the last report 157 lectures have been given
in schools in Lancashire, Devon, Cornwall, Dorset,
Wiltshire, Darton (Yorks), Eccles, Burslem,
Macclesﬁeld, Poynton, Merthyr Tydfil, Cardiff
and Leighaon—Sea. A group of children at a
Tottenham Library were also addressed.

Thirty’seven new Animal Defender groups
were formed; 453 children joined the Head’
quarters Group.

LIGHT TO THE RESCUE

Since Dungeness lighthouse has been ﬂoodlit, the
death rate among small birds, who dashed them;
selves against the glazing, has fallen appreciably,
says a report issued by the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds.

 

BRANCH
NEWS

Donald Bailey (West Bromwich),
whose picture comes from Mrs
Haywood, was over 2! years old
when this picture was taken in I954

 

Birkenhead and Wirral At the branch annual meeting Mr
Fred Willmer, branch chairman, appealed to the public to
bring to the notice of the RSPCA cases of ill treatment of
animals. A report was submitted by Mr Wilfred H. Munday,
branch secretary. Oﬂ‘lCBI‘S re-elected were: chairman, Mr
Fred Willmer; Vice-chairman, Mr N. M. Clayton; hon
treasurer, Mr J. L. Morey; secretary, Mr W. H. Munday.

Blackpool At the branch annual meeting held at the Town
Hall, Blackpool, the Deputy Mayor of Blackpool (Coun A.
Waterhouse) presided. Wing Commander Hillier spoke on
the work of the Society. The branch chairman, Mr Arthur
Warner, thanked Coun Waterhouse and Wing-Commander
Hillier for their remarks, and also the branch ofﬁcials and
branch committee for their good work during the past year.
Mr T. Bridge, branch hon treasurer, in his report, said that
the Ladies’ Committee had raised £1 19 10s. for branch funds.
Mrs M. Jordan, chairman of the Ladies’ Committee, praised
women workers. Inspector Heyes reported that he had
investigated 140 complaints of cruelty during the past year.

The Mayor-Elect (Ald Charles Dunn) was appointed
branch president, and ofﬁcers re-elected were: Mrs A.
Jones (branch hon secretary) and Mr T. Bridge (branch hon
treasurer).

Buckinghamshire Mrs D. Gilmore-Ellis, Bourne End Aux
hon sec, organized a ﬁlm show, ‘All Living Things’, at
the Royalty Cinema, Bourne End, and raised £9 for branch
funds.

Denbighshire West and Colwyn Bay Mrs Owen Evans,
branch hon secretary, reports that the branch annual meeting
was a great success. A stall and collection and other efforts
raised £42 for branch funds. .

Mrs Owen Evans accompanied by Inspector Hughes
showed ﬁlms to girls of Penrhos College and a collection of
£2 10s. was taken.

Derbyshire—Derby and District A total of £58 165. 1d. has
been raised for branch funds by Mrs R. A. Loten, branch
hon secretary, who organized two dances at the Allestree
Golf Club and a children’s ball at the Albert Hall.

Dorset—South Senior Inspector Horner addressed cadets
of the No. 7 Police Training Centre, Dorchester, on the
work of the RSPCA.

Durham and District Alderman A. J. Alsop, branch chair-
man of Durham—South, and North Yorkshire and Member
of the RSPCA Council, speaking at the branch annual
meeting in Durham, appealed to local education authorities
who would not give permission for RSPCA lecturers to
speak in their schools to have ‘second thoughts’. The hon
treasurer, Mr A. B. Peacock, presented the ﬁnancial report
and Inspector Spencer, in his report, said that there had been
6] complaints of cruelty during the past year. The Marquess
of Londonderry was re-elected president, and other oﬂicers
re-elected were: chairman, Lady Bradford; hon secretary,
Miss G. S. Wilkinson; and hon treasurer, Mr A. B. Peacock.

Among those present were the Mayor of Durham, Coun
Mrs E. Blyth, the Mayoress of Durham, Mrs Hauxwell, Miss
McAuslan, hon secretary of Durham—Hartlepools and
District, and Lt-Col Coventry.

 

 

 

 

Sm” r .
.v' I A

I i”

.A .




 

60 THEANIMALWORLD

May 1955

 

Sussex—Mid, and Eastbourne Miss I. Middleton, branch
hon secretary, reports that a bridge and canasta evening
raised £70 8s. 3d. for branch funds.

Sussex—West, and Brighton Mrs E. M. Weaver organized
a whist drive at Dial Post Village Hall and raised £7 13s. 3d.

for branch funds. Mr E. Allen was MC and Chief Inspector .

White presented the prizes.

Vale of Derwent Division Lady Whitley, Division president,
at the annual meeting made a presentation to Senior In-
spector Marsh. The meeting was held at the Talbot Hotel
Malton. After the oﬂﬁcers were re-elected Mr Stanley G.

Watson, Huddersﬁeld hon general secretary, gave an address ,

in which he congratulated the Division on its efforts. Among
those present were Mrs P. M. Pye-Oliver, Division hon
secretary, and Miss M. Coey, Division chairman.
Warrington and District The branch annual meeting, ar-
ranged by Mrs P. Fairclough, branch hon secretary, was a
‘full house’. The Mayoress presided and Major James
Gardiner (branch president and chairman) was present and
spoke. Col Coventry addressed the meeting.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Mrs Wright of Shipton
Bellinger organized a whist drive and raised £10 for branch
funds. Mrs Braime, Andover auxiliary hon secretary, pre-
sented the prizes.

Wolverhampton and District Mr Squires, Manager of the
Odeon Cinema, Bilston, organized a pet show at the Odeon
Cinema. Inspector Hayes judged the entries.

Mrs Rowse who sends this
picture from Brixham
(South Devon) says that
she had an idea of a little
RSPCA collection ‘shop’ in
the porch of her home.
Here is the shop in opera-
tion. In one summer she
collected £7 IDs. for the
Branch

 

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX
COLLECTIONS

SOUTHAMPTON.-—-—The box placed in the Co—OPERATIVE
STORES has collected £11 from the beginning of the year
until early March. Branch hon secretary—Mrs Moody.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the housevto—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Uley, Nympsﬁeld and Owlpen, Mrs A. W. Grigg,
£11 135. 6d.; Hampstead and St John’s Wood, Mr J. M. T.
Frost, £5 13s. 5d.; Hants and Surrey Borders, Colonel
R. M. Powell, DSO (branch hon sec), £482 125. 8d.; St
Albans, Mrs Cant, £7 7s. 0d.; Newton Aycliife, Mr R.
Wilson, £14 135. 8d.; Leeds, Mrs Harvey (branch hon sec),
:9 85. 9:11.; Cardiff, Mrs Ainsworth (branch hon secretary),

9 8s. 0 .

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Hemel Hempstead, Queensferry, Sand-
ridgebury, Horam, Newbury, Cardiff, East Dulwich,
Weymouth, Hindhead, Chipping Sodbury, Boreham
Wood, St Leonards—on-Sea, East Croydon, Flitwick, Pen—
rhos, Morley, Tunbridge Wells, Topsham, Folkestone,

*-
ﬂ

Southwold, Birmingham, Barrow—invFurness, Canterbury,
Ipswich, Haslemere, Hockley Heath, Birchington, White—
haven, Salford, Fyﬁeld, Moreton—in—Marsh, Blackrod,
Widley, Glossop, Hatﬁeld, Enﬁeld, Bury, Farnham, Clay—
gate, Bayston Hill, Saxmundham, Chesterﬁeld, Maidstone,
Northallerton, Chiswick, Colwyn Bay, N. Kensington,
Whittlesey, Ammanford, Brighton, Southport, Boltonvle—
Sands, Dalton—in-Furness, Balsall Heath, Norwich, Halifax,
Liverpool, Nuneaton, Sheringham, Ryde, West Moors,
Port Talbot.

 

ADVERTISER’S ANNOUNCEMENT
‘OUR CATS’, the popular monthly magazine that spans
the world of Cat Lovers. Every issue contains interesting and
helpful articles by experts, general interest features and
wonderful pictures. A splendid gift for a Cat Lover any-
where. Subscription rate ”5. 6d. for l2 issues (specimen
copy ls. 7d. post free), from 4 Carlton Mansions, Clapham
Road, London, SW9

    
  
    
   

FLAG DAY
G OODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
M Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

TEMPLE cox CAPTIVE
BOI.‘T SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
.. ACTION

 

 

 

 

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’lfor all animals. Designed for heavy '

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE cox DEVELOPMENT co. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

TUESDAY
24 MAY

‘Please help." ' ‘
says the Peke x)

HOW TO HELP

1. By making a street collection in the Metropolitan Police area (London

and Suburbs) on 24 MAY.

2. By making a house to house collection in London (and Suburbs)

between 18 MAY and 24 MAY (inclusive).
3. By placing tins and emblems in shops and business premises.

4. By making a private collection amongst relatives and friends, even
if you do not live in the London area.

5. By sending a donation.

6. By sending the names and addresses of friends who
are prepared to collect.

NB—No one under the age of 18 is permitted to collect
either in the street or from house to house in the
LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes possible

for young people to make private collections
amongst relatives and friends.

 

Offers of help, please, to:-
Where there" RSPCA, Appeals Dept,

a will, there’s

a way ‘ |05 Jermyn Street, London SWI

 

 

Printed by Shenval Pr

ess, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur

W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, S\V1

 




