 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

LIKE most animals of the cat family, the puma is often a
much maligned creature, its ferocity equalling, perhaps,
its size, in the minds of those intrepid hunters who seek merely
to enlarge upon their own feats as “brave men and bold.”
This animal, variously called puma, cougar, and mountain
lion, is the most widely known member of the cat family in
North America. It is found in our western mountain ranges,
in the “bad lands” of Montana and Wyoming, in British

Purring Puma

Unlike most catsI who became staid and dignified with age. the puma
never loses his love for play. Close observers of this member of the

cat family are impressed with the belief that he would like to make

friends with man. if he dared.

Columbia, in the Adirondack Mountains of New York State,
and in Florida. Its territory, indeed, extends all the way
southward to Patagonia at the southern tip of South America.

Possibly, the deadliest feature of the puma, as far as man
is concerned, is its scream, which has been described as similar
to that of a terriﬁed woman or boy. As a matter of fact this
thin, ﬂat-sided cat, ranging up to eight feet from nose to
tail-tip and weighing some 225 pounds, usually avoids humans
when possible, especially in regions where it is hunted.

The puma lives in dens among the rocks, or in thick brush
or forests. Its young vary in numbers from two to ﬁve.
Mature pumas are nearly uniform in color, a tawny brown in
winter; redder brown in spring. The cubs, 'however, are
marked with black spots and stripes and have ringed tails.

There are few, if any, instances recorded where the northern
puma has attacked a man unprovoked, and in the plains of
South America and forests of Central America, both the
Indians and Gauchos considered it the one wild cat friendly
to man. This belief has been handed down ever since the ﬁrst
Spanish conquest, the old Spaniards terming the animal,
amigo del Cristiano, the Christian’s friend.

In fact, a parallel might well be drawn between the puma
and the domestic pet favored in many households. For, like
the house cat, its king-size cousin seems to remain always a
kitten at heart, frolicking about and making phantom passes
at butterﬂies or wind-blown leaves.

Many stories have been told of this friendliness. One, in
particular, concerns a miner, in British Guiana, who started by
boat for a mine. He had his meals on board, but preferred to
go ashore at night and sling a hammock between two trees.
One morning two of the Indian crew, laughing uproariously,
brought the miner’s hammock on board. The captain asked
what the joke was, whereupon, one of the natives pointed to
the trees where the hammock had been slung, and said, “Tiger
sleep with old man last night.” On closer inspection, there
could, indeed, be seen a hollow and marks on the leaves, show-
ing that a puma had been lying right under the man’s ham—
mock. When asked if he had noticed anything in the night,
he said, “Only the frogs croaking wakened me.” The croaking
he heard was undoubtedly the hoarse purring of a friendly
puma enjoying his proximity to a sleeping man.

Source . . . By LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

I found a butterfly sipping the wine

Of summer rain that gathered in the cup
Of bloom upon a honeysuckle vine.

I saw a hummingbird that came to sup
From out a lily's chalice, and I knew

That never skill of man can make as sweet

150

A nectar as the softly falling dew
That gathers on the clover at our feet.
We boast so much, so little understood,
We shut our eyes to beauty, and we plod
A toilsome way, forgetting that the good
And beautiful of earth, come straight from God.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

‘ When

Animals

Sleep

By HENRY H. GRAHAM
o
SNOWSHOE RABBITS
o

ILDLIFE must have a certain

amount of sleep, like human beings,
or death will ensue. But the members
of the animal kingdom vary greatly in
their sleeping habits and naturalists, by
protracted study, have learned what they
are.

One summer night I happened to be
walking near the shore of a reedy lake
frequented by ducks, geese and other
waterfowl. It was a good chance to ob—
serve the birds asleep, because the moon—
light rivaled daylight in brilliance and
I knew that a large ﬂock of ducks had
“bedded down” near the tules. So, keep-
ing very still, I worked my way through
the cat—tails until I was only a few yards
from them. Everything was very quiet.
Not a breath of air stirred. The water
was motionless. Nor did a sound come
fromrthe somnolent ducks. They were
clustered together and each had its head
tucked snugly beneath a wing, sleeping
peacefully and blissfully unconscious of
any danger. As I watched I could not
help thinking how easy it would be for
some roaming coyote, cougar or other
marauder to steal up and have a late
dinner.

Upland birds such as grouse usually
take refuge at night among the dense
branches of evergreen trees, going to
sleep early and also rising early to Visit
the nearest spring or creek for a morn—
ing drink. I have often seen pheasants
roosting in trees, although this gorgeous
creature does most of its sleeping on the
ground.

Owls and hawks get most of their rest
in the daytime, because their sharp vision
under cover of darkness helps them to
prey on squirrels and other vermin at
night. Their eyes are inﬁnitely sharper
than those of men. In fact, they are
telescopic to a degree. They can see
clearly with the naked eye distant objects
that would require the use of binoculars

N ooember 1945

 

for human beings to see. Bats, too, sleep
in the daytime, hunting for insects for
food after dusk settles over the outdoors.

Going into the animal realm, bears
sleep most of the winter months. This
is known to naturalists as hibernation.
They awaken in the spring, half-starved,
and immediately emerge from their se-
cluded dens to forage for food. The cubs
are born in the spring. They are very
small at birth, but quickly grow and by
fall are good-sized specimens of the bruin
world. Chipmunks, those tiny fur-bearers
of the pine—covered hills, also go into
hibernation during the late fall and swing
into action again after the snow melts
along about March or April.

Such valuable fur-bearers as mink and
beaver do their sleeping out of sight.
Mink rest from their long night rambles
in holes in the banks of streams. Beavers
sleep either in their lodges or in bank
dens. There are two types of beavers,
one living in lodges or houses built by
the animals themselves in ponds, or in
underwater burrows. The entrances to
the latter are always below the water
line in order to keep enemies away, but
the nest itself is high and dry.

The beautiful and large snowshoe rab-
bit, so named because of the size of his
feet, sleeps under piles of brush or in
plainly visible holes in the deep snow,
which he digs with his own paws. He
is never too safe, because all around him
prowl foxes, mink, cougars, coyotes and
other killers. But the snowshoe has one
great advantage. During the autumn
months he changes from brown to white
and thus is difﬁcult to see in. winter time
when snow covers the ground. Further-

more, his huge feet prevent him from
sinking into even soft snow and he is thus
able to outdistance many pursuers. Most
animals’ paws are small in proportion to
their weight and sink into the snow quite

far. Hence, they. are unable to travel
rapidly.

Many animal‘s know by instinct the
beneﬁcial effects of the sun’s rays and
like to sleep for hours stretched out in
the sun. This is particularly true of
domestic pets, like dogs and cats, but
some of the wild creatures also follow
this practice. I once observed a young
coyote sleeping curled up in a desert
waste. He not only received the direct
rays of Old Sol, but the sand on which
he layawas warm, too. Most wild animals
are light sleepers because they have so
many enemies.

@

Short Tale
By LUCILE VANCE

I’m just a little puppy dog,

I eat and sleep all day,

Except when I am chasing things
And then I run and play.

I chase most everything that moves,
And some of them I get,

But not my funny little tail,

I haven’t caught it yet.

I chase it round and round and round,
And try my best to stretch it.

I'll have to wait, until it grows,

And then I know I'll catch it!

209

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RED CROSS SERVES ALL

HECK THIS, PLEASE,” asked the corporal, and the

checkroom girl at an American Red Cross club in

Australia calmly did so, merely wondering why anyone
would want to check a kangaroo. And four—week-old "Nine—
pence Josephine,” pet of Cpl. Norman Seddon of a Tr00p Carrier
Squadron, spent the dinner hour sleeping in his ammunition bag as
it hung from a checkroom hook.

Such requests come as no surprise to American Red Cross work-
ers, who know that animal pets and mascots are as much a part of
the armed forces they serve as the men themselves. “Love me,”
says the adage, “love my dog.” And Red Cross workers do—even
when the “dog” turns out to be a kangaroo.

Or a cat! There was another Red Cross worker “down under”
who unﬂinchingly complied with a request from the commanding
oﬂicer of an advanced base for some starch and a cat. The ofﬁcer
explained that (1) he was sick of wearing shirts that were just
dumped in water, and (2) the camp was being overridden by
mice. Both items were sent immediately by plane, and at last re—
port Pussy was earning her G.” I. keep.

Granting what might seem to others trivial requests is an im—
portant part of the morale—building job being done by American
Red Cross workers, one of whom recently traveled by mule—back,
jeep and three-quarter-ton truck to get a supply of uMissouri
meerschaums,” corn cob pipes coveted by a homesick bluejacket
from Missouri.

The 1945 Red Cross War Fund, being raised in March, offers
pet-lovers an opportunity to help provide our armed forces with
the Red Cross services that mean so much to them. To them the
Red Cross means not only plasma and nurses when they’re
wounded; Red Cross clubs when they’re lonely; clean sheets and
good food when they’re on leave far from home;
someone to tell their troubles to. It also 'means
a link with home—with Mother and Father and
the pet dog or horse or cat whose picture they
proudly show the smiling Red Cross worker
whom they know will understand that theirs is

the most intelligent, the most beautiful, the best
trained pet in the world.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Calendar
animals

For only ten cents you will be able to obtain our
sow? new 1946 Calendar of Animals. A handy size to
NW hang over your desk, and just right for Christmas

cards or gifts, this calendar combines utility with a beauty that you

will treasure long after the calendars, themselves, are out of date.

Twelve pages and cover, each illustrated with a

WM true—to—life photograph ( not drawing) of our ani-

3> 2M mal friends.

Printed in soft shades of russet to emphasize the

 

 

highlights of each portrait.

No reversing of pages to confuse the user. Each
month on its own separate sheet.

Size 41/2 inches wide by 8 inches long.

Cost—ten cents each.

Please send your order now for as many calendars

9 W (9M as you can use. When the supply is exhausted, we
N0”

 

shall be unable to procure more. Calendars will be

mailed to you in ample time for the Christmas season.

Send orders with money order or check to:

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Massachusetts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




and the

The MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY for the PREVENTION of CRUELTY to ANIMALS

THE RELUCTANT SWAIN

 

—H. J. Phillips

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  
 

«So/wing

Cl

@ 1' oA/em

ERE is an easy and valuable solution for your
Christmas gift problem.

No tiring shopping excursions; no wracking of
the brain to ﬁnd a suitable gift, no pushing through
crowds to get to the counter.
Just write us. We shall be glad to do the rest.

And what more suitable and satisfying gift, than a year’s sub-

scription to Our Dumb Animals — a gift that renews itself each
month.

For anyone who likes animals (and who does not?) it is the ideal
gift. Give your friends the chance to enjoy reading each month
true stories about animals, factual articles about their lives and
habits, appealing verse, and interesting, story-telling pictures. 7

Using the above illustration, but printed in three colors, red,
green and black, we have prepared an appealing Christmas Gift
Card. This will be inscribed with your name and sent to the re-
cipient of each gift subscription.

The price is $1.00 a year, but if ,ﬁve or more subscriptions are
sent, we offer a special rate of $.60 each.

Solve your problem 110w by sending your orders to:

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

panions Were They

WHAT—a cat like a bird! doesn’t seem possible and yet, many cases have been
reported where the two have ved together happily.

There seems to be no p icular reason why the various species of animals
shouldn’t make good compa ons. It appears to be a question of environment in
some cases where two anima are brought up side by side. They become used to
each other’s ways; at ﬁrst, rhaps, tolerating an alien presence, but often devel-
oping into fast friends.

Then, there are other cas where a real adoption occurs. A hen will mother
kittens; a mother cat will ta ie over a baby skunk, not only nursing it with her
own brood, but bringing it u was she would a kitten until it enters whole-heartedly

 

 

 

l
l

into her family life. ‘
The natural antipathy bet en certain types of animals—especially those which
do not prey on each other for‘ ood—may well be attributed to a suspicion of an—
other manner of living, a di érent code of existence. Familiarity, then, seems not
only to breed tolerance, but 5 metimes friendship.
Can we not well take a les ‘n from our animal friends?

This beaul'iful cal ac’rually nurses +he baby
rabbif as she would her own kiH'en.

(Circle) Are +hese mor+al enemies? (Righr) This good-nai'ured dog made friends wi’rh
Aus+ra|ian Koala. even serving in +he capacil'y 0 feed +0 i’rs queer jockey. (Below) ~Th
+wo playma+es fake +ime OFF r a cooling drink.

 

 

 

 

 

 




    

 
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  

The American Ofﬁcers of Both Societies

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, Chairman of the Board

Humane Education Society ERIC H. HANSEN. President Prevention of Cruel'l +0 Ani | ’ l

WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary Y ma 5 \
ALBERT A. POLLARD,T7'easmer

Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN, ROVVLEY &. STOREY

The Massachusetts Society I 4

FOR THE 1,;

 

   
 
       
   

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

Operated by the Massachusetts S. P: C. A.

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Springfield Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by GEO. T. ANGELL in 1868 ~<—(‘.)fﬁ(-ial publimtion
of all our Societies

. ““n-xb- a’MW-v-V ’
n... M-nw , . ,
,. .

Trustees of 1’(2r1)1(mmz.t quls of Both Societies

JOHN R. M’ACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp.

CHARLES Gr. BANCROFT, ‘i’ive—President and Chairman, Finance Com.
United Shoe Machinery Corp.

 

..-..":

(_?'IIARI.ES E. SPENCER, JR.,l‘rosident, First National Bank of Boston

.ME

Receiving no aid from city, state or community fund, the Societies are supported by
gifts, memberships and legacies.

«Hr

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has sixteen
prosecuting ofﬁcers throughout the State.

RATES or MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual, $2;
Children’s, $0.75. ,

All members receive OUR DUIWB ANIIWALS Free.

 

-aA‘ﬁ-Mw em , «.‘a-u

    

  
  
   

  
 

,.

<fs’1w. , “mt

  

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work, , “l
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even than
m the Cities, particularly in the failure prOperly to feed and house domestic animals.

     

'e ”pug-I" .a-m.

The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel! Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at 53-57 Bliss Street,
Springﬁeld, Mass., in December, 1931, and a Clinic at Attleboro, in October, 1938. Altogether we have
treated approximately 886,207 animals, 253,858 in the two Hospitals and 632,349in the Dispensaries.

  
 
   
  
 

.ng-I-‘v a

   
   

,_ ,el-g

 
 

   

  




 

W
0
II..—
H
3!.
Nu
Mr.
N
O
M
S
8
1
S
I.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gratitude
By JAMES WARNACK

He bounded into the parlor,

With a little dog at his feet.

Look what I brought home, Mamma!
I found him out in the street.

He looked so lonely and hungry!
He was gnawing an old, dry bone!

l petted him, and he followed me.
May I keep him for my own?

Please let me keep him, Mamma!
Do you mind if I keep him, Dad?
I bet he’s a dandy watch-dog—
And I know he would be glad

To have a home and a playmate.
You say I can keep him? Hurray!
Thank you a million, Daddy!

Boy, this is my lucky day!

“Teacher told us to stay home tomorrow—
It’s Thanksgivin’ Day, you see.

She said we should be happy

Our country is safe and free.

She said we should be thankful

For homes and clothes and food,

And churches and schools—and everything
God gives us that is good.

So remind me to thank God, Mamma;
I’m afraid I might forget—

Cause I’ll be busy tomorrow

Makin’ a house for my pet.

I know what I’ll do! I’ll thank God
Tonight when it’s time to pray.

I’ll thank Him for my doggie, too!
Come, Rover! Let’s go and play.”

They tiptoed into his room that night,
And found him lying there,

Propped up in bed, with eyes half closed,
His little hands clasped in prayer.

“Be quiet! Don’t wake him, Mamma!”

”Why, who do you mean, my Sweet?”
He pointed to his grateful pet

Curled up against his feet.

«:3

The Iceberg Bears
.LTHOUGH they live in the world’s
coldest climate, the male Polar
Bears do not hibernate like their cousins
farther south but remain active all winter.

This bear’s white coat matches the
snow so well that being able to see the
bear in the ﬁrst place is half the hunt.
At least among some Eskimo tribes when
a bear is killed, half the booty is given
to the hunter seeing it ﬁrst.

They are one of the biggest bears,
growing as much as thirteen feet long
in extreme cases, yet their new-born
cubs are extremely small and weigh only
nine to twelve ounces.

Although they may never have tasted
them before, Polar Bears in captivity
enjoy sweets just as much as any other
bear does.

Contrary to the popular opinion, Polar
Bears enjoy all the warmth they can get.

—J0hn H. Spicer

92

ANIMAL AND

Representative Bradley, of Michigan,
has introduced a bill in this Congress
to provide a penalty of ninety days
imprisonment or a ﬁne of $100, or
both, for persons found guilty of har-
boring a lost dog more than 48 hours
without making a report to the pound-
master. Another provision of the bill
would exact the same penalty for in-
juring a dog and failing to report
the case to the police. For poisoning a
dog, the recommended punishment is
ninety days in prison or a ﬁne of $300,
or both.

An Oregon resident boasts of a
bull that sleeps in a sitting position,
and an Illinois cow presented her
owner with triplets, a distinct oddity
in the bovine world.

The grizzly bear, which attains a
weight of about 800 pounds upon
maturity, weighs only about eight
ounces at birth.

A gasoline dealer, in Topeka, Kansas,
ﬁnding himself haled before the local
OPA commissioner, charged with an
1,800 gallon shortage of gasoline
stamps, alleged that mice chewed up
the coupons. It was a novel excuse,

but it didn’t work.

A pigeon, named "Per Ardua,”
which means, roughly, "through diﬂi-
culties,” recently established what is
believed to be a world record pigeon
ﬂight——l,090 miles.

One of our boys on Saipan adopted
a white mouse as a mascot. The little
fellow doesn’t care for the traditional
mouse diet of cheese, preferring such
delicacies as apples and bread. On
arrival in Chicago, on furlough, the
animal was examined along with ﬁfty-
one "other Marines.”

Last Christmas, over ﬁfty million
packages were sent to service men‘ and
women overseas. They were mailed to
all parts of the world and, as usual,
domestic animals were on the job. In
many cases, dog teams and camels were
used to deliver the goods.

In the days of the much-married
Henry the Eighth, bishops were com-
pelled by act of Parliament to keep a
string of race horses. The law further
speciﬁed that the animals must be
three-year-olds or upward and at least
14 hands in height.

—]ack Pearson

Panama Kitty
OM” was a big, beautiful cat who
lived for many years in the town of
Pedro Miguel in the Canal Zone. But,
this was not always his home, for he was
born in Czechoslovakia.

One day, when Tom was a little kit-
ten, some sailors took him away on their
ship, where he led a happy and useful
life, catching rats which otherwise would
have destroyed much of the ship’s valu-
able cargo. However, after being on the
ship about a year, Tom became very sick
and it was decided that if he stayed on
board much longer, he would die.

The sailors felt very sorry over Tom’s
condition, especially as it would take sev-
eral weeks to reach the next port of call.
Finally, one of the men suggested that,
as they would be passing through the
Panama Canal in a few days, the kindest
thing to do would be to put Tom off at
one of the locks with the hope that he
would ﬁnd green grass to eat.

This was done and the lock men
adopted the cat who became well and
strong and would follow his favorite
workman through the tunnels on his tour
of duty. After a few weeks, however,
Tom’s new friends thought that such a
beautiful creature should have a real
home and one was eventually found with
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Ross.

In his new home, Tom became very
contented and in the daytime could be
seen sleeping on one of the high shelves
outside the screened porch.

a

A Prayer

By MAY DONALD'SON
Reprinted by request

Loving Father, great Creator,
Author of all living things,

Each one sanctioned by Thy making
To the world its message brings.

Each one his appointed task has;
Each one has his path and part.
Loving Father, great Creator,
Place us each one in Thy heart.

From the sweet and tender birdling
To the dog, the friend of man—
Each one has his own fulfillment
In the wisdom of Thy plan.

Touch our hearts with truth and justice;
Let Thy rule now be fulfilled,

In the golden bright millenium,
Grant their anguished souls be stilled.

May they, too, know love and justice;
May we feel our brothers kin,

And forgive us that we know not
Separation is a sin.

Grant us peace and joy unending
In that sweet millenium time,
When we say in humble reverence,

Every living thing is Thine.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

7‘
SNCIRcLee ’75 (34.09

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

fr

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part
of the world.

tions, sixty cents each, within the United States.

In clubs of five or more subscrip-

AII dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

it

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of from 300-400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subject.
except cruel sports or captivity, dealing with ani-
mals, especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-

tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAIPHS should be

either domestic or wild animals in their natural

sharp. depicting

surroundings.
desirable.

Pictures Jthat tell a story are most

VERSE about animals should be short.

gest from four to sixteen lines.

We sug-

IMPORTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten,
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-haltt
cent a word for articles: one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings: one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

it

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 48 Central Street. Norwood, Massachu-
setts: editorial office, I80 Longwood Avenue, Boston
I5. Massachusetts.
Boston ofﬁce. Entered as Second-class matter,
June 29, I9I7, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood,
Mass.. under the Act of March 3, I879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided for in section |I03, Act of October 3, I9I7.
authorized. July I3, I9l9.

Address all communications to

ouk DUMB . I

 

VOLUME 78—No. 7

I 945

JULY,

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli, I868
PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE, PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

sir

Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, Chairman of the Board

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN, ROWLEY 8: STOREY. Counsel

72.?

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Boa-rd, First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President, First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER ‘ J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Worcester

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C
I'D; R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—JAMES
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. M. F. PETER—
N, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas.

. A.—PROF.
S. WARNER,

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS LEONTINE T.
POTE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM N. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.-——
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia
Luis Pareia Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

it

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff

G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.

W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian in Charge
*IEI 1.. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.

R. M. , . . .
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

*On leave of absence—military service

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

   

LEO—THE LION - CAPRICORNUS—THE GOAT

ANIMALS
OF

ASTRONOMY

By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

NCIENT astronomers kept our dumb animals very

much in mind when they ﬁrst charted the course .

of the stars and developed the study of the still mys—
terious universe. '

Seven of the twelve signs of the zodiac were named
after animals in the time of the astronomer Hipparchus,
about 2,000 years ago. The English translations of
the original Latin names are: the Ram, Bull, Crab.
Lion, Scorpion, Goat, and the Fishes.

Variety was the spice of astronomy in those days.
It is noteworthy, too, that no generation of scientists
since then has ever come forward with a suggestion
that the names of the zodiac signs should be altered.

The brightest star in the heavens is Sirius, more
commonly known as the Dog Star—a name that ithas
retained since ancient times. It, also, gave name to
the “dog days,” a term applied by the ancients before
the Christian era began.

The dog days were anciently a period of about forty
days, the hottest season of the year, at the time of the
rising of Sirius. Nowadays, they are counted from early
July to almost mid-August, the dates differing from
ancient days.

The sciences of navigation and geography often go
hand in hand with astronomy. Thus, it is no surprise
that two of the ﬁve zones into which the earth is
divided take their names from signs of the zodiac. The
Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn are
literally the earth zones of the crab and the goat.

And old-time seafarers still talk knowingly about the
“horse latitudes,” an imaginary area of the ocean just
north of the Tropic of Cancer and directly south of
the Tropic of Capricorn.

Why and when they were so named is uncertain at
this late date, though many a seagoing legend has been
spun by sailormen to account for the horse latitudes.

I August 1945

 

 

PISCES—-—THE FISH ES

 

 

SCORPIO—

THE SCORPION TAURUS—THE BULL

 

 

 

 




AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

and the

The MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY for the PREVENTION of CRUELTY to ANIMALS

 

 

 

W
my
l
1.5

Christian Science Monitor

Photo by courtesy of

CIBOYII

(See Page l84)

 

 

 

 

 

OCTOBER

1945

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Mm.

_‘4-_.;."~.-_._- -4

m
.f’“

   

 

 

  

Ms; 4-.» ,

T's;

    
   
      
 
   

 

 

V ,”
'CS;

L.”

m),

 

3:4...»— 5-.....
‘

”—3.25% ‘3;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:
,I
,—
o
I
n
.r

—_-.- «.-

q,

5

C




 

 

 

 

 

 

' d 7 _ .17” L»):- —
' . .- . . ‘ ~ . .g‘w LL” :x :.-.
A? .uxe‘. J»- ..4"... ';~..r::~ 1.33352..er 5".» sun _1u

Cat in the White House

By VINCENT EDWARDS

1E‘OR people who have seen a succession

of pictures and news stories about
President Roosevelt’s pet Scottie, “Falla,”
it should be no trouble at all to answer
the question, “What is the most famous
dog in America today?” Any animal that
resides at the White House and enjoys
the conﬁdence of the Chief Executive is
bound to bask in' the public spotlight
most of the time. '

The same thing was true nearly forty
years ago when “Slippers” lived at the
same address. There was another Presi-
dent Roosevelt—“T. R.”——in office then.
But Slippers wasn’t a dog. It was a gray
cat with six toes.

Like most cats, it often wandered off,
and sometimes was gone for days and
weeks at a time. It must have had an
uncanny sixth sense so far as social
goings-on were concerned. No matter
how long it was absent, the White House
employees noticed that it always man-
aged to get back just before a big diplo—
matic dinner was to be held. As sure as
they saw Slippers washing himself on
the White House front steps, society re-
porters knew the cards for some impor-
tant affair had gone out.

This famous cat wasn’t the least bit
fazed by distinguished guests from across
the Atlantic. It showed it the night that
President Theodore Roosevelt led his
guests from the state diningroom down
the corridor to the East Room.

The President was walking with the
wife of an important ambassador. Close
behind followed a line of noted guests——
ambassadors, plenipotentiaries and min-
isters, all according to their rank in the
diplomatic world.

Suddenly the procession halted abruptly.
There, on the rug, in the path of the
guests, lay Slippers! The cat was
stretched at full length and blinking lazily
as if nothing was so important as its own
comfort.

The President had seen the White
House cat just in time. He was ﬁrst
inclined to pick up Slippers and move him
out of the way, but, realizing that would
hold up the entire line, President Roose-
velt gave an amused bow to the Am-
bassadress, and escorted her around the
cat.

Every important ambassador that fol-
lowed with a lady upon his arm did the
same thing. Thus, the whole diplomatic
cOrps gave way to Slipper’s comfort.

Later, that night, Theodore Roosevelt
showed his sympathy for dumb animals.
He knew that if ever the White House
staff learned that Slippers had held up
all those diplomats, the cat would be in
eternal disgrace. So, as soon as he had
seated the Ambassadress, he excused
himself and went back and carried Slip-
pers to a room where the cat would be
safe from the wrath of any servant.

32

EM. koala} 3.244:

Cruelty of the Rafﬂe

YEAR by year, particularly during
the Thanksgiving and Holiday Sea-
son, raffles are held by various organiza-
tions at which time turkeys and fowl of
other kinds are raffled off. Two letters
have recently appeared in a Massachu-
setts paper calling attention to the cruel
treatment of these birds on two different
occasions.

Turkeys and other fowl conﬁned in
small cages were taken out and a number
of them, being seized by a leg, swung
around in a large circle to amuse the
crowd, the poor creatures giving evidence
of fright and in some cases apparently
more or less seriously injured.

Undoubtedly, such treatment of these
birds was not intended to be an act of
cruelty but was a result of thoughtless-
ness and total indifference to their sensi-
tiveness to suffering.

It is devoutly to be hoped that that sort
of thing will ultimately be stopped. It
certainly could be if an order for a turkey
or fowl of some other kind, addressed to
a ﬁrst-class market, could be rafﬂed off
instead of the living bird.

ti

Early Morning Visitor
By MARGARET KENILWORTH

 

There’s a plump little lady across the way
Who has a caller every day;

At exactly eight, on the window-sill,
He always arrives with a little trill.

His coat is gray, all trimmed with white;
He lifts his head between each bite

To thank the lady for crumbs of bread.
”'5 just as plain as if he said

“Thank you, kind lady, for this good meal;
After this, how fine l’ll feel.”

There’s a plump little lady across the way
Who has a caller every day.

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In search of "story-telling'I pic-
tures. we announce our annual photo-
graphic contest to end June 30.
I945.

A first prize of $25 and thirty-two
additional awards are offered for
clear. outstanding photographs of
wild or domestic animals and birds.

Have you a picture that tells a
story? Then. enter it in our contest.
Anyone may compete.

Be sure to send for complete con-

test rules. however. before sending
your picture.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Half and Half

By HENRY H. GRAHAM

OW would you like to have for a pet
an animal that was half dog and
half coyote? Such is “Bruce,” the adored
seven-year—old pet of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Pope, of Richﬁeld, Idaho. They raised
him from a pup, giving him every care
and attention. Due, perhaps, to the wild
strain in his nature, Bruce does not make
up readily with strangers and often
dashes away from them, but it is clear
that he thinks very highly of his masters.
One of the things of which Bruce is not
especially fond is being photographed.
It is very difﬁcult to snap him alone;
however, when Mr. and Mrs. Pope are
around he doesn’t seem to mind the
camera so much.

The dog-wolf looks very much like a
coyote as to color and build. His tail is
not so bushy as that of his wild brother,
however, and his body is a bit stockier.
He is grayish in color with whitish-gray
markings.

Bruce is extremely particular about
his food. Before partaking of anything
he always examines it thoroughly, even
when exceedingly hungry. No doubt
that is the wild strain showing up, for
coyotes are forced to use extreme cau—
tion in their selection of food they ﬁnd.
Sometimes meat is poisoned. When they
catch a rabbit or squirrel, however, they
know they may devour it without hesita-
tion. All wild animals prefer fresh meat
to carrion.

Strange to say, Bruce loves ice cream
and cake. This is odd, for carnivorous
animals, like the dog and wolf, virtually
limit themselves to meat. Their systems
can handle enormous amounts of protein
——-amounts which would be very likely to
injure a human being.

Bruce becomes very excited when wild
coyotes appear at night in the neighbor—
hood and set up a series of howls. How-
ever, if let out of the house at such times
he never joins his wild brothers. Some-
times he does yip a little. He does not
bark, but gives utterance to a few yips.
One of the queerest things about a true,
full-blooded coyote is his voice. So varied
is it in pitch that the vocal gymnastics of
a single animal often sound like those of
a dozen. It is impossible to determine
by listening how many of the animals are
in a pack.

Bruce knows no tricks. Mr. and Mrs.
Pope believe he is too stub-born to learn
any and attribute this fact to his wild
ancestry. He is shy in the presence of
other dogs and usually runs from them.
He has never been known to bother do—
mestic chickens or other creatures but he
does catch a chicken for Mrs. Pope when
she wants one. Yet he does not hurt the
fowl in the slightest.

All in all he is quite a pet and his
masters think the world of him.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




n artist 8 a 81161.! mortmits 0/ drama 3

\X/ E are happy this month to give our readers a
preview of a few pencil sketches by Miss
Rosina J. Burnell, talented artist, of Arlington,

Massachusetts. ‘ PORTRAIT OF MARMONTE NIVILLE.

Perhaps the outstanding characteristic which
marks all of Miss Burne‘ll’s work is the consummate

artistry of minute detail and life—like portraiture
of her subjects.

A lover of all animal life, Miss Burnell possesses the keen in-
sight into animal behavior so necessary in portraying the various
moods of her subjects. She has taken the greatest delight in deline-
ating the many phases of expression in her own two pets, the Boston
Terriers in the illustration in the lower right corner.

 

50 successful has she become in her chosen career, that she has
been commissioned repeatedly to produce drawings of family pets,

that their memories might be projected even after death has de-
prived the owners of their physical presence.

What ﬁner memorial to a loyal and loving pet!

Copyright 1945 by American Humane Education Society

JUNIOR TAKES A LESSON FROM
HE MASTER.

 

 

 

 

A. UP :A TREE.

TRUE AFFECTION. .

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Raccoon I'Shivers.” Pe

shoulder ’ro receive lh

Sarno. sqkrirrel masco’r of an Air Corps. would like no+h-
mg eHer +han +o become a flying squirrel.

“w

’r of a Marine Corps. perches on his masl'er's

ar. ’ro him. dain’riesr of morsels. an ice

cream cone.

PHOTOS BY COURTESY OF
U S .C . NaVy
U. S. oals’r Guard
U S. . Marine Corps
. . Army Signal Corps

tran O‘e

Mascots

m the

”G'l Jenny"/
is shown

in’reres’fe
9 his +urn-

rican Army in Nor‘lh Airica was
Corporal William Wende
d brushing. The

arienlly aw ai+in

Wilh ‘lhe Fii’rh Ame
’rhree-week-old burro masco’r.
giving Jennyvan early morning ba’rh an
audience is "Pi’ro." wire-haired lerrier. p

(Circle above 6
rrLasc';>e+‘30ry' Barron poses wi’rh +he Naval AH h . w
. a Slgrlllo Tiger." from Gua+emala ac e S ne

 

 

HAT the men in our armet forces ﬁnd that
ammals, no matter what kind, til '1 void i

I . . n at

est, an unnatural exrstence, has been illustraited

tlme and time again through pictures and Stories

By far the "rent “‘
. b . tst number
do S bUt . ‘1 ‘ ‘ ‘ of pets are, of course,
8 , in tic far—of} countries of the world
where our armies are now fighting, tie boys have
. . Witness the ac—
companylng pictures which show a squirrel tiger
3 3

adopted many strange mascots

raccoon, monkey, goat, seal and burro. These are
but a few of the man y species of animals on which
our ﬁghting men lavish their afiection.

The full value of these pets may never be esti—
mated, but there seems to be no doubt that the com-
panionship of these animals is a virtua therapeutic
1n the unconscious, self—tr‘atment of iomesickness
and loneliness which come to men whose home ties

ave been broken.

' . ln
lV/lonkeys have become greaiL iavoriies wﬁh our a:m:\<:ni:ryceSgiven
”‘9 piciure Firsl L’r. H. E. Robinson holds l'IIS pe .
I him by an Arab friend.

was given firs’r aid by combar forces and became a grea’r

IIHapp II
Y
pe+ while his cu+ fin was healing.

F' .
Irs’r Sergean’r Neil l. Shober shares ’rhe spoils of war—bananas—
wi+h a na’rive goal on Saipan.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our feathered friends with all sorts

of fancies and superstitions. As
a matter of fact, birds far outranked
animals in this respect. It might have
been that our cave-dwelling ancestors
could more readily understand the tread
of animals than the mystery of birds in
ﬂight. .

At any rate, they spread quit-e a few
bird rumors and superstitions, many of
which were not very complimentary to
our feathered friends.

In some countries in northern Europe
the family expected a prosperous year if
a stlork nested in the chimney in spring
time. For one thing, it was supposed to
herald a bumper crop. On the other hand
the raven was looked upon as a bird of
evil repute. Perhaps its sable coat, its

P EOPLE in ancient times surrounded

Butterﬂies Use

NEARLY all butterﬂies use perfume.
Not only do they use it, but they
even make their own and some of them
carry atomizers with which to spray the
perfume on those around them. How—
ever, it is the male of the species that
uses it and not the female.

In the majority of cases, the perfume
is secreted in patches of scales and hairs
on the lower wings and sometimes on the
hind legs of the insect. One species, the
familiar black and orange butterﬂy, has
an arrangement of several long hairs that
can be extended when in use and pulled
in when not working. Through these
hairs he sprays his perfume in all direc-
tions.

The scents these butterﬂy dandies
use include many that are familiar to us.
One variety of African butterﬂy uses the
scent of mignonette. Another perfume

May 191,5

Feathered

Fancies
Ry JASPER B. SINCLAIR

STORKS HERALD A PROSPEROUS YEAR

MISFORTUNE FOLLOWS HERONS IN FLIGHT

night-ﬂying antics and its mimicry of
the human voice started that rumor.

Classical mythology ﬁrst made the
rave-n a bird of ill-omen, and it never
quite lived down that reputation. Kit
MarloWe called it “the sad presageful
raven,” while even Shakespeare repeat-
edly referred to the belief that its ap-
pearance spelled misfortune for someone.

It was a bad sign in early England if
you heard the hoot of an owl when on the
point of star-ting out on a journey. Most
travelers would postpone their departure
for another day or so in that case—
which might cause the wise old owl to
add an extra hoot of derision for human
shortcomings.

Seafarers had an idea that harming
an albatross in any way was a sure
means of inviting trouble, as we are so

@

 

well reminded in the classic tale of “The

Ancient Mariner”
troubles.

People in the north of Scotland were
once convinced that a heron seen in ﬂight
across the waters of a Highland loch
was another sign of impending misfor-
tune. And the folklore of some tribes
still contains the belief that thunder was
caused by the ﬂapping wings of the
legendary thunderbird. This belief, in
fact, was shared in the mythology of the
Norsemen and the ancient Greeks and
Romans, as well as in the modern lore of
Polynesians and Carib islanders.

Old time superstitions should be
treated with utmost respect, however.
We still keep the s'tork busy on it legend-
ary errands and we still entertain some
queer notions about cackling hens.

and all his salty

Perfume . . . . . By ALBERT A. RAND

 

is sweet briar and another, musk. There
is one butterﬂy in Florida that smells
like a Chrysanthemum. The familiar
brown butterﬂy carries around with him
the scent of sandalwood. The one with
the sprayer, already mentioned, gives off
the frangrance of red clover.

One smells like a cup of weak coffee.
Another sheds the aroma of new—mown
hay. The so-called cabbage butterﬂy
secretes the scent of lemon verbena and
one species in Ceylon uses the scent of
chocolate candy.

The best equipped of all is a large
yellow butterﬂy, common to warm cli-
mates. He has a variety of scents from
which he can choose. In some circum-
stances he uses Violet and in another
musk. So, if one perfume fails to make
the desired impression he can use the
other.

93

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

That ‘r‘ One Far-Off Divine Event”

“. . . Where’er I listen

Music, and where I tend—bliss evermore.”

COULD the Robert Browning, who wrote these words long
years ago, sing them again were he here today? For myself, there
can be but one answer. Yes. For in spite of all that the clouds of
darkness and brutality and hate and this tragic war have staged be—
tween us and the stars, God is not dead. With Him, a thousand
years are but as a watch in the night. Eternity, as well as time, is
included in His plan.

Mercy, kindness, truth, love still sing with a music neither
hate nor crime nor cruelty nor lust can ever drown.

((

. . A sun will pierce

The thickest cloud earth ever stretched;
That, after Last, returns the First,
Though a wide compass round befetched;
That what began best can’t end worst,
Nor what God blessed once, prove accurst.”

Toward that one far—oﬁ divine event, which another has told
us, the whole creation moves, moves also, this great humane move-
ment of which we are a part. Called into organized existence only
one hundred and twenty years ago to stay the hand of cruelty
against life’s lowly children of earth and air and sea, this move-
ment has grown into a vast army of men and women who have
been sowing for more than a hundred years the seed of kindness
and compassion in unnumbered millions of human hearts. Kind-
ness and justice to the beast of the ﬁeld and the birds of the air?
Yes, but beyond all it has done for these, our lowly fellows, it has
come to stand for the existence of those sovereign virtues toward
our human fellows. Its goal — the type of character on which
alone can an enduring republic be built.

F. H. R.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mythical Animals

By WILBERT NATHAN SAVAGE

VEN a child of modern times can
gleefully laugh at the fantastic and
ridiculous forms of imaginary animal
life which our ancestors once believed in
——ranging all the way from the magic-
horned unicorn to the frightful winged
dragon which breathed smoke and ﬁre
and had sixteen heads of different colors.
The mythical griﬁ‘in was one of the
most feared creatures of ancient times.
It was supposed to resemble the eagle,
but was a hundred times larger, and had
the body of a lion, eight times the size
of an ordinary lion. His talons were said
to be as long as the horns of an ox, and
as sharp as needles.

The phoenix was another imaginary
bird which was greatly feared. It was
popularly believed that the bird always
lived to be 540 years old—no more, no
less. Many a weird tale of mystery and
magic was woven around this bizarre
bird which was conﬁned within the bor-
ders of Europe.

We still use the word “gorgon” as a
term of terror. This reference can be
traced to a belief of the ancients that a
fearful creature existed in the unexplored
jungles of Africa—and they gave the
name “gorgon” to their conjured terror.
It had the body of an armadillo, with a
serpent-like tail, and the legs and feet
of a pig, but it was all armed with great
razor-sharp scales. The head, according
to drawings of the imaginary animal,
resembled the head of an ox, covered
with serpents. The gorgon, it was widely
believed, could send forth poison from its
breath, which would instantly destroy
anything which dared attack it.

There was virtually no end to the
foolish and impossible creatures which
frightened people of ancient times. They
believed there was a strange and dan-
gerous sheep which possessed magic
powers and grew on a tree; there was a
hideous thing called the chimera, which
had three head-s, all different; they
feared great whales which had tusks
twelve feet long, and huge harpies which
drew seamen to destruction.

But the ancients did not waste all their
fright on these creatures of the imagina-
tion, for they had to worry about other
especially dangerous animals and birds,
which never existed. Great fear revolved
around the terrible sea—kraken, giant
ﬁre-breathing bulls, the dreadful ﬂying
satyrs, and countless others.

WHAT is the difference between a

ﬂea and an elephant?” “I don’t
know. What?”

“Why, an elephant can have ﬂeas, but
a ﬂea can’t have elephants.”

152

ANIMAL AND

A Wisconsin man has trained his dog
to go to the newsstand at a stated time
each day and bring home his master’s
paper. One day the little messenger
had torn a piece out of the paper. The
man borrowed his neighbor’s copy and
found, on the page which his dog had

torn, news of an outbreak of rabies.

At least one stray cat has a charmed
life, namely the feline who has taken up
her abode, with her family, at Turner’s
Arena, in Washington. Since she ap-
peared at the ﬁght club, attendance has
more than doubled. Woe to the unlucky
soul who dares to do her harm.

A judge in the Kentucky Court of
Appeals handed down a decision which
is extremely cogent, I think. He said:
“The human animal ofttimes speaks
falsely, but the lower animals, not pos-
sessing that attribute to deceive, disclose
the truth by obedience to an inherent
nature and instinct.”

Red ants are used for seasoning food
by some natives who live on the island
of Borneo.

The Komodo dragon, or monitor liz-
ard, is the largest lizard that exists in
the world today. Its habitat is Dutch
East Indies, with some species of its
family living in Australia. This reptile,
which is known as a dragon, is about
ﬁfteen feet long, a really plain-looking
fellow with none of the embellishments
like those shown on drawings of the
Chinese dragon.

We have recently found out why men
who treat diseases of animals are called
veterinarians. It seems that the word
is Latin in derivation. Veterinarius
means "of, or pertaining to, a beast of
burden.” ‘

The lineage of the chihuahua dog is
most interesting. It is reported that
the chihuahua has been the pet of the
Toltec Indians and their descendants
since about 7 50 A.D. Closely associated
with the religion of these ancient peoples,
these dogs were buried with their mas-
ters so that their jewel-bright eyes
might light the way to the other world
and frighten off evil spirits.

A dog, in Salisbury, Maryland, lost a
tooth, so his dentist-master made him
a gold one to take its place.

— I ack Pearson

Police Protection

By ETHEL M. RICE

NOOTY” is a Scotty dog. Unfortu-
nately, having been ill-treated by a

child, he feels that all children are ene-
mies and he naturally is on the war-
path when one approaches.

Three-year-old Robby adores his own
little dog and has no fear of others.
Recently Robby evaded Mother’s watch-
ful care and slipped from the yard, across
the street directly to the walk where sat
Snooty. Mother opened her door just
in time to see the dog start slowly toward
the child, bristling and growling. She
dared not speak to either the dog or
Robby lest the latter turn and the dog
spring upon him.

At that moment down the street dashed
a huge police—dog, hair on end, directly
headed for the child! Mother stood
petriﬁed with fear, not daring to go for-
ward or to speak lest she infuriate the
dogs and so add to the danger. On came
the police dog. With a rush he planted
himself directly in front of Robby and
faced the enemy. Then his lips rolled
back as he growled and snapped at the
smaller dog. Snooty turned tail and dis-
appeared back of the house.

The big dog lapped Robby’s face and
thentrotted off. He had done his good
Scout deed for that day.

:13

To “Penny”
By JOYCE WILSON

You lay at my feet when I studied,
You welcomed me home at night,

You hid my slippers and tore my books,
Cuddled up close when I put out the light.

You trailed gleefully along behind me,
When I turned down wooded lanes;

You accompanied my terrible singing
With off-key barking refrains.

Your ears were just like Dumbo’s,
Your feet like feather clusters were,
Your eyes were brown and tender,
And soft as down was your fur.

You frightened the neighbors half to death
With your bark that was worse than your
bite.
You chased the chickens and the cat,
And you howled at the moon at night.

You put runs in my stockings,
Left muddy footprints on my bed,

I should have thoroughly spanked you
Twenty times a day, but instead,

Now I find I’m really sorry
For the times I did punish you,
And if it’s not too late now, Penny
I'd like to say, “I love you.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

    
 

7~ (o
€Nclncb€9 HE (_‘,\__C)9

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

1’?

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 48 Central Street, Nor-
woodI Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

‘ » " ' .. "‘7“ , , .. - .ss as... .1 ' '
J___r . . . .:..-n. ... -mwﬁﬂygqé .

. .-.- .‘t‘f‘ .-?“:'r“:'~-_ . - ,
____ W emueagtzstfrziﬂeas-eras??-éa'ﬁreirWESr-s * ~ > - - '-

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part
Oi the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the Ofﬁce

entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particu-
larly prose articles of about 300 words. are
solicited. We do not wish to consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in
excess of twenty-tour lines. The shorter the bet-
ter. All manuscripts should be typewritten and

an addressed envelope with full return postage
enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Pub-
lication Omce. 48 Central Street. NorwoodI Massa-
chusetts. Entered as second-class matter, June
29, I9I7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass.
under the Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided tor

in section llO3, Act of October 3. l9l7.
authorized. July l3, l9l9.

Address all communications to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS. I80 Longwood Ave., Boston I5. Mass.

Mes-.3 mm 133mg...“ ewe”; gm,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868 U. S. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 78—No. I JANUARY. I945

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

1":

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEYI President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARDl Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY 8t STOREY, Counsel

ﬁr

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Boa-rdI First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

s“:
Massachusetts S. P. C, A, American Humane Education Society
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer's Assistant . Field Workers of the Society
Prosecuting Officers in Boston Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, Callfornla

. Mrs. Florida L. Byrne Tacoma. Washington
T | h C I t A b I es) L ngwood 6100 . .
2 ep one I omp am 5, m u anc 0 Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer . Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas

. AND Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Vlrglnla
HARRY L- ALLEN HOWARD WILL Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
HARVEY R- FULLER *J- ROBERT SM'TH Rev. R. E. Griffith De Land. Florida

County Prosecuting Officers D W F Field Representative
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk " m' ° H' wemzel' Ps'mburgh' Pennsy'va‘ma
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex L . P F‘T'e'g" c?"esP°“d'“8 ReP'ese"*a*“’e-"
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex UIS arela Cornelo .................... Ecuador

Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
JOSEPH E. HASWELL. Methuen Western Essex 5. c. Batra ........................... lnd-ia
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Hampden» Hampshire and Franklin Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford ..
Bristol and Plymouth 71:?

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and NantuCKet

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire Ange" MmeiaI An'ma' I'I°‘P'ta'
_ and Dispensary tor Anlmals
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, 180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 5‘00
Methuen . .
W W HASWELL Superintendent vetermmns
' ' ’ E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. s. P. c. A. G. B. SCHNELLE. V.M.D.. Asst. Chief
Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue R' H' SCHNEIDER’ V'M'D'
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street T- 0- MUNSON' V‘M'D'
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire «oer “c. L‘ BLAKELY’ V-M-D-
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue :M' 5‘ ARLEIN’ D'V'M'
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville :‘L‘ H' SCAMMAN’ D'V‘M'
Wenham, Cherry Street W A' WILCOX’ D'V'M'
Brockton, 226 Pearl Street N. L- GRE'NERs D-V-M-
FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.
Branches and Auxiliaries W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——PROF HARRY L' ALLEN’ Superintendent
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER, . .
Treas. Sprlngfleld Branch
Telephone 4-7355
Hol oke Bran h f M . S. P. C. A.—AAR N . . .
BAGG? pres; Bl§ooi<s vast—ins, Treas, O M 53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R. Veterinarians
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Trees. “.A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S. Til: T3 ETEEICETOBI’VWMD
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas. H. J. KOPP, ’V.M.D.
Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.— R' M' BARLOW’ V'M'D'

MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman. *On leave of absence—military service




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

f .
HE GLOe

   

é“Ii/Cuzcb'a6

Editor -— WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

ﬁr

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part
of the world. In clubs of five or more subscrip-
tions. sixty cents each. within the United States.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our

two Societies.
if

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of from 300-400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subiect,
except cruel sports or captivity. dealing with ani-
mals. especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-

tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRNPHS should be sharp. depicting
either domestic or wild animals in their natural
surroundings. Pictures that tell a story are most

desirable.
VERSE about animals should be short.

gest from four to sixteen lines.

We sug-

IMPORTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten.
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-half
cent a word for articles: one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings: one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

sir

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion ofﬁce, 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts: editorial ofﬁce. I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston
I5. Massachusetts.
Boston office. Entered as Second-class matter.
June 29. l9l7. at the Post Office at Norwood.
Mass.. under the Act of March 3, I879.
once for mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided for in section ”03. Act of October 3. l9l7.
authorized. July l3. l9l’9.

Address all communications to

Acce pt-

OUR DUMB .

          

VOLUME 78—No. l0 OCTOBER. I945

Founded by Geo. T. Angell, I868
PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

71‘?
Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel
1’)?
Trustees of Permanent Funds~
JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

19:
Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. American Humane Education Society
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant . Field Workers of the Society
Prosecuting Officers in Boston Mrs. FlorIda L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Ba-rnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER ‘ J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Mid‘dlesex and Norfolk

FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
JOSEPH E HASWELL Meshuerr Weserrr Essex éf°é‘.a’§.l'..“i“f‘ff'fY::::::::::::::::::: {Lilia
JOHN T BROWN Egr‘r'r‘rrgef'eee'drremesmre see Framers ”Sf“??? E'higrllé’ff‘fifxz:::::::::" $23.22?
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Alice W. Manning. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Turkey

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G ANDREWS, Hyannis if
Barnstable, sDukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Meth-uen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Veterinarians
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY. V.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53—57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A. —MISS ~
IrSABEL B. CRESSLER, Pres; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,
reas

Holyoke Branch of Mas S. P. C.
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKSs WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355

A___JAMES 53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. M. F. PETER- Veterinarians

SON, Pres.; MRS. RED 8. KORBEL, Treas. A. R EVANS LVngH1y<§ﬁrin°rﬂn in Charge
Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS LEONTINE T. R“ L'

POTE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM N. BEGGS, Treas. *2: §,K€:ngv9AQ/WMD

N. L.GREINER, D...VM
*On leave of absence —— military service

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. —-—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman. C A

 




From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

Our New Year’s Greeting

Fall our wishes could come true for

every reader of these words, this New,

Year would bring joy and not sorrow,
pleasure and not pain, freedom from
anxiety and fear, and the peace for
which we are praying. Yet, hope as we
may, pray as we may,
taught us that:

“Every year has its winter,
And every winter has its rain——
But the day is always coming
When the birds go North again.”

This brief greeting is something more
than just an annual, formal message to
our readers. It is a personal word from
our heart to the heart 0f each one of you
who reads it.

a

E wish that justice to animals
were more often given considera-
tion than mercy. Justice is their right.
Mercy, rather, is for those who dare not
plead for justice.
' 1%

F the millions of professed lovers of

the common ordinary cat, how

many make any real effort to prevent the

enormous increase in numbers that is

constantly going on? Tens of thousands

of cats are annually born to lives of
suffering and homelessness.

13

F the doctors are to be believed, leav-
ing out the experience of the layman,
overeating has sent more people to their
graves through the centuries than over-
drinking. If the latter has slain its
thousands, the former has slain its tens
of thousands. Unfortunately, few ever
think of the over-indulgence in eating
as having anything to do with mortality.

1%

ITH rabies reported to be so com—

mon a disease among dogs, why is
it that not one person in a million ever
heard of a man, woman or child dying
of hydrophobia?

the past has

January 1 945

Unafraid

What more can we say as the New
Year comes than we have said, in sub-
stance, once before?

HERE are peoplelwho seem to have

despaired of the future. Everything,
they say, is on the down grade. One man
says thiswar of inexplicable cruelties
and inhuman outrages has wrecked his
faith. Another sees every humane move-
ment retarded a half a century. Another
insists that after the war, social and
industrial revolutions await us ready to
make every last thing ﬁrst and every
ﬁrst thing last. Still another declares the
progress of the world has been set back
a hundred years.

It’s the way you look at it. And the
way you look at it depends much upon
your knowledge of the past and your
inner vision of what are the great reali-
ties. If this world to you is only like a
ship drifting without chart or compass
upon a shoreless sea at the mercy of
every wind that blows and tide that runs,
then such an experience as this through

"which it is just now passing means only

a battered hull, torn cordage, tattered
sails—almost a wreck, and generations
will be needed to make it look again even
respectable. But if the world never has
rolled on through all the sea of time, hit
or miss, if in spite of all thatlooks to
the contrary there have been chart and
compass aboard, and someone at the
helm who has known what he was about,
if this be true, and multitudes are con-
ﬁdent the facts warrant the conviction
that it is true, then our ship, no matter
what the storm or how long the night,
has not lost her course.

Let us rest assured that the moral
forces of the world have been and always
will be the all-conquering forces. It is a
better world that is to be. Many a hoary
wrong will be found to have been
trampled to its death on the frightful
ﬁelds of this sad war. Many an ancient
evil, entrenched in human customs and
conventions, social, political, religious,
will be blown to atoms ere all the human
explosives ﬂung out by the great con-

'ﬂict are exhausted; and justice, truth,

humanity, and all the virtues that keep

them company, will command the rever—
ence of mankind as never before. It is
for this better world to be that our no-
blest and (bravest are gladly laying down
their lives. It is ours to stand behind
them not only with our service and our
money, but with this unwavering faith
that they ﬁght a winning battle.

&
A Great Loss

N the death of Miss Dorothy Forbes,
for over thirty years a Director of

the Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals, we have
lost one of the most generous, loyal, co-
operative friends the Society has ever
had.

Miss Forbes was one of the descend-
ants of a famous old New England
colonial family. She was the daughter
of J. Murray Forbes, who was one of
our Directors from 1875 to 1892, and a
member of our Finance Committee and
auditor till April, 1880. '

She died Friday, November 17, 1944,
having been for several years the victim
of an illness which, however, did not
cause her to cease her active and helpful
relationships with many social and
philanthropic organizations in which she
was always deeply interested.

In 1920 Miss Forbes was prominent in
the Leonard Wood campaign for Presi-
dent and attended the Chicago conven-
tion in behalf of his nomination. She
was an animal lover from her childhood,
a great horse-woman through the earlier
years of her life, fond of the outdoors
and, though deeply interested in the
welfare of all life’s lowlier creatures,
never an extremist, never expecting the
Society to do impossible things, gifted
with a personality that won her a multi-
tude of friends wherever she went—
friends who loved her, respected her,
trusted her.

-In all its long history of more than
seventy-six years, as we have said, she
was among our Society’s most honored
Directors.

Miss, Forbes leaves a sister, Miss Mary
Bowditch Forbes of Milton, and a
brother, Allan Forbes of Boston, Presi—
dent of the State Street Trust Company.

3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

friend?’ ”

Mule Cuts Blackout Short

’IHERE’S one mule in Kansas City
that deﬁnitely dislikes the dark and
for a time had a clever way of getting
around the blackout rules imposed on
the barn. The mule’s name is “Maud”
and she lives at the City Farm where
lights are turned off each night. That is,
the workers insisted they turned them
off, but in some mysterious way the lights
were always on at night.

One night the manager, Cyriel Provyn,
hid in the barn to ﬁnd out just who was
being careless with the lights. All of the
workmen left and the last one to go pulled
the cord and the barn was in darkness.

Maud, whose pet hate is the word
blackout, calmly walked over to the string
attached to the ceiling switch and gave
it a jerk with her teeth. The lights went
on and Maud walked back to her stall.

—M. M. Farmer

43

Dogs and Reasoning Power

N English class in the public school

once had to write a paragraph on
“People disagree as to whether dogs can
reason.” That was some twenty years ago
——the other day as I went through some
of my old composition books, I had to
stop and read the paper, mainly because
it was marked with a large “A.”

“People disagree as to whether a dog
can reason. I favor the fact that a well-
trained dog can reason, reason to the
extent of his training. Man is taught,
ﬁrst a language, then the basic founda—
tion for logical reasoning power with the
acquired language. Could man but pierce
the wall of normal metaphor with a dog,
the power of reasoning could be trans-
ferred to the animal, he could be taught
the ﬁgurative difference betWeen right
and wrong, the proper and improper
meaning of everyday problems requiring
the use of rational reasoning. . . . But
then, with the mastery of reasoning
would man still term a dog ‘man’s best

—Lew Head
:13

The Protector

lady was in the habit ofletting her

canary out of its cage every day,
and had taught a favorite cat not to touch
it. One morning as it was picking up
crumbs from the carpet, the cat seized it
suddenly, and jumped with it in her
mouth to the top of the table. The lady
was much alarmed at ﬁrst for the safety
of her pet bird, but, on turning about,
instantly discovered the cause. The door
had been left open, and a strange cat had
just entered the room. After the lady
had put out the strange cat, her own cat
came down from her place of safety, and
dropped the bird, without having done it
the slightest injury.

—G. W. L.
219

NIMAL AND

There are countless records of dogs
barking to awaken sleepers endangered
by ﬁre, or ﬂood. But “Geepy,” a Wash-
ington, D. C., mongrel exhibited unusual
intelligence recently when he realized
that the house was ﬂooded with gas.
He apparently reasoned that the gas
may have already partly suffocated his
mistress, so instead of barking he jumped
on her bed and taking her hair between
his teeth pulled until she was aroused.
It developed that a serious leak in the
kitchen was emitting enough gas to
overcome the occupants quickly and but
for Geepy’s prompt and ingenious warn-
ing a tragedy would have resulted.

A California war worker has solved
the alarm clock shortage by pressing
into service his brother’s fox terrier,
who, promptly at six a.m. scratches on
the sleeper’s door and barks until he
succeeds in getting proper results. The
strangest part of the story is that the
dog never disturbs his client on the
latter’s day off.

In June, 1944, "Bosco,” a small dog,
was shipped to Glendale, Calif., to visit
his 17-year-old master. When the young
man called at the express ofﬁce for his
dog, he found instead a big hole gnawed
in the top of the crate which once had
contained Bosco. Advertisements were
run, rewards were offered, but no news
was heard of the missing canine. Mean-
while, the family returned to its Knox-
ville home, but to a new address. The
next incident, according to the papers,
occurred in March, 1945, when one of
the family riding by the old homestead,
noticed a much bedraggled Bosco sitting
on the front porch. In order to make
this trip the dog traveled over 2,000
miles, over mountains, deserts and
rivers.

It is doubtful if any member of the
mule family will object if I suggest that
they are not noted for great intelligence.
But Uncle Sam’s Army claims to have
such an animal that is infallible as a
weather prophet. When a storm is im-
minent he brays. It is said that this
mule has nearly a dozen grades of
"bray,” from which can be detected the
severity of the coming "falling
weather.”

' At least one soldier, eligible for
mustering out on the point system, re-
fused to board the returning ship be-
cause the authorities would not admit
his dog mascot.

——]ack Pearson

Faithful Dog

By H. E. ZIMMERMAN

JOE” is a beautiful, soft—eyed brown
setter, whose gentle and digniﬁed
ways endear him to everyone who knows
him. “Silvertip” was a member of the
household also, and she and Joe were good
friends.

The time arrived when it became neces-
sary for Mrs. E, their mistress, to move
to an eastern city. She place-d Joe with
a friend, .but only temporary arrange—
ments could be made for the cat. After
several weeks in the eastern city Mrs. F.
returned to close her affairs and to take
Joe to a new home. She was told that
Joe had become a regular gadabout, leav—
ing the house each morning after break-
fast and not returning till dusk.

Joe left the house as usual the next
morning. When he returned that night
a card was tied to his collar, and on it
was written, “To whom does this lovely
dog belong?”

The next after-noon Mrs. F. called at
the address given on the card, and was
joyfully welcomed by Joe himself, who
stood back and looked from his mistress
to his hostess, as though to say, “This is
the lady who befriended me in your ab-
sence. I am happy to have you know
each other.” The lady invited Mrs. F. in.
She said she had noticed Joe on her
return from market one morning, at—
tracted by his beauty. She called him,
and he was so loving and gentle, she took
him into the house for her invalid mother
to see, and he had spent every day with
them from then on.

“Does the cat belong to you also?”
asked the hostess. Going into the hall she
called, “Kitty, Kitty,” and, to Mrs. F.’s
amazement, in walked Silvertip.

“One morning Joe was late in arriv—
ing,” said the hostess, “and I went to the
door several times to look for him. I
ﬁnally saw him in the distance, running
a short way, sitting a few minutes, and
then running again. As I drew nearer, I
saw that he waited each time for a small
cat to catch up with him. When he saw
me he ran to me, whining excitedly, then
ran back to the cat, then to me, as if to
say, ‘I have brought a friend. Won’t you
take her in, too?’ He wagged his tail and
barked joyously when I picked up the cat,
and we started back to the house.”

Mrs. F. asked the woman if she would
keep Silvertip, and she said, “Yes, indeed!
I couldn’t go back on Joe.” So Mrs. F.
was able to go to her new home, happy
in the consciousness that Silvertip would
be well cared for, thanks to the faithful—
ness of a dog.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

Retired Workers’ Fund

' E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

48

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

* ‘A' ‘k ‘k

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

The annual meeting of our two Societies will be
held Tuesday, January 23, 1945.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 890
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,615
Operations .................. 292

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street,

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 270
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 905
Operations ................. 166
Totals

Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 241,595
Dispensary cases ............. 602,278
Total .......... 843,873

DECEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, .F‘ITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERI-IILL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,720
Cases investigated ............ 263
Animals examined ............. 3,645
Animals placed in homes ........ 377
Lost animals restored to owners . 80
Number of prosecutions . . . i ..... 8
Number of convictions ......... 8
Horses taken from work ....... 3
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 41
Small animals humanely put to '
sleep ...................... 2,259
Horse auctions, attended ........ 16
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 66,876
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 33

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March,
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, should,
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or, it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

February 1945

Veterinary Column

1. Question: Our dog sheds con—
stantly both summer and winter, although
his skin appears to be healthy. This con-
dition is annoying since he is kept in the
house, and his white hairs necessitate
persistent sweeping. What can be done
to st0p his shedding?

Answer: A dog which is kept in a
heated house will shed all the year, as
you have observed. This is a normal con-
dition, and cannot be checked.

2. Question: Is it possible to have a
dog spayed after she has had puppies?

Answer: A dog may be spayed after
having puppies. However, the operation
involves more risk, and is more serious
than the spraying of a female dog before
birth has taken place. In any case, it is
advisable to wait at least three months
after the arrival of the puppies before
having the operation performed.

3. Question: My dog developed sev-
eral round, bare spots on his stomach,
which my veterinarian diagnosed as ring-
worm. Is this disease contagious to us?

Answer: Ringworm is readily passed
between man, dog and cat. Therefore,
extreme care should be taken in the
handling and treatment of the aﬂ'ected
animal. The most popular remedies are
tincture of iodine, or ointments or solu-
tions containing salicylic acid, which
must be applied directly to the sores.
After contact with the dog, it is advisable
to scrub the hands thoroughly with soap
and water.

4. Question: Our three-month-old
puppy often has attacks resembling hic—
coughs in a person. He seems uncomfort-
able and distressed during these spells,
although they usually do not last long.
What could be the trouble?

Answer: Hiccoughs are often seen in
puppies, and usually accompany stomach
distress. Be sure that the bowels move
regularly, and if necessary give a mild
laxative, preferably mineral oil. The
diet should be carefully regulated. and at
this age should be conﬁned to milk, ce—
reals, and meat, with regular meals three
or four times daily. A sample of the
stool should be submitted to your veter-
inarian for a microscopic examination
to detect the presence of worm infesta-
tion, which may be a cause of hiccoughs

in your puppy.

R. M. B., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

33

 

 




~ I . ~-. ‘.. ~ 2‘.~.. 3'. ' . . .-“ 7.1! ’ " ..
f 35“" " ,Hﬁ‘z‘i’sﬂf'T‘ "’1‘, . ‘1'“;ikkshaf.{ng;asw;ne <7.‘ '“W ‘ . - vat-:- . untrue—m- -~~

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. |868 U. S. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 78—No. 4 APRIL, I945

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
, 7 AND ¥
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

1’3:

    

f .
HE GLOe

 

é7VCu7.c;\eee

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW Officer:
Assistant Editor —— WILLIAM M. MORRILI.

ERIC H. HANSENI President DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, Chairman Of the Board
I ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary
IMPORTANT! _ PEABODY, BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

NO mail whatsoever should be sent
tO us at 48 Central Street. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Ofﬁce reg- ' . CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
ulations. United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we

, ﬁr

 

 

 

 

1’2:

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman Of the Boa-rd, First Boston Corporation

 

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR., President, First National Banlr of Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receive it. if?
. . , , Amer'c H ' '
CORRECT ADDRESS Massachuse-H-s S P C A . Ian umane Educatlon SWIG”
W l( 'I" , I‘ll. JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant _ . F'e'd Workers °f “‘9 “"9”
. e as your coopera Ion In IS Prosecuting Officers in Boston Iran. Allce L. Park, Palo Alto, CaIIfornIa
matter. I‘I' Wlll help US ‘I’O serve you Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100 '5' FlorIdaOL. Byrne, Tacoma, Washmgton .
more rom ‘II it ou will use our Mrs. KatherIne Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgla
correcf d dp y y L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer 2:- fggﬁ'g'vfrs BamX:”»\f,°”f Wm“ Texas
a reSS. ' ' . . emon, l' , ll’gll‘lla
A'I' the bottom f 'I‘I'II OI . NARSEYLRNFUETER I'lﬁwgggEﬁlLsmﬁa Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
II .F d .H‘ dd 0 5h? hunl‘ln You . , - Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
WI I ’ - . .
. n . e a ress I'O w IC a com County Prosecuting Officers Field Representatlve .
mumcattons ShOUId be sent. HERMAN N. DEAN Boston Middlesex and Norfolk D" wm' F' H‘ wanna" PIIISburgh’ Pennsylva‘m'
Please use it now and in all future FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex “Wig" c°"esl’°“di“g Rep'esemaﬁv“
correspondence. WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex ““5 Pare’a C°mel° """""""""""" Ecuad“
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
JOSEPH 5- HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex 5. C. Batra ........................... India
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Hampden. Hampshire and Franklin Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
SUBSCRIPTION RATES HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey
One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part CHARLES E‘ BROWN’ New Bedfoégstol and Plymouth 71:?
0* ”‘9 wor'd' HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
_ Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucxet ‘
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire Angell Memorial Animal HOSPII'aI
entitle the sender to membership in either of our and Dispensary for Animals
two Societies. Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, 180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100
Methuen
MAN USCRIPTS relating to animals. particu- W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent Veterinarians .
Iarly prose articles of about 300 words, are 0 h , E' F' SCHROEDER’ D'V'M" Chlef “Puff
solicited. We do not wish to consider prose t er Small Animal Shelters 0‘ M. S. P. C. A. G.RB.I-EI‘CFS‘El-EILNLEEI’DIE/RMeoMADSSt Ch'ef
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in Boston, ‘80 Longwood Avenue T. Q. MUNSO 'MMD. .
f -f I' SprIngerld, 53-57 BIIss Street ' ' . N' ' ' '
excess 0 twenty our Ines. The shorter the bet- . . . C L BLA EL
ter All manuscri ts sh ulcl b t 'tt PlttSerld’ 224 CheshIre Road . I K Y, VlMD.
‘ dd d p O . e ypeer en and Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue *M' 5' ARLEIN’ D'V'M'
an a rose envelope .Wll’l’l full return postage Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville *L- H- SCAMM‘AN. D-V-M-
enclosed wIth each otterlng. . Wenham, Cherry Street *W- A- WILCOX. D.V-M-
. , N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.
PubIIshed monthly by The Massachusetts Society BrOthon’ 226 Pearl Street FRED KEEFE VS BVSC
tor the Prevention of C It t A ' I " ' l I H l . -
I' . rue y O nIma 5. Pub- Branches and AIIXlIlal’leS W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc. .
Ication otﬁce. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Masses Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. c. A.—PROF. HARRY '-- ALLEN, sui’e'intendem
chusetts. Entered as second-class matter, June I‘D. R' LIEDER' Pres.; MRS' ARTHUR 5' WARNER’ ' ° '
29, l9l7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.. ris' _5rP||’||18hfoleld :23;
under the Act f M OIyOke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.-———AARON . eep ne '
'|' o. arch 3. I879. Acceptance tor BAGG, pres_; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.- M 53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
maIIng at speCIal rate of postageprOVIded tor Springfield Bran h A 1' MRS
' 0 c — O O
In sectIon II03, Act of October 3, I9I7. MILLER, Pres.; MRS. FRE‘B‘IBITIRORBEL 'TrESSTERT R. A R Elf/ﬁrmananso
authorIzed, July I3. I9I9. . , *R. L. LEIGuisfols/I'MVMD
Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S. H. B SIEGL ’ M ' '
. . TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS Treas ’ ° °
Address all communIcatlons to OUR DUMB ’ ' H. J. KOPP' VMD

ANIMALS Boston Work Committee of M . S. . _ R' M’ BARLOW'V'M'D'
. '80 Longwood Ave.. Boston I5, Mass. MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairmagz. P C. A. *On leave Of absence—military service

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by Richard Merrill

Herbert Liscomb. in charge of our Brockton Shelter. proudly puts his pet cocker
spaniel. "Rusty." through his paces for Roy Moore. John Convey. and his daughter.
Diane Liscomb.

Ellie Bank! at Merry nr

Eliminr ﬁtment Ensign»

ERIC H. HANSEN, President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and thirty-one Bands of
Mercy were organized during March.
These were distributed as follows:

Massachusetts ........ 110
Georgia .................. 43
Virginia ........ 32
Florida . . . . .......... 31
Pennsylvania ............. 10
Texas . . . . . . . ...... 4
Washington .............. 1

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent-American Society, 269,-
91.
SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made,
Number of persons in audiences,

94

195
21,806

The Boston Touch!

The following letter was received by
the Chairman of Our Trustees, John R.
Macornber, and is being reprinted with
permission of writer and recipient:
Dear Mr. ‘Macomber:

Always an admirer of Culture, I was
delighted last night when I went to the
Angell Memorial Hospital, to pick up a
friend’s dog, to discover the beneﬁcial re-
sults of the ﬁne example you have always
set. When asked to identify the dog, I
said, “He is a black Cooker who was
brought in to be deloused.” The attend-
ant replied, “We have a Cooker, sir, who
was brought in this morning for an an-
tiseptic bath.” ,

I hope you keep up the good work!

Your humble and obedient servant,
(Signed) Sherwin C. Badger

@

New @iiiicer Elected
AMES BOWER, JR, principal of the
H. B. Lawrence school, was recently

elected president of the Holyoke Branch
of our Society at its annual organization
meeting. Mr. Bower succeeds Aaron
Moore Bagg to that ofﬁce.

Mrs. Alphonse deOlloqui was elected
Vice—president and Brooks White was re-
elected treasurer.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital . . . . . . 855
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,726
Operations.................. 336

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 292
Cases entered in Dispensary 788
Operations ................. 179
Totals

Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 ............. 244,784
Dispensary cases ............ 608,884
Total .......... 853,668

MARCH REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
WH'E‘K—l HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRENGFEELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEsono, WENT—TAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FTTCT—TBURC, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHTLL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD COVERHNG THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 13,431
Cases investigated ........... . 278
Animals examined ............ 2,771
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . 260
Lost animals restored to owners . 67
Number of prosecutions . . . . . . 5
Number of convictions ....... . 4
Horses taken from work ..... . 2
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 17
Small animals humanely put to
sleep 2,259
Horse auctions attended. . . . . . . . 18
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . . . . . . . . . . . . 71,530
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
puttosleep............... 78

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springfield radio station
WS‘PR—l270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
May

l—"Animals in the News."

May 8—"Emergency Care and Treat-

ment of Animals."
May |5——"True Dog Stories."
May 22—"Animals in General."
May 29—"Understanding Our Animals."

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

..

In the belief that our readers would be
interested in accounts of actual cases
dealt with by our oﬂ‘icers, we are opening,
this month, a new department. H ere, we
shall set forth, from time to time, reports
of a very few of the typical complaints
and how they are handled.

Riding Academies
On complaint of neglect, one of our

agents visited a new riding school where
he posted the Society’s placard, which
outlines the responsibility of riders
towards their mounts.

On inspection, he found seven horses
in good condition, and one horse with
swollen legs from being run on a hard
road. This animal he ordered taken from
work until the condition was cured. Our
agent also advised the owner to have the
horses’ feet ﬁxed up by a blacksmith
before they were used over theweek-end
and told him that he should watch the
animal’s feet continually. In this case,
the owner proved most agreeable, realiz-
ing the horses’ welfare was in direct
proportion to his own earnings.

At another riding academy, our agent
found four horses tied to a rail in the
yard. From these he had the saddles
removed and found two animals with sore
backs. These two, and two which he
later inspected, were laid up for treat-
ment. Furthermore, the owner agreed to
close the school for three weeks or more
until the horses were in good condition.
Prosecution was deemed inadvisable.

Cats

A four-year—old gray and white cat
was recently brought to our Hospital be-

 

cause it had been coated with green paint.
This was carefully removed and investi-
gation started. Our agent found four
boys involved and procured the promise
of reimbursement to the owner for hos-
pital expenses and parental punishment
for the boys, as the complainant did not
wish to prosecute the culprits.

Another complaint investigated was
that of a store cat, which, the com-
plainant asserted, was being starved.
Upon calling at the store, our agent
found the cat thin, but healthy. The
store proprietor promised to give the
animal additional food.

Livestock

Charged with cruel treatment of six
cows and seven horses which were
crowded int-o his truck, a resident of
Maine pleaded guilty in a Peabody court
and was given a three months’ suspended
sentence to the House of Correction. Our
agent testiﬁed that the man had driven
from Maine with the animals so crowded
into the truck that, when the vehicle was

opened for inspection, three horses fell

out on the road.
Dogs

The mysterious death of sixteen dogs
and two cats was reported to one of our
district agents. Following up the call,
he was amazed to ﬁnd the bodies of dead
animals along the roadside. Some had

been dead for some time and, from ap-
pearances, other dogs had died only re-
cently. It is believed that the dogs were
not poisoned, but veterinary examination
is being made to determine cause of death,
and investigation will continue.

 

Mrs. Francis Belliveau assures her mount that these rules will be followed.

124

Bird and Animal Coins

By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HE American bald eagle is a familiar
ﬁgure on the coins of the United
States, but birds and animals are not so
generally depicted on the world’s coins as
on the postage stamps of the nations.

We have the equally familiar buffalo
nickel, of course, as a symbol of the
pioneering days when great buffalo herds
roamed the unfenced Western plains.

A commemorative half dollar was
minted in 1936, in connection with the
opening of the San Francisco—Oakland
Bay bridge. One side pictured a portion
of the world’s longest span and the other
a California grizzly'bear—as a reminder
of the old California Bear Republic.

The bald eagle has been pictured in
various designs on various American
coins—small eagles, large eagles, ﬂying
eagles and birds with folded wings. But
in all its poses it still typiﬁes our national
emblem.

Coins of Mexico, Germany and Austria,
among other nations, have at one time
or another depicted the eagle. The double
eagle was the national emblem of the
German and Austro-Hungarian mon-
archies in the days before World War
One.

Our Canadian neighbors recently pro-
duced a beaver nickel, a ﬁve~cent piece
portraying the industrious little beaver
at work. British coins in past years have
variously portrayed the same lion and
leopard that are featured on the royal

standard and coat—of—arms of the king-

dom.

Guatemalan coins acquaint us with the
brightly-plumaged quetzal, the national
emblem of the Republic of Guatemala.
The coin accepted as the monetary unit
of the country is also called a quetzal.

A bird of the tropical forests, the
quetzal is generally known as the “bird
of freed-om” because it will not live in
captivity. It was this characteristic of
the bird that prompted liberty-loving
Guatemalans to adopt the quetzal as their
national emblem for use on coins, postage
stamps, ﬂag, ofﬁcial. state papers and
state seal.

:13

The Innocents

Young animals, like saplings, are uncon-
scious; I

Yet they are ever sleekly, suavely sure;

Voluptuous as the heart of all creation,

And as severely pure.

They float like leaves on instinct’s rhythmic
river
Down to oblivion’s ocean, unconcerned
With faith, or doubt, or truth, not being
human
Only to live they’ve learned.
——Eva lngersoll Wakefield

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

,._. 1;. ,_ _

A xwru—é =———«<_fA——~__‘m»._m— A —

 




 

 

Next to Human

OUNG Donald Hulbert, who lives

near Muskegon, Michigan, can'be
justly proud of his saddle horse, “Red.”
In an emergency without precedence in
his experience Red revealed an intelli—
gence little less than human.

Mr. Hulbert had recently purchased
“Lady,” a young Hambletonian mare, for
Donald’s brother Larry. Her former
owner lived not far from the Hulberts’
country home. One night Lady broke
away and, accompanied by Red, started
down M—20 toward her old home.

About eleven o’clock Stanley N ylander
who lives on M-ZO was awakened by an
unusual thumping noise at the front of
the house. When he investigate-d he
found Red frantically pawing on the
porch floor. As soon as he saw Mr. Ny-
lander, Red dashed away and galloped
down the highway.

Curious to see what had happened,
Mr. Nylander followed. A considerable
distance away he found Red standing
protectingly, though helplessly, over
Lady who lay on the highway bleeding
profusely. He was shielding her body
with his own.

An examination showed that Lady’s
side had been badly injured by the door
handle of an automobile that had passed
too close to her. She had run about half
a mile after the accident, until weakened
by loss of blood she had fallen. Red’s
gallant efforts to save her were unavail—
ing, and she died before morning.

—Em’en G. Beaudry

@

Mother Love
UDGY is just plain “Dog.” She is
now mascot of a Government ware-
house in Chicago. . ,

About two years ago Pudgy had six
puppies. They were born under a pile
of wheelbarrows alongside the railroad
tracks. When she and her family were
discovered, they were removed to one
of the shacks in the warehouse yard. It
was found that three of the pups were
dead, having been drowned by the rain
water running down the bank of the
railroad bed during a rainstorm the
night before. They were left there and
the rest removed.

A short time later that day, the Su-
perintendent, walking through the yard,
saw Pudgy digging under the wheel-
barrows and, watching her, saw her bring
out one pup, dig a hole, put the pup into
the hole, place a little dirt over it; go
back for another pup, place it in the hole,
cover it with dirt; go back for the third,
and when all three were buried, she lay
on their grave with her head between
her paws. She lay there for about an
hour, and then walked away.

—Fl0rence Krase

August 1945

 

Peccary. or Mexican Wild Pig

w...

 

Strange Pigs and Their Cousins .
By WILBERT N. SAVAGE

HEN pigs were ﬁrst domesticated

by man, no one can say, but we do
know that common American types had
their origin in the Old World. Indeed,
our ﬁnest varieties of today are cousins
of wild hogs of other lands, from which
they descended. We know that pigs were
common two thousand or more years
ago, for they are mentioned frequently
in the Bible.

Throughout the world there are many
strange and remarkable kinds of hogs.
The pygmy pig, no larger than a hare
when full-grown, is native to certain
parts of India. A further unusual exam-
ple of pig life may be found in Africa,
south of the Sahara, where the bush pigs
dwell. These wild creatures are distin-
guished by the presence of large per-
manent swellings on each side of the face.

The African forest 'hog is the largest
member of the swine family. Their
tusks are of great size, and as weapons
of defense they are so formidable that
the giant animal can meet the tiger on

4.3

terms of equality. Large and ﬁerce as
he is, the forest hog is little known. Liv-
ingstone and Stanley both heard rumors
of him, but dared not believe native re-
ports. It is known, however, that they
reach a weight far exceeding that of any
other wild hog and, size for size, their
great strength, which is said to be dis-
played only when the creature is aroused
to extreme rage, is perhaps equalled by
no other animal in the world.

~If a medal should be awarded the
ugliest hog, the warthog of Et-hiOpia
would surely capture the prize, for he is
so hideous .in appearance that not even
the hyena—t-he social outcast of the ani-
mal world—will associate with him.

The parent stock of most pigs found
in Canada and the United States was
brought from Europe, and chiefly from
England. The English Yorkshire attains
the greatest size of any domestic variety,
but some of the best and most popular
breeds—the Chester Whites, Duroc-
Jerseys, and Poland«C=hinas—were de-
veloped here in the United States.

Puppy LOVE . . . . . By DAISY C. RENNAHAN

As I set forth the other day,

To find a friend along the way;

I did not know his name or face,

Nor where he lived, nor in what place;
Yet I was sure that there must be,
Someone, somewhere, who needed me,
To be his friend, and I would find—

In turn affection, true and kind.

I walked some blocks in silent mood,
I saw no one who understood;

The longing that was in my heart,
A feeling that could not depart—
Then finally in a market place,

I saw a pup with forlorn face;

And in his hopeful look I read,

The answer to the words not said.

153

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Peace
"Lord God of Hosts, he with us yet”

ON SUNDAY, September 2, 1945, aboard the great United States’ Battleship
Missouri, General Douglas MacArthur, Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces,
at the formal Japanese surrender, in his historic address spoke words the world

must not forget. We quote the following, deeply signiﬁcant:

"Today the guns are silent. A great tragedy has ended. A great victory has
been won. The skies no longer rain death— the seas bear only commerce —men

everywhere walk upright in the sunlight. The entire world is quietly at peace.”

"As I look back on the long, tortuous trail from those grim days of Bataan
and Corregidor, when an entire world lived in fear; when democracy was on the
defensive everywhere, when modern civilization trembled in the balance, I thank a
merciful God that He has given us the faith, the courage and the power from

which to mould victory.”

“We have had our last chance. If we do not now devise some
greater and more equitable system, Armageddon will be at our door.
The problem basically is theological and involves a spiritual recru-
descence and improvement of human character that will synchro-
nize with our almost matchless advance in science, art, literature
and all material and cultural developments of the past two thou-
sand years. It must be of the spirit if we are to save the ﬂesh.”

"And so, my fellow countrymen, today I report to you that your sons and
daughters have served you well and faithfully with the calm, deliberate, determined
ﬁghting spirit of the American soldier and sailor based upon a tradition of historical
trait, as against the fanaticism of an enemy supported only by mythological ﬁction,
their spiritual strength and power has brought us through to victory. They are
homeward bound— take care of them.”

3% 3" i ’2‘

3

Q
I

r“
v.‘

"The tumult and the shouting dies;
The Captains and the Kings depart;

Still stana’s Thine ancient sacriﬁce,
An humble and a contrite heart.

. Lord Goal of Hosts, he with us yet,

Lest we forget—lest we forget!”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

LOUISE MORGAN.

"BABY" AND "MIKE"

     

An Inseparable Trio

F the question of loyalty between
“Baby” and “Mike” were put to Miss
Louise Morgan, she would probably hesi-
tate a minute before answering. She,
then, would probably explain that each
one holds a unique position in her heart.
Baby is her much beloved Scotty; Mike
(microphone), her constant, though in-
animate, companion. As for Miss Morgan
herself, hers is that friendly voice that
comes to you at 8 :35 in the morning from
WNAC’s Yankee Network.

But speaking of Baby, it seems that
she was the eighth and only female in a
litter of eight puppies born on the Fourth
of July. And, although she was the runt
of the family she is the only one still
alive. And if you don’t think Baby is
very important you should listen to Miss
Morgan. She has found that her radio
audience delights in listening to news
about Baby’s doings and, as a result,
Baby is sandwiched in between talk of
hats, shoes and other garments too nu-
merous to mention.

On one occasion, when a man listener
heard Miss Morgan telling how much her
black Baby liked to run out in the morn-
ing and stick her head in the snow, he
exclaimed, “Now, what do you suppose
Louise Morgan is doing with a negro
child?” His wife then had to explain to
him that Baby was in reality a dog.

Despite her loyalty to Baby, however,
Miss Morgan has room in her heart for
all animals and is one of our Society’s

November 1945

most ardent admirers, as proved by her
many favorable comments over the air.

Proof positive that Miss Morgan’s
heart is in the right place is the story
of how Richard Murphy, a little Dorches—
ter boy, received the “(best birthday pres—
ent he could get”——a puppy to take the
place of his “Pal” who died.

The whole thing started when friends
of the lad’s mother, who signed them-
selves, “Louise Morgan’s Fans,” wrote
her telling of his plight. They said that
Richard had emptied his piggy bank to
pay for a visit from the dog doctor when
Pal was sick, but it was too late. The
worst of it was that his older brother,
then serving overseas in the Navy, had
given him the dog.

Miss Morgan appealed to her radio
audience with the pathetic story and re-
ceived almost numberless calls and letters
with offers of everything from a pekin-
gese to a black and white mongrel. She
took the ﬁrst offer and the puppy was
delivered to Richard just in time for his
twelfth birthday.

Her genuine sincerity so manifests it-
self over the air that perfect strangers
frequently call on (her for advice. One
woman, in particular, wrote and asked her
to lunch as she wanted to talk with Miss
Morgan about her son who was lost in the
war. Needless to say the luncheon was
scheduled and the woman made happy by
Miss Morgan’s sympathy and sincere
advice.

Forest Memory

By CALVIN WALKER
HE Maples, on that hillside forest, are

probably gnarled with age. The once.

slender 'birches, suppl‘iant to wind and
weather, have either died or acquired
enormous girth. Under the ﬁrs the needle
carpet is thicker, more resilient —— no
longer inured to the sudden bloom of
pulpit or lady slipper. And in the glade
below, the timeless old brook runs a little
thinner—its pools no longer the haven
of the Rainbow.

I don’t suppose Betty ever goes there
any more; ever drives out that clay-
packed road to the cut-off where the
maples and the birches grow. She’s a
grown woman now and probably has chil-
dren of her own. And if she has, it is
more than likely that they have a dog——
a hound dog, with unruly ears and
watery, sagging, kindly eyes. And the
children might sometimes wonder why
their mother is so insistent that they take
care of her, and that she is not too long
away from home. And, not so strangely
either, the dog may well be called—
“Patsy.” ‘

On that long-ago hillside, when the
maples were smooth-holed and the birches
the smallest of trees, Patsy the hound
met a porcupine. She had her only off-
spring with her then—an awkward, roly—
poly little creature, with the promise of
her own ﬂapping ears and watery droop-
ing eyes. But Patsy could have gone on
about her business. She could have ig—
nored the lumbering armored hulk. In-
stead, stirred by maternal anxiety, she
savagely attacked that well-defended
creature. Then, her mouth a cushion of
quills, she started down the pain—ﬁlled
hours to starvation.

Father found her when the barbs had
almost completed their mission. She was
alone, then, and out of her mind. Pain
had become a distant thing in her tired
body; a pain that ascertained the hope-
lessness of her condition. Then we led her
gently into the shade of the biggest maple
and relieved her from pain, forever.
Then, too, beneath the resilient moss, we
buried her—laid her gently in the warm
untroubled earth. And, from the brook,
we brought clean bright stones and, with
kneeling care, hedged her narrow grave.

When Betty arrived, several hours
later, she carried a puerile bouquet
garnered with meticulous care from the
ﬁelds behind her home. And as I led
her along the old cut-off, I knew that
fresh tears were starting again from
eyes already inﬂamed and swollen. And
I knew, too, when we reached the maple
and the quiet, shady silence—and Betty
knelt in the cushioning moss—that she
was experiencing her ﬁrst great sorrow.
That, against the unfolding years, Patsy
would color her life—would, in fact, color
the lives of those to follow.

213

ﬁu——v——-A———, 4 4“” :A- i ,5,

 

 

 

 

,<_4,,A;A;.;_:_;;v;n . Fairimmw TAW>“4‘»_J_\:‘»'—’_y _.. r '- -<

 

m




 

 

 

 

 

. .. ., ~
-2 , . An“, a... .2, .311. I. an“ gilt»- w-‘J £2.5- sun-amw: +133“; 3...
4 :‘ _ W—

WAR DOG DIGS IN ,
Pinned down by heavy JapaneseI ﬁre on the
beach of Leyte Island. an American fighter
and his war dog seek shelter In a shallow

toxhole before advancing through the

shambles of the Navy bombardment. The.

dog appears calm under fire. A Coast

Guard Combat Photographer snapped this

remarkable shot of a war dog in battle
from an adjoining foxhole.

Medals for Three
HREE residents of Martha’s Vine—

yard have been presented with our
Society’s medals for the recent rescue of
a deer. The three men, William T. Silva,
Russell Tilton and Ellsworth Norton, un-
dertook the kind but hazardous act of sav-
ing a buck that had become entangled in
a large mass of discarded telephone wire.

According to the Vineyard Gazette
they heard a loud thrashing in the brush
near where they were working and, upon
investigation, they discovered a large
buck and its mate. The buck, whose
antlers were tangled in the wire, was
thrashing around trying to dislodge it.
At times he would throw himself at full
length on the ground with such force
that Mr. Silva decided that it was time
to do something before the animal broke
his neck.

They watched their chance, and when
the deer threw himself ﬂat once again,
Mr. Silva grabbed his hind legs and
wrapped them around a tree, holding
him down, while the other men tried to
free the wire. The tremendous hazard
was the buck’s ﬂaying front feet, but
the men ﬁnally succeeded in untangling
the wire and the deer was released.

4

 

, , . _. E c
”15%; mega»? ’J‘AgL 73:“ 3;.) :ﬁ;
W

W“; -.. 1,331

Little Children’s Bird

By ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

and cry, not so audible now in all

the world’s confusion as in some—
what earlier times, raised in favor of the
extermination of the English sparrow.

They are pugnacious, say their ene-
mies, have routed the bluebirds and other
of Our lovely feathered creatures from
their haunts about our homes. They ﬂy
down upon us, not singly, but in bat-
talions, and they are paying us back in
very poor coin for our effrontery in
bringing them over here from their
native habitat, where they Were innocent,
dovelike little creatures, and not too
numerous. What a pity ever to have
snatched them from the home where they
were so unobtrusive and so welcome!

But it is pleasant to note that of late
years the humble little English sparrows
have been making friends, for they
satisfy their voracious appetites by feed-
ing on the Japanese beetles that have
wrought such havoc in our vegetation.
What more could we ask?

Then, just as, according to Lowell, the
dandelion is “the little children’s ﬂower,”
so, to thousands of our underprivileged
citizens, the sparrow is almost the only
bird.

Alice Freeman Palmer, former presi-
dent of Wellesley, told a touching story
of a child of the slums of Boston, which
her husband related in her biography.

In speaking to these underprivileged
children, she had once given them some
rules for happiness, one of which was to
see something beautiful every day.

One hot day she was walking along a

1' P QR years there has been a great hue

narrow street when a little girl seized
her by the arm and cried, “I done it.”
In answer to the surprised inquiry as to
what she had done, the child tried to
explain how she had succeeded in seeing
something beautiful.

“It was awful hard,” she said. “It was
all right when I could go to the park,
but one day it rained and rained, and
the baby had a cold, and I just couldn’t
go out, and I was standin’ at the win-
dow, ‘most cryin’, ”—here her little face
lighted up with a radiant smile, said
Mrs. Palmer—“and I saw—I saw a spar—
row takin’ a bath in the gutter that goes
round the top of the house, and he had
on a black necktie, and he was hand-
some.”

So the much—maligned little sparrow
brought a bit of beauty into the life of
a beauty-starved child. Perhaps he has
done that for many thousands. So for
this virtue let us forgive him for his
faults. To bring beauty into children’s
lives should cover a multitude of sins,
more, I am sure, than the little brown
bird possesses. So, instead of placing a
bounty on his head, let us try to feel
with Archibald Lampman:

“With what doubting eyes, 0 sparrow,
Thou regardest me,

Underneath yon spray of yarrow,
Dipping cautiously.

“Fear me not, 0 little sparrow.
Bathe and never fear,

For to me both pool and yarrow
And thyself are dear.”

 

Odd Facts
in
Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

When a little frog gets thirsty,
Down there in pond or wallow;

He does not drink, like you and me,
With swallow after swallow.

 

 

The Frog—How He Drinks

He doesn’t have to move his mouth,

And though he croaks, it’s not from thirst,

 

I. -«\\“

\WW WI \

To let the water in;

He drinks right through his skin!

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

Our New Radio Program

N our new radio presentation, “Bird
and Animal Lore,” we took to the

air in our ﬁrst broadcast, Saturday,
April 7. Be sure to listen every Satur—
day from 2:45 to 3:00 P.M., Station
WHDH—85O on your dial.

Staff member, Miss Margaret J.
Kearns, will bring to the microphone in-
teresting stories from Our Dumb Am-
mals, and well—known personalities, who
will talk to you about animals.

The initial broadcast was opened with
President Eric H. Hansen and Chairman
of the Board, Dr. Francis H. Rowley, who
welcomed the radio audience brieﬂy be-
fore turning over the remaining time to
Miss Kearns. The following Saturday,
Thornton Burgess, celebrated author and
lecturer, appeared as guest speaker.

An informative and entertaining series
of broadcasts have been prepared for
your pleasure. Don’t forget to tune in
and ask your friends to listen, also. And
be sure to send any suggestions you may
have to Radio Station WHDH, Hotel
Touraine, Boston, Mass.

:13

“Out of the Heart”
HAT our new motion picture in sound
and color, “Out of the Heart” is be-
ing enthusiastically received is evidenced
by the following excerpt from a letter
of the Department of Agriculture. The
excerpt reads:

“The motion picture. “Out of the
Heart,” should be well received by all our
State Leaders who are looking for whole-
some, entertaining motion pictures to be
used at 4—H Club Camps, country club
rallies and other similar 4-H events. This
picture, in addition, has an important
message for all 4-H members who have
dogs. And what 4-H member does not
have one?”

We are proud to know that our picture
has merit before constituted authorities
and that it will be a power for good
among the younger generation.

4%

To a Cat
By CORA WILLIAMS

Sobranye of the sunny eyes
That greet me with such fond delight,
What were my days of clouded skies
Had I not you to give them light?

Apollo’s shining chariot wheel
Your golden glance to me repeats,
And in what shadows Fate may deal
My darkest hour with sunshine meets.

Love is life’s light, its best reward,
The gold that is its highest pay,
And treasuries of wealth are stored

For me in what your sweet eyes say.

May 1945

Sarah J. Eddy, Friend to Animals

N ation-wide sorrow at passing of great humanitarian

HE Massachusetts Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and the American Humane Education
Society, in the death of Sarah J. Eddy,
who died March 29th at the advanced age
of ninety—three, have lost one of their
most noted friends and directors. Indeed,
the whole humane education movement
of this and other lands has reason to
honor her memory, and sorrow for her
passing.

Her name will live through the years
with those other names of remembered
women who have given so great a part
of their lives and inﬂuence to the prog-
ress of the vast humane movement. Be-
sides the many humane leaﬂets prepared

and published, her books, such as
“Friends and Helpers” and “Songs of
Happy Life,” will continue to be in de-
mand and widely circulated.

Miss Eddy was widely known for her
many artistic works. For example, there
hangs in the Old National Gallery in
Washington, D. C., a painting of hers,
representing Miss Susan B. Anthony
upon the celebration of her birthday in
1900.

Miss Eddy’s sympathies and services
went out into many ﬁelds where help
was needed to make life’s burdens easier
to bear, and no ﬁner tribute than this
could be paid her now that her long and
useful life is ended.

“Queenie” Leaves for Home

HEN Patrolman William B. Dooley,

of the Boston Police Department,
called at the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital to pay a visit to “Queenie,” the
greatly—loved mascot of Station 16, he
discovered, much to his surprise, that the
nine-year—old German Shepherd had com-
pletely recovered from the effects of a
severely lacerated paw and would be (able
to go home to the boys. The widely-

publicized dog, who has given birth to
ﬁfty puppies, some of whom are now
reported to be serving in the Navy, the
Coast Guard, and the Marines, has been
the pride and joy of the group at Sta—
tion 16 since she was but a few months
old. She is shown enthusiastically shak-
ing “hands” with Patrolman Dooley,

while Adele Fread, head nurse at the
Hospital, looks on approvingly.

 

1 -7. - .Mnmx—y-sazv mnu. -4

 

 

 

 




 

Dogs
1 Like

Music

By ALAN A. BROWN

THIS LITTLE DOG IS EVI-DENTLY RESPONSIVE
TO HIS YOUNG MASTER'S RENDITION ON
THE CORNET.

TUDEN‘TS of animal behavior have
S often investigated the reaction of
dogs to musical stimuli. Their
consensus is that dogs respond favorably
to music.

One investigator suggests that howling
is the dog’s way of playfully imitating
the music rather than showing distaste
for it. The dog who accompanies music
with mournful wails, he argues, is often
not compelled to listen to the music, but
comes into the room voluntarily. This
is supported by the report of a dog who
accompanied his master’s voice with
howls similar to the pitch of the singer’s
tones.

The investigations of scientists are
borne out by the reports from dog lovers
in several parts of the country. One in-
vestigator engaged in correspondence

with boys and girls and asked them
whether their dogs liked music.

The “likes” were in the majority. As
a matter of fact, some youngsters in-
dicated their dogs were sufﬁciently dis-
criminating to show preference for the
better class of music.

Here are some excerpts from the
youngsters’ letters: Wrote a girl from
Texas: “My little puppy would lie on the
porch by the open door and listen to my
playing on the piano. When I would
pause he would prick up his ears, raise
his head, and look through the screen at
me. And when I commenced again he
would lay his head back down and sleep
contentedly.”

From Tennessee came this letter:
“When I would be practicing, my little
dog would come into the room, sit down
beside the piano, and was very attentive.

a

Our Legal Yesterdays . . .

IT takes a thousand years and more to
_ span the various‘laws concerning ani—
mal welfare—even though laws for the
. prevention of cruelty to animals did not
come into general use till early in the
19th century.

A city ordinance in Paciﬁc Grove
makes it unlawful to molest the Monarch
butterﬂies that annually winter in that
California town. A maximum ﬁne of
$500 can be imposed on anyone convicted
of molesting the winged travelers.

William of Normandy, ruthless in
many respects, in 1067 passed a law
making it mandatory that all horses in
England be shod. It was the ﬁrst law
of its kind in the British Isles and was
enacted just a year after the Norman

January 1 945

Conquest.

Edinburgh, the ancient Scottish cap-
ital, passed an ordinance in 1535 regu-
lating the load limits that could be placed
on donkey and horse-drawn vehicles. That
was the same year that King James
levied a tax of a half-penny on empty
carts and one penny on loaded carts
using the city’s main thoroughfare for
a fund “to maintain and repair the
causeway.”

It was about that time the Edinburgh
authorities passed another ordinance to
prohibit the townspeople from letting
swine loose in the city streets except at
certain hours and on certain days.

In California it is technically unlawful
to catch rats or mice. State law pro-

 

He seemed to enjoy every note of the
pieces.”

One researcher collected many anec-
dotes about dogs and music, and learned
that dogs even have preferences as to
musical instruments. He knew of one
dog who ‘loved to hear the concertina,
and another who could listen to the organ
all day.

One family had a dog named Ben, a
smart dog that knew almost everything.
Ben was very fond of piano music. His
eyes reﬂected his pleasure when he list-
ened. But no sooner would a harmonica
be played then he would howl and give
short ferocious yelps.

There are differences in the degree of
receptivity of dogs to music, but by and
large the dogs mirror the likes and dis-
likes, emotions and reactions of their
human masters.

o By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

hibits the trapping of any kind of rodent,
but the rats and mice can ﬁnd small
comfort in hiding behind that legal
barricade.

Early Saxon laws, in the days before
William the Conqueror landed in Eng—
land, forbade the common people from
bringing dogs into churches. They also
regulated the breeds of dogs that could
be owned by different classes of people.
Hunting dogs, for example, could be
owned only by the nobility.

Venice passed laws in medieval times
to protect the pigeons of St. Marks from
harm. The laws were passed soon after
Venetians had received tidings by pigeon
messengers of Henri Dandolo’s victories
in the Crusading wars.

 




 

 

Polecat
or

By W. A. SWALLoW

HETHER we think of that most

docile of creatures as just plain
skunk or give it that oppr-obrious and
undeserved name of “polecat,” it never—
theless is true that this animal is one of
the most helpful to mankind, in general,
and to farmers, in particular.

Perhaps, too, we may think of him in
the terms of Walt Disney’s “Flower” or
Thornton Burgess’ “Jimmy Skunk.” If
so, well and good. For then, we are giv-
ing to this creature of the wilds the
personality and means for good that he
richly deserves. Under such names, who
would think of destroying him or doing
him harm?

The original undeserved prejudice
against skunks resulted when the early
settlers of America, acquainted with the
European ﬁtchet weasel, promptly applied
its common name “polecat” to the skunk
on account of its odor. The polecat of
Europe is far more destructive to poultry
and game than are skunks. So, as this
bad reputation was transferred and as
skunks feed mostly at night when their
habits are difﬁcult to observe, the preju-
dice against them still remains in the
minds of many people.

The popular belief 'has been that skunks
feed mainly upon birds and birds’ eggs,
and poultry, but much evidence and testi-
mony from authoritative sources show
that these animals are, on the whole,
most beneﬁcial. A large percentage of
their food consists of grasshoppers, crick-
ets, beetles and their larvae, while mice,
rats, carrion, fungi, earthworms, berries
and other fruit help to make up the bal-
ance of their diet. Insects eaten by the
skunk seem to be mostly of injurious
kinds, and the usefulness of this animal
is more apparent when there is an in-
vasion of large numbers of some insect
pest, as grasshoppers, crickets, cicadas,
army worms, or the like.

Although several forms of this animal
inhabit Central and South America, the
one we know best lives on our own con~
tinent from Hudson Bay south to Texas.
Usually about the size of a cat, it is a
heavier animal, with black fur bearing
a white streak down the back. It has a
long pointed nose and a long bushy tail.

The skunk sleeps during the winter,
coming forth in February to ﬁnd its
mate. It can, if necessary, dig its own

July 191,5

den, but ordinarily chooses to live in
deserted woodchuck burrows, whenever
possible.

It is easily tamed and shows little dread
of man or other animal. Its conspicuous
appearance is easily noted as it pro-
gresses in its usual leisurely manner and
animals seldom attack it knowingly, fear-
ful of the disagreeable properties of its
scent glands, which are the animal’s only
means of defense.

An amusing incident concerning these
animals was recently observed by Miss
Mazie V. Caruthers, of Norwich, Connec—
ticut. Here is her own story:

“One late afternoon last fall, while
still enjoying the warmth of the sun, out
of doors in my deck chair, I was idly
gazing into space across the garden beds.
Suddenly, my eyes focused on something
moving slowly down the path. Interested,
of course, as every nature lover is, I kept
perfectly still and watched what this
might turn out to be.

“Gradually, the motion materialized
into form, and I could see plainly a group
of small animals. Keeping desperately
quiet, I then witnessed a touching ex-

 

Photo by Carlton G. Gould

ample of maternal care. A mother skunk,
a beautiful little creature, was evacuating
her new family int-o the woods that
border on my garden. She walked (or
loped) directly in front of four tiny
younglings, ludicrously striped like her-
self. Each baby skunk was holding
valiantly onto a long twig, processionally.
Mother kept alongside, watching her off-
spring carefully, as they gripped their
safety belt in their mouths.

“Occasionally, one tired baby would let
fall his bite on the stick; that halted the
march, and then Mother Skunk would
dash to the rescue, restore her child’s
grip on the life—line, and off they’d start
again, ambling towards the thick bushes
and sanctuary. All I could think of, was
a sergeant drilling a bunch of raw re-
cruits. I watched, fascinated, until the
skunk family vanished into the friendly
wilderness, where (I hoped) nothing
would molest them, until, at least, Mother
had taught her skunklings the manly art
of self-defense.”

So let’s think of the skunk as “Jimmy
Skunk” or “Flower” whose extermination
would be a distinct loss to mankind.

125

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2151):: Earth at ﬁlmy at

Eluninr ﬁaumane ieague

ERIC H. HANSEN, President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and

the name and post-ofﬁce address of the

president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY
Eight Bands of Mercy were organized

in June. These were distributed as
follows:
Virginia .................... 7
Pennsylvania ............... 1

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent-American Society, 270,-
418.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK
Number of addresses made, 67
Number of persons in audiences, 7,895

:13

JUNE REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. WITH
HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON, ME-
THUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THEENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,626
Cases investigated ............ 181
Animals examined ............ 2,684
Animals placed in homes ....... 234
Lost animals restored to owners . 50
Number of prosecutions ........ 4
Number of convictions ........ 3
Horses taken from work ....... 16
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 16
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ..................... 3,448
Horse auctions attended ....... 18
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 45,520

Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 11

@
Any Old Papers?

HE Angell Memorial Hospital is once

again in urgent need of old news—
papers and will appreciate small or large
glfts of discarded papers.

154

eff-w M- ,. , _ » -_._....._.

Meeting at Pikesville

President Hansen Addresses Maryland Convocation

N interesting program was presented
at the meeting of the Humane So-
ciety of Baltimore County, Pike-sville,
Maryland, June 13. The welcoming ad-
dress was presented by the Society’s
Honorary President, Rev. Philip J. Jen—
sen, D.D. The Honorable J. Howard Mur-
ray presided and introduced the speakers.
First on the program was Mr. Christian
H. Kahl, President of the Board of
County Commissioners of Baltimore
County. Mr. Kahl’s topic was “Baltimore
County’s Arrangement with Humane So-
ciety of Baltimore County.” Following
this speech, our own President Eric H.
Hansen talked on Humane Education,
pointing out the all important value of
this subject in any humane society pro-
gram., President Hansen stressed the
value of kindness, justice and mercy as
qualities necessary in good citizenship.

(Left to right) Rev. Philip J. Jensen. D.D.I Governor Herbert R.

“Enforcement of Dog License Law in
Harford County” was explained by the
Hon. J. Wilmer Cronin, Senator from
that county. The program ended with
an address by the Governor of Maryland,
Hon. Herbert R. O’Conor, who explained
“The State’s Interest in the Dog Prob—
lem.”

The meeting, held for the purpose of
exchanging views on the very important
part a humane society plays in the animal
control problem, was under the over-all
charge of the Society’s President, Mrs.
Bolling Barton. The Society has been
doing such an outstanding work that the
meeting attracted ofﬁcials from every
part of the State.

Under Mrs. Barton’s able leadership,
150 persons were served luncheon and
entertained on the 26-acre estate which
surrounds the beautiful buildings of the
organization.

 

Eric H. Hansen

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

O'Conor. Presiolen'.L

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
   

as

.. 'stxN; ‘

  

Following are a few of the typical cases
investigated by our agents in their state-
wide crnsade against cruelty:

Rabbits

On a complaint that a sixteen-year-
old boy keeps a rabbit that he uses in a
magician act and that he purposely
underfeeds it to keep it small enough to
use and forces it to stand on its hind
legs for long periods of time, our agent
investigated. He found that the alleged
offender does not own a rabbit, but when
in need of one, he hires it with the
stipulation that it be a small, young
animal. When it has grown too large to
use, ”he returns it and gets a small one.
The wire box he carries it in is about
two feet square. He has plenty of rabbit
food on hand, but no rabbit at the present
time. Our agent cautioned the boy, who
promised that he would do nothing to
injure the animal.

Horses

A case involving the hiring of a horse
and its nonreturn on the part of a ﬁfteen-
year-old boy, brought on an investigation.
It was learned that about noontime, the
alleged offender hired a horse for the
purpose of hauling bananas. After this
work was ﬁnished, the boy and some

FIRE DOGS—MOTHER A‘ND DAUGHTER

%

////,
j 7/
W
%
/////////
%Z

 

others drove the horse to East Cambridge
and hitched it to an old depot carriage.
They drove about Cambridge and Boston
and then they claim some larger boys
took the outﬁt away from them. It was
laterfound abandoned :by police and put
up at a stable. Owner did not ﬁnd it
until three days later. The boys were
taken to the police and were reprimanded
severely. They agreed to reimburse the
owner for his loss. The horse did not
suffer.

Dogs

A case of neglect being investigated,
our ofﬁcer found 8 dogs and 7 puppies in
a wire pen 10 by 20 feet with only
barrels for shelter. It was very hot and
when the agent arrived he saw no sign
of any water for the animals. A neigh-
bor statedthat the only water near the
place was her well and she had seen no
one watering the dogs that day. Our
oﬁ‘icer took 16 quarts of water to the
animals and they all tried to drink at the
same time. Visiting the owner’s home,
his wife claimed she had just watered
the dogs. A summons was procured and
the man appearing «in court was given
six months’ probation on the promise that
he would take the dogs to his own home.

 

3’

Acme Photo

Fire station mascot. "Susie." and her daughter. "Wallie." act as canine escort for San
Francisco Fireman Allen Brady whenever they hear seven bells. the station signal. Susie
has been tire station mascot for ten years and. facing the tact that some day old age
and partial blindness will creep up on her. she has passed on her talents to her daughter.

184

“Boy” Meets Girl

OY,” short for “Manthorne Boy,” is

the prized companion of Mr. and
Mrs. W. E. Schraﬁ‘t, friends of long
standing of our Society.

Boy met the little girl at our Hospital
while 'he was undergoing treatment. The
nine-year—old mastitf weighs 160 pounds,
but his little friend relies implicitly on
his good nature.

a

Misanthrope
By BERTHA s. PRENTICE

E have had many cats in our house—

hold, but the one the children called
“Toki”—-for no apparent reason—we al—
ways remember with special joy.

Toki was coal black, with yellow eyes,
and absolutely no sense of humor. A
piece of paper, drawn by a string, which
sends most kittens into a frenzy of stalk-
ing and pouncing, intrigued him not at
all.

He was a huge eater and raised his
voice in veritable lamenta‘ti‘ons of J ere-
miah, if his meals were late. Never
friendly with other cats, and a terror to
the neighborhood dogs, he was typical of
Kipling’s “Cat Who Walked by Himself.”

So we were the more surprised when
one day Toki strolled through the garden
with a plump little gray cat, and clawed
open the screen door. We all watched to
see what would happen when the gray
cat came into the house, as any cat who
encroached on Toki’s territory had here-
tofore ﬂed with a black streak of ven-
geance at its heels.

But this time Toki led the little fat
gray Pussy to his dinner dish, heaped
with the evening meal. Sitting down and
purring like a boiling tea-kettle, he
watched Pussy gorge herself and then
escorted her home across the alley, before
he ﬁnished what she had left.

Daily the miracle occurred ﬁll in about
a week we became accustomed to the
strange behavior and simply reﬁlled the
dish when Pussy left.

One day in his delight at seeing Pussy
devour the meal of his providing, Toki
came close to her and still purring loudly
leaned his shoulder against the fat gray
side. Angry at being interrupted, Pussy
turned with a hiss and. slapped the
astonished Toki across the face and then
started eating again.

Maybe “Hell hath no fury like a woman
scorned,” but the fury that turned on
little pussy was not far behind!

He jumped on her, spitting and claw-
ing, and as she ﬂed wailing, he chased
her right into her own yard and up a
tree.

Then Toki sauntered home and ate, for
the ﬁrst time in days, a full meal.

Never again did he allow Pussy in our
yard, and as far as we know, never did
he make friends with another cat.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

Practical Projects For Teachers and Parents 0

by Dorothea Clark

 

When Winter Comes

'OVEMBER . . . a month of gray and
cold and stillness. The ﬁelds have
turned brown. The woods have lost their
russets and golds. The only sound is the
rustling of dry leaves that still cling to
the oaks or beeches. The pond has a thin
coat of ice on its surface. Can it be that
this is the same place where life move-d
so briskly only a few short weeks ago?
Are these the same woods where birds
ﬂitted and sang in such exuberant
choruses? Where are the inhabitants of
the ﬁelds that furnished such ceaseless
motion? In the distance the throaty call
of the Chickadee reminds one that a few
creatures are still claiming this as their
domain. A gray squirrel on the edge of
the woods leaps from one tree branch to
another. Yes, some animals are still
about us; but, when compared with the
profusion of sound and movement of the
past few months, their presence is likely
to pass unnoticed. It is a c'heerless time
indeed, if we did not know that with the
return of warmth and sun and greenness,
the abundant life would return again.

Where have the animals gone and
where will they spend the cold days of
winter? Crickets, grasshoppers, and
other forms of insect life have completed
their life cycles. With the approach of
cold weather they commonly die, although
some adults and immature forms live
through the winter. But for many, the
life work is done and the eggs are safely
deposited beneath the soil, in crevices,
or on plant stems and twigs awaiting the
warmth of the spring sunshine.

One striking response to the coming of
winter is the great migratory movement
that occurs. The migration of birds is
most noticeable. Earlier in the season,
ﬂocks of birds might have been seen feed—
ing together or congregating in conspicu-
ous places. Now they have disappeared.
Just as surely as the leaves begin to ap-
pear on the trees, do we know these birds
will return again in the spring.

What wonderful tales they might be
able to tell about their travels if only
we could understand. Different species
of birds go to very deﬁnite places each
year. Some travel only to the southern
part of the United States, while others go
much farther south to South America.
The hummingbird, the smallest of the
travelers, goes to Brazil to spend the

Copyright 1945 by American Humane Education Society

214

winter. When one considers that a young
hummingbird, less than six months old,
travels such a great distance one can-
not help but be awed :by the accomplish-
ment. How do these travelers ﬁnd their
way? How do they know where to stop?
How do they ﬁnd their way back to the
same city and neighborhood in the
spring? These are questions that arouse
much wonder and speculation. Still other
migrations are those of the large ﬂocks
of Monarch butterﬂies swarming together
and ﬂying southward. A localized kind
of migration is that of the earthworms.
These animals move downward in the soil
several feet with the approach of freez—
ing weather.

Another way of meeting the winter
cold and the lack of food is that found
among the animals that ‘have blood of
varying temperatures. That is, the body
temperature varies with that of the en-
vironment. This is true of such animals
as insects, ﬁsh, reptiles, frogs, and toads.
In the insect group, many of the im-
mature forms have the problem of sur-
viving the cold weather. Some of them
spend this period in the resting stage as
a cocoon or a chrysalid. Others burrow
underground below the frost line where
the cold will not reach them. Many of
these insects go through a process of de-
hydration or losing of water, so that, if
the cold does penetrate their bodies,
freezing will not harm them. This same
process is used by insects in the very
warm regions to help them survive ex-
cessive heat or dryness.

Fish, living in water, are not likely
to freeze. They merely become somewhat
sluggish and do not feed as much. Frogs
and toads, as the cold weather ap-
proaches, [burrow into the mud at the
bottom of the pond; and in a short time
the life processes all but stop. Their
bodies stiffen and practically all activity
ceases until spring comes again. The
practice is essentially the same for turtles
except for the place they choose for hi-
bernation. Turtles that live in pond-s
burrow in the mud at the bottom, while
those turtles that live on land, such as the
box and wood turtles, burrow under-
ground.

Mammals follow two different meth-
ods of sleeping. There are those that are
deep sleepers and those that sleep lightly.
The latter usually have a store of food

nearby upon which they can feed when
they awaken during the winter. The vary-
ing ways in which they store their food
makes their acquaintance fascinating.
The gray squirrel is one most often seen
as he buries the nuts and acorns during
the fall and early winter. It is his tracks
we see occasionally during the winter in
the snow as he goes from one place to an-
other endeavoring to ﬁnd the nuts he has
hidden away. The red squirrel hides his
store of food close at hand so that he
does not have to leave his warm nest to
look for food. The chipmunk and some of
the mice store their food supplies in a
similar way. But the muskrat and the
beaver have much more unique pantries.
The muskrat’s winter home is quite com-
monly seen projecting above the surface
of the iceecovered pond like a small dome.
The entrance to the house is by way of
an under-water approach. The lodgeit-
self is made of roots and stalks of marsh
plants, such as cattails or sweet ﬂag.
When the muskrats become hungry dur-
ing the winter, they start eating these
roots and stalks. If the winter is long,
or if they have not made the walls of
their house sufﬁciently thick, the house
gets rather thin by spring. The beaver
follows a similar custom. Of course, the
beaver lodge is larger and it is made of
small saplings of poplar, alder, and
birch. These are stored near the house

'at the bottom of the pond where some

bark is always at hand for a hungry
beaver.

The deep sleepers are the woodchuck,
the black bear, the bat, the skunk, the
raccoon, and the chipmunk. This deep
sleep, like migration, is not wholly under-
stood as to its causes. The body tempera-
ture of these :animals is relatively \high in
the summer and it is known to drop as
the lower temperatures of winter prevail.
When the ‘body temperature drops, body
processes all but cease. The animal enters
into a profound sleep which ends only
with the returning spring. The wood-
chuck selects a hillside where he digs out
a 'burrow with two exits. The bear selects
a hollow tree or cave in an untnavelled
part of the country. The bat may ﬁnd a
hollow tree or even hang himself upside
down in a cellar or chimney. The skunk
lazily occupies some hole made by an-
other animal who seldom disputes the
skunk’s claim to the property.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Rusty" and Lieutenant Virginia E. Hart
Nurse Visits Hospital

USTY,” convalescent patient, con—
sidered himself a very lucky dog re-
cently when pretty Lieut. Virginia E.
Hart, Army Nurses’ Corps, during a
leave of absence, visited the Hospital and
paused to offer a comforting word to the
ailing collie. Lieutenant Hart has
served for more than thirty months as an
Army Nurse.

 

iii." ”-" gar, “___

 

How Long Do Animals Live?

By ALAN A. BROWN

CIENTISTS are constantly revising
their estimates of the life span of
wild life.

The age of the tortoise has been the
object of fantastic guesses at all times.
Giant turtles had the reputation of being
able to attain the age of three or even
ﬁve hundred years. Lord Rothschild’s
Galapagos tortoises in London became
especially famous. The lives of the eld-
est among them are supposed to have
encompassed Columbus’s voyage of dis-
covery and the ﬁrst transoceanic ﬂight.

The belief in the longevity of these
tortoises is due to the fact that an
extraordinarily slow annual growth of
only a few centimeters was observed in
all the animals studied in captivity. How-
ever, the researches of two American
scientists have show-n that under favor-
able conditions, corresponding as far as
possible to the habitat of these animals,
their growth is by no means slow.

Nevertheless, tortoises may be re-
garded as the vertebrates enjoying the
greatest longevity. The former director
of the Cairo Zoo has deﬁnitely deter-
mined a demonstrable age of 100 years
for various species of turtles; for ex-
ample, the Greek land turtle.

Until recently the duration of life
among the anthropoid apes was greatly
overestimated. Recent investigations
have shown that their maximum age is
probably thirty years.

Among mammals, the elephant is prob—
ably a close second to man. “Lily,” a
famous elephant of the Dresden Zoo, ar—
rived at the zoo at the age of four and
lived there for 47 years, probably achiev—
ing an age record for elephants on the
European continent.

According to the Fish and Wildlife
Service, some birds that regularly mi-
grate long distances are showing remark—
able tenacity of life. Among interesting

records reported was a white pelican
banded in Yellowstone Park in 1932 and

found at McAllister, Montana, in 1940.

A gannet banded in Quebec in 1922 was
found in Newfoundland in 1939.

An 11-year-old record of a glaucous—
winged gull, banded in British Columbia
in July, 1925, was established when the
bird was found dead in the same province
in September, 1936. A herring gull,
however, lived longer. Banded at Hat
Island, Michigan, in 1922, it was found
dead at Beaver Island in 1939.

 

"BOOTS AND HIS BUDDIES"—LT. COM. D. F. FOLDS AND CREW—SOME SEVEN MONTHS AFTER ADOPTION

How "Boots" has grown since the time last spring when our Society presented the then two-month-old mongrel collie to these members

of the United States Navy. So happy has been the association. that Commander Folds recently sent us this picture in apprecia-

tion for our part in the induction of a new boatswain's mate. This is just one of the many units to which we have given mascots
and in every case we have found that there has developed a mutual companionship which bodes well for the future.

34

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

Kindness Week—1945

KINDNESS Week this year should have a special signiﬁ-

cance for all Americans. Never before in the history of the world
have we witnessed so much cruelty and suffering; never before has
there been so much need for the message of Kindness, justice and

good will—the essence of the Kindness Week observance.

President William DeWitt Hyde, of Bowdoin College, once
said, "Kindness recognizes the bond of the kind, or kinship, as far
as it extends. Kindness to animals does not go so far as kindness to
our fellow men; because the kinship between animals and man does
not eXtend as far as kinship between man and man. So far as it
does extend, however, kindness to animals treats them as we should

wish to be treated by a person who had us in his power.”

Our own Dr. Rowley, in his boo-k, “The Humane Idea,”
summed up the whole issue when he said, "Personally, I must
frankly say, in the face of the misery, agony, the unrequited,
patient toil, that make up so much of the lives of my lowlier
fellow—creatures, that unless somehow, somewhere, I believed there
was for these, my humble brethren in the universal kinship of life,
an evening of the scales that deal with the great realities of right

and wrong, my moral nature could never be at peace.”

The humane movement in America will have a rare opportu—
nity, during the neXt few years, to help in swaying world thinking
toward kindness, justice and fair play. We hope it will seize the
opportunity and meet the challenge with a long-range view

toward a better world fOr animals, as well as men.

  
   
  

      
  

   
    

. lréllzil‘illlﬁiililllil‘ i‘illﬂ “inf:
lll "l lllllllllll lllllllllllll llllllllillllllllll llllllllll lllllllllillllllliliili iHlillllli llllllllllil llllllllllli lllllI llllllllil lllllilllllill lill Hiliiiilll lllllllllllllllllllilllillllilliiiilllllliillilllllllliillllililllllll

l illl .
llllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

    

                  

                 

 

 

 

 

 

llll lliilill lllllllillililllll llil ill llliillllllliillllll i. Hill lliillilliiiii lllli ll .

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|l|llllllllll|lllllllllllllllllllllllll|llllllllllllllllllll|llllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll|lllllllllll|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lll lllllllllllllllllllll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMA LORE

7W5 PROVERB/AL SPEED
OF THE TORTOIS£
ﬁAS 350v MEASURED AT
TWENTY FEET A MINUTE
(WHMQMMSAMM

 

 

 

 

On Losing a Friend

By IDA M. PARDUE

HEN an animal loses a loved one, it has no recourse to

the consolation available to humans—books, relations,
friends, music. He must make his own peace, as best he can
or, as so often happens, die from grief.

Take the case of “Woodsie,” a small dog that loved his
young owner so deeply that he would not live without him.
When the little boy died after a severe burning, the dog simply
lost the will to exist. He would not touch food, and in just two
hours, followed the child into the Great Beyond.

A Pennsylvania family that owned a pair of love bird's had a
unique experience that proves how attached these tiny winged
creatures are to each other. One of the pair died, and it was
soon evident that the other was dying from grief. A clever
ruse saved the bird from joining its mate in death. A small
mirror was placed inside the cage, and the bird’s own reﬂection
fooled him into thinking he was no longer alone.

Horses, too, are capable of great love, and suffer greatly
when separated from the object of their affections. A famous
combination was broken up recently when “Exterminator,” the
racer who once won the Kentucky Derby, lost his best friend——
a small Shetland pony who answered to the name of “Peanuts.”
For seventeen years, Exterminator never went anywhere with-
out his little comrade, and when Peanuts died last November,
there was no mistaking the loss suffered by the horse. The

unhappy animal refused to eat, and behaved altogether like
any bereaved human.

:13

Volunteer Workman

HILE not on the payroll, “Butch,” a three-year-old
terrier, is a member of the railway interurban section
crew out of Hillsboro, Texas. Butch rides out each morning

with the crew and considers it his duty to chase livestock off
the right of way.

126

Famous Burying Ground
By VINCENT EDWARDS

N these days hardly any visitor to the hist-oric‘Peale home—
stead in Germantown, Pennsylvania, comes away without
having looked up a humble white shaft alongside the beautiful
driveway. There is a reason for this. That simple monu-
ment marks what is probably the most celebrated dog cemetery
in the Philadelphia environs, if not in all Pennsylvania.

It was established by Charles Wilson Peale, himself. This
famous painter, who was one of the founders of the Philadelphia
Academy and Museum, holds a high place in American art.
In 1772, right on the eve of the Revolution, he made a journey
to Mount Vernon to paint George Washington. Today, that
portrait is worth considerably more than its weight in gold.

But some people remember Peale for another reason. In an
age when animal life was not held too precious, the artist went
out of his way to honor an old friend. Peale had a dog of which
he thought the world. It died shortly after his return from
Virginia, and above its grave he placed a monument.

The memorial was not especially imposing, only a wooden
shaft resting upon a marble base. Painted white, it resembled
marble. Yet, the artist cherished his dog’s memory so faith—
fully that he always kept the monument in good repair.

Peale probably never dreamed he had started something. In
1820, after his death, his house and grounds passed into the
possession of William Logan Fisher who deeded the place to
his daughter when she married William Wister. The new
owners discovered the dog monument and treated it with the
utmost respect.

They, also, had their faithful canine friends, and when
these dogs died, the family kept up the old tradition by burying
them alongside Peale’s favorite. On the wooden shaft the
name of each newly buried animal was inscribed. Dog ceme-
teries whose histories go back for more than one hundred and
ﬁfty years are not very commOn in America. That is why this
small burying ground holds so much interest for visitors today.

 

 

No person shall wear a hat. in Saco. Missouri. which may
frighten "timid persons. children. or animals."

 

    

     

  

Wig/ﬂ 4%
.p I ‘

 

MMC“
Milan

s-

l

 

/‘<\TEW~“' ‘ \\\ \ r .

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ABOUT four months ago, we inaugu-
rated a new series of broadcasts
called, “Bird and Animal Lore.” Staff
member Miss Margaret J. Kearns has
brought to the microphone stories from
Our Dumb Animals and interesting facts
concerning animals and birds.

In addition, well-known personalities
appear with Miss Kearns from time to
time to tell the radio audience of personal
experiences with our furred and feath-
ered friends. One broadcast featured
Thornton W. Burgess, known the world
over for his stories of animal life.

To interest children in the program,
Miss Kearns announced, early in June,
a letter writing contest and invited chil—
dren to send in letters on “How I Take
Care of My Pet.” The number of entries

Letter from a Junior

The following letter from Sally Acton,
junior member of the Animal Protective
Association, Washington, D. C., shows
that children are alive to the need for
kindness.-

I TAKE good care of my dog. His
name is ‘Mickey.’ He plays hide-and-
go—seek with me. He’s 11 years old and

he takes good care of me, too. When I _

was little I had a cat, a dog, a duck, a
pigeon, and that’s about all.

“One night my father was walking
Mickey and saw a dog. He went over to
the dog and patted it. The dog was
scared. He looked like he was just beat.
My father took the dog home with him.
He wouldn’t come in the house, but my
father brought a dish of milk outside.
And every night he would do that. Fi-
nally one night she came in the house,
but she was scared.

“We kept her in and fed her. We
named her ‘Lady.’ ”

August 1945

Over
the

Networks

Mrs. Charlene Kibbe broadcasting.

Miss Margaret Kearns broadcasting.

received was astonishing and the judges
were hard put to it to pick out the win-
ners. A gold pin was given for the ﬁrst
prize, a silver pin for second place, and
ﬁve honorable mentions were awarded
subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals.

The response on the part of the public _

has been enthusiastic and it is planned
to keep this program on the air for some
time to come.

For these broadcasts listen to WHDH
—850 on your dial—each Saturday from
2:05-2:15 P.M.

In Springﬁeld, Mrs. Charlena Kibbe is
a veteran broadcaster. For a number of
years, she has produced her weekly pro-
gram of animal stories. It goes without
saying that her broadcasts are well re—
ceived, as quantities of mail and tele-

a

Special Days

By IDA M.

NOT only every dog, but every ani-
mal has his day—in some part of
the world.

Centuries ago, the Druids, ancient
priest-clan of the Celts, held strange rites
each spring to protect cattle against dis-
ease. Herds were run between great
crackling ﬁres, amid prayers and incan-
tations. Oddly enough, this peculiar ob-
servance has never become obsolete. It
hasn’t been so very long since it was prac-
ticed in Gaelic Scotland, and it is still
the main event of the May Day fes—
tivities in modern Brittany. In Lithu-
ania, too, there is a similar ritual ob-
served on St. John’s Eve, when cattle
are driven through “St. John’s ﬁres” to
keep them healthy during the following
year.

 

phone calls testify.
In addition to stories of animal life

and happenings at our Springﬁeld
Branch, Mrs. Kibbe frequently brings
school children to the microphone for

. special presentations.

For these broadcasts listen to WSPR—
1270 on your dial—each Tuesday at
2:15 P. M.

Both programs are informative and
entertaining. If you like animals and
birds and if you enjoy hearing interest-
ing stories of their habits and odd facts
concerning their lives, you will not be
disappointed.

So, don’t forget—tune in each Tues—
day and Saturday. The programs are
sponsored by your Society and produced
for your pleasure.

for Animals

PARDUE

In some places there is conﬁdence in
the powers of certain foods to ward off
illnesses and other dangers. Thus Good
Friday buns are provided for cattle in
some sections of Britain. Belgian house-
wives bake special loaves of bread on St.
Hubert’s Day, November 3, and feed
them to the dogs, horses and other ani-
mals, as a preventative against rabies.

Because sometimes animals are hurt
or killed during storms, weird ceremonies
are followed in Bulgaria on St. Elijah’s
Day. Bulgarians attribute the rain,
snow and hail to this Saint, whose mercy
is besee-ched during the rituals. This is
due to an old superstition claiming
that an animal which walks on wood
shavings on Shrove Tuesday will have
sore feet.

155

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

»

URIN G the Halloween season the cat
is the most important creature in
the land.

Felines with arched backs, distended
claws, (and yellow eyes gleam at us from
magazine covers. Cats snipped from
black paper provide the chief motif for
party decorations. Children even wear
“cat” costumes or masks. And everyone
knows that on the eve of October 31., cats
can ﬁy—that is, on the broomsticks of
the Halloween witches.

How did poor pussy ever get into such
a ﬁx? Just who started the gossip that
resulted in kitty’s reputation as the
bosom pal of the sn-aggle-toothed All
Hallow’s hags?

The idea has been building up for
ages. It is an offshoot of the reverence
once paid to cats by many peoples—a
reverence that made the kitty an object
to be feared and avoided as much as
honored.

In all religions where some animal has
been held sacred, the harming of such a
creature has, of course, been regarded as
a criminal offense. Suppose you had
lived in ancient Egypt. With what super-
stitious dread you would have regarded
any stray cat encountered at night, when
the peculiar dilation and contraction of

October 191,5

  
  
 

Photo by Jon D. Dodds

the animal’s eyes so plainly showed its
kinship to Isis, the moon, whose light
waxed and waned in the same manner.
Would you have felt entirely at ease in
the presence of a cat, when accidentally
to step on its to-e could mean your death
sentence?

The Romans had a healthy respect for
the cat, too. To them it symbolized
freedom, since it was the pet of their
goddess of liberty, who was always
sketched with a cat sprawled comfortably
against her feet.

But it was the Germanic peoples who
endowed the cat with its “scary” reputa-
tion. The Germans believed so completely
in witches that they had a yearly festival
in honor of the crones. May 1 was cele-
brated as Walpurgis Night, the date
when witches from all over the world
ﬂew to Germany on broomsticks, accom-
panied by black cats, for a tete-a—tete
with their chief, Satan. Thus the cat,
Satan, and the witch became a fear-some
trio, and the frightened whisperings of
their deeds started the gossip that built
up the reputation of the Halloween cat.

By the Medieval ages, the kitty had
become, not merely an associate of Satan,
but a personiﬁcation of the Prince of
Darkness, himself. To our Medieval

Hallow
Eve

4., Ma M.
ﬂamﬂue

A typical Halloween cat,
who could imagine

this friendly member
of the feline family

as eonsorting

with evil spirits?

ancestors, Satan was very real, and every-
one knew of his power to change into an
animal, and that his favorite shape was
that of a black cat. Every poor feline,
unfortunately born with a shiny coat of
ebon, was the object of fear and dread,
for who could tell which one harbored
the devil? _

When the Feast of All Saints was
originated to replace Walpurgis Night,
and later moved from May 1 to October
31, to replace a number of other heathen
fetes, many of the customs of the former
rites disappeared. But the cat and the
witch refused to abdicate.

Time has changed the character of
both a great deal. We make fun of the
witch, and the fear of the cat has changed
to fondness, for who can imagine Hal-
loween without its prime motif —-—the
“spittin’ image” of a cat?

185

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

The raccoon is a "deep sleeper."

Meanwhile, there are wakeful and
watching creatures still about. They are
so furtive and quiet they often escape
human notice until they invade man’s
domain. The tracks they leave in the
snow are often the only signs we see of
them. Tiny prints tell us of the presence

of ﬁeld mice. We may see that the bark

of a young fruit tree has been nibbled.
This, too, may be the work of ﬁeld mice.
In some parts of the country foxes hunt
through the winter. These active animals
have thicker pelts which help to keep
them warm, ‘but they must depend largely
upon the food they ﬁnd to maintain body
activity. One can occasionally see the
snowshoe-like tracks of the weasel whose
feet have a special covering of hair. This
hair covering furnishes support when
traveling lover snow.

Thus, the woods and ﬁelds of late fall,
apparently barren and nearly devoid of
life, are peopled with many living things.

Kindergarten,
Grades One, Two, Three

I. BASIC IDEA: Animals spend the win-
ter in many ways.

II. SUBJECT MATTER:
comes.

III. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
Watch the activities of the squirrels and
chipmunks.
Discover where they are carrying food.
Scatter food for these animals; see
what they do with it.
Make a list of all the animals you see
about
Make a list of any animals that you used
to see about that are not around now.
Take a census of all the domesticated
animals of your neighborhood.
Visit a farm to see how the farmer has
prepared for the winter care of his animals.
Find as many different Winter homes
of animals as possible (woodchuck, insect
cocoons, squ‘irrel’s nest, muskrats, mud
wasp nest).

IV DESIRABLE LEARNINGS:
Speciﬁc Ideas:
Some animals are active all winter.
Animals need food to keep warm.
Some animals store food for winter.
Many birds go south.

November 1 91,5

When Winter

Attitudes: , .

A kindliness towards animals.

Self-control in watching animals that are
feeding.
These attitudes are expressed as follows:

The child discovers animals that are
found in his neighborhood.

He remembers to feed the animals and
birds near his home.

He learn-s to stand still while watching
wild animals and birds feed.

He refrains from disturbing animals in
their Winter homes.

Grades Four, Five, Six
I. BASIC IDEA: Animals that are active
all winter require much food to keep them
warm and to furnish the energy required
for their activities.
II. SUBJECT MATTER: When Winter
comes.

III. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:

Learn to recognize the footprints ani-
mals make in the snow (cat, dog, rabbit,
squirrel, birds).

Draw these prints or make plaster of
Paris models of them.

Follow the tracks of an animal in the
snow and try to read the story it tells.

Where was it going?

How fast did it travel?

Was it walking or running?

Did anything interesting or unusual
happen during its journey?

Visit the zoo to study the feet of animals
living there.

How many different kinds of feet do
you ﬁnd?

Can you discover {how each different
kind of foot is of use to the animal pos—
sessing it?

Make a list of mammals that feed on the
food man needs; after each one tell the good
or harm it does.

Discuss with the local or state S.P.C.A.
whether the laws for the protection «of these
animals are adequate.

IV. DESIRABLE LEARNINGS:
Speciﬁc Ideas:

Animals that are active during the win-
ter season are ﬁtted to meet the changed
environment in various ways.

Mammals have thicker pelts.

The feet and legs of some animals
help them to travel through deep snow
or on the surface of the snow.

Food habits of animals help them to
meet the greater energy requirements.

Often the animals that are active dur-
ing the winter months feed upon food
man needs for his own use.

Such animals may need to be con-
trolled.

Attitudes:

A sense of fair play based upon the rec-
ognition that animals have certain needs
and rights.

A sense of justice which guides the child
to seek for the whole truth about any ani-
mal before condemning it as an offender.
These attitudes are indicated as follows:

The child balances the good and the
harm that animals do before judging them.

He is willing to accept the Opinion of
an authority on the value of individual
animals.

He recognizes that he is not sufficiently

mature to exercise control of animals him-
self.

   
   

REFERENCE MATERIALS

Books of Reference: (iTi‘tles marked With *

are for children)

Anthony, H. E., editor: Animals of Amer-
icaz—Mammals of America, Garden City
Publishing Co.

Deals with mammals of North Amer-
ica. For each mammal there is a (1)
technical scientiﬁc account and (2) a
popular, narrative article. Many photo-
graphs.

Anthony, H. E.—Field Book of North
American Mammals, G. P. Putnam.

Descriptive account of characteristics,
food habits, enemies, and life habits
of all the mammals of North America.

*Cornell Rural School Leaﬂet Vol. XIX,
Number 2—Dept. of Rural Education,
New York State College of Agriculture,
Cornell University.

Larger Mammals—Brief narrative ac-
counts of mammals; life history charts;
directions for making plaster casts of
animal tracks. "

*'Cornell Rural School Leaﬂet Vol. XXX,
Number 3—Dept. of Rural Education,
New York State College of Agriculture,
Cornell University.

Fields in Winter—Accounts of the in-
habitants of ﬁelds and how they meet
winter conditions.

Morgan, Ann H.—Field Book of Animals
in Winter, G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

An indispensable book for adults. Sev-
eral chapters which deal with the vari-
ous ways in which animals meet the
problems of surviving winter season;
particularly good in discussion on hi—
bernation; followed by a detailed ac-
count of the habits of all animals
(worms, insects, ﬁsh, etc., as well as
mammals).

National Geographic Society, Washington,
D. C.——Wild Animals of North America
——Text by Ed. W. Nelson; illustrations
by Louis Agassiz Fuertes; drawings of
animal tracks by Ernest Thompson Seton.

*Schmidt, K. P.—Homes and Habits of
Wild Animals, M. A. Donohue & Co.

A scientiﬁc, accurate series of narra-
tive accounts dealing with some of the
common mammals and their habits;
well illustrated; older children.

*Stearns, David M.—Chuckle, The Story
of a Woodchuck, Farrar & Rinehart, Inc.

Whisk, The Story of a Chipmunk.

Sniffy, The Story of a Skunk.

All three stories are charmingly told
and well illustrated.

Win’rer forage for the deer.

215

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

The owl and Jthe family kiHen at rest af’rer an hour-long mock baH'Ie. waged back and forth on
+he floor of the woodshed.

Kindness resulted in an interesting experience with an —

Owl and a Pussy Cat

I would never be able to bring up the young screech

owl which had just been rescued from some boys who
had captured it. They followed that warning with the state-
ment that even if I did succeed in raising the owl it would
prove so vicious that it would not be safe to keep it about the
house.

The owl, still in the down stage, had been rescued from the
boys by a playground instructor. He gave it to me because
of my residence in the country, a short distance from Schenec-
tady, N. Y. In the months that were to follow I discovered
that kindness can inﬂuence even an owl, by its very nature
one of the most savage of all birds.

For the ﬁrst few days the owl was in my home, he would
strike viciously at anything that was placed near him. He
would accept pellets of raw meat, but only if they were placed
on the ﬂoor of his cage.

Within a month, the owl had learned that no one would
harm him and he ceased to peck at the ﬁngers bringing him
his food. Finally he would accept the meat from my hand.

Realizing that the owl would never learn to ﬂy in a small
cage, I decided to give him the liberty of a woodshed. He
would hop about the ﬂoor and on tables and chairs there.
When someone entered with food he would always hop to the

NATURE students of my acquaintance assured me that

January 1 945

By DUANE FEATHERSTONHAUGH

door and greet him with a low call that somehow resembled
the cluck of a self-satisﬁed hen. He enjoyed having his feathers
stroked and soon learned to take food from between my lips
Without ever touching them.

Before another month had passed, the little owl could ﬂy
well. When I entered the room he would ﬂy to me and perch
on my shoulder. He would stay there until he received food,
or else had his head scratched. If I extended my arm he would
run back and forth on it, clucking continuously.

About this time, the owl struck up a friendship with the
family kitten. The two of them would chase each other about
the ﬂoor in mock battle for hours on end. Rarely did they
have any trouble. When they did, the owl’s beak and sharp
claws sent the kitten scurrying for cover.

By mid-summer the owl was old enough to care for himself,
so I released him. He refused to leave the house for more
than a few minutes at a time, although the door was always
open. During this period, he would perch in trees about my
home in the evening and every time I walked by he would
swoop down on my shoulder for food or to be scratched. He
apparently had no desire to leave his human friends.

By fall, the owl had taken to staying away all night and
once in awhile he would remain away for two or three days.
But he always came back and he never lost his tameness.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Donaldina." a duck. gets all kinds of attention from these two
members of the Royal Air Force.

Pets of Fighting Britons

By VERNON NOBLE
Royal Air Force Squadron Leader

HEN British convoys of tanks, ammunition trucks,

supply wagons and other vehicles halt on the roads that
lead to Germany, soldiers can be seen to leap out at intervals
down the lines to exercise their dogs. There are large dogs
and small dogs, of every color and variety. Some of them
have accompanied their owners from Britain, but most have
been picked up along the way, canine refugees of three or four
nationalities. Wherever Allied armies have passed in France,
Belgium and Holland, stray dogs have only to wander into
camp or wag their tails at a tent door to be given refuge and
a name.

Men of Britain’s Royal Air Force are fond of dogs, too,
and there is not an airﬁeld without its canine complement.
Many of these animals have been trained to do a useful job,
actlng as watch dogs at night; others are just pets, roaming
around the ﬂying ﬁeld and dispersals with a proprietary air.

A cook house at a group headquarters of R. A. F. Second
Tactical Air Force has a little mongrel as its mascot, a sharp—
nosed dog with spindly legs, found shell shocked in the ruins
of Caen. There is no sign of shell shock now, and the thin
legs carry a plump, well-fed body.

The airﬁelds have a profusion of pets other than dogs.
There are pigs and goats, hens and ducks, lizards and horses.
One of the pigs was also a shell shock case. It was found in
the wreckage of farm buildings, wandering about in a stupor,
its head jerking unpleasantly. Airmen took charge of it and
nursed it back to health.

Three hens were given to Spitﬁre pilots in Picardy. They
manufactured a coop out of a salvaged German ammunition
box, and ﬁxed it on the ﬂat bonnet of a jeep. And so the hens
traveled all the way to the German frontier, occasionally laying
an egg in return for their keep.

An equipment section has tethered its pet duck in ﬁelds and
orchard camping grounds all the way from France, providing
it With a tank of water and feeding it on porridge.

In the case of pigs, ducks and hens, their owners contend
that they are fattening them up for Christmas, but everyone
knows that these pets will never be sacriﬁced in this manner.
Their owners have too great affection for them.

6

A Typhoon squadron has a goat which wanders into the
mess when it pleases and drops contentedly in front of the
stove. It will eat anything that is offered, even captured
German biscuits which are as hard as granite and ﬁt only to
pave a road; but it is also fond of caps carelessly left lying
about, and even the seat of a pilot’s trousers.

Four German horses, captured by R. A. F. ofﬁcers in Nor—-
mandy, have followed the convoys all the way to Holland, but
another former German possession, a ﬁne Alsatian dog, pre—
sented a problem. It had been left behind in Falaise, but was
apparently as intractable as its Nazi masters. It would allow
no one to approach it too closely. It responded to sharp words
of command, but evinced no affection for its new master.

The pilot tried to disregard it, yet the dog followed him,
always at a distance, to the airﬁeld. It took days of patient
coaxing to win the dog’s trust, and now the animal is appar—
ently as friendly and docile as a household pet, but to his pilot-
master, only.

Perhaps the strangest pets are those of an R. A. F. Group
Headquarters administrative officer. He has 'built up an
aquarium of goldﬁsh, water snail sand water beetles. They
have been transported in buckets from camp to camp, fed
from water and weeds from French and Belgian streams and
Dutch canals. Now he has acquired large glass bottles for
his trophies in place of the buckets, and they adorn the tables
and desk of his office.

There is probably a psychological reason for the craving of
the British Army and Air Force for pets. Perhaps it is some-
thing akin to the fondness others have for “pin-up” girls; a
reminder of things other than war, a vehicle for affection.

United States and Canadian forces show a similar affection
for animals. There are stories of Americans offering to buy
Alsatians found pulling heavily-laden barrows along Belgian
roads or harnessed under milk carts in Holland. The dog as a
beast of burden is unfamiliar to most of the English—speaking
peoples. The Belgians and Dutch in the wayside Villages,

stare incredulously at the profusion of pets, and shake their
heads and shrug their shoulders as if they think the British
and Americans a strange race.

  
  

 
   
 
  
 
 

  
 

 
  

\‘l ' ’ \ / 5;.
_/

_ ‘9 \ ‘ ,, ... V

_—

O
p

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In New York City' it is against the law to "open or close an
umbrella in the presence of a horse.''

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

Balance

By F. J. WORRALL

UNDER NATURAL CONDITIONSI THE MOUSE POPULA-
TION IS HELD IN CHECK BY OWLS.

HERE is a harmony in Nature, from which nothing can
be taken or added, without inﬂuencing something else.

"Darwin was among the ﬁrst to recognize that all animal life

is intertwined into an harmonious whole, in which no single
creature lives to itself alone, but is dependent upon others.
If that arrangement is disturbed, serious con-sequences may
ensue, and frequently it happens that man is the recipient of
his own misguided interference.

The case of the rat and the mongoose in the West Indies is
an example: At one time there were no native rats in Jamaica.
They were, in fact, conﬁned mostly to {the Asias. They came
in ships from other countries, and a few escaped to shore.
There was nothing to keep their numbers in check and ﬁnally
they overran the island. When they began to gnaw the sugar
canes, the planters, in desperation, decided to import the
Indian Mongoose, well—known for its effectiveness in destroying
rats and snakes.

Several pairs were brought in. They set to work with a will
and, fora time, all went well. With the passing seasons, rats
diminished and the mongooses increased. Eventually, there
were not enough rats to feed the mongooses.

Then the carnivores sought other prey. They robbedihen-
roosts, killed lambs, goats, and even the domestic cats and
dogs. Even birds and cultivated fruits were demolished. In-
sects. that had been checked by birds increased so rapidly that
they became plagues in the ﬁeld. Within a period of twenty
years, the life all over the island was completely unbalanced.

 

Photo by Charles W. Groff

Measures had to be taken to reduce the mongoose, but it proved
to be a costly and slow process.

The same pattern ran true to form in Bermuda. These
islands were entirely free from reptiles of any kind until a
resident introduced toads to destroy insects in his garden.
The toads increased in such numbers that they became a greater
menace than the insects. Since that time, Bermuda has waged
a war against toads.

The case of the rabbit in Australia, also, is well-known. A
farmer from the old country brought in a few pairs and they
multiplied to such an alarming extent that the whole country
was overrun with them. The authorities were compelled to
resort to legislation to rid themselves of a veritable pest.

Rats are now a plague in seaport towns throughout the
world. Again, this is a result of man’s interference with
Nature. The spread of rats began with the use of ships and
as world commerce grew, the population of rats grew with it.

The same story repeats itself wherever Man has interfered
with the laws of Nature. And invariably, in the end, he has
been the Victim of his own interference.

The Peculiar Puddle . . . . . . . . . . . By LYDIA L. ROBERTS

A robin perched on an apple tree
Was dry and dusty as he could be.
He said, ”I wish it would rain tonight,
Alas, there isn’t a puddle in sight.”

But then he chirped in great surprise

He shook his head and blinked his eyes,
For down on the lawn so far below,

A puddle was spreading wide—Oho!

July 1945

Then robin flew to his family fast,

”Come quick, come all, a puddle at last!"

They drank their fill and splashed their feet,
And washed their feathers clean and neat.

But back in the tree they puzzled a lot

About the puddle in just one spot:

The answer was plain as a little boy’s nose,
The boy had forgotten to turn off the hose!

127

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.aﬁzwﬂ 4;:

 

Wild Mountain Goats

WENTY-FIVE miles from metropol-

itan Los Angeles, up in the hills of
Santa Catalina Island, there are literally
thousands of wild mountain goats, the
forerunners of which were probably left
there several centuries ago.

Spain’s early conquistadores and navi-
gators had a pleasant habit of stocking
islands in the southern channel group
with food animals from Europe in their
exploring trips along the coast—line of
what is now California. Don Juan Cab-
rillo’s 1542 expedition may be respon-
sible for the huge herd of today. Pos-
sibly Father Torquemada, who came to
the Island in 1602, left a few goats there.
It is even claimed that he made a pact
with the Indian inhabitants, making
provision for care of the goats and their
use for milking, but not to be slain un-
less by the white man.

On Santa Catalina Island were lux—
uriant grasses and shrubs, and the ani-
mals grew to a far greater size than
their ancestors, a full grown buck found
there now might weigh as much as
350 pounds, with a horn spread of up to
36 inches.

———Clarence M. Lindsay

@

Stop!
SMALL white kitten casually lapped
its ﬁll of milk at the intersection
of 8th Avenue and 54th Street, New
York, during the noon hour rush recently
while trafﬁc fumed and cussed.

When a SO-g-allon can fell from a pass-
ing truck, Patrolman Thomas Reilly
halted trafﬁc while the driver retrieved
the can. Just as he was about to blow
the whistle, the kitten crept up and
started lapping milk. The whistle re-
mained unblown—trafﬁc remained at a
standstill—the light changed to green
three times. Presently the cat turned,
walked over .to the curb and sat down
to lick its paws. Patrolman Reilly gave
a loud blast and trafﬁc once more started
its steady flow.

—James E. Knowles

156

Strange Brood

HEN a cat chases a chicken, it isn’t
news, just propaganda for people
that don’t like cats.

When a chicken chases a cat, it’s a'

true story about a little red Hamp-
shire hen at the Pickering farm near
Lombard, Illinois.

This winter biddy was so determined
to mother something that she pushed
and pecked a mother cat away from her
tiny kittens. The hen spread her wings
to keep them warm and responded to
their playful moods until she would get
worn out and hide her head in the straw
nest.

Some dim hen sense must have told
her she had limitations as a mother, be—
cause twice a day she let Mrs. Pickering
take her off the nest so the rightful but
chastened mother could feed them!

——Catherine Gibbs

 

Miss Beatrice Housel spoon-feeds her pet
when mealtime arrives.

Spoon Service

ON ’T be alarmed, cat lovers, at the

accompanying photograph. “Panda,”
the cat in the photograph, isn’t ill and
being given medicine. No, for Panda
likes to be fed that way—nice, nour-
ishing milk out of a spoon.

Panda, admittedly a tabby of some-
what mixed ancestry, is the beloved pet
of Miss Beatrice Housel, Elmira, N. Y.,
war factory worker. Miss Housel started
the spoon-feeding procedure when Panda
was a kitten and now Panda insists upon,
and receives that form of feeding serv-
ice at mealtimes. Now and then she
drinks from a cup or glass, but the spoon
service is the best of all, she thinks.

—Edward L. Van Dyke

Tragedy
They must have seen me hiding there
Within the shadows at the stair,
Watching them build with care and art
A nest that soon would house a part
Of each small body. Yet, they came,
(Like two gay children at a game)
From each short trip with something new—-
A length of string, a bit or two
Of colored rag to weave a note
Ot gaiety while from each throat
Issued the songs I knew so well,
Casting upon me some gay spell.

’Twas done at last! I went away,

Thinking to come another day;

And so I did, and what was there

But four small eggs, so blue and fair;

Four little e‘ggs warmed by the sun

Born to the world, but still undone,

For there below upon the ground

Her drab-brown feathers scattered ’round,
The mother lay, so cold and still——

Her unborn babies on the sill,

Never to know and voice the cheer

That heralds Spring’s approach each year.

—-—Salvatore .l. Marsiglia

@

“Copy Cat”

PRINTER’S ink apparently has its at-
tractions for animals as well as
human beings. At least, that was the
case of this black and white cat that
wandered in from parts unknown one
night to take up residence in the edi-
torial room of The Clarion—Ledger, J ack—
son, Mississippi.

Forty-eight hours after she had made
her way in from the street, through the
press room, and up the stairs to the
newsroom, she produced her family of
three milk-white kittens, and later on
obligingly posed for Roscoe Robson, staff
photographer.

On the morning the picture appeared
in the paper with a legend stating that
the kittens were “up for adoption” as
soon as they could safely be taken from
the mother, telephone calls poured in
from cat lovers, with the result that by
noon, homes were found for the three.

—Mary Alice Bookhart

 

/‘

"Copy Cat" and offspring.
OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W

'"///,;///,,/////////

,/

 

   

MUSK—OX is one of the most unusual
animals in North America. It looks like
a small, odd kind of buffalo and is
similar in certain respects to both cattle

and sheep.

 

 

ResPonding to Kindness

MAN long conﬁned in a penitentiary manifested the desire

every normal person has for something upon which to
bestow some care and attention. He had no relatives to Visit
him, nor friends beyond those he {had made in prison.

In these circumstances he caught a common mouse, which
he trained to do amazing things. At his command to “wash
your face; wash your face,” it would rise up and rub its paws
over its nose, for all the world as though performing the
designated act. “I saw it do that,” said its trainer and friend,
“and over and over again said to it ‘Wash your face,’ until it
learned to associate those words with that action. I am
persuaded that so—caliled dumb animals will thus respond to
kindness and patience, and display more intelligence than that
with which we are commonly accustomed to credit them.”

Again, at his [bidding to “ﬁght,” the little animal would
stand upon its hind legs and strike out with its fore paws.
When its owner held a bit of string above the mouse, it would
leap up, grasp it with its paws, and do twists and turns like
an acrobat.

Promptly, at his bidding, it would leave or enter a small cage
its owner had built in his cell, but would ignore the voice of
anyone else. Teacher and pupil were fully atune!

——Arthur T. Stewart

4%
Spider PhilosoPhy
By CAROLINE HENRY

From post to tree he spins his trail,
Assured his careful plans can't fail;
His acceptance of unquestioned skill
That knows no fear of failure, will
Sustain him in the face of foe,
Wind, broken post, or tree laid low,
For, if wiped out, he won’t despair
But spin forthwith some other where.
If I Could be as certain, know

That this my path will turn out so
Exactly aimed and sure of reach,
And learn the trust that spiders teach!

186

Drought Dodgers
By ADA DUPRE

AMELS can go for a long time, if necessary, without

slaking thirst, but other creatures must have water regu—
larly and so have developed ingenious methods of getting it
even during dry spells.

In one of our good neighbor countries—Venezuela, instinct
and tough hoofs take care of the mules whose drinking places
have vanished with the sun. Instinct leads the thirsty
animals to the melo-cac-tus, a plant which hides ‘behind a for—
bidding armor of barbed thorns a precious treasure—water.
The prickly spikes look vicious, and they are. One of them can
inﬂict a cruel cut, and even cripple a careless animal. The
mule is often called clumsy and stupid, butnei-ther of these
qualities is apparent as he lift-rs hoofs and scrapes away the
sharp needles so as to safely kick a hole in the stalk and get a
drink.

It is, however, the dorads, or mailed catﬁsh of the Orinoco
River, who really go out of their way to obtain water. When
drought begins to suck the streams dry, these ﬁsh actually
leave and cross land to other bodies of water. They travel
only at night, when the heat of the day has somewhat abated,
and, if necessary, they can burrow and exist in the damp mud
of a river bank or meadow.

This remarkable ability to live out of water was clariﬁed
recently when a ﬁsh expert explained that ﬁsh die from the
exertion of their struggles, and not from suffocation. Appar—
ently the dorads do not struggle, and are thus able to live for a
time in the open air. ‘

In Africa there are great colonies of white ants, who simply
do as man does when he is after water—they dig wells. One
such shaft was studied and found to penetrate sixty—ﬁve feet
into the earth before water was reached. A labor battalion
of the wee insects transported the liquid, drop by tiny drop,
to the ant village high above.

  
   

. " .,
i
, .. V .
pr . . éJ.
. x
I; . / "
.‘ 7.;
~~ " s ” ‘i '
' .
f' n.
‘1 2...:
..r._ 3:; ~“

Followers of Izaak Walton are prohibited by lawI in Colorado.
from fishing for trout while on horseback.

ﬁg’v

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

By Boys and Girls

Now we want you to write for us. If you are ﬁfteen years old

or under and have written or want to write a poem or story

about animals, you are eligible to compete for a place On this

page.
own composition.

Each piece must be very short, and, of course, your very
Each contribution must be accompanied by a
note from one of your parents or your teacher stating that the
writing is original with you. Also, if you have a picture of yourself
and your pet, send that, too.
print everything received, but the judges will pick out the ones
they think the best.

All letters should be addressed to Boys and Girls Editor, OUR
DUMB ANIMALS, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass. We
cannot return or acknowledge unused contributions, but We shall
do our best to print the best stories, poems and pictures received.

Following are a few samples of stories and verse written by
children. Can you do better than these boys and girls? Try it.

at

Old Clothes Line Post
By David Powers (Age 7)

I have two kittens. Mother has an old clothes line
post. There is a hole in it. The kittens climbed up the
post. One fell in. The other tried to pull him out. He
fell in, too. I had to get them both out.

4.3

My Pet
By Joan Austin (Age 7)

“Judy” is my pet dog. My brothers and I like to
play with her. She is a friendly dog, but when a
stranger comes to the door, she barks.

a

Buddy

By Kenneth Housman (Age 11)

My dog’s name is “Buddy.” He is mostly Newfound-
land. He is all black except for white feet and breast.

When I was a baby we lived in H'ampden. I could
just walk then. I went down to the dirt road. All of
a sudden a car came up the road. My dog dashed
through two screen doors, ran down the road, picked
me up by my pants, pushed me out of the road, and
stood over me until the car was out of sight.

I am eleven years old and Buddy has been with me

ten years. He is the most splendid dog in the world,
I think.

216

Of course, we cannot promise to.

   

ﬁ‘ﬂm‘x.
a“ ' .
s,‘ _

,l . , I, ' '.\
3 R c
n' . ’ k a. -
0" if. 3’, {by}? _ I ‘ Eu

yam.

ﬂ Photo by James R. Parker

TUG OF WAR

@
My Kitten
By Regina Zonin (Age 9)

Last year my family gave me a kitten for a birthday
present. The next morning I took her to our store.

We didn’t know what to call her, so my mother
thought of an Italian name, and now we call her
“Bellina” which means cute. She is very intelligent
and catches mice in the store.

One warm day I went out to play with her. I went
into the house for a second and when I came out again
she was out of sight. I heard a cry above me. I looked
up into the tree and there she was! My father had to
get a ladder to get her down.

:13
My Pet Chipmunk

By Norma Mattoon (Age 8)

Last summer at our camp in the Berkshires, I had a
very special pet—a little chipmunk. My father showed
me how to tame him. He would take peanuts from my
hand. He would ﬁll his mouth with nuts and carry
them away to his winter storehouse. When he was
hungry he cracked the nuts and ate them in my hand.
I am looking forward to seeing him soon.

@
My Dog
By Barbara Hanson (Age 7)

One day our doggie ran away;
We thought he just went out to play;
We looked about with greatest care.
We couldn’t ﬁnd him anywhere.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

Work Horses Have Christmas Party

MISS JANE WITHERS, popular star
' of stage and screen and a devoted
lover of animals, marked the opening of
our celebration of the Horses’ Christmas,
sponsored by The Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., by personally serving the ﬁrst
holiday dinner to a team of work horses.
Shown with her in the picture is Eric H.
Hansen, Executive Vice-President.
Throughout the day, a horse-drawn
truck, bearing a decorated Christmas
tree and laden with oats and carrots and
apples, moved around the city where

13

“Lady” Joins the WAGS

@NCE again we have been called upon

to supply a mascot for a service
group. On the present occasion it was
for a Women’s Army Corps and after a
careful search, selection was made of a
seven-month—old Dalmatian puppy who is
proud of the honor of being inducted as
chief mascot of the WAGS at Fort Banks,
Massachusetts.

With all the ceremony beﬁtting the
occasion, the new mascot. was presented
to the WAC Detachment by Dr. Erwin F.
Schroeder, Chief of Staff of our Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital. The pretty
recipients of “Lady,” shown with Dr.
Schroeder, are: Pvt. Lois Wascom (left)
and Cpl. Bernice Collins. We feel sure
that the new canine WAC will acquit
herself with honor and be a source of
comfort and companionship to her mis-
tresses.

On the many occasions when our So—
ciety has been called upon to ﬁnd mascots
for such groups, we have always been
careful to select an animal that, in our
Opinion, will ﬁt in best with the type of
individuals composing the group.

February 191,5

horses were to be found in the greatest
number. Coffee and doughnuts were
served to the drivers. Whatever re-
mained of these gifts for the horses was
distributed at the various stables where
most needed, particularly at the stables
where the horses of peddlers and junk
dealers are kept.

The idea of playing Santa Claus to
work horses at Christmastime was con-
ceived by The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
nearly thirty years ago, and the custom
has been continued every year since then.

 

An Ingenious Dog

N English ofﬁcer who was in Paris

some years ago mentions the case

of a shoeblack’s dog that had actually

been taught by his master to bring in
business.

The ofﬁcer’s boots had been polished,
but when crossing a bridge they were
soiled by a poodle running against them.
He therefore went to a nearby bootblack
and had them cleaned. This same thing
happened several times and aroused the
ofﬁcer’s curiosity. He watched the dog
and saw him roll himself in the mud of
the river, and then watch for persons
with well-polished shoes against which
he contrived to rub himself.

The bootblack confessed that he had
taught the dog this trick. The ofﬁcer
purchased the animal for a high price,
took him to London, where he was tied
up for a While and then released. He
disappeared and could not be found. Later
he was again discovered in Paris pursu—
ing his old trade.

——Marvin L. Whitaker

@

OR those in battle, on land or sea, all
suffering and starving women and
children, all homeless and wounded small
animal creatures in ﬁeld and forest, we
can only pray. The innocent “dumb
creatures,” who ﬂee in agony or are stark
in death, are never accounted as among
the “casualties,” but though they have
not learned Man’s ingenious ways of
slaughter, some refer to all cruelty as
“beastly.” —Mrs. M. R. L. Freshel

35

 

 

 




 

 

. f'\\
' - ‘l o. \\
>_,'. } €/ @Wf f9\ \
. .w.
ﬁle“. \ o3 "" “fir
\é‘l '

   

Birds of Our States

THIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted oﬂicial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation
of the governor, or by long stablished precedent. The
remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds. Re-
gardless of their ofﬁcial status, however, each bird is
more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you some
clues about himself. Without looking at the answer,
see if you can identify him. Then study the informa—
tion so you’ll be able to know any of the state birds
wherever you see them. It will belots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know. Me?

First Clue: In size I don’t amount to so much, but
what I lack in size, I make up for in color. In summer,
my plumage is bright yellow, except on crown of head,
frontlet, wings and tail, which are black, but in winter,
I am drab green. I look very much like the domesticated
canary, so much so, that I am often called the “Wild
Canary,” as well as “Salad-bird,” and “Yellow-bird.”

. Who am I?

Second Clue: I have two outstanding traits—the way

I ﬂy, in a sort of rising, falling, waving motion, never in

a straight line—and my odd nesting habit. My charm-
ing mate and I neVer build our nests far from the
ground, usually placed in the fork of a low hanging
limb. We construct a beautiful nest, a cup-like struc-
ture, composed of the ﬁnest grasses and moss, lined
with willow down, milkweed silks or other soft ma-
terials. . . . Who am I?

Third Clue: Many people enjoy my sweet, plaintive
song as I soar through the air. I ﬁnd the seeds of mari—
golds, sunﬂowers, zinnias and asters especially de-
licious food. Most gardeners gladly give us ﬂower seeds
in payment for the vast number of insects we devour.
Both adults and youngsters are very fond of canker-
worms, plant lice, grasshoppers, crickets and many
other injurious pests. . . . Who am I?

Fourth Clue: I am a member of one of the largest
bird families in the nation. We are all closely related
and with the exception of cousin “Purple . . .” we look
very much alike and have the same peculiar habits.
‘We are sociable and are seldom seen, save in the
nesting season, except in large parties. We are never
in a hurry about nest building and many of the other
birds have hatched one family before we even decide
upon a building site. I help care for our youngsters,
usually 4 or 5.. .Who am I?

Fifth Clue: I am the unofﬁcial choice in Minnesota
and have been voted ofﬁcially as State Bird for Iowa
and New Jersey. . . . Who am 1?

Answer? 'HONIJCI’IO‘D

-Jewell Casey

August 1945

M EN
f. SQ\‘\

  

 

"LASSIE" FEEDS A FRIEND.

4%
Fair Judgment
By ANNA M. PRIESTLEY

The hoy, whose dog loo/cs u p at him
With loyal, trusting eyes,

Is apt to he known to his playmates
As one of those regular guys.

The girl whose kitten cuddles up
With never a sign of fear,

Is pretty certain to he the kind
Whom everyone calls a dear.

But the hoy who is cruel to his dog
And the girl unkind to her cat,

Will prove the same to their human friends,
You may rest assured of that.

157

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ofﬁcial U. S. Navy Photo

Very Sad Story

Y name isn’t PAL, it’s “TBF

Puncher.” The sign hanging
around my neck? It says I’m PAL. That’s
the sad story, sad for me anyway.

I’m attached to Operations at the Naval
Air Station, Puunene, Maui, T. H. I work
the bushes and the lawn around their
building and bunk with the Operations

gang in barracks 18. My name is on my ,

bunk.
sign.

You see, when you do something wrong
or forget to do something right, you get
hauled in and while you’re waiting for
trial you wear a PAL sign. PAL, by the
way, stands for Prisoner at Large.

But ﬁrst, how did I get my real name?

That’s what got me that PAL

When I was little, I pattered along. kind .

of bow—legged so the boys started to call
me Puncher, but otﬁcially I’m TBF
Puncher.

Well, as I said, my bunk has my name
on it and one night when I was out on a
little late duty, there was an inspection
and I was turned in as absent. Then one
day a little later, I was tabbed for not
airing my bedding. So, I was restricted
and this sign was hung around my neck.

But my buddies have been mighty good
to me, just the same. They let me sleep
in when I’ve been out on night duty and
they moved me up to Seaman First Class.

43

To Subscribers

We ask our subscribers to be patient if
copies do not come through on time.
Because of increasing difﬁculties, from
eight to twelve weeks should be allowed
for new subscriptions to be entered.

Also, because of uncertainty of mail de-
liveries and the danger of loss in transit,
we would suggest that our readers remit

by check or postal money order when-
ever possible.

64:

Animal Symbolism

All Manner of Animal Life Is Associated with the Resurrection
By LUCILLE B‘ELCKHART

her breath.

The serpent, because of its annual
habit of casting its skin, is also accepted
as anvemblem of the Resurrection. It is
often shown having its tail in its mouth.
It then represents eternity -— since it
forms a complete circle, without begin—
ning and without ending. Thus, it typi-
ﬁes the life everlasting.

Since superstition stated that the
pelican feeds its young with its own
blood, it also typiﬁes the Resurrection.
Here the idea that the blood of the old
gives life and strength to the new life
is used. The ﬁgure of the pelican feed-
ing, its young in this way may be seen on
the stained glass window of the minister
of Freiburg, in the Breisgau. It also
appears on the window of the Cathedral
of St. Etienne.

An old belief of the Bestiaries says
that as the young of the pelican grow,
they often strike their parents. This en-
rages the adult birds to such an extent
that they kill the offspring. Later, over-
come by remorse, the mother comes back
to her dead, strikes her breast with her
beak until the blood ﬂows and brings the
young back to life again.

The butterﬂy, called Psyche by the
Greeks and meaning “soul,” is also a
symbol of the Resurrection. After being
entombed in its cocoon, it bursts through
as a gorgeous creature to life in the sun
again. So does the soul, puriﬁed by its
suffering and misfortunes, ﬁnally rise
and experience a glorious Resurrection.

THE lion and the serpent, the pelican
and the butterﬂy—all of these and
many others have been deﬁnitely asso-
ciated with the Resurrection.

Even in Mediaeval times, the lion was
the favorite symbol of the general Res-
urrection and of the Resurrection of
Christ. This is one of the reasons that
it holds so important a part in the archi-
tecture of that time. The carved ﬁgure
may be seen on the choir of Augsburg
Cathedral, at the foot of the beautiful
cruciﬁx in St. Nicholas of Stralsund and
many other places.

A stained glass window of the Cathe-
dral of St. Etienne, dating back to the
13th century, pictures a lion and three
whelps at the right of the cruciﬁed
Christ. Figures of the lion and its whelps
are often found on sacramental vessels.

The lion, as a symbol of the Resurrec-
tion, is found on many buildings of a
later period. Both public and private
ediﬁces show this ﬁgure. The same ﬁgure
is often found engraved on pieces of
armor, especially on helmets. Often the
Latin “Domine veriﬁca me secundum
verbum tuum” is found with the lion.
This expresses the hope of personal res-
urrection should the warrior be slain
in battle.

. Perhaps the reason for the lion’s asso-
ciation in this manner dates back to the
ancient superstition that the whelps
are born without life, and that after
three days the mother howls over them
and endows them with life by means of

 

   

\ Kati“ “I!” m 3..“
, Wtﬁgﬁ‘" 13 «ex
., 4. V, 4’. 4' ‘2' lag/”Cy I/Cﬂﬂl? A
f , ' .- ”fih/ (I '~
By CARROLL VAN COURT 5%. c: - - W” Jew/0L
Sketch by Bill Sagermann .- , . ' ' " 'ry 1’4/ ' .
tie _ 3%.. .4 ‘ ‘

How the Butterﬂy Eats

And when his tongue is straightened out,
You’d be surprised to see

This pretty little tellow’s tongue
ls just as long as he!

The pretty little butterfly
That likes his supper sweet,
Unrolls his tongue just like a spring,
When he begins to eat.

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

Gentleman
of Erin

 

Photo by William D. Barkley

Agem Jada

RISH setters are all graceful, but our “Rory” is, also,
the most charming, the most digniﬁed of gentlemen. The
word “gentleman” particularly’suits him.
Christmas day brought an inﬁnitesimal Scottish terrier.
Somehow or other, we usually called her “Dingbat,” although

her real name is “Mary,” Mary, Queen of Scots. She is just a '

shade smaller “than Rory’s head.

They play outdoors with great zest, rushing around, digging
holes, Rory trying to squeeze himself down to Mary’s size——
a steam shovel trying to be a trowel.

Rory is accustomed to coming indoors after dinner to enjoy
the ﬁre, in a digniﬁed, statuesque sort of way, but Mary would
have none of that. She’d stand on her hind feet and lean her
stomach on his face so that with an effort she could reach and
bite either one of his ears.

Whatever she’d bite, he’d move it gently, trying to sleep
through it all. Finally, when she would get too rough, he’d
stand up, shake her off and walk over to put his head in my
lap, desperation in his expressive eyes.

His eyes are large, almond shaped, and a beautiful red—
brown. The expression in them is usually gentle, a little
mischievous and yet, tenderly appealing.

We thought he would soon put her in her place, but he is too
soft-hearted. We have to separate them indoors.

96 96 96 96

When Rory was about a year old, two of our hens, as is their
way, decided it was time to raise a family. So we set them on

October 191,5

eggs, and in the usual course of events the little chicks
appeared.

Not quite sure that he would not harm them, we watched
the big dog carefully, not allowing him close to them.

At ﬁrst, the mother hens ﬂew at him and would not let him
near the little ones, so we eventually relaxed our vigilance.

One cold, gray day we were all indoors and forgot all about
them. The mother hens were busy ﬁnding worms and bugs and
wouldn’t sit down and cover the chicks, and they were miserably
cold.

When we went outdoors to see if all was well, there, in the
least windy corner of the house, lay the big red dog. He had
the most blissful expression on his face! And, tucked under
his silky coat, under his neck and stomach, were all the baby
chicks. Little dandelions with eyes peeking out here and there
with an air of immense daring. He had been wanting to
mother them all the time.

ee as as 4:-

Rory has a trick. When his master asks him for his hat, or
says, “Well, let’s go,” Rory is instantly alert. All feathers
quivering, the big tail waving and thumping against the
furniture, off he goes through the house at a slow trot, straight
for “the boss’s” hat.

If I say, “Let’s go,” he prances into my room and brings my
gloves; ﬁrst one and then, with nearly unbearable glee, the
other one.

96 96 96 96

It is difﬁcult to describe his unusually lovely color. It is
not quite copper, not quite ﬂame, not quite gold, but a splendid
ﬂash and glitter of all three.

96 96 96 96

Rory is not afraid of thunder, he is not afraid of anything,
but he dislikes it thoroughly. His master worked late at night
when we ﬁrst had him, and I kept the dog indoors.

Rory has perfect manners, and as a rule, he would never get
up on any piece of furniture. But one night, I went to bed
early and slept soundly for some time, wakening half-way to
hear a thunder storm crashing and rumbling toward us.

Nearly asleep again, I felt a great paw on my bed, then a
second, quietly, quietly. I lay perfectly still. After a few
moments, a third leg came up and ﬁnally the fourth. He was
all the way up, as quietly as a cat.

I pretended to be asleep and waited to see what he would do.
He lay as still as a rock all during the storm. I knew he would
be embarrassed if he knew I was aware of his breech of
manners. I have never known an animal so anxious to please,
so full of blarney.

(Wonderful blarney, radiant charm. It is perfectly sincere;
he is simply, convinced that “God’s in his Heaven; all’s right
with the world”)

The sound of thunder grew fainter and fainter, died quite
away. And suddenly, I realized the dog was lying on his
favorite rug in the hall. I hadn’t heard or felt him leave. I
turned on the light and looked at him.

The Barrymores never gave a better performance. He had
both eyes closed tight. After a second, he opened one eye,
stretched out his long legs behind him, and yawned a great
yawn. Both eyes open now, he looked at me with the most
ludicrous innocence: the little boy beside the shrunken cake,
with crumbs on his chin, chocolate in the corners of his mouth,
and the innocence of angels in his eyes.

96 96 96 96

Mary has an old leather glove, her particular property.
Occasionally, Rory will play with,it, holding it nearly out of
her reach. He whirls and waves his plumey tail. Not too fast
for Mary, though; he is careful to hold the glove low enough
so she can reach it. He does not tease her, he plays with her.
There isn’t a mean bone in his great body.

After this, he stretches his shiny self luxuriously on the
green lawn. And, little black ears folded softlypback, the weary
Dingbat slowly lies down under his chin. Their sleep is deep.
Their love is measureless.

187

 

 

 

 

 




 

New Contest

for Children

1N our September issue, we opened a new Animal Contest for our young readers. For

you who missed the last two issues and would like the chance of winning one of our

28 prizes, just send your subscription and ask that it start with the September issue.

Be sure to read the following contest rules before starting.

Rules for Animal Contest

1. This contest is open to all paid subscribers to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, 15 years of age or under.

2. Prizes will be as follows:
First Prize . . . . . .$25.00
Second Prize 10.00

Third Prize ........ $5.00
Twenty-ﬁve $1.00 prizes.

3. With the ﬁrst entry enclose OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK
found on this page, signed by your teacher. Only ONE entry
blank is needed for entire contest.

4. This contest will run for six months, one set of puzzles in each
issue of this magazine for FIVE months. The sixth entry
will consist of a scrapbook of not more than eight pages,
including the cover, made up of interesting pictures or
stories selected from your copies of OUR DUMB ANIMALS.
BE SURE TO SAVE YOUR MAGAZINES. Start right now
thinking about YOUR scrapbook entry. It will be judged for
its attractiveness and originality.

5. You may send in each set of puzzles as you complete them,
being sure your ﬁrst set is accompanied by the ofﬁcial entry
blank, properly signed, or you may submit all ﬁve sets and
scrap book together (with OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK) at

the completion of the contest.

6. All entries must be postmarked on or before midnight,
February 25, 1946. A

7. Each entry, whether sent separately or all together, must
bear the contestant’s name and address (the same address to

which OUR DUMB ANIMALS is being sent).

8. Address your entries to ANIMAL CONTEST EDITOR, 180
Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

9. Winners will be notiﬁed by letter and their names will appear
in the June issue of the magazine.

10. In case of ties, duplicate awards will be given and the deci-
sion of therjud‘g'es will be ﬁnal. We regret that we cannot
enter into any correspondence concerning the contest.

11. All entries become the property of OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and none can be returned.

 

0 ._, 'w
' "T

 

A special subscription rate of 750 will be
allowed to all contestants.

Please send to

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Lungwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

November 1945

Third Puzzle Set ‘

ELOW we have listed ﬁfteen familiar phrases which,

when completed with the name of an animal or
bird, will give you the outstanding characteristics
usually attributed to these creatures. In some cases
the description might ﬁt more than one animal and
allowance will be made in these cases.

Write your answers in the blank spaces, cut out the
whole puzzle and send as your third entry. (EXAMPLE
—Silly as a goose.)

Busy as a ..........................
Happy as a ........................
Graceful as a ......................
Bold as a ..........................
Playful as a ........................
Slippery as an ......................
Crazy as a .........................
Blind as a .........................
Stubborn as a ......................
Cunning as a .......................
Big as an ..........................
Quiet as a .........................
Friendly as a .......................
Proud as a .........................
Wise as an .........................

 

OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK

 

 

Name ...........................................................................................
‘ (Please Print)
Address ........................................................................................
(Street)
iiiiiiiiiiiii (City and Zone) (State)
Age ................................
(Have your teacher ﬁll in the next three lines)
Teacher .......................................................................................
(Signature)

School .........................................................................................
Address ........................................................................................

................................................

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lands New Film

E are proud to quote from a letter

‘ received from the Bureau of Visual

Instruction, Board of Education, New
York City.

“I think this is one of the very best
pictures (‘Out of the Heart’) I have seen
for use with small children. It seems to
me to combine with unusual success the
statement of correct information to-
gether with a presentation, which can-
not fail to appeal mainly to children in
such a way as to induce desirable activ-
ities on their part. I took the liberty,
while the ﬁlm was here, of showing it to
a group of elementary teachers who were
here for a meeting on another subject,
and they were unanimous in agreeing
with me.

“We have 23 district ﬁlm libraries. I
wish it were possible immediately to
secure 23 prints of your delightful and
excellent ﬁlm, so that all or most of our
children might see it.” ‘

ﬂ

“Kittywit” Club

HE Kittywit Junior Humane Club,
of Bangor, Maine, connected with
the Fifth Street Junior High School,
gave recently an interesting program in
the school auditorium before a large
group of parents, friends and school—
mates. The Club was organized last
October, and now numbers 172 members.
While other organizations work for
the betterment of humans, this Club is
busy along animal welfare-lines. Among
its projects are the returning of lost
pets to owners, ﬁnding homes for un-
wanted animals, encouraging better care
of household pets, providing license for
a little dog, preparing animal scrapbooks
to be delivered to children’s institutions,
paying for the care of the Club mascot,
“Gloria Marie,” providing humane book-
marks to the entire school, and in many

ways making practical their motto, “We
protect the helpless.”

ti

Marine Values Pet

MY dog is my heart and soul,” wrote

Marine Sgt. Gregory Johnson,
now on his second mission in the South—
west Paciﬁc, in a recent letter home. “If
anything happens to him, nobody is to
blame except you people who accepted
the responsibility for him.”

Later he asked for a monthly picture
of the German shepherd, “Chief,” “So I
can see how he’s growing.” A month
ago Sgt. Johnson wrote, “Hope Chief is
well. That’s about my largest worry.”

A week later Chief disappeared and
all efforts to ﬁnd him have been fruitless.

158

Energetic Worker

UR ﬁeld worker, Miss Lucia F. Gil-
bert devoted four months last
spring in visiting the parochial schools
around Boston, establishing a record of
performance that would be difficult to
equaL

Traveling some 2,078 miles, Miss Gil-
bert visited 52 schools, reaching by means
of over three hundred talks, 18,696 chil-
dren. During this time, she formed 460
Bands of Mercy and reports that the chil-
dren are enthusiastic over the activities
of the groups.

Miss Gilbert plans, in the future, to
return to this section to visit the hundred
or more schools that she did not have
time to contact this spring. She is en-
thusiastic in her praise for the ﬁne co-
operation afforded her on every hand.

a

“Just Nuisance”

HE true story of a dog sent by a

friend in Cape Town, South Africa,

to a sister in England, and sent to the

Rev. Whitney Hale, Rector of the Church

of the Advent, by Mrs. Bartram Tallin-

ton, now living in England, and formerly
of Boston.

“Just Nuisance,” South Africa’s most
famous dog, a huge, tawny Great Dane,
has just died and caused a pang of sor-
row for all sailors. Nuisance acted as
guide, philosopher, and friend to all mem-
bers of the lower deck. He was always
with the blue jackets and came into Cape
Town every day by train from Simons-
town. The ofﬁcials tried at ﬁrst to eject
him from the train, but he always jumped
through the next window and as nobody
dared tackle him except a sailor, he was
allowed to travel free daily and when'he
wished.

He always took a whole seat (which
held three people) but always gave it up
if sailors wanted it. He had a proper
bed in the dormitory in one of the Sailors’
Clubs in Cape Town and he frequented
all the clubs and hotels they visited.

His devotion to duty was marvelous
and, in consequence, he held the rank
of able seaman. Atnight he went round
the clubs and always found a sailor the
worse for wear. Nuisance would take
him by the cuff and get him to the sta-
tion, into the right train, standing guard
over him the entire journey. At Simons-
town, he would get him out and lead him
to Camp. This happened every night and
he never missed the last train.

Last week he died and was buried with
naval honors. His body was wrapped
in the white ensign and a party of
marines (Royal) ﬁred a volley as Nuis-
ance was lowered into his grave. Then
buglers sounded the “Last Post’” over
his grave. The Royal Navy will build a
monument to its most famous rating.

 

Out patients at the Fondouk.

Help the Fondouk

Funds are urgently needed to insure
the continuance of animal work at The
American Fondouk, in Fez, Morocco. Be—
cause of the war, supplies have become
scarce and prices for those available have
soared to such an extent that Super-
intendent Delon has had great diﬂiculty
in coping with the situation.

Our Society is vitally interested in this
project, a work carried on in North
Africa, but supported solely by friends
in this country. As President Emeritus,
Dr. Francis H. Rowley has for many
years sponsored this work in a far-off
land and our President, Eric H. Hansen,
has recently been elected a Director and
member of the Executive Committee.

In response to an urgent request from
Superintendent Delon, we have sent a
large supply of veterinary medicines and
other supplies, which have become un-
obtainable in Morocco.

Visitors to North Africa have returned
with stories of the sorry plight of ani-
mals in this region. The American
Fondouk is their only oasis of help and
mercy. We urge our readers to send
contributions for this much needed work.
Gifts may be sent to The American
Fondouk Maintenance Committee, Inc,
M. E. Lyon, Treasurer, 50 Madison Ave.,
New York 10, N. Y., or, if preferred, to
our Society. We shall be glad to see
that such donations are forwarded
promptly.

d

To Subscribers

We ask our subscribers to be patient if
copies do not come through on time.
Because of increasing diﬂiculties, from
eight to twelve weeks should be allowed
for new subscriptions to be entered.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  

"Sandy" and Trophies

Caddy Supreme

FEW years ago, a quarantine was

placed on dogs in our city. So, in
order to give our cocker spaniel, “Sandy,”
sufﬁcient exercise we took him in our
car on summer evenings to a secluded
by-road that skirted a popular golf
course several miles from the city.

On the opposite side of the road from
the course was a corn ﬁeld, a pasture and
a wooded lot. We let Sandy out of the
car and he immediately displayed his
ability as a hunter by wandering around
in different directions with his tail wag-
ging furiously and his nose to the ground.

In a few minutes Sandy returned to
the car with a golf ball in his mouth,
mute evidence of a hook or a slice by
some over-zealous golfer. Many times
we have taken Sandy to this place and
he has never failed to produce. In all,
he has found more than two hundred of
these popular little pellets and we have
shared them with our golf—playing
friends. On one occasion, we placed
twelve in an egg carton and sent them to
the home of a friend. The maid, think-
ing they were eggs, placed them in the
refrigerator where they remained for
several days.

—William T. Sanders

a

Animal of Mystery

HE bison really had the early Amer-
ican explorers puzzled.

No one knew what to call the beasts.
Some adventurers merely said “cow”
when talking about one of the big ani-
mals, but Cortes, conquerorof Mexico,
called them “Mexican Bulls.” In a writ-
ten report Cortes sent to the court of
Spain, he went into much detail about
the huge herds of terrifying creatures
which had manes just like lions, skulls
like bulls, and humps the same as camels.

—Ida M. Purdue
1%

 

Breakfast for Two

By NELSON.

LD DON, well past sixty, ran a small
ﬁlling station just beyond a country
1nn.

Last spring he decided that with all
the green grass about his place going to
waste it would be to his advantage to
purchase a cow. This he did.

Bossy was attached to a long rope,

which was fastened to a small iron post
driven into the ground. This was moved
from place to place as new grazing space
was needed. The grass near the station
grew thinner and thinner. Bossy’s ap-
petite was much greater than Don had
expected.
, Don obtained permission from the
innkeeper to stake Bossy at night near
an orchard on the hillside some distance
back of the station. The orchard was
separated from a sparsely wooded pas-
ture by a rail fence. The grass on the
new feeding place was abundant and
tender. All went well for about a week;
then one morning Don could get no milk.
He was greatly puzzled; his knowledge
of cow-s was small, but Bossy seemed
perfectly healthy and contented. At night
she gave her usual amount. Don took
Bossy back to the orchard but went for
her about one hour earlier than usual the
next morning, and again there was no
milk. .

Don spent much time pondering the
problem. At last he felt sure that he had
the solution. He jumped to the con-clu-
sion that someone at the inn was playing
a joke on him. Fuming with rage, he

A. JACKSON

rushed over and began to make threats
as to what he would do if the stealing of
his milk was not stopped. Chris, the
owner, just laughed at Don until the
storm Jblew over. Suspecting that the
milker might be one of the shifty neigh—
bors from over the hill, Chris suggested
that early the next morning it would be a
good plan for Don to conceal himself in
one of the trees near Bossy and watch
for the culprit. Don picked out his tree
during the day, and the next morning,
while it was still dark, he made himself
as comfortable as possible and awaited
developments.

Just as old Sol topped the eastern hills,
Bossy gave a most enticing moo. Almost
at once there appeared two beautiful
dappled fawns. They took the fence with
graceful bounds, placed themselves one on
either side of Bossy, and with. vigor
started the milking process. They never
ﬁnished. There was no beauty in the
scene for old Don, who, purple with rage,
fairly fell out of the tree. With a yell
he dashed toward the happy breakfast
party.

Apparently the fawns had lost their
mother, and Bossy, who had been sepa-
rated from her offspring, had willingly
adopted them. From the animal view-
point it. was a highly satisfactory ar-
rangement. However, Don, who was no
lover of nature, could not appreciate
Bossy’s fondness for the fawns. There-
after Bossy did her night grazing in the
vicinity of the station.

 

Odd - Facts

- in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

A Dry Swimmer

The duck goes floating down the stream,
But keeps his feathers dry;

He doesn’t wear a rubber suit,
Like you might do, or I.

But on his back there is a gland
Of oil the duck can get;

He smears it on so carefully,
His feathers don’t get wet!

     

\\\ ”all/é

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YOUNG MUSICIAN AND HER DOG
An accomplished pianist. Anne Marit Studness. poses with her pet. "Bolt."

4%

“Pongie” . .

OME people would probably describe
our “Pongie” as just a “common
alley cat,” but they would have to admit
that he is a splendid specimen with his
sleek, jetdblack coat and bushy tail.
Pongie is a well-cared-for cat. He gets
the best of food and is never turned out
at night. He is possessed of an over-
powering sense of affection which he dis-
tributes to all and sundry; even approach-
ing strange and menacing dogs with a
sublime conﬁdence, born of sheer ignor-
ance, which seems to so astonish the said
dogs that, so far, he is still quite intact.
I have always been fond of the old
fellow since he joined our menage some
ten years ago as a plump and very ani-
mated ball of black fur; but, until quite
recently, my feelings towards him could
hardly be described as respect. However,
thereby hangs Pongie’s tale!

One evening recently my wife an-
nounced, with a touch of concern in her
voice: “Pongie didn’t ﬁnish his supper
again tonight.”

“That’s funny,” I replied, “Wasn’t it
on Wednesday last week that he refused
to take his supper, and isn’t that the day
the Chinese ﬁsh pedlar comes?”

“Oh! I’m sure it isn’t that,” my wife
responded, “I’ve watched him and John
only gives him a few little scraps. I’m
afraid I’ll have to give Pongie some
medicine.”

The following week I happened to be
home from business on Wednesday. I

9218

o o o By JAMES BARR

was work-ing at the front boulevard when
the venerable ﬁsh pedlar arrived and laid
his heavy baskets on the sidewalk.

Like the genie of Aladdin, Pongie ap-
peared from nowhere and commenced to
indulge in an orgy of affection which
included the Chinaman’s legs, his baskets
and our front gate. The Chinaman
delved into his baskets and placed a few
scraps of ﬁsh. Pongie pounced on the
scraps of ﬁsh and darted off in the direc-
tion of our back garden. Sure enough,
it was only a small quantity of .ﬁsh as my
wife had said and certainly not sufficient
to put a healthy cat off his evening meal.

The Chinaman, having delivered his
order, shouldered his baskets and pro-
ceeded to the next house. His baskets
had hardly touched the sidewalk in front
of the next house when a large black cat
jumped from the verandah. This cat
rubbed affectionately against the ﬁsh
pedlar’s legs, received a few scraps of
ﬁsh and trotted off.

Fascinated, I followed the ﬁsh pedlar’s
slow progress along the block. At the
next two houses a familiar black ﬁgure
met him with, I suspect, an air of inno-

cent expectation and received offerings of
ﬁsh.

The mystery of Pongie’s periodic ab-
stinence from his evening meal was
cleared up. There is only one big black
cat in the \block and he, need I say it, is
our Pongie!

Rooks Love Play
By JOHN H. S'PI-CIER

THE rooks love to play. These birds
of the Old World, cousins of our
common crows, are among the most in-
telligent of the feathered folk and more
social in their habits than most. They
have often been seen together in large
ﬂocks in the ﬁelds, apparently just to have
a good time and enjoy their favorite sport
together. .

This is an exciting aerial game, some-
thing like the power dives performed by
test pilots or by dive bombers. Part of
the ﬂock remains on the ground as an
audience, cawing and walking about in an
excited manner while the ones whose turn
it is to perform will circle higher and
higher into the air. When they get about
400 to 500 feet up, each bird in turn folds
its wings and drops like a stone. Then
when only forty or ﬁfty feet above the
ground, the performer suddenly spread-s
its wings and puts on the brakes. F01
a few moments it skids and swerves about
in the wildest manner and then lights on
the ground. There it walks about for a
while, watches the other birds take their
turn and caws as if comparing notes with
its friends before repeating the stunt.

On one occasion a naturalist who had
been watching the «birds at this game
reported that the rooks mounted until
they were almost out of sight, a height
of several thousand feet, before folding
their wings and starting their dive. In
a downward plunge from this height the
birds would reach a terriﬁc speed before
putting on the brakes and one can easily
imagine that they got plenty of excite-
ment from their game.

These playful parties are usually held
in February, but the rooks are sometimes
seen enjoying their exciting game in the
early autumn as well.

cﬁ

 

 

OVER THE AIR

For those ,who like stories and facts about
our animal triends. our Society sponsors two
distinct radio programs.

In Boston. ,."Bird and‘ Animal Lore" is
presented by Miss Margaret J. Kearns each
Saturday. at 2:05 P. M.. over WHDH—850
on your dial.

In Springﬁeld. Mrs. Charlena Kibbe
broadcasts a similar program each Tuesday.
at 2:|5 P. M.. over WSPR—I270 on your
dial.

BE SURE TO LISTEN!

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

Helpful Tarantula
By JEWELL CASEY

HE TARANTULA—so named be-

cause ﬁrst found in the vicinity of
Taranto, Italy,——is another of our insect

friends (not actually an insect, but an ‘

arachnid). It is the largest member of
the spider family, has long jointed legs
and is covered with fuzzy hair. It can
see but dimly, because of the location of
its cluster of eight eyes is upon the top
part of its head. It has mandibles that
work up and down instead of sideways,
as is the direction in most other spiders.

This fearsome-looking monster is really
a blessing in disguise to gardeners and
farmers, as it feeds on grasshoppers,
locusts, pill bugs and other plant—eating
insects. People should not look upon the
hungry spider as a menace to be de—
stroyed, but as a friend who rids the
world of countless pests that do a lot
more harm to man than the spiders them~
selves do.

The tarantula has been much ma-
ligned. At one time, people {believed the
bite of this creature caused a dancing
mania called “tarantism” and could be
cured only by dancing, until exhausted,
to lively music of a particular kind. An
old superstition was that the bite of the
tarantula would cure insanity IF it
didn’t kill the patient!

It has been proved on various occa-
sions that the bite of the tarantula is
not deadly poisonous, and seldom causes
as much misery as the sting of a bee.
But because it has been so grossly mis-
represented, countless numbers have been
needlessly destroyed. It is afraid of people
and will avoid them if possible and will
not bite unless teased or injured. It ,is
one of the best weather forecasters, the
tarantula usually staying in its nest
underground or under rocks until just
before a rain. The creatures then will
come out in great numbers.

 

A Tarantula—the Farmer's Friend.

January 1 945

 

Feathered Keeper of the F locks
By WINIFRED HEATH

OR AGES past men have argued as
to whether the bird possessed in-
telligence or that elusive quality,

instinct. Meanwhile the bird went its
own bright way, probably having its own
ideas about the gawky, featherless, un-
musical creature, man.

Few of us realize that we owe our very
existence to the birds. Without them,
hordes of insects, in numbers beyond our
imagining, would render this world un-
inhabita'ble by man or beast.

Some birds carry their services still
farther. The Trumpeter of South Amer-
ica has a liking for human habitations
and voluntarily takes on the job of
guarding the ﬂocks, be they chickens,
ducks, geese or even sheep. The Yaka-
mik of Venezuela marshals his charges
every morning, takes them to their feed-
ing grounds and brings them home just
as promptly in the evening. Dr. William
Beebe lived for a while in a South Amer.-
ican jungle and had for a neighbor a
Trumpeter who went to roost promptly
at 5:30. He has various native names
and in British Guiana he goes by the
sonorous title of waracabra.

A naturalist living in Bolivia tells of

a Spanish colony where this bird was a
special pet. One of them acted as a live
alarm clock, taking upon himself to wake
every member of the family separately
with a musical call. With everybody up,
this bird attached himself to one mem—
ber for the rest of the day.

The Trumpeter is a handsome bird
about the size of a barnyard fowl, but
with the long legs and neck of the crane.
The Yakamik of Venezuela has dark
body feathers, soft plumes falling over
the wings, a very alert brown eye, beau-
tiful irridescent patches on breast and
forehead.

Usually digniﬁed in his gait the
Trumpeter has all the crane love of com-
munity dancing, gathering in great com-
panies and performing the most amazing
and agile antics. He has a deep rolling
call, and when this great company gives
voice it is an awe-inspiring sound which
can be heard many miles away.

Whether instinct or intelligence—only
the God who makes the Trumpeter has
the answer. But the fact remains that
he is an interesting, beautiful and most
friendly bird—this Feathered Keeper of
the Flocks.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Artist and model view the ﬁnished product
that took top honors.

“Pal” and His Master

ECHNICIAN Fourth Grade Norman

A. Nelson, San Francisco, Cali-

fornia, and his seven and one-half year

old dog, “Pal,” have combined once again
to get their names in the headlines.

Back in 1939, Sergeant Nelson bailed
Pal out of the San Francisco dog pound
when he was just a puppy. Three weeks
later the little brown and White canine
achieved national recognition when he
awakened 14 persons with his incessant
barking in a burning apartment house
and was credited With saving their lives.
For this heroic act Pal was presented
with a medal by the city’s mayor and his
picture appeared in papers throughout
the nation.

Recently, Pal’s picture appeared again,
this time in the First Annual Salon
Exhibit of the Field Artillery School En—
listed Men’s Camera Club in the lobby
of McNair Hall, at Fort Sill, Oklahoma.

When the votes were counted at the
completion of the contest, Sergeant Nel-
son’s ﬁne photograph of Pal was far
ahead of the 30 other pictures exhibited
and received top honors.

The following morning, Sergeant Nel-
son presented his winning photograph to
Major General Orlando Ward, Com-
mandant of the Field Artillery School.

&

   

 

Dictionary of Dogs

 

—— y Aletha M. Bonner——
The Terrier

The Terrier is well supplied

With pedigree, and points with pride

To a large canine band, which hails

From Scotland, England, Ireland, Wales.
The Boston Terriers belong

in the smooth-coated, short-haired throng;
White, black, and tan are shades that lend
Attraction to our canine friend.

8

ANIMALORE

KINGFISHER, formerly called the hal-
cyon, is the origin of the expression
"halcyon days.”

CONGO EEL is not from the Congo and

is not an eel, but a salamander.

WHALE babies may weigh as much as
seven tons.

BEES—All the ﬂower gardens in, one of
our large cities would not maintain more
than a few dozen bee colonies.

JUNGLE FOWLS are the ancestors of
our domestic chickens while mallard and

the grayling produced our geese and
ducks.

ALBATROSS—The wing spread of the
albatross is sometimes ten to twelve feet.

PREHISTORIG—That Colorado was
once the bed of a sea and inhabited by
ponderous amphibians is shown by the re-
mains of prehistoric animals dug up in
various parts of the state. Sea shells of
many kinds have been found, as well as
the remains of mastodon, huge animals
allied to the elephants.

OWLS—Ten or more pounds of food is
the ordinary amount stored by an owl
in. its nest.

PARROTS—Certain of these birds in
India and Malay hang upside down
when nesting.

ROAD RUNNER of the southwest be-
longs to the cuckoo family.

KING BIRDS are fearless and will at-
tack crows or hawks many times their
size in the air.

WILD ANIMALS become pugnacious in
proportion to the fear they sense in man.

PARROTS are generally considered to
be tropical birds, but the brilliantly col-
ored Carolina parakeet and the thick-
billed parrot have been found in the
United States.

it

Any unusual or interesting facts con—
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

“Sinbad,” A. W. O. L.

E stood at attention as the Captain

pronounced sentence on him —— re-
striction aboard ship—for jumping ship
in a European port. His face was sad,
his eyes misty, as he heard the Captain
announce further that he never again
would be allowed to “make a liberty” in
a foreign port.

Such was the fate of “Sinbad,” the al-
most legendary mascot of the Coast
Guard combat cutter CAMPBELL, for
“going over the hill” in Sicily.

Mascot of the cutter nearly seven
years, Sinbad has traveled an estimated
310,000 sea lane miles and holds the
honorary rate of Chief Sea Dog.

Recently, while the cutter was in the
Mediterranean, the last day of shore
liberty found Sinbad among the missing.
It had been made plain to all hands that
all were due aboard early in the after-
noon. Sinbad bolted and made for the
back streets and did not appear when
the cutter shoved off. However, his ship-
mates were conﬁdent that he would not
remain among the missing for long.

Sure enough, about a week later he
was recognized by the Shore Patrol and
turned over to an American destroyer
just about to leave for the States.

As the destroyer was being berthed at
an East Coast port, the crew was
alarmed at the rumpus being staged by
the sea rover. Sinbad was in good voice,
barking furiously. Investigation showed
that in the adjoining berth was his own
ship. The skipper of the destroyer
thereupon informed the Coast Guard
cutter that its mascot was aboard and
the executive ofﬁcer called for him.

As Sinbad returned to his ship, a
bo’swain “piped” him aboard, and Sin—
bad felt quite certain all had been for-
given. But when the quartermaster
logged him in A. W. O. L., he knew it
wouldn’t be long before punishment
would be pronounced.

 

Commander Samuel F. Gray at the Coast
Guard cutter CAMPBELL bawls out Sinbad

for "going over the hill."

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

Beavers were probably +he world's first engineers.

The behavior of animals is remarkable, be itéby—

VERYWHERE the wisdom of life is

manifest in the animal kingdom. We

talk of the remarkable behavior of ani-

mals and call it instinct. But is not in-

stinct a sort of immutable mind, ﬁxed by
natural law?

To .a student of animal behavior, it is
quite evident that while it may be im-
possible to reason as we do, we cannot
deny that animals possess incredible in-
telligence, even to the lowest of animal
forms.

Animals appear at ﬁrst sight to act
at all times as if they had taken thought
for the morrow. They recognize instinc-
tively many things be fore experience that
we learn only after experience. They
look before they leap. They recognize
in numbers there is strength. They store
for a rainy day and they seem to under-
stand that, for everything, there is a
time and place.

It would be utterly impossible to
enumerate the various and speciﬁc in-
stances of clever foresight and accom-
plishment that is shown in all walks of
life in the animal world. The examples
are beyond all counting.

October 191,5

Instinct or Reason

Consider the bees, for instance. They
have established a civilization beyond the
dreams of men. They toil, build, and
store; they obey laws and punish those
who break them; they live and move in a
spirit of the highest patriotism.

Think of the spider and its web. Its
marvelous ingenuity excites the wonder
of men, [building as if it had studied all
the arts of engineering. It builds one
road for itself, another for its victim; it
prepare-s new runners in case of storms.

Long before Archimedes lived, one of
the fundamental rules of engineering had
been established by the little beaver. He
built his dam ages Ibefore man built his
ﬁrst bridge. Here he also built his lodge
and a storehouse for the winter.

Could anything be more wonderful than
the preciseness of the knowledge of ants
who capture the green aphids that de-
stroy our roses, then imprison them in
a tree where they can do no harm? At
the same time they milk them, protect
their eggs, to insure a continued supply
and, when the newborn arrive, they carry
them to the plants on which aphids live.

By F. J. WORRALL

Cats, the most highly sensitive and
psychic of all creatures, taken a hundred
miles in a box, ﬁnd their way back to
the old home.

A man who is lost works his way home
by the stars, and we call it mind at work.
Many a horse, however, has taken a lost
man home after dark; a horse has
even been known to take his «dead driver
home through the crowded streets of a
big city.

This exceptional sense of direction has
been shown countless times by homing
pigeons. One was known to ﬂy from
Rome back to its loft in an English town.
It ﬂew a thousand miles, crossed a range
of mountain-s and 20 miles of sea within
the period of a month.

Many a faithful dog has dug his master
out of danger through quick-witted think-
ing and at the peril of his own life.

In the lowest life we ﬁnd some sort of
mind which responds deﬁnitely to such
external stimuli as light, heat, and touch.

Most of us know wise animals that act
with an intelligence we do not ﬁnd in
human beings.

189

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Calendar of Animals

So popular are these new calendars
that we had to place an additional order
with our printers.

Now. tor a limited time. you can once
again procure attractive calendars tor
I946. composed of l2 pages and cover.
each illustrated with a true-to-Iite photo-
graph ot our animal friends.

 

 

 

Price ................. ten cents each

 

 

 

Button, Button ---?

Yes. buttons are here again!

Do you remember the attractive cel-
luloid buttons we used to stock—those
with the picture of a horse. dog. cat and
bird in full color?

They are once again available in three
styles — those bearing the inscriptions.
Band of Mercy. Humane Society. or
S. P. C. A. In addition to these. we can
also turnish Band of Mercy buttons con-
sisting of a white star on a dark blue back-
ground with gold border and lettering.

Price — two cents each. any style.

' Send your order now to:

 

 

 

 

 

 

American Humane Education Society
l80 Longwood Ave.. Boston l5. Mass.

 

UNION TRUST
COMPANY

O F
Springﬁeld, Massachusetts

Complete
BANKING AND TRUST
FACILITIES

I I I
COMMERCIAL BANKING
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES

INDIVIDUAL
A N D

CORPORATE TRUSTS

STOCK TRANSFER
I I I
M E M B E R
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
CORPORATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO OUR 'FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March,

l868) Society for the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec- '

tion with any other similar Society.

Any bequests especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other
property. describe the property).

The Society's address is l80 Longwood Avenue. Boston I5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be
given gladly.

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

@

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUhlANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE DIASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 2 00
Children’s $0 75

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

funeral Serbia

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

   
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   

Solving
a

9 4” 05/8471

ERE is an easy and valuable solution for your
Christmas gift problem. '
No tiring shopping excursions; no wracking of
the brain to ﬁnd a suitable gift, no pushing through
crowds to get to the counter.

Just write us. We shall be glad to do the rest.

And what more suitable and satisfying gift, than a year’s sub—
scription to Our Dumb Animals — a gift that renews itself each
month.

For anyone who likes animals (and who does not?) it is the ideal
gift. Give your friends the chance to enjoy reading each month
true stories about animals, factual articles about their lives and
habits, appealing verse, and interesting, story-telling pictures.

Using the above illustration, but printed in three colors, red,
green and black, we have prepared an appealing Christmas Gift
Card. This will be inscribed with your name and sent to the re—
cipient of each gift subscription.

The price is $1.00 a year, but if ﬁve or more subscriptions are
sent, we offer a special rate of $.60 each.

Solve your problem now by sending your orders to:

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Why the

Easter

Bunny

By IDA M. PARDUE

LISTENING FOR WOODLAND ECHOES
O

HE rabbit has led the Easter parade

for a long time. Do you know how

the shivery-nosed bunny became a
part of the Christian festival of resur-
rection?

It all came about because the date of
Easter is reckoned by the moon. Easter,
as you probably know, was created by the
early Christian leaders to replace the
many heathen jubilees held every year in
honor of the return of spring. But for
many generations few of the churches
celebrated Easter on the same date. Then
it was decided to follow the ancient prac-
tice of ﬁguring time by the moon, and
so the Western churches celebrate Easter
on the ﬁrst Sunday after the ﬁrst full
moon after the twenty-ﬁrst of March.

The bunny followed the moon right
into the Easter observance. That is be-
cause, since the time of the ancient Egyp-
tians, the hare and the moon have been
as close as Siamese twins.

The builders of the pyramids used a
form of writing very different from ours.
In their picture language the hare was
used to indicate the word ‘p‘moon,” and
a very ﬁtting symbol it was, since the

hare and the moon are both nocturnal.
Too, baby bunnies are not born blind like
kittens, but, like the moon, which the
Egyptians called the “open-eyed watch-er
of skies,” come into the world with their
eyes wide open. Because of this, the
Egyptian name for hare was “un,” which
means “to open.” And the hare brings
forth its young in thirty days, the same
length of time as a lunar cycle.

a

 

Photo by Lynwood M. Chace

Thus, since the moon determined the
date of the Resurrection observance, its
partner, the hare, came right along, too,
and has hopped in the Easter parade
ever since.

Many modern youngsters credit the
bunny with bringing their Easter bas-
kets. The Teutons, adults and all, once
believed that the hare could lay eggs on
Easter Sunday!

Hymn for Humane Sunday . . . By CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

God of the living, God of all!

Who marketh e’en the sparrow’s fall!
Who blessing gives to bird and beast;
Whose heart is open to the least

Of these, Thy brute creation, who
Serve man both faithfully and true;

0 Thou whose mercy cannot fail!
Shall our pleas for grace avail,

If we refuse to hear the cries

April 1945

Of tortured creatures, which arise

From every hand where baseness breeds,
And heartless men work cruel deeds?
Haste Thou the day when man no more
Shall use his power, as before,

To torment and oppress Thy dumb

And helpless creaturesl—Overcome

This evil spirit with Thy grace,

That mercy here find dwelling-place!

65

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Canine Newshound
Seeing-Eye dog with a nose for news
is the means of a livelihood for

blind Roy Moseman, of Waynesville,
North Carolina. The dog, fondly called
“Sallie,” hasn’t a distinctive family tree
that anyone knows of—she’s just plain
dog, but she has been trained to do all
the things required of a true Seeing-Eye
dog—and many more.

Sallie’s master, Roy, had to make a
living, so he decided to sell newspapers
in order to build up a cash reserve for a
future enterprise. But a newsstand in
this small town was out of the question.
It was then that Sallie came to the rescue.
Together they now operate a delivery
route. People of Waynesville call Sallie
practically human.

Roy starts out on his route, his arms
bulging with papers. Sallie, believe it or
not, knows every step on the entire route.
Frequently, Roy makes a mistake in toss-
ing a paper toward a porch. When he
does, Sallie halts, disengages his grip on
her harness and re-deposits the paper in
the proper place. —Gerald E. Lee

4%

Something About a Dog

HAT is it about a dog which at
times causes rules and regulations
to be ﬂung to the four Winds?

The other day a dog invaded the sanc-
tity of a human hospital. He was in the
wrong place, but he was suffering and
even busy medicos have soft hearts.

Thus “Tiny,” a dog belonging to a
Los Angeles youth, underwent an opera-
tion at the Georgia Street Receiving Hos-
pital, under the able hands of Dr. Robert
Moes. Tiny’s trouble was a ﬁshhook
enmeshed in his tongue. The accident
had happened somehow while the dog
and his master were ﬁshing. When the
boy could not ﬁnd a veterinarian avail-
able to treat his pet, he decided to try
the Georgia Street Hospital.

By all rights of medical procedure
Tiny should have been denied admittance,
but instead he was given an anesthetic
and aided just as if he had been a human
patient. ——Ida M. Pardue

4%
Feeding Birds

Birds at the window

Make the winter seem
Bright with friendly callers
Touched by sunlight's beam.

Birds outside the window,
Feeding every day,
Make the winter hours
Swittly pass away.

Busy bills, tiny feet,
Wings of varied hue;‘

Feeding birds are neighbors,
Familiar, ever new.

——Louise Darcy

36

ANIMAL AND

Fort Warren, Wyoming, soldiers re-
port that "Annie,” their pet antelope,
recently walked to the head of a drill
column and executed maneuvers with
the drillees. They say she was as precise
as a veteran.

A Virginia ex-policeman claims to
have seen a snake with two perfectly
formed legs nearly half an inch long
and feet with six toes, each with a small
claw. Scores of witnesses corroborate

the oddity.

"Bingo,” a yardcat at the Erie Depot
in Warren, Ohio, has no regard what-
ever for the O. D. T. He hops a freight
on Monday, returns in about two or
three days; gets off the train, checks up
on ‘matters and grabs another choo—choo
for the "week-end.”

Check your atlas if you don’t believe
that there is a Horse Heaven, Ky.,° Bay
Horse, Mont.; Colt’s Neck, N. I.; Nag’s
Head, N. C.

And, did you know that the famous
racer, "Sir Huon,” insisted on pie every
day; and another member of the "horsey
set” was an onion eater. Maybe he blew
his breath in the faces of his opponents,
though history doesn’t tell.

Josephine, who can currently be seen
in "Godl Is My Co-Pilot,” has been
monkey-shining .in eighty-seven .pic-
tures.. Next time you see a monkey
examine the fur of a companion, don’t
think he is looking for ﬂeas. He is
really searching for a salty skin secre-
tion, which my monkey friends tell me
is delicious. '

It may still be news to some of you
that scientists have discovered hen feed
that will make the yolks of hens’ eggs
any desired color. But, now a Connecti-
cut farmer claims that he has found a
feeding method which results in cows’
milk being produced in bright red hues,
BUT, it tastes like creosote.

A Virginia storekeeper, troubled with
visitors bent on larceny, has conceived
a most effective alarm. When the tres-
passer reaches a certain point, an elec-
tronic ray automatically stirs up a
hornets’ nest. And a spotlight ﬂashes
on to aid the swarm in its operations.

Following a squirrel, who had play-
fully purloined his last golf ball, a Phila-
delphia devotee of the "tee and green”
was led to the lair of the animal who had
apparently mistaken the white pellets
for nuts. For there, in a hollow tree,
were over ﬁfty perfectly good golf balls.

—]ack Pearson

“George”——Muncie Mascot
By JANET HALLIDAY

EITHER man nor beast can keep

“George,” four-footed sentinel of

the Muncie, Indiana, business district, in

the local canine bastille. He has inﬂuen—
tial friends.

More than a year ago George, a large
taffy-colored dog of dubious ancestry,
became self-appointed mascot of the
downtown section in this city of 50,000.
He has now become a veritable commu—
nity project. Stationing himself at the
corner of a congested bus stop the dog
gravely keeps watch over the hundreds
of war workers who travel to and from
industrial plants on the buses.

Up and down the main street of his
town George walks, stopping occasionally
to pay brief visits to store employes
whose friendship he has won by his
ﬁdelity. His “beat” extends to the can—
teen for service men at the Union Depot.
Friends of the canine have rewarded his
vigilance by maintaining a fund for his
support. Yearly a collection is taken
among a large group of citizens to buy
his tag. Prominent men and women
of the community may be seen daily stop—
ping their cars at “George’s Corner” to
toss him a juicy ham bone or a paper
dish of hamburger. On inclement days
he is assured of a handout at the canteen.

George was named by a department
store manager who called the dog after
himself. Children and adults alike speak
to the animal by name when they pass
him. City bus drivers give him free
rides to and from the campus of Ball
State Teachers College where he has
many friends among the students.

All who know George are not his
friends, however. Several times he has
been reported a “vagrant” and threatened
with a trip to the pound. Leniency was
once obtained through a petition signed
by a number of persons who declared
George to be a good citizen. When the
dog was picked up later he effected his
own release.

An item appearing in The Muncie
Evening Press the day of his arrest
stated: “All that remains of George at
the city animal shelter is a dog tag. . . .”

Worried readers discovered in the next
paragraph that their venerable friend
was safe. George had borne stoically
the trip to the pound, but when the
keeper attempted to remove him from the
truck the wily canine slipped his grasp
and left the surprised captor holding only
a collar.

Several months ago the Delaware
County Humane Society found him a
country home, complete with sunny grass,
open spaces and plenty of shade trees,
but he stayed only a few days. Lur-ed by
the bright lights of the city, George, with
wagging apologies to his benefactors, re-
turned to his urban haunts.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




M...“

. V . . . .. . . "l
..._. ¥E.L.M.‘.;Wchm‘s¢-; >“E-h’b-ﬁ‘blmwdfd ' ‘W‘MM“is-mkwﬁ'mﬁskvndm‘:~tgumwgfg-ﬁxglfﬂzvfs Tu' ' 147:. . . . :. _ ., ‘. _ ~
, _ 7...”..- .._._ , a. -.-_ .0, .V, n ‘7 V_,_ 7 -7 .7 ,4 _. .. . _.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I I

 

 

Lover of Animals Gone

«MONG our most distinguished
broadcasters has been for many
years the widely-known 'Boake Carter.
One of Mr. Carter’s notable character—
istics was his love of the animal world.
Some years ago, when he lost a greatly—
loved dog, he wrote the story of that
dog’s life and death which, upon the
request of many of those who listened to
him, was published.

Thousands upon thousands of copies
of that story went out across the land to
those who had heard his story over the
radio and then desired a printed copy of
it. At the time of its publication, the
President of our Society wrote to Mr.
Carter expressing appreciation of his
work as a radio announcer and thanking
him for what he had said about his
dog. A very gracious reply came back
which we still remember.

Up until that last, sad day when he
was suddenly stricken, he had been
among our most fearless and independent
speakers over the radio, and whether or
not one always agreed with him, one
was compelled to admire that courage of
personal conviction which so character--
ized him.

1%

I HAVE read with much interest the

manuscript entitled, “The Teacher’s
Helper in Humane Education.” I am glad
to tell you that I thoroughly approve of
it and believe that it will be helpful if
printed and placed in the hands of teach-
ers throughout the United States.

—Dr. G. D. Strayer, Teachers’ College,
Columbia University

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In search of "story-telling" pic-
tures. we announce our annual photo-
graphic contest to end June 30.
I945.

A first prize of $25 and thirty-two
additional awards are offered for
clear. outstanding photographs of
wild or domestic animals and birds.

Have you a picture that tells a
story? Then. enter it in our contest.
Anyone may compete.

Be sure to send for complete con-
test rules. however. before sending
your picture.

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

:EDITORIALS

 

 

 

 

War Dogs Again
SUPPLEMENTING our editorial of
last month on the auctioning off of
war dogs, a release has recently been re-
ceived from Dogs for Defense, Inc., giv-
ing additional information.

Says the news release, “It is not the
intention of the War Department, the
Treasury, or Dogs for Defense, to permit
the dogs, which have faithfully served
their country, to become the object of
auction or barter. The one considera-
tion, according to the Trustees of Dogs
for Defense, is to make sure that they
ﬁnd good homes. The dogs will be priced
at a ﬁgure which will cover the expenses
of handling, transportation and equip~
ment, and which will vary from $15 to
$25 depending on the distance from Fort
Robinson, Nebraska, Where the dogs go
through their rehabilitation course be-
fore being discharged.”

.ﬁ

Feed the Birds

INTER has fastened its grip on
the countryside and once again we
appeal to all our readers for help in
feeding the birds that they may survive
the rigors of inclement weather. Our
feathered friends, if left to shift for
themselves, are often unable to ﬁnd food
enough, especially where blizzards and
deep snows cover their source of food.
We recommend grain, bread crumbs,
corn meal, seed mixtures, meat scraps,
beef suet and peanut butter, depending
on what type of birds feed in the vi-
cinity. Various types of feeding sta-
tions can be made easily or purchased,
if desired. Putting out the food will at—
tract birds to your yard, giving you en-
joyment in watching their antics and
satisfaction in the thought that you are
helping friends who are of immeasurable
assistance to mankind.

Start your feeding stations now, in
order that the birds may become accus-
tomed to the place and escape the hard—
ships brought on by attempting to locate
food covered up by snow and ice.

a

IF civilized man gave of himself to his

fellow—man as freely and unselﬁshly
as does the dog to his human master,
there would be no room in our lives for
doubt or greed or dishonesty.

Lines for a Spaniel

People are friendly;

But dogs unfetter

Their soul’s emotion

Beyond the letter

Of how-do-you-do

Or pleased-to-meet-you.

They wag and smile

And fairly greet you

With infinite joy.

A friend is treasure;

And a dog emits

His visible pleasure

ln strange small sounds,

With friendly motion

That says, “Please take

My heart's devotion!” A
—Helen Maring

4.3

Mark Twain’s Cat

HE noted author, Mark Twain, was

very fond of animals, especially cats.
One summer there were eleven cats at
his farm. Often on a pleasant evening
there would be what Mark Twain called
a “cat procession,” around the grounds.
First came Mark Twain and his wife,
followed by their three daughters, a
donkey, and all the cats. The children
declared the cats understood what their
father said to them.

At one time Mark Twain had a kitten
called “Bambino” who was trained to
wash his face in a bowl of water every
morning. Mark Twain also taught Bam-
bino to put out the small light at the
head of the bed at nigh-t. When his
master went to bed, Bambino jumped up
beside him, waited until everything was
ready, and when Mark Twain bowed
twice, Bambino jumped to the table; put
his paw on the lamp and turned out the
1ight. ——L.L. J. R.

 

 

POSTER CONTEST

Once again the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. will conduct a Humane
Poster Contest. open to pupils in ele-
mentary schools including grade tour
through high school.

Prizes will consist of attractive gold
and silver pins and subscriptions to
OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

Announcements. containing valu-
able intormation and contest rules.
may be procured by writing the
Society.

Do not attempt to enter the con-
test before reading the rules.

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

Birds of Our States

THIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted ofﬁcial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation
of the governor, or by long established precedent. The
remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds. Re-
gardless of their ofﬁcial status, however, each bird is
more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you some
clues about himself. Without looking at the answer,
see if you can identify him. Then study the informa-
tion so you’ll be able to know any of the state birds
wherever you see them. It will be lots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: My homeland extends from Canada to
Mexico. I am a year-around resident except in the
extreme northern part of my range. I am just a bit
larger than the Robin, and am easily identiﬁed by my
long black bill, neck scarf of jet black, bright yellow
vest, with rows of black spots down the sides. My other
garments are of deep brown and black, spotted or
streaked with white, and outer tail feathers are white
and quite conspicuous in ﬂight. . . . Who am I?

Second Clue: I ﬂy well enough, although ﬂying is not
my specialty, since I am a strong-legged, active walker
and seldom rise from the ground unless molested and
then away I soar, sounding a sputtered sort of alarm.
Of course, I “broadcast” my clear, melodious loud tones
of my varied song from the highest telephone pole or
tree top, but I really spend most of my time on the
ground. I have the impolite habit of turning my back
on anyone whom I wish to evade, in order to conceal
my conspicuous yellow breast. . . . Who am I?

Third Clue: My mate and I always construct our
nests on the ground. The nest, which is usually a roofed-
over affair, with long entering runway, is built in some
dense grass clump or bushes, and so well hidden it is
almost impossible to ﬁnd. However, our worst enemy,
the dreaded snake, often ﬁnds our home and destroys
our eggs and young. We raise two families each year,
usually six or seven in each brood. . . . Who am I?

Fourth Clue: In many localities we are classed and
shot as “game birds,” which, for the farmer, is a very

grave mistake, since our value as insect destroyers is

far greater than as objects of pursuit by hunters. We
feed our large families great quantities of cutworms,
grubs, crickets, caterpillars, alfalfa, boll weevils, and
grasshoppers. . . . Who am I?

Fifth Clue: I am the only bird that has the honor of
holding the position as state bird of SEVEN states,
namely: Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Oregon and Wyoming. . Who am I?

Answer: xuv'IAAoovaw NHEILSCEIAA

——Jewell Casey

February 1945

,why it is called a sort of snowshoe.

 

Phot by‘ Eugene W Gustafson

BANQUET FOR A CHIPMUNK

&
Snowshoe Rabbit

AUNT JANE had promised to tell Gilbert and Betty

a story about the rabbit that wears snowshoes in
the winter. “Do tell us about him tonight,” pleaded
Betty. “Are the snowshoes that the rabbit wears any-
thing like Tommy Gray’s?” asked Gilbert.

“They are not just like Tommy’s, but they are for
the same purpose. It is to keep the rabbit from sinking
in the snow when he is running. If he did not have
them, he would soon be caught by his enemies,” re-
sponded Aunt Jane.

“Well, what are they like and how could a rabbit
put them on?” asked Betty.

“The Wabasso or snowshoe rabbit does not have his
snowshoes in the summertime, for he does not need
them, then, but as soon as the cold weather comes in
the fall, a sort of web starts to grow between his toes,
like a duck or a goose. When the snow starts to fall
this web has become so strong that the rabbit ﬁnds he
can run over the snow without sinking in, and that is
You see, Mother
Nature, which is God’s servant, supplies all the little
people of the woods and forest with just what they
require for their protection. I told you about how she
gives the other rabbits a warm, white coat that not only
keeps them warm in the freezing weather, but also
protects them from their enemies, because it is the same
color as the snow.” .

“I would love to see the snowshoe rabbit runnlng
about with his snowshoes on. I’ll bet that he makes
good speed especially if Mr. Fox is after him,” sa1d
Gilbert excitedly. —Esther D. HooeY

3’7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Retired Workers’ Fund

WE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa—
tion Trust Fund.

:6

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment.
No fluctuations in rate of income.
waste of your estate by a will contest.

There is no anxiety.

No

‘k ”k ‘k ‘k
A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

:6

The annual meeting of our two Societies will be
held Tuesday, January 23, 1945.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 933
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,686
Operations .................. 360

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 269
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 866
Operations .................. 17 1
Totals

Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 ............. 240,435
Dispensary cases ............ 599,758
Total .......... 840,193

:6

NOVEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
. WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

. Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,678
Cases investigated ............ 224
Animals examined ............ 2,643
Animals placed in homes ....... 358
Lost animals restored to owners . 88
Number of prosecutions ........

Number of convictions ......... 1
Horses taken from work .......
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 55
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ..................... 2,114
Horse auctions attended ....... 15
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 64,230
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .......... . . . . 35

 

 

TO OUR

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended for the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "for
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston [5. Mass.

FRIENDS

Intormation and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

January 191,5

Veterinary Column

1. Question: What is the best age for
spaying a female puppy?

Answer: Four to six months is the
best time for this operation.

2.. Question: My dachshund, who is a
house dog, does not like the cold weather,
and shivers constantly when I exercise
her. Do you advise a sweater for her?

Answer: Short—haired dogs, habitually
kept in the house, need protection from
the cold. A sweater or jacket is advis-
able, and one that covers the stomach,
as well as the back, is preferable. This
can be obtained in many of the pet shops.

3. Question: My foxhound returned
home with porcupine quills embedded in
his face and feet, and we found the quills
difﬁcult to remove. How can they be
taken out without paining the animal?

Answer: These quills cannot be re—
moved painlessly unless the animal is
first administered an anesthetic by your
veterinarian. Oil will tend to soften
them, and assist in removal, but if many
are present, it is kinder to remove them
while the dog is under anesthesia.

4. Question: Following an automobile
accident, my dog has not been able to use
her right front leg. She drags the foot
after her, and it is bruised and sore from
constant banging on the ground. Our
veterinarian said that there were no
bones broken, but he could not help her.
Can you suggest a treatment for this?

' Answer: The cause of this diﬂiculty is
a nerve injury, known as radial pa-
ralysis. Due to the fact that the radial
nerve is superficially located at the elbow
joint, it is easily subject to trauma, and
the condition described may follow an
accident. There is no treatment, and re-
covery is doubtful.

5. Question: Our eight-weeks—old
puppy developed a severe swelling of the
face and mouth, which persisted for sev-
eral hours, then ﬁnally disappeared. At
present he seems well, but we would like
to know the cause, and if the condition
is likely to recur.

Answers: Your puppy ate something
which caused an allergic reaction, known
as angioneurotic edema. This swelling
is often accompanied by hives over the
body, and is frequently seen in young
puppies which eat foreign material. His
diet should be carefully regulated, and
he should be kept from ingesting in-
edible substance. If the condition recurs,
a laxative should be given.

R. M. B., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

13

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The painting of "Pip." as reproduced from the post card
silhouette.

In Memory of “Pip”

By JAMES ALDREDGE

_ ‘ 1 IF you had had to stop overnight at Williamstown, Massachu-
‘ setts, twenty-ﬁve years ago and had put up at the Williams
Inn, you would probably have got a welcome that you never
counted on when you signed the hotel register. It did not
3, matter whether you were a born-and-bred Berkshire Yankee
‘ or came from the remotest parts—the greeting of “Pip,” the
house cat, is said to have never varied in its friendliness.

More than fourteen years have passed since the famous
cat died, but the old inn still cherishes his memory. Through
long experience in rubbing against guests with quaint, kindly
courtesy and making a host of friends for his master, he must
have learned the secret of growing old gracefully. When “Pip”
ﬁnally passed away on October 13, 1930, he had reached the
advanced age of nineteen years. Not even centenarians are so
venerable, much less so respected, in the human family!

“Pip’s” place beside the hotel ﬁreplace may be vacant

today, but he isn’t forgotten. Far from it. For one thing, the
management tells of how this cat made so many friends that
ﬁnally an artist came and asked “Pip” to sit for his picture.
The cat was placed on the window sill between two potted
plants, and Mr. William Fuller Curtis went to work. The result
1s now seen in the largeframed picture that hangs in the
lobby of the inn, and the post card silhouettes that were copied
from this painting.
. To Dickens’ lovers, “Pip’s” name alone is like pulling a
E friendly latchstring. No one who remembers the greeting of
2 Joe Gargery to the hero of “Great Expectations” and the feel-
ings between those two characters will have any doubts as to
its sentimental signiﬁcance.

.Picture Williamstown on a fall night and a big storm
rolllng down from old Greylock. Then, against the genial
background of the hotel ﬁreplace and leaping ﬂames, picture
Pip” gomg from guest to guest with a quiet purr of “So glad
you’re here tonight!” Of course, everybody present would
naturally respond with “The immortal words” from Dickens:
“Ever the best of friends, aren’t us, Pip?”

These are the things that neither the guests nor the man-
agement of the Williams Inn will forget in a hurry!

66

 

 

 

 

 

Place Names in Britain
By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

THE tourist journeying leisurely along British byways in
times of peace is likely to come across quite a few place
names that are identiﬁed with our four-legged friends.

Two of the Channel islands remind us of Jersey and
Guernsey cow-s, while the Ayrshire cow hails from that Scot-
tish county that is forever linked with the life and songs of
Robert Burns, the Ayrshire poet.

West Highland cattle may come from any part of the
western Highlands. In the far north of Scotland the neighbor-
ing s-hires of Aberdeen and Angus have combined to give us
the hyphenated Aberdeen—Angus breed of cattle.

Farther northward, out in the salty reaches of the North
Sea, are the Shetland islands which gave name to Shetland
ponies, as well as to the diminutive breeds of Shetland dogs
and Shetland cattle.

Off the west coast of Scotland is the Isle of Skye that
reminds us of the waggish little Skye terriers, while York-
shire in the north of England gave its name to Yorkshire
terriers and Kerry in Ireland gave name to the Blue Kerry.

The valley of the Aire in England gave us the Airedale
terrier and the valley of the Clyde, greatest of the British
shipbuilding rivers, gave us the shaggy-maned Clydesdale
horse. And out in the Irish Sea is the Isle of Man, home of the
Manx cats that are traditionally bereft of tails.

Even the barnyard poultry have their places on the map
of Britain, the Dorking and Orpington hens taking their
names from a pair of English towns. For that matter, the
Plymouth Rock is merely an American version of the English
port of Plymouth.

Berkshire hogs take their name from Berkshire in Eng-
land, while Cheviot sheep are reminders of the range of
Cheviot Hills just north of the English-Scottish border—a
border that once echoed to the clash of swords rather than
the bleatingrs of peaceful ﬂocks.

 

 

 

/ //
I
, W , I '
.(l/// c ' . I
-, {//
1v ‘ ’
I

41K

1

y

/
WK”
ﬁ’saﬁ
~, , ,/ “I“ (

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




i Of the Rhinoceros

By J. FRANK BROWNING

sharp claws of tigers and the dan- isn’t too large, the rhinoceros will often
gerous teeth of lions carry no uproot it with his strong, bony horn, and
terror. He’s the massive rhinoceros. the career of the hunter is ended if he
This fearless fellow, one of the ugliest doesn’t do some fast footwork in the
of all living creatures, wears a hide so direction of a more sturdy tree.
thick and impenetrable that even the But the rhinoceros has one enemy that
sharp spear of the native cannot pierce it. does not mind in the least his raging.
Surprisingly enough, the rhinoceros, A certain ﬂy creeps between the folds of
for all his 5,000 or 6,000 pounds, can the leathery skin and burrows into the
crash through the jungle at such a speedy sensitive ﬂesh. All the great strength
gallop and use its versatile horn in such of the rhinoceros will not help him. He
a way as to keep even the king of beasts must wade into the water or wallow in
at a respectful distance. jungle mud until the pest is smothered.
Among land animals, only the elephant Luckily for Mr. Rhino, the hornbill, a
exceeds the rhinoceros in size, although tropical bird, is especially fond of these
l the hippopotamus can equal it. The particular ﬂies, and a strange, friendly
7| ; largest of the ﬁve living species may be partnership is the result. The rhinoceros
‘2 . six—and-a-half feet high, but remains, gives the bird the freedom of its body

l' ll 1 HERE is one animal for which the and climb the nearest tree. If the tree

 

 

l

l 15 feet long, of extinct types of this on which it alights to poke its bill into

1 jungle lord, have been found in England. the skin folds. And in return for a meal

‘ Unless molested, the rhinoceros is a of ﬂies, it actually acts as eyes for the

‘ peace-loving animal. But he doesn’t short-sighted monster, for if an enemy friendship, that even the ferocious rhi-
l

 

stand for any foolishness, and when approaches, it ﬂutters before the ‘rhinoc- noceros is really not so dangerous after
brought to bay or wounded he is so ﬁerce eros, uttering warning cries. all—at least with those he knows he can
that even the bravest hunter will cringe And thus we see, by this strange trust.

' Worm Uses Its Head
j NLIKE the mole or other earth- FaCt or Myth ' ' ' ' By ALAN A' BROWN

l
t dwellers, the wriggling earthworm

 

 

‘1? has neither claws nor teeth with which HERE are many. superstitions and 9. Horned toads squirt blood through
i‘ to dig—and so, he uses his head. Lit- misbeliefs assoc1ated w1th the ani- their eyes.
j: erally. mal world. Some false notions 10 Squirrels never forget where they
. r . a e t' l '
p in; (sign 1for theC “7?; 1s a case }(1)f Igov- (1210113; 82211131131) 2:31:28; iliinfzbtksUtTlfees: bury their nuts.
- ac es ou o e wa . '
this by using his head, eichr to :hozfl myths are held not only by the stranger 11' Poisonous snakes are immune to
.l the grains of dirt aside, or, when this :0 tgellanimal world, bUt nature lovers, their own venom.
.0} method will not allow him to progress Dori a,Vlct1m ’50 tilemPOW and then- 12. A beaver uses its tail as a trowel
l Eulckly fﬁlwgﬁ’ to SCOOPche earth into abiliiryetso Elstfrfggistﬂnziﬁlmgi £26er fytour When Wilding dams’
1s mou ' 0 rom ,
1. Thus, WliZH etﬁznvijnogﬁ; a turn animal superstition and myths. Listed 13- A Chameleon always changes its
1 about his home, he performs the double below are 25 statements about animals. COIOI‘ to blend Wlth 1ts background.
‘ function of stirring the ground and en- Somenare true, others false. Mark them 14. The groundhog looks for his shadow
l rlilching the soil by passing much of it klgﬁledée ftaﬁze eilccolrdlng toli‘rour best; on February 2nd.
~ ' ° ' , n c ec - ' . .
l t iough h1s d1gest1ve system. the answers on page 98 yourse agams 15. Elephants are not afraid of mice.
2 ——Id M. P ' - .. n
1 a. ardue 1. The age of a rattlesnake can be de- 16' Hlppopotamuses sweat bIOOd'
' Q termined by counting its rattles. 17- Monkeys delight in picking ﬂeas Off
l 2. Handling toads causes warts. one another.
. . 18. Animals’ eyes glow in the dark.
Man lln M ' 3. Turtles live to be a thousand ears
Th h f gld dOIIEI‘lStS old. y 19. Cobras are fond of milk.
e wrelc w o wou ei eraiel , , ' '.
l Mow down a helpless hound, y 4. Sweet mus1c Wlll charm wild animals. 20' Only the female mosqulto b1tes.
i 4 And lay him limp and lifeless 5. A monkey’s bite is poisonous. 21' Parrots are espec1ally fond Of crack-
. On cold “and alien ground; 6. All mammals can swim 91's-
Whod Inf and run .m joyous glee from ' 22. A hummingbird can ﬂy backwards.
Elle mangled, bleeding form— 7' When an opossum is disturbed it 23. A rattlesnake will not crawl aCI'OSS
ould suffer hells full lorlure on a felgns death. h h '
Nighi lhai knows no mom. a orse a1r POPE-

. . 8. Elephants usually live to be at least 24. An ostrich “hides” by StiCking his
—John C. Vlwan 100 years old. head in the sand.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

96

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1th Tia’anh nf ﬁlm‘s}; nr

Zinninr {gamma iﬁmgur

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety will send to every person Who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-oﬁ’ice address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and one Bands of Mercy
were organized during December. These
were distributed as follows:

Virginia .................. 37
Florida .......... . . . . 33
Georgia ........ 30
Texas . . ............. 1

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ggnized by Parent-American Society, 269,-
2 4.

SUM‘MARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 57
Number of persons in audiences, 9,967

1%

Our Friend Pussy

CATS were venerated by the ancient

Egyptians who even had a catheaded
goddess. The writer Herodotus says
that an Egyptian would save the cat ﬁrst
when his house took ﬁre and to kill one
even by accident was
death.

Apparently the Romans didn’t care for
cats. All the excavations at Pompeii and
Herculaneum did not ﬁnd the remains of
even one of these animals.

Tailless cats are usually associated
with the Isle of Man but they were also
found in Spain and in parts of the East
Indies.

In Tenth Century Wales anyone kill—
ing a cat from the Royal granary had to
pay a ﬁne in grain. This was measured
by hanging the cat up by its tail with its
nose touching the ﬂoor and then heaping
the grain high enough around it to bury
it to the tail tip. '

It is said that many cats hunt for the
fun of it and thus a cat that is well fed
and feeling good will catch more mice
than a hungry one.

The Wild Cat is supposed to be the
hardest of all animals to tame and even
our house cats are not entirely domesti-
cated and ﬁnd it very easy to revert to
the wild state.

—J0lm H. Spice?"
38

punishable by .

 

"Herman" takes his pen in hand to sign a Victory Loan application.

Raccoon, Successful Salesman

some 100 miles north of Toronto,

made its unique contribution to
the recently completed—and highly suc—
cessful—Seventh Victory Loan in Canada
through the medium of a tame, young
raccoon. The few—month-Old animal, a
pet of the neighborhood, gained promi—
nence as “Herman, the Canvassing
’Coon,”
Chatsworth’s leading citizen and local
Loan salesman. . -. . , . .

Herman, a playful pet from the day
he wandered into the community from
the neighboring woods, entered into the
spirit of being trained as a featured and
unusual salesman and went through the
whole technique of saleswork before the

CHATSWORTH, Ontario, a village

Winter Guests
By IDA M. FORREST

Earth lay snow blanketed in white

Embroidered by hungry birds in flight,
Pausing to trace the lacy design
As they hoped to drink‘and dine.

Then they saw to their surprise
SomeOnehad been kind and'wise
Suet dangled from a string,-

This meant strength for leg and wing.

I

Bread crumbs, too, were scattered Wide,
And lo! some sunflower seeds, beside!
”Who could have thought of a little bird?"
One piped. I am sure that is what I heard.

They chattered on and ate their till,-
In the joy they brought, they paid their bill.

under the guidance of Bill Snell, '

camera to give the Loan one of its most
pleasing and remarkable publicity angles.

The raccoon has a hatful of tricks, is
a great lover of chocolate, and with the
candy as a reward will go through his
whole repertoire with unfeigned animal
pleasure.

Pet of the whole family and neighbor—
hood, Herman is a shining example of
what human kindness can do for one of
Nature’s dumb children. With an ador-
ing mistress for tutor, he romps with the
children, plays with the dogs and the
family cat and generally makes himself
a friend of everyone. Herman has yet to
display any of the wild traits naturally
inherent to his kind.

——Fred Claridge

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station
WSPR—l270 on your radio dial. This pro-
.gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
For' the PreventiOn of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
February 6—"Animals in the News."

February l3—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

.February 20—"True Dog Stories.ll

February 27—”Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘k—

W

_._.__.._———

H“ . .. . .. , , . . ., "21'
“‘4‘ n¢Wamﬁiiw "77A“_"-_'_'j,:...}..“ sing—81‘ "‘~ 3.14;; ‘ w Mﬁg‘ -4 ~ : 4.9;. "" “357.134“; 2 -.‘

_ . . M _,
..___3._‘~_r_.‘4..._.4__c

 

Woodcock is an expert in camouflage.

Protective Coloration of Birds

DO YOU know why the female species
of so many kinds of birds wear a
very plain dress while the male is gaud-
ily feathered—why the scarlet tanager
is so ﬂashy that he is often called the
“ﬁre-bird,” while his mate is a modes-t
creature in olive green; why the female
species of the black-birds, the grosbeaks,
the indigo-birds and others are soberly
dressed, while the male ﬂaunts gay
colors?

This form of “camouﬂage” among
birds is an interesting example of the
manner in which Nature safeguards
them from their foes. The gay fathers
of the families can take care of them-
selves pretty well, for they are free to
ﬁght or ﬂee when danger threatens; but
the mothers must sit steadily on their
nests, Where they would quickly be seen
and pounced on were they wearing
bright colors.

The mottled back of the killdeer, whose
nest-lies on the open ground, blends so

well with the earth and weeds about her
that she usually escapes notice, and even
her brown eggs are all but invisible when
exposed by her absence. The grass-
frequenting sparrows are streaked dark
brown and buff or gray, like the dry
grass in ﬁelds; the bitterns are more
broadly striped, like the cat-tails and
sedges of the marshes; the grouse and

‘woodcock are mottled brown and buff,

like the dead leaves of the forest ﬂoor,
and many others are colored to protect
them from dangerous enemies.

In several species of our feathered
friends, black and white marks are
placed close together that seem to break
up the bird into several pieces, thus de—
stroying its continuity. These are found
in the black bands across the white
breast of the killdeer, and the white ring
around his neck. This also applies to
the band around the neck of the king—
ﬁsher and the mallard duck.

—Grace Brooks Popkins

Bread on the Water
By ROBERTA ooDWIN

I’m so very glad I stopped,
Glad hesitating feet,

Didn’t turn me from the path of
That pup upon the street.

He was hungry and so dirty
And he looked so lonely too;
He needed love so very much,
What else was I to do?

ll

I took him home and fed him,
Bathed him from head to feet;
Today you'd never know he was
That dog upon the street.

Times have changed and war has come,
My son has gone to sea;

And now it is that foundling pup

Who tries to comfort me,

Wings
By MAX ROBIN

HE patrolman was in a quandary
about some object he had picked up
and was examining as we approached.
“Baby pigeon,” he said in answer to
my wife’s curiosity. “Must have fallen
off the roof.”

We carried the young one home and
ﬁxed a nest for it in a shoe box. Its con-
dition, after several days, left us with
no alternative other than to contact the
S. P. C. A.

But that last morning we took the
ﬂedgling up on the roof; and there, sud-
denly, he revived! He peeked up several
pebbles in alarmingly quick succession;
and by the time the S. P. C. A. car was
parked outside our door we had ob-
tained a supply of seeds and gravel
for our feathery ward.

Increasing signs of animation con-
tinued to reward our efforts; the homer

, chirped, and he moved his wings hope-

fully; once or twice he rolled over on his
side. In another week we had him quar—
tered in an improvised cage. He could
stand on one leg; the other was perma—
nently rigid at the knee. But he could ﬂy!

We lifted his ample cardboard cage to
the back of a chair where he sat looking
out of the window. A plateful of water,
placed on the ﬂoor, lured our bird over
for his ﬁrst bath.

Suddenly he stopped chirping and for
several days not a sound came out of our
pigeon; the transitional, husky notes of
the male followed; his pugnacious pose
and ﬁghting habit were not long in as-
serting themselves.

But our bird started to be restless.
There was no keeping him in his cage
except overnight; during the day he
would throw himself against the cur-
tain which barred his exit to freedom.

With trepidation we ﬁnally opened the
window for him. His bewilderment was
phenomenal—an unguided interlude of
initial adjustment to a world that was
his home. He took off spontaneously——
ﬂew across the street and settled on the
ledge of a vacant apartment. For hours
he imbibed the sun and wind. When he
ﬂew away it was to join a ﬂock of pi-
geons on a neighboring roof.

With pride we saw him hold his own
—-a ﬂedgling monarch, refusing, crippled
though he was, to be intimidated by the
other full—grown males. Would he come
back to us for the night—the homer?
We had left the window open, with the
cage in full View. And, to be sure, to-
ward sunset our pigeon returned; waited
outside cautiously, and then hopped back
to the top of his cage.

Every morning we parted the cur-
tains for our bird and he ﬂew away for
the day; in the evening he returned,
tired and hungry. It was a matter of
speculation whether this would keep up.
And one day our pigeon did not return.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

Christmas

 

 

Christmas in Denmark

In the distant land of Denmark,
At the holy Christmas time
There’s a custom so poetic
That it’s worthy better rhyme,
’Mong the peasants, poor and humble,
Who our Lord’s birthday keep
As a day of thankful gladness,
With a joy that lieth deep.

While the grass and tender herbage
Hidden are beneath the snow,
And the rudest blasts of winter
With sharp, icy coldness blow,
Brightly deck they little gift-trees,
Glittering with their gilded fruit——
Tapers, nuts, and waxen angels
Pendant from each dark green shoot.

And while thus they show each other,
By these tokens of their love,

How they value beyond praising
The great gift of God above,

They forget not humbler creatures,
Who their gladness cannot share,

E'en the little birds of heaven,
Twittering in the wintry air.

High against a wall are mounted
Unthrashed oats bound on a pole,
Where the snow-birds feast upon them;
Ever this their Christmas dole.
And I think the little snow-birds
Must repay them by their mirth—
Singing sweeter songs of springtime,
Making glad the barren earth.

@

“God’s in His Heaven” Still

O troubled hearts, forget your pain,

Your grief and loss, now once again
The merry Yuletide brings

Its joy 'of giving, song and mirth

To gladden all the hearts of earth,

And once more celebrate the birth
Of our great King of Kings!

—Helen Hays

Come, little birds and friendly beasts,
And share with us the Yuletide feasts
Earth spreads so lavishly!
O children, let your voices gay
Banish all gloom and doubt away!
Be wholly happy for this Day,
And dance around the Tree!

Ring, Christmas bells! Your message gives
Faith to believe that Truth still lives!
Ring, ring, with right good will!
For though humanity’s bruised breast
ls throbbing with a wild unrest,
Man longs and strives yet for the best!
God’s in His Heaven still!

—Louella C. Poole

December 19.45

Christmas in Norway

In the far-off land of Norway,
Where the winter lingers late,

And long for the singing-birds and flowers
The little children wait.

When at last the summer ripens,
And the harvest is gathered in,

And food for the bleak, drear days to come
The toiling people win,

Through all the land the children
In the golden fields remain

Till their busy little hands have gleaned
A generous sheaf of grain,-

All the stalks by the reapers forgotten
They glean to the very least,

To save till the cold December
For the birds’ Christmas feast.

And then through the frost-locked country
There happens a wonderful thing:

The birds flock north, south, east, west,
For the children’s offering.

Of a sudden, the day before Christmas,
The twittering crowds arrive,

And the bitter, wintry air at once
With their chirping is all alive.

They perch upon roof and gable,
On porch and fence and tree,

They flutter about the windows,
And peer in curiously,

And meet the eyes of the children,
Who eagerly look out,

With cheeks that bloom like roses red
Ancl greet them with welcoming shout.

On the joyous Christmas morning,
In front of every door,

A tall pole, crowned with clustering grain,
ls set the birds before.

And which are the happiest, truly
It would be hard to tell;

The birds who share in the Christmas cheer,
Or the children who love them well!

How sweet that they should remember,
With faith so full and sure,

That the children’s bounty awaited them
The whole wide country o’er!

When this pretty story was told me,
By one who had helped to rear

The rustling grain for the merry birds
In Norway, many a year,

I thought that our little children
Would like to know it, too,

It seems to me so beautiful,
So blessed a thing to do.

To make God’s innocent creatures see
In every child a friend,

And on our faithful kindness
So fearlessly depend.

-—Celia Thaxter

 

in 132133»:

 

Christmas in Sweden

They tell a lovely story,
In lands beyond the sea,
How, when the King of Glory
Lay on His mother’s knee,
Before the Prophet-princes came,
Bringing gifts in hand,
The dumb beasts felt the miracle,
Men could not understand!

The gentle, patient donkey

And the ox that trod the corn
Knelt down beside the manger,

And knew that Christ was born.
And so they say in Sweden,

At twelve, each Christmas night,
The dumb beasts kneel to worship

And see the Christmas light!

This fancy makes men kinder
To creatures needing care,
They give them Christmas greeting,
And dainty Christmas fare;
The cat and dog sup gaily,
And a sheaf of golden corn
Is raised above the roof-tree
For the birds on Christmas morn!

We do not live in Sweden,

But we can feed the birds,
And make dumb creatures happy
By kindly deeds and words.

No animal so humble,
No creeping worm so small,
But that the God who made us
Has made and loves them all!

If we to them are cruel,
Like Christ we cannot be!

And this shall be our lesson
From our dear Christmas tree!

@
A Christmas Legend

There is a little legend
Which orient nations tell,
That when the earth is joyous
With song of Christmas bell,
Unseen the Christ-Child wanders
Among the suffering dumb
And-brings them joyous tidings
Of kinder years to come.

For was He not once sheltered
With cattle of the stall?

And does He not remember
Earth’s helpless creatures all?

And did the Star not beckon
Above them on that night,

Instead of o'er a palace
Aflame with gorgeous light?

—Alice Jean Cleator

233

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

/

\

  

//////

//
/"//y

/

/////

\\ \ \ \\

Following are a few of the typical cases
investigated by our agents in their state-
wide crnsade against cruelty.-

Skunks .
Several cases involv1ng skunks have

recently |been reported to our agents. In
one case investigation revealed that one
of these animals had entered a cellar and
was caught behind a beam in trying to
escape. Our ofﬁcer extricated the skunk
and released it in a nearby park.

In another case, a skunk had caught
his head in a bottle and had become quite
weak from lack of air. Our agent picked
up the animal and by a steady pull on the
jar was able to remove the skunk’s head.
He then placed the animal on the ground
and after it had regained its wind it left
the premises under his own power. The
agent stayed to make sure as there were
a number of children in the yard.

A similar case found a skunk under a
front porch with its head caught in a
bottle. Our ofﬁcer found that he could not
reach the animal, so he made a hole at one
end of the porch and by touching the
skunk with a long pole ﬁnally induced it
to come within reach. He then picked it
up, removed the bottle and found the

\‘W .

    

\\.\

.i. j ,9.

\\\\ s. \\

 

animal uninjured even after two days in
that position.

At another time two skunks were
caught in a ﬁve—foot pit in a factory.
They had been there for four days and
could not get out. By letting a rope down
with a noose on one end, our ofﬁcer was
able to" get hold of one and then the other.
Both were brought to the surface and re-
leased, uninjured.

Rodeos

Inspecting a rodeo, our ofﬁcer talked to
the manager and asked that no sharp
spurs be used. The manager stated that
all riders were instructed to that effect.
Our agent found 75 horses and two steers
all in good condition and discovering two
riders with sharp spurs had them re-
moved. One rider was warned twice
about the abuse to a horse’s mouth, but
he failed to follow the warning and when
he was forbade to enter his horse, an
argument followed. Both the rider and
owner of the horse were told that it
could not be used as it had an injured
mouth and it became necessary to issue a
complaint. The rider, a 17-year-old boy,
was brought to court, was found delin-
quent and given one year probation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"EARLY TO BED AND EARLY TO RISE"—
seems to be the motto Hospital Nurse Ellen Sullivan is trying to put across to "Chris."

convalescent patient. who watches inquisitively as she turns back the hands of the Hos-
pital clock. in accordance with the law recently passed by Congress.

204

 

Beloved pet of Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Shoo.

@

“Out of the Heart”

OME years ago, when one of our great

public buildings was nearing comple—
tion, a recent writer tells us that the
president of a leading university was
asked to prepare one or more statements
to be inscribed upon the walls of this
certain building, as an expression of the
highest meaning of law, religion, art,
philosophy, science, literature, industry
and other central activities of the life of
man.

The writer does not give us the name
either of the college president or of the
public building. Remembering something
of the story as we have repeated it,
though seeking to know more, we have
still been unable to know who the presi—
dent was or what the building was. How-
ever, this is the inscription which he sent
in reply to the request:

“Civilization is just the slow process
of learning to be kind.”

Below these words were written the
following lines:
“So many gods, so many creeds,
So many paths that wind and wind,
When just the art of being kind
Is all this sad world needs.”
F. H. R.
a

The Squirrel

You garrulous, boastful gigolo,

You dance on telegraph wires, as though
A highly powered electric fuse

Has sped your feet in magician’s shoes.

I rush and run with urge to do

My pressing duties, just like you.

Your propaganda, ”Honest Labor,"

Is fair deal for every neighbor.

O, contented ball of silver fur,
Enjoying a meaty chestnut burr,
Your fellowship is a gift I prize.
Are you Plato’s spirit in disguise?
—Julia Edna Parker

OUR DUMB ANIMALS




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
   
   

ELEPHA ND”
EA R5

SERVE N07" ONLY
F07? #EAR/A/G',
BUT ALSO 745 74
COOZl/VG SYS7EM

 

 
 
  

    

 

.j "1‘ aég .
' as; ‘SA/Nr
. . : z;';Z;Z.3;:E§?E3§:Et?- 3:52.25; I i - L. i h .. LJ 0 /"/N

 

O O
Squlrrel Sagacuy
URING the winter, we saw an amazing exhibition of in-
telligence on the part of a gray squirrel, whose winter
home was in a tree near the diningroom wind-ow. Just outside
the window, we kept a small basket containing shelled peanuts
for the chickadees. Discovering this delightful spot one day,
the squirrel promptly ate every one of the nuts. So we moved
the basket farther way from the ground, but still the squirrel
took his plunder. Thinking to thwart him, we fastened the
small basket to a pliable wire, and suspended it from a trellis.
Noting this change, the squirrel scamp‘ered up the trellis,
surveyed the scene, and then hustled along the arch of the
trellis to the point from which the basket was hung. Swinging
himself down, so that he hung by his hind feet, he pulled the
basket up hand over hand with his front feet, emptied the
nuts out, and then hustled down to the ground where he ate
every nut with zest.
—-Gmce V. Watkins

a
Furlough in Wyoming

By NEIL W. OWEN

Where are the inhabitants of this wood?

Have slender lives been vanquished by the foe?
Will this dim passage through the trees, record

The ones who conquered cold and snow?

See! Old Moose is still alive! His pointed hoofs have marked the trail.

And these faint streaks prove a porky trudged this way with dragging
tail.

This heap of fresh husked cones admit of squirrels overhead,

And where that brush is pressed aside a deer has curved her bed.

The hastening grouse has skimmed the path, concerned with peril
near,

(A coyote's feet are following, they left light record here.)

Big Grizzly, too, has crossed the trail, intent on spring below,

A snowshoe rabbit hopped these loops, uncertain where to go.

Friends, take pleasure in your freedom here,
Find comfort in deep woods 'neath quiet sky,

While I return to foes unconquered
Remem’bring, “We must be free or die!"

206

Animals and Marriage
By IDA M. PARDUE

N Medieval times there were so many strange beliefs about
the inﬂuence of animals on marriage it is surprising anyone
had the courage to take the leap at all.

No matter how short the distance from home to altar, the
trip must have seemed a long and fearful journey. For to
even so much as look at a hare, cat, dog, serpent or lizard along
the way was a sure sign of grave misfortune. On the other
hand, the sight of a spider, toad, or wolf was a favorable s1gn,
but the chances of meeting one of these lucky creatures were
slight.

Among the Scottish Highlanders a bird singing on a window
sill before a marriage was a good token. However, all thls
could be upset in an instant, and replaced by bad luck, if a dog
were to run between the engaged couple on the way to the
church. Precautions were taken to avoid such a disaster.

Call these superstitions if you like, but to our ancestors they
were \beliefs. Many a couple who could not get along, or who
had more than a fair share of setbacks, could, as a rule,
remember the cat, or rabbit, who was to blame for it all.

Looking back down the long years from our pedestal of 20th
century wisdom, we laugh at these old ideas. But just between
us, are we so very different? Nearly every day one may read
of a divorce action in which some animal is named as the cause.

For example, a man in New York recently divorced his wife
—because she liked dogs too well. A Chicago woman brought
suit against her mate on the grounds that he paid more atten-
tion to his pets, a monkey and a dog, than to her.

It all boils down to the simple fact that for centuries it has
been quite customary to excuse our faults at the expense of
dumb animals.

..
. v ‘ ,
.. ._
1“ .
., , .
I,‘
t H
’/

~J

 

//////, *

In Alaska, it is against the law to disturb a grizzly bear to take
its picture.

 

 

 

% XIEM

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

fair maiden, the average man just doesn’t measure up

to the experts. Especially, in comparison with members
of the animal world, is man truly backward in his mode of
proposing. The male of the human species is content with
putting the “diamond” on his favorite girl and then sitting back
while she makes all future plans.

This, however, is not the case with the animals, who are
not supposed to be too intelligent. All of them have their own
particular manner of courting and winning the Consent of their
loved ones. No two seem to have the same technique.

WHEN it comes to the art of courting and proposing to a

Take the male penguin, for example. He comes closest to
following man’s pattern. After he picks out a “sweetie,” he
comes calling on her every day. Then, when he gets up enough
nerve, he takes her for a walk along the beach and gives her
a “heart-to-heart” talk in his best penguin language. The
talk might last for several hours and then Mr. Penguin goes
into action. He looks around on the beach and picks up a
stone which he offers to Miss Penguin as a token of his devo—
tion' and desire to be her mate for life. If Miss Penguin takes
the stone in her bill, the happy male knows that he has made
the grade. But, if Miss Penguin drops the stone, Mr. Male
knows that :he has been rejected and off he goes to look else—
where for a bride.

Now, let’s look at the spider family. When the male spider
comes a-courting, he dresses all up and spins the most beauti-
ful web that he is capable of making. By jerking his web in
a manner to attract his beloved’s attention, the male spider
then spins his love tale. If the female spider admires the pat-
tern work of the web, she looks with favor on her suitor and
hops over and joins webs with him. Sometimes, this courting
proposition isa matter of life or death with the male. If the
female takes a fancy to him, well and good! But, if Miss
Spider cannot see him, even with rose-colored webs, she will
not only reject him, but, perhaps, will eat him for having the
audacity to want to marry her. The male spider is usually
under the spell of a lover’s moon and is easy prey for the
female who cares not for his designs, either from a love stand-
point or as a spinner of webs. So, Mr. Spider has to be care-
ful about his courting, and he must know a little about the
temperament of his beloved before he does any fancy spin-
ning! A“

The prairie chicken is considered a clown and when the male
chick goes courting in the springtime, his actions are clown-
ish, to say the least. But to the male, this is all serious business
at hand. A male chick’s fancy turns to love in the spring and
he corners the object of his affections, usually near a log in a
secluded spot. The hen chick stands still while her suitor
walks up and down before her. All puffed up, he struts and
bows to her while he clucks continuously. In prairie chicken
language, the male tells her what a good “catch” he is and
his ability to provide a home for her and, as he hopes, their
little ones. The strutting, bowing and clucking continue for
hours, while the two argue the whole thing out. Finally, the
damsel makes her decision. If she accepts the proposal that
her suitor has handed her, she drums on the log and the male
chick knows that he has won out. The drumming summons the
rest of the brood and the female hands out the announcement
that she has said “yes” to Joe Chick. And then, while the ap-
proving other prairie chickens watch, the engaged pair strut
proudly away. But, if the hen chick does not drum on the
log and instead turns her back on the suitor, Mr. Male knows
that his work was in vain.

The male owl, who sees only the gloomy side of life anyway,
makes an even gloomier lover. When the penguin, spider and
prairie chicken go courting in daylight, Mr. Owl has to wait
until night so that he can have some privacy. He is like man,
in this respect. The owl, having made a date previously with
his “special number,” meets her at midnight in their favorite
tree. The two sit out on a limb and thrash things over. Mr.

August 1945

 

 

Three Lions Photo

Midnight—and "out on a limb."

Owl is not one to “beat around the bush.” He goes into his
“song—and-dance” immediately and announces to the female
what his plans for the future are. The pair then bill like a
couple of pigeons, but soon they remember they are owls and
begin to hoot it up. Miss Owl starts to question her suitor
about his ﬁnancial status and the male knows that she has him
out on another limb besides the one they are sitting on. He
begins to hoot wildly and the listener can gather from his sad
hooting that Mr. Owl is getting the well-known “business.”
But the male promises his beloved that he will be a good
provider and that he will be a good Night Owl and that the
little woman will not have to worry about herself and the little
ones. (All the male birds, beasts and insects mention having
families, as it makes a good sales-talk.) The female hoots
very sadly as she has her doubts about Tommy Owl. On the
other hand, she knows that she is getting along in years and
this may be her last chance. With daylight fast approaching,
she knows that she must make a decision. When she changes
her tone and swings into billing from hooting, the male owl
realizes that he has been accepted. Then, they bill together
and off they ﬂy to break the news to the folks. If the female
owl does not bill at the ﬁrst sign of dawn, then the match is off.
Miss Owl then ﬂies away, leaving her jilted lover sitting by
himself on the tree limb, asking himself if it were worth
the effort!

147

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Kindergarten,
Grades One and Two

I BASIC IDEA: There are many kinds of
living things about us that have varied
needs for living.

11 SUBJECT MATTER: Voices of the
Harvest.

III SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:

Take a trip to see what kinds of insects
can be found.

Take a trip to see what kinds of insects
can be heard.

Make plans for a home for one of the
visitors.

Take a trip to collect a few of the insects
to be kept for a few days as pets.

Make the visitors comfortable in their
new quarters.

Watch the insect for several days to
discover:

What does it eat?

Does it drink water?

Does it slee‘p?

How does it get about?

Can it hear?

How does it hear?

What other interesting things do you
observe? '

Raise some small insects as grasshoppers
or crickets.

Develop a reading chart telling interest-
ing things about your discoveries.

Draw a picture to illustrate the reading
chart.

Pretend you are a grasshopper and jump
as he jumps.

Listen and dramatize the story of the
grasshopper and the ant.

Keep a cricket diary.

Bring food for the insects.

Help keep the insects comfortable.

Take them back to their original home
when the visit is completed.

IV DESIRABLE OUTCOMES:
Speciﬁc ideas based on observations

(This is a partial list to suggest types
of ideas that can be developed)

Crickets and other animals need food,
air, water, and sunshine.

Crickets lay eggs in the ground.
The mother cricket lays eggs.
The father cricket sings.

Attitudes

A kindly feeling towards harmless crea-
tures no matter how small they are.

A sense of responsibility for the care of
any animal put in one’s charge.

These attitudes are expressed in the
following ways:

The child brings food for the animal.

He remembers when it is time to feed
the animal.

He reports when water is needed.

He handles the animal only when
necessary.

When necessary to handle the animal,
he does so with care and gentleness.

September 1 91,5

Grades Three and Four

I BASIC IDEA: Insects are highly adapted
for their ways of living.

II SUBJECT MATTER: Voices of the
Harvest.

III SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:

Prepare a home for your new pets.
Take a trip to collect your pets.
Assume responsibility for the care and
feeding of pets. _
Observe as much as possible about the
insect. '
What different kinds of things does it
eat?
How does it secure its food?
‘ How does it eat?
Does its mouth open as yours does?
How do grasshoppers’ hind legs differ
from their other four legs?
How does a grasshopper use these
legs? -»
Share your pets with your friends.
Make a list of the insect sounds you hear.
Keep a record of your observations about
your insects.
Supplement your observations with read-
ing about insects.
Read about crickets in China.

IV DESIRABLE OUTCOMES:

Speciﬁc ideas based on observations

Insects have legs and wings that are well
ﬁtted to help them get food and to escape
from their enemies.

The hind legs of grasshoppers help them
to jump far and to escape from their
enemies.

The color of the grasshoppers makes
them hard to see.

Grasshoppers have strong j aws. with
which they can chew plant ﬁbers.

The grasshopper makes a sound by rub-
bing the spines of his legs against the edge
of his wings.

Attitudes

A beginning of wonder for the various
ways insects have for living successfully
where they are found.

A respect for the rights of living crea-
tures, especially for those that are weaker
than one’s self.

A beginning of a reverence for life.

Grades Five and Six

I BASIC IDEA: Some insects are harmful
and should be controlled.

II SUBJECT MATTER: Voices of the
Harvest.

III SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:

Bring insects indoors for observation.

Make labels for all exhibits that will call
attention to interesting facts or ask ques—
tions about the insects.

Be responsible for the care of the insect
while a visitor.

Collect as many things as you can that
you have seen your insect eat.

Find as many kinds of grasshoppers and
crickets as you can. Do they all eat the
same food?

Experiment to see if the “temperature
cricket” can tell the temperature correctly.

How much does the song of the black
cricket vary with the temperature?

Experiment to see if it is true that male
grasshoppers sing louder when a female is
near; or when a male is at hand.

Read to ﬁnd out the extent of damage
caused by grasshoppers in the country as a
whole? How great is cricket damage?

Read how the gulls saved the crops of
Utah. What kind of insect was devouring
the crops?

To what extent are grasshoppers harmful
in your community?

How does the United States Government
advise controlling insects that are pests?

Make a chart of insect friends and show
how they are of help to us.

Make a chart of insect pests and the
proper ways of controlling them.

IV DESIRABLE OUTCOMES:

Speciﬁc ideas based on observations
‘ Insects devour a great amount of food.
Some insects eat the same things we eat.
When the needs of insects cause them to
destroy our food and other useful crops,
they must be controlled.
Insects should be controlled humanely.
Attitudes
A desire to be humane in the extermina—
tion of insects that interfere with your needs.
A willingness to accept authority in
arriving at conclusions as to the harmful—
ness of insects.

Home for Insects

Collecting Insects

Insects should be collected with great
care so as not to injure them. Look for
them in dark places during the daytime:

as under boards, stones, fallen logs that '

have begun to decay, and under loose
bark. Take along a collecting box into
which they may be put as soon as secured.
The box does not need to have air holes
punched in it since insects use very little
air. Put some fresh plants into the box.
Collect only enough insects to supply
your needs.

Care of Insects Indoors

Children should be brought into close
contact with animals so they may under-

stand their needs; and, through under-
standing, develop a sympathy and
thoughtfulness for them; as well as a
feeling of responsibility for them while

in their care.‘ Therefore, it is essential

that thought should be given to the hous-
ing and care of these animals. The ﬁrst
principle to keep in mind is that the
insects’ quarters should 'be as nearly as
possible like their natural surroundmgs.
Containers used for cages should be kept
clean. Fresh plants should always be
available. Insects should not be kept too
long.

Simple cages for display purposes may
be made by using two tin cake pans and

(Continued on Page 1’78)
175

 

I
I._....._s. _. _

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strange Adoptions

:RE animals capable of greater love
' than humans? .

This may be true, if we are to Judge
from the willingness of animal-mothers
to adopt strange offspring.

From Williamsburg, Virginia, comes
the story of a barred owl which has
raised three families of chickens. Three
different broods of ﬂuffy chicks came out
of their shells to ﬁnd they had been
warmed, hatched and fussed over w1th
complete devotion by a most unusual
foster mother—an owl.

Just the other day the case of another
strange adoption was recorded in Seattle,
Washington. An orphan pig became the
step—child of “Boots,” a big Dalmatian
dog who treats her snout—nosed ch11d no
differently than if he were a pup.

There are many other similar cases.
The ancient Roman believed in the
legend of Romulus and Remus, the twins
who were supposed to have been raised
by a wolf. From time to time we hear
tales of tapes which have cared tenderly
for lost human children. But have you
ever heard of human parents adopting
a child who was not of their own race

and color?
——Ida M. Purdue

:13

Wild-life Modernism

LITTLE probing in the realm of
wild life will make us wonder if
we are as modern as we think.

Long before the alarm clock was no
more than a speck in man’s imagination,
the orb weaver spider had its own type
of alarm clock which never fails to
awaken it—which is more than we can
say about our own alarm clocks today.

The spider’s alarm clock is a tiny
thread which is strung from the center
of its web to a nearby hiding place. If
the spider happens to be asleep when an
insect gets caught in the web, the com—
motion caused by the captured insect
will vibrate the line. This awakens the
spider, who then scrambles to the web
to make a meal of the insect.

To protect her eggs from the weather,
the praying mantis has always used
thermos bottles.

The insect surrounds her eggs with a
mass of bubbles, which accomplishes the
same thing as the thermos bottle. The
mass of bubbles keeps the eggs at an even
temperature, regardless of changes in
the weather.

The wasp has always known how to
preserve meat. The worms and insects
which the wasp uses for food are kept
fresh for a long period because of para-
lyzing ﬂuid which the wasp injects into
the Victim.

—George S. Lookabaugh

148

The Remarkable Ostrich

By MABEL IRENE SAVAGE

EW birds have a more unusual and

remarkable assortment of features
than the ostrich, with his towering
height, cloven feet, scanty feathers, and
eyes with upper eyelashes like those of .a
human being! Everything about him is
decidedly extraordinary. Many author-
ities on bird life call the ostrich one of
the birds which has lost its power of
ﬂight.

Ancient Greeks called the ostrich the
“camel-bird,” a name which it still bears
in many parts of the Near East. The
Arabs dubbed [the ostrich “The Father of
of the Desert,” and the ancient Hebrews
referred to it as “The Daughter of the
Desert.”

The ostrich has, from very early ages,
been known as a native of the deserts of
Asia and Africa. It is a singular fact
that the drearier the desert the more the
ostrich loves it as his native home. And
in this sea of sand, no matter how
barren, the ostrich can ﬁnd suﬂicient
food. These queer birds have an appe-
tite to match their bizarre appearance,
for they will eat bits of rags, leather,
stones, wood, grass, snails, lizards, or
even pieces of metal! They are also fond
of dates and certain kinds of nuts.

Because of its great size, the ostrich
has been used to carry men and other
burdens upon its back, like a horse or a
camel. Goldsmith says:- “The tyrant
Firmius, who reigned in Egypt about
the end of the third century, was fre-
quently carried by large ostriches.
Moore, an English traveler, relates that
he had seen, at Joar, in Africa, a man
traveling on an ostrich; and Villisniere
speaks of a young man who exhibited
himself upon one of these birds at
Venice.”

° acs

   

In the Language of Sport
By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HE world of animals ‘has had a

marked inﬂuence in developing the
peculiar and sometimes mystifying lan-
guage of sports. Perhaps that is to be
expected when so many of us started
out with such childhood games as “duck
on the rock” and “ducks and drakes”—or
even the old-time indoor pastime “puss
in the corner.”

Baseball casually refers to a low bounc-
ing ball as a “grasshopper,” while one
hit into the air is invariably a “ﬂy ball.”
Scoreless inning-s are “goose eggs” in
baseball parlance and the player who
makes costly errors is likely to become
the “goat” of the game.

Gymnastics has its “long horse” and
“side horse.” Golfers talk enviously
about “birdies” and “eagles,” While no
badminton game could be complete with-
out a “bird.” Also, in the feathered
family of the sports world are the “duck
pin” bowling enthusiasts.

Boxing, of course, has its “bantam”
and “ﬂy” weight divisions. You might
even stretch a point in this case and
include the “featherweight” class. And
in rowing it’s an unlucky oarsm-an who
“catches a crab” and thus upsets the
rhythm of the crew.

The dexterity of athletes themselves
often invites comparison with our four-
legged and feathered friends. “Nimble
as a cat” is a press and radio favorite
that is closely seconded by the descrip-
tive “ran like a scared jack rabbit.”

College football takes the prize, how-
ever, with its collection of bird and ani-
mal nicknames. Golden Bears, Owls,
Horned Frogs, Mustangs, Bulldogs,
Yellowjackets and all the rest strive an-
nually for football supremacy on the
white-chalked gridirons of the nation.

oin¢

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

Independent Creature

The horseshoe crab's a funny thing;
He’s really not all there;

He can’t see with the eyes he has;
But doesn’t seem to care.

He uses legs as we do teeth,
And still he doesn't mind;
A more contrary animal

Would be quite hard to find!

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 




 

w

10.

11.

New Contest

for Children

ITH this issue we announce our new Animal Contest for our young readers. It will be

lots of fun and every boy or girl, ﬁfteen or under, will have a chance to win one of the

twenty-eight prizes.

Be sure to read the following contest rules before starting.

Rules for Animal Contest

This contest is open to all subscribers to OUR DUMB ANI-
MALS, 15 years of age or under.

Prizes will be as follows:
First Prize ........ $25.00 Third Prize ........ $5.00
Second Prize ...... 10.00 Twenty-ﬁve $1.00 prizes.

With the ﬁrst entry enclose OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK
found on this page, signed by your teacher. Only ONE entry
blank is needed for entire] contest.

This contest will run for six months, one set of puzzles in each
issue of this magazine for FIVE months. The sixth entry
will consist of a scrapbook of not more than eight pages,
including the cover, made up of interesting pictures or
stories selected from your copies of OUR DUMB ANIMALS.
BE SURE TO SAVE YOUR MAGAZINES. Start right now
thinking about YOUR scrapbook entry. It will be judged for
its attractiveness and originality.

You may send in each set of puzzles as you complete them,
being sure your ﬁrst set is accompanied by the ofﬁcial entry
blank, properly signed, or you may submit all ﬁve sets and
scrap book together (with OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK) at

the completion of the contest.

All entries must be postmarked on or before midnight,
February 25, 1946.

Each entry, whether sent separately or all together, must
bear the contestant’s name and address (the same address to

which OUR DUMB ANIMALS is being sent).

Address your entries to ANIMAL CONTEST EDITOR, 180
Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

Winners will be notiﬁed by letter and their names will appear
in the June issue of the magazine.

In case of ties, duplicate awards will be given and the deci-
sion of the judges will be ﬁnal. We regret that we cannot
enter into any correspondence concerning the contest.

All entries become the property of OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and none can be returned.

 

 

 

A special subscription rate of 75c will be
allowed to all contestants.
Please send to

OUR?“ DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

September 1945

First Puzzle Set

BELOW you will ﬁnd ﬁfteen scrambles. Each scramble
is the name of a well known animal or bird. Rear—
range the letters in each scramble to ﬁnd the real name.
For example INORB—rearranged it spells ROBIN.
Write your answers opposite each scramble, cut out
whole puzzle and send as your ﬁrst entry.

GRITE _____
PH'ENELAT ________
AREVEB ______
LUREQRIS ________
ME‘ALC _____
WRASPOR _______
SUMOE _____

LOORIE ______
RAWSUL ______
STRHUH ______
HECADIECK _________
VOLENWIRE _________
PENALOTE __ '_ ______
LERUTT ______
SORTERO _______

 

OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK '

Name ............................................................................................
(Please Print)

Address ........................................................................................

(Street)

...........................................
............................................

(City and Zone) (State)

Age ................................

 

 

(Have your teacher ﬁll in the next three lines)

Teacher ........................................................................................
(Signature)

School ..........................................................................................
Address ........................................................................................

..................
.........................................
.............................

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1944 bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-
tive pictures and verses. six in set 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches .......5 cts. each
About the Horse
Care of the Horse ..................... $1.25 per 100
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog . .................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs ........... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
Boo-ts’ Day, play, :for two boys and three

girls ... . . . . ...j ...... 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat," post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness . .' .................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 " “
Cruelty at Eastertime . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .75 “ ”
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ......... .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .............. .30 “ "
Directions for "thie Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish ...7. .................... .50 " “

The ‘Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack‘ London Club? . . . . . . . .$0.30 per 100

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp.
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ................................

.50 per 100

(C (0

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our

Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education

Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free

Lessons in Kindness ....... each. 5 cts.; $3.50 per 100

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,"
play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls .......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

» Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .....................
Our Love for Animals, a short radio
address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00
How to Organize a. Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals ....................

4‘ Cl

Band of Mercy

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
‘Band of Mercy” pennant .. . 25 cts.
Band of Mercy Membership Card . . . . . . .50 per 100
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ "
Band of MercyRegister................ 10 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making“ your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March,
I868) Society JEor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use at the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital.” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

i give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or, it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

 

 

 

   

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1944 issues. There you Will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles. on nature and
animal care. It~ will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Futhermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1944
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

..,-... ~r ',.._\.. .. ~,',.: ,,t , :, - ‘. ' ....__,. .-’.. ;.,,n‘_r._,;‘.",:‘l '~‘;.'.V-'-\ .";r’,
:gwgammmm»,...,, , New r ,1 .1 ... its. , ,e‘ r

 

 

   

 

 

Life of

Francis of Assisi

in Silhouettes

By
Sister Fides Shepperson, Ph. D.

The author of Cloister Chords at her
best in this charming booklet. The
story of a man, a saint, an animal
lover, these silhouettes invoke quiet
contemplation and provide a sanc-

tuary from worry and insecurity.
66 pages Price ﬁfty cents

American Humane Education Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE ARIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

 

 

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Since 1832

J. 5. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
funeral Serbia:

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

. ';;,_ '2" ' IU:':.':;; i:- — ~
. “Li/Illu/ fj/
\t ' M
RUN \\. s3.

 

By Boys and Girls

ow we want you to write for us. If you are ﬁfteen years old
N or under and have written or want to write a poem or story
about animals, you are eligible to compete for a place on this
page. Each piece must be very short, and, of course, your very
own composition. Each contribution must be accompanied by a
note from one of your parents or your teacher stating that the
writing is original with you. Also, if you have a picture of yOurself
and your pet, send that, too. Of course, we cannot promise to
print everything received, but the judges will pick out the ones

they think the best.
All letters should be addressed to Boys and Girls Editor, OUR

DUMB ANIMALS, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass. We
cannot return or acknowledge unused contributions, but we shall
do our best to print the best stories, poems and pictures received.

Following are a few samples of stories and verse written by
children. Can you do better than these boys and girls? Try it.

4%

My Pets
By Suzanne P. Clark

I love animals. They are my hobby. I have a cat. He
is my favorite of all my pets. My pets are “Toby,” my
cat; “Cleo,” my goldﬁsh and about forty-two chickens.
My cat, before I had him, had been wandering around
our barn for quite a while and ﬁnally I was allowed to
keep him. He has been with me for nearly two years.
The more pets the better for me.

I once had a black and white mother cat who was
always having kittens. In the end her kittens all added
up to about forty. That cat was forever carrying her
kittens into our best clothes closet. Cats are one of my
favorite animals.

I take horseback riding lessons and I love horses,
too. I am glad that you have a Society of Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. I am going to start one when
I grow up. In the meantime I have a “Nature Club.”
We study about insects, plants, animals, and trees, but
we study mostly about animals. I have ﬁve members

in my club, three scrapbooks and one loose-leaf note-
book.
at

My Dog, “Boom”
By Stanley Kucharchuk (Age 10)

“Boom” is a mongrel dog. We got him about a
month ago and we like him very much. Every morning
when father lets him into the house, he rushes straight
for our bed and wakes us up. He always licks our
faces and then starts to bite our noses. Whenever I
play dead, he comes and jumps all over me. Every

afternoon we leave him in the house, and we go to
school.
:13

Remember Be Kind to Animals Week comes April

7-13, 1946. Observe it, not only this one week, but for
ﬁfty-two weeks in the year.

236

  
 

 
    

  
  

- a? «
;'\ ’*
6§ﬁ '3 \ \\
.’ 2‘ _:
3,3,. 3 $51 . r
3 es _.. / ~

.x'fgﬂig“r?‘§“$$ // / /
. \\\_ _... |

  

-'~.
p.
’r.

'II/u'll

    
 
   

SARAH AND "LASSIE"

My Best Friend
By Sarah E. Waldron (Age 15)

The best friend I ever had is my dog. Her name is
“Lassie” and I am proud to have such a ﬁne dog. She
is three years old now and can open the front door of
my father’s car. How she learned to do that no one
knows. ‘

She also will go down to the mail box every day that
I am home and take the mail out of my hands. I say,
“Do you want to go and get the mail with me?”. She
wags her tail and dashes out the front door as qulck as
possible. I go down to the mail box and she brlngs 1t
up and leaves it in my father’s favorite chair where he
reads his evening papers. .

I am sending a picture of Lassie and myself. It 15 not
very good of me, as it was taken more or less by sur-
prise. In my hand is my clarinet.

I have had a subscription to Our Dumb Animals for
at least two years now and I am going to continue It. as
long as possible. I want to congratulate you for putting
out such wonderful books.

Sincerely yours,
A dog and animals lover.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

    
   
   
 

mf‘x—

 




 

 

    

‘5‘." mix: We,
"'1' ' '1' . i \' \
Wm}. ”‘1 f §
s». z- galls
\ 4053 '1',“ ‘ \
: a\"-“1\ -n *’ it.» \
{9x7 ’: 5—" \M ‘
MAI," £5 r/ , \n\$- [1’2"
/:§ .( “l“ "\I\
' sﬁkﬁ Ms J‘ m"

Birds of Our State

THIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted ofﬁcial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation
of the governor, or by long established precedent. The
remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds. Re-
gardless of their official status, however, each bird is
more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you some
clue-s about himself. Without looking at the answer,
see if you can identify him. Then study the informa-
tion so you’ll be able to know any of the state birds
wherever you see them. It will be lots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: I am a graceful, ﬂying, web-footed bird,
equally at home on water or land. I ﬂy over large
lakes or oceans. My usual color is white with a gray
mantle, varying from pearl gray to blackish. My feet
and bill are brightly colored, either yellow or red. . . .
Who am I?

Second Clue: I often take long ocean voyages and
my family is to the water What the buzz'ard is to the
land—valuable scavengers. . . . Who am 1?

Third Clue: At nesting time, we gather in vast num-
bers, usually on islands, and build our nests on the
ground, although on occasion we build them in trees.
The ground nests are not much to speak of, but tree
nests are large and well constructed of strongly inter-
woven mos-s, grass, twigs and reeds. . . . Who am I?

Fourth Clue: My family consists of from two to
four, and I help in incubation and care of babies. The
plum-age of our young is dark and mottled and it is
not until their third year they acquire the usual dress
of our family. We feed our young on ﬁsh, lobsters» and
clams and we often follow vessels and obtain many
delicious meals from scraps thrown overboard. We
also ﬂy inland and catch crickets, mice, grasshoppers,
cutworms and other pests. . . . Who am I?

Fifth Clue: I have the distinction of being a member
of the only bird family that has a beautiful monu-
ment erected in honor of our service to mankind. The
same state in which this monument stands, Utah,
chose me as their Ofﬁcial State Bird. . . . Who am I?

Answer: 'I’Iflf) VINHOJI’IVD

—Jewell Casey

M ay 1945

 

 

~—H. Armstrong Roberts

COM RADES

1%
Who Took the Nuts?

“Some one took the nuts we gathered in a pile
before breakfast,” exclaimed Bobby as they came
back from the hickory tree after school. “But, not a
living thing except a squirrel was in sight.”

Daddy looked up quickly. “Tomorrow is Saturday,”
he said. “I’ll shake the tree in the morning. You can
pick apples in the orchard beside it while the nuts
are drying and at the same time watch the tree.”

The children watched the tree carefully. Only a
squirrel came in sight.

Suddenly Bobby gave a shout. “That squirrel ran
off with a nut in its mouth!”

They watched. It came back and took another and
another, running each time to a hole under a stump.

“It’s hiding them for winter,” explained their
father. “Squirrels often forget where they bury their
nuts and those left in the ground grow. In this way
many of our nut trees are planted by squirrels.”

“Then they earn part of the nuts,” said Bobby, and
Betty agreed enthusiastically.

—Bessie L. Putnam

9’7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Sea lions are good mothers and will fight any attempt to harm Jtheir offspring.

Tenderness, self-sacriﬁce and devotion mark——

Mother Love in the Wild

properly is about the toughest job on earth.

Animal parents, however, are faced with an entirely
dilferent set of problems in rearing their young. Feeding and
protecting them, even from creatur-es of their own kind, is no
light task, yet it is often performed by the higher animals
with a degree of tenderness, self-sacriﬁce and devotion which
would put many a human parent to shame.

An infuriated lioness will ﬁght to the death for her young
ones, and her mates will do the sam-e.

The mother sea lion also makes a good mother. Sea lions
live under a scheme not uncommon in the animal world. All
the females are the exclusive property of the largest and
strongest male. The other males gather together in two
separate groups, one consisting of old or wounded males, the
other Of the younger males, or “bachelors.” When her baby
arrives, Mrs. Sea Lion rears it unaided. She is a ﬁerce mother
but if undisturbed is docile and will play with her cub by
the hour. She will ﬁght any attempt to harm her offspring,
however.

The mother seal is also a patient and persevering parent.

While the polar bear appears to make a bad parent in
captivity, Arctic explorer-s speak highly of the polar bear as a
mother, describing how it appears in the late Spring with its
cub, and the consideration it shows for its well-being.

April 1945

MOST parents are certain that bringing up a human child

By F. J. WORRALL

Though the walrus has no other nursery than the bare
rocks, the little walruses are carefully brought up.

As a rule, only one is produced at birth and it is protected
jealously by the formidable tusks of both its parents.

Buffalo make excellent mothers and are most attentive to
their calves.

The camel, though seemingly unaffectionate and tempera—
mental, is the best of mothers. Courageous and patient, she
will defend her young with her teeth—her most dangerous
weapon, and without the slightest fear will attack any enemy,
regardless of size or strength.

Most of the monkey tribe make ﬁercely protective and
jealous parents but the orang—utan is a most interesting
mother. She shows her baby how to eat by putting food in her
own mouth and chewing it while holding the youngster close
to her face. Some scientists declare that i-t is the only mother
animal to give ocular instructions in eating.

In the fond parental minds of the porcupine, the Whole
world is «after their little one, so they will not permit him to
stroll without their protection. They are notorious ﬁghters
and few enemies care to come to grips with them.

Why Mrs. Armadillo should worry about her safely—
enclosed youngster is a mystery to scientists also. But the
mother keeps an exceedingly sharp eye on her babies until
they are almost as big as herself, but then—that is the nature
of most mothers of the animal world.

67

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rabies Control

AT a recent meeting of leading hu-
manitarians and veterinarians in
New York City, it was declared that “we
recognize the existence of rabies” and
that control measures are necessary.

Discussion of House of Representatives
Bill 1986 brought out the fact that, in the
opinion of those present, the placing of
dogs under the control of the Federal
Bureau of Animal Industry, as set forth
in the Bill, would not be a desirable
means of obtaining rabies control.

The American Humane Association, in
announcing a declaration of policy
adopted at the meeting, set forth the
following eleven points:

1. We recognize the existence of rabies.

2. We believe that rabies control meas-
ures are necessary.

3. We believe that progress has been
made in the development of prophylactic
vaccine against rabies in the dog.

4. We believe there has been an in-
sufﬁcient amount of evidence produced
to date to justify the imposing of com-
pulsory prophylactic rabies vaccination
of dogs.

5. We believe that in areas where
rabies exist dogs. should not be permitted
in public places, unless effectively
leashed.

6. We believe that there should be
strict licensing of all dogs.

7. We believe that all

should be impounded.
' 8. We believe that dogs or cats deﬁ-
nitely known to have been bitten by a
rabid animal should be conﬁned or de-
stroyed and that contact dogs or cats
should be strictly quarantined for a
proper period.

9. We believe that the relationship be-
tween man and dog makes it an unsound
policy to include the dog under regula-
tions pertaining to livestock.

10. We believe that the placing of dogs
under_ the control of the Federal Bureau
of Animal Industry in the form contem-
plated by HR 1986 is not the desirable
means of obtaining rabies control.

11. Therefore, it is. the opinion of this
conference that these ends can better
be .served by working toward uniform
legislation in the drafting of which small
animal practitioners and organizations
dealmg with dogs should participate. In
no case should there be precipitate action.

Our Society recognizes that safeguards
will have to be taken to protect humans
and animals from the ravages of serious
diseases, but believes that plans for such
safeguards should be worked out care-
fully through participation by animal
protection societies, veterinarians and
dog owners.

a

To Subscribers

We ask our subscribers to be patient if
coples do not come through on time.
Because of increasing difﬁculties, from
elght to twelve weeks should be allowed
for new subscriptions to be entered.

. Also, because of uncertainty of mail de-
llverles and the danger of loss in transit,
we would suggest that our readers remit
by check or postal money order when-
ever possible.

98

stray dogs

 

IN THE EDITOR’S‘LIBRARY

 

New Book by Staff Member

ADIOLOGY in Canine Practice” by

Gerry B. Schnelle, V.M.D., Assistant
Chief of Staff of our Angell Memorial
Hospital, and dedicated to our own Dr.
Francis H. Rowley, has recently come off
the press. ,

In the foreword by Dr.‘ Merril C. Soss—
man, Professor of Roentgenology, Har-
vard Medical School, he says: “This
monograph is the ﬁrst textbook in the
English language on the subject of vet-
erinary radiology. That alone has made
the compilation and preparation of ma-
terial more difficult, as there are no
references to consult, and no similar work
for comparison.”

The book will satisfy the growing de-
mand for authoritative information on
a subject that is new in veterinary medi-
cine. Its 250 illustrations give speciﬁc
and detailed information on the subject
of diagnosis in canine practice.

Divided into three parts, the book deals
consecutively with equipment and tech-
nics; affections of bones and joints;
affections of soft structures, which com-
monly occur in dogs.

Prepared to assist the practitioner to
make the most of radiography in small
animals, this volume contains 356 pages
and sells for $5.00. Orders should be
sent to The North American Veterina-
rian, Box 550, Evanston, Illinois.

a

Biography in Black
By PAUL B. POTTER

DELIGHTFUL story of three

friends —— a man, a woman, and
“Kittykat,” or should the order be re-
versed. It will tug at your heartstrings;
it will make you laugh at Kittykat’s
antics.

This is a true story of George and Iva,
who left their native state of Maine to
settle in California. There, some 3,645
miles from their nearest friends, they
were indeed lonely. At this time of their
greatest need, Kittykat came trudging
into their lives and brightened their
whole existence with her playfulness.

Readers will be entranced by the Fore-
word in which the author ably presents
his point of view. “A word to your cat,”
says he, “and she does as she pleases.”

We do not need to recommend this book
to cat—lovers. A hint is enough. But
to those who merely tolerate cats or even
to those who profess to hate them, we
sincerely recommend it as a good story
and a fascinating lesson on cat nature.
104 pages ..................... .$1.50

MARSHALL JONES COMPANY
Francestown New Hampshire
or your own bookstore

Answers to “Fact or Myth”
(from page 96)

1. False. Normallyarattlesnake adds
one rattle each time it sheds its skin,
which is about three times a year; but
some add as many as ﬁve rattles a year.

2. False. Myth probably arises from
superﬁcial resemblance between the tu-
bercles in a toad’s skin and warts.

3. False. The highest estimate is 500
years; though 200-300 years is probably
more accurate.

4. False. With rare exceptions, they
are completely indifferent to music.

5. False. Monkeys have no fangs or
poison sacs. Danger from the bite of a
monkey, or any other animal whose
mouth is not always clean, lies in the
possibility of infection setting in.

6. False. A bat is a mammal that
cannot swim.

7. True. It becomes limp and allows
itself to be handled in any manner.

8. False. They’re pretty old at 50.

9. True. This ejection of blood is in—
tended to terrify its enemies.

10. False. They have poor memories
and often cannot ﬁnd their caches.

11. True. Even among snakes of the
same species the venom has no effect;
though it is possible that bites exchanged
between different species may be fatal.

12. False. It’s used as a rudder in
swimming.
13. False. Its color changes depend

on health, temperature and other factors,
but not its surroundings.

14. False. A deep-rooted belief, but
completely unfounded.

15. True. Mice are no more than an
annoyance to elephants.

16. False. They do exude a red liquid
but it is simply an oil that waterproofs
their bodies.

17. False. Actually they seek minute
ﬂakes of dry skin, which they relish for
their slight sal-tiness.

18. False. There is no prOperty in
animal’s eyes that makes them glow in
complete darkness.

19. False. Even very thirsty cobras
have shown no desire for milk.

20. True. The female sucks blood;
the male is satisﬁed with plant juices.

21. False. Parrots would prefer let-
tuce and a number of other foods to a
cracker.

22. True. It does so to get out of deep
ﬂowers when in search of nectar and in—

sects.

23. False. The rope has not the
slightest effect on it.

24. False. He’s probably only scratch-
ing his itching head.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

Homes for Strays
CCORDING to a recent report of our
Attleboro Branch, homes were found
for 11 dogs, one cat and one goat. The
number of animals put to sleep humanely
included one horse, 80 cats, 27 dogs.

The shelter at Attleboro, under the
management of William J. Lees, con-
tinues to render the special service of
boarding animals for the convenience of
the residents of this city and surround-
ing areas.

a

Brockton Shelter Active
R. Herbert C. Liscomb, in charge
of our Brockton Branch, reports
that in one month, one animal was re—
turned to its owner, seven placed in good
homes, and 234 animals were put to sleep

humanely.

Since the opening of the shelter in
June, Mr. Liscomb asserts that the work
in that section has increased materially.

a

New Recruit

HIRTY-SECOND in the long line of

Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
employees to enter the armed forces, is
Miss Winifred T. Stanton, who left re-
cently to become a SPAR Recruit. Miss
Stanton has the distinction of being the
ﬁrst of our employees to join any of the
women’s organizations.

In the picture, “Patsy,” convalescing
collie at the Hospital, shakes hands
gravely in a parting salute on behalf of
all the animal patients.

We wish Miss Stanton every success
in her new venture.

 

U. S. Coast Guard

"Patsy" shakes hands as a parting gesture

to Miss Winifred T. Stanton.

January 191,5

 

Executive Vice-President Eric H. Hansen presents Certiﬁcates to two returned veterans.

Loyal Service Recognized

N recognition of the loyal service to

our nation during this great war, The
Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals is presenting
to every veteran War Dog in Massachu-
setts, a decorative Certiﬁcate of Honor.

More than three hundred of these vet-
eran canines have already been returned
to their owners throughout the Com—
monwealth. Each one will ultimately re—
ceive one of these Certiﬁcates to be kept
by the owner as part of the permanent
record of its wartime accomplishments.

Shown making some of the ﬁrst
awards is Mr. Eric H. Hansen, Execu—
tive Vice—President of our Society. The
recipients (left to right) are: “Cham—
pion Brinker,” Great Pyrenees, owned
by Mrs. Francis V. Crane, of Holliston,
Massachusetts, and “Daisy,” Dalmatian,
property of Mr. T. Jefferson Coolidge,
of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.

In presenting the Certiﬁcates, Mr.
Hansen commended highly the “heroic
and courageous deeds of these devoted
friends of mankind.

“Midnight” Moves with the Folks

IDNIGHT was a big, black cat, and

she lived happily with her folks on
the big ranch.

Then, one day, her folks sold the ranch ,

and started to move to the city. They
did not think Midnight would be happy
in the city, so they arranged for the
new owners of the ranch to keep her.
About two days before her people were
ready for the ﬁnal move from the ranch,
Midnight gave birth to four kittens.
Came time to move, and the ﬁrst load
of furniture was loaded and started on
its way. Then, when the second truck
was being loaded, Midnight’s instinct
told her that something was wrong. She
must have known that the family was

moving, and she did not like the idea of
being left behind.

So, while the men were walking up the
ramp with the heavy furniture, Mid-
night picked up one of her kittens and
followed them up into the big truck.
She carried the kitten far back in be-
tween two huge crates, and then re-
turned for another kitten. Four trips
she made. Then she cuddled up with her
babies, and there she remained till the
truck arrived at the new home.

Yes, Midnight made just as good a
city cat as she had a country cat. For
the city was where her folks were, and
there only could she be happy.

——F7'ed Cornelius

15

 




 

 

 

Lessons in Kindness
,4 Manual/04 vac/W

Jusf published is our new l2-page book-
lef. confaining ac’rual proiecfs. bibliog-
raphies. and material charts for fhe
teaching of Humane Education.

Wifh projects for grades from kinder-
garfenfhrough fhe sixfh year. if will be
of inesfimable value to feachers.

Five cents each $3.50 per hundred

 

 

 

 

 

 

I944 Bound Volumes

While they last we have a limited supply
of bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals.
each book containing twelve issues.

From past experience. we know‘fhat
many people like to keep a permanent
file for reference fo the many informative
articles on nature and animal care.

These books. containing 240 pages and
approximately 200 striking examples of
animal photography. make splendid giffs.
especially to school and public libraries.
Children find the magazine helpful in
their school work and both children and
adults enioy reading the many stories
about animals.

Price ............ $ I .50

American Humane Education Society
I80 Longwood Ave.. Boston l5. Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind ’rhaf fhe corporate fifle of our Society is "Massachu-
sef’rs Society for the Preven’rion of Cruelty to Animals": ’rha1L if is the second incorpora’red (March.
I868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelfy ’ro Animals in ’rhe country. and that if has no connec-
tion with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequests especially intended for the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "for
Jthe use oi the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by if.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the MassachusettsSociefy for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. if other
property. describe the property).

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. information and advice will be
given gladly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Peter Rabbit Pin

for Youngsters and Teen Agers

Peter stands 3 inches high, comes
in transparent lucite and sports a
gay red vest and shoes. Any child
will love to wear this old friend
and storybook favorite on coat or
dress. $1.25, tax included. Post-
paid in U. S. No C. O. D.’s.

THE PAUL REVERE SHOP
1782 Massachusetts Avenue
Lexington, Mass.

—

 

 

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is‘to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

* ‘k ‘k ‘k

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

 

 

 

 

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
funeral Serbia

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued from Page 175)

some ﬁne mesh wire screening. Cut the
screening long enough to ﬁt inside one
of the tins. Lap the screening enough
so that it may be laced together with
wire. Use the other pan to ﬁt over the
top of the rolled wire. Cages of all sizes
may be made in this way ‘byusing dif-
ferent size pans and different widths of
wire. A coat of green paint on the pans
makes them more attractive and helps to
preserve them.

A breeding cage for grasshoppers and
crickets is very easily made by using a
shallow rectangular pan, preferably
painted green. Arrange four pieces of
glass, all the same height, inside the pan.
They should *be bound at the edges with
waterproof adhesive to hold them in a
box—like form. A ﬁfth piece of glass can
be attached to form a cover. Fill the
cage with soil to a depth of three to four
inches. Place a pair of crickets or grass-
hoppers in the cage. Cages should never
be overcrowded. Place a dark strip of
paper around the lower edge of the cage
so as to cover the soil. The female can
often be seen making a hole in the soil
with her ovipositor by means of which
she deposits her eggs beneath the surf-ace.
These whitish or buff-colored eggs may
often be seen when the paper is removed.
Sow grass seed lightly on the surface of
the soil. Keep the soil moist. Such con-
ditions will permit the seed to germinate
and will provide food for the young in-
sects which may hatch from the eggs the
latter part of December or early January.

V REFERENCE MATERIALS:

Source of observation cages, Austin Work
Shop Hanover, N. H.

Books for reference (Titles marked With *
are for children)

Comstock, Anna Botsford—Handbook of
Nature Study, Comstock Publishing Co.,
Inc.

Includes descriptive accounts of many
common animals and plants; together
with questions to guide children’s ob-
servations.

Comstock, J. H. and A. B.———-Manual for the
Study of Insects, Comstock Publishing Co.,
Inc.

A technical manual of insects including

material on structure, classiﬁcation and
life histories.

*Duncan, C. D. and Pickwell, Gayle—The
World of Insects, McGraw-Hill Publishing
Co.

Helpful illustrations and descriptions of
insects.

Duncan, Carl D.—Insects as Enemies and
Benefactors of Man, Science Guide for Ele-

178

mentary Schools, Sacramento, California

State Dept. of Education.

Materials written for various grade
levels; indicates inter-relations of man
and insects.

*Fabre, Jean Henri—Book of Insects, Dodd
Mead

*Fisher, G. Clyde, Editor—Nature’s Secrets,
Halcyon House

Flint, W. P. and Metcalf, C. L.—Insects,
Man’s Chief Competitors, Williams and
Wilkins

A good picture of inter-relations of in-
sects and man.

Holt, Vesta and Ingles, L. G.——Cuommon
Insects, Science Guide for Elementary
Schools, Sacramento, California State Dept.
of Education

An excellent teacher’s reference for aid
in selecting and organizing materials at
various grade levels.

Johnson, M. E. et. al.——How Living Things
Get Food, Science Guide for Elementary
Schools, Sacramento, California State Dept.
of Education

A good reference concerning mouth
structures and food habits of insects.

*King, Eleanor and Pessels, Wellmer—
Working with Nature, Harper & Bros.

A good section dealing with grasshoppers,
crickets and other common insects for
children at 6th grade level. Preface
presents a viewpoint worth the reading
by parents and teachers.

*King, Julius—~Peter and the Frog’s Eye,
Grosset and Dunlap

Excellent photographs make it suitable
for younger children. A Junior Literary
Guild selection.

Lutz, Frank E.—-—Field Book of Insects,
G. P. Putnam’s Sons

An indispensable guide for identiﬁcation
of insects; also includes materials on
food habits and life histories.

*Mann, P. B. and Hastings, G. T.——-Out-
doors, A Guide to Nature, Henry Holt &
Co.

A handbook designed to be a guide to the
out of doors; a .good selection on the
“Six-legged Animals” or insects.

Metcalf, C. L. and Flint, W. P.—Funda—
mentals of Insect Life, McGraw and Hill

A good reference on
teachers.

insect life for

*Parker, B. M. and Gregg, R. W.—Insect
Friends and Enemies, Row, Peterson & Co.

A small, authentic book, with most at—
tractive illustrations, for older children.

*Patch, Edith M.—Hexapod Stories, Little,
Brown and Co.
An authentic account of the lives of
several insects. I

*Patch, Edith M.—Nature and Science
Readers, Books I to V, Macmillan
Material written at various grade levels
concerning various common insects.

*Shackelford, Frederick —— Insect Stories,
Harr Wagner Publishing Co.
A delightful book of stories for older
children; excellent photographs.

*Teale, E. W.—Gras‘Sroot Jungles, Dodd,
< Mead
Delightful reading with unusually ﬁne
large photo-graphs.

*Teale, E. W.——The Boys’ Book of Insects,
E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc.
Good illustrations, written for children
and has appeal for them.

Visual aids

Pictures: Pickwell, Gayle—Animal Studies,
Natural History Pictures, Los Angeles,
Publishers Distributing Service

Excellent photographic reproductions of
various forms of animal life.

Films

Beneath Our Feet—16 mm. sound, running

time 9 minutes. American Museum of

Natural History, New York, N. Y.
Concerned with crickets and other in-
habitants of the ﬁelds.

The Cicada—~16 mm. sound, running time
20 minutes. U. S. Dept. of Agriculture
Extension Service
Life history given; close-up photography
of actual sound recording of male’s song
produced by membrane under wing.

Grasshopper—16 mm. sound, running time
10 minutes. Films, Inc., New York, N. Y.

Life story and the importance of this
insect as an economic factor in our lives.

The name of one distributor for each ﬁlm
has been given. However, there are usually
several distributors from which any ﬁlm
can be secured. Such a guide as “1000
and One,” The Blue Book of Non—Theatrical
Films, published by the Educational Screen,
Chicago, Illinois, lists all the known distrib—
utors of a given ﬁlm. Reference to such a
guide may indicate a nearer source than
the one listed after each ﬁlm.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




 

 

     

IE:
2-- «.2.
2“}:
'3‘“, ':
‘ .3- : ‘x t T :56"
~ - .= .. «WM *’
. i 1’- ‘\"‘:~“ a a
s. a 1" f:-
ms m," ~
#52 g wry/"j ‘
a: , - r:
‘ / l; V).

Ofﬁcial State Birds

ACH one of our states has adopted an Ofﬁcial State
Bird, just as each state has an ofﬁcial ﬂower. Many
states chose the same birds. Some were selected be-
cause of certain characteristics, but regardless of the
reason, each is much more interesting as a friend than
as a stranger. '

So that you may become better acquainted with
these friends, we have asked the father bird to give
you some clues about himself. Without looking at the
ansWer, see if you can identify him. Then study the
information so you’ll be able to know any of the Of-
ﬁcial State Birds wherever you see them. It will be
lots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know Me?-

First Clue: I am a very handsome bird—if you’ll
pardon me for saying so. I reside in the southern part
of the United States. My voice is rich and sweet and
until protected by law, many of my relatives were
cruelly caged because of their remarkable singing
ability. . . . Who am I?

Second Clue: My mate is one of the very few lady
birds who sings, and she has a very sweet voice, not so
rich and full as mine, of course, but when she joins
me in song, it makes anyone sit up and take notice.
. . . Who am I?

Third Clue: As architects we are not so talented as
some of our friends, and our nests are not much to
speak of, but they serve the purpose. I am an ideal
husband -— doing guard duty in the absence of my
mate, carrying food for the young, cleaning the nest,
and ﬁnally taking over entire care when the youngsters
leave the nest. My mate builds a second nest as soon
as the ﬁrst babies are large enough to run around with
me. . . . Who am I?

Fourth Clue: Not only am I popular because of my
excellent singing, but I destroy many: harmful insects.
I have a ﬁne, red plumage, a crest on the head, and
a large, conspicuous, reddish beak. . . . Who am 1?

Fifth Clue: The states of Delaware, Illinois, In-
diana, Kentucky and Ohio have paid me the high honor
of selecting me as their Ofﬁcial State bird. In each
state, although contesting against a large number of
birds, I was overwhelmingly elected. . . . Who am I?

Answer: 'WNIGHVO

4%

H ave you had a kindness shown?
Pass it on;

’Twas not given for thee alone;
Pass it on.

—-Jewell Casey

—Richard Burton

January 1 945

 

<5

  

\ k \ \\\\\\ \ \ ““M‘V'A‘

THE BEST OF FRIENDS

@
Pussy’s Guide

By CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

Why do cats have such long whiskers?
Pussy knows the reason why!
They’re a guide in narrow quarters,

Telling if she can get hy!

I 1‘ those whiskers clear the passage,
Leaving room on either side,
Then there’s room for all of Pussy
And the space is plenty wide.

But if they should hrush too closely
Walls of narrow passage-way,
Pussy then will go no further
For she knows it will not pay!

17

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Babes of the Woods”

By J EWELL CASEY

DIVERSE, indeed, are the ways that
animal mothers protect and defend
their offspring. Animals have a decided
edge on man in the art of fooling their
enemies and have—ever since life on

earth began-—been practicing the art of'

camouﬂage. This fact alone has saved
the lives of numerous insects, birds and
beasts.

Many creatures of the wild depend on
their teeth as means of protection, while
others use claws, hoofs and horns, and
still others are provided with more
unique weapons of defense.

Flesh—eating animals, such as lions,
tigers and bears, give birth to blind
helpless mites. The size of the mother
does not, by any means, indicate the size
of the new—born offspring. A 300-pound
bear may give birth to from one to four
cubs no heavier than six ounces.

All members of the cat family—from
the mighty tiger to the lowly domesti-
cated cat—carry their young by grasping
with their teeth the loose skin at the
back of the neck. As means of defending
themselves and young, they use not only
teeth, but mighty claws as well.

The newly born of the hoofed animals
—— cattle, deer, horse and camels ——are
born with their eyes open and walk
almost immediately after birth. These
animals are peace loving and, if given a
chance, will ﬂee from danger, depending
upon their ﬂeetness to escape their ene-
mies. However, if cornered, they will
use their hoofs and horns to good ad-
vantage.

The baby deer, as well as the young

woodcock and quail were favored by
Mother Nature when she disguised them
by placing spots and blotches on their
backs, causing them to look so much like
the ground, with lights and shadows play—
ing upon it, as to render them compara-
tively safe from detection.

Other outstanding fakers include the
pretty little chameleon which has the
strange power of changing color to har-
monize with its surroundings. * Some in-
sects look so much like twigs that the
most careful observer might pass them
by unnoticed. The horned lizard, apart
from looking like the soil where it is
found, as a means of ridding itself of
undesirables, ejects a bright red, nauseat-
ing liquid from glands located just above
the eyes. With feathers colored to match
the stump upon which her nest is built,
sitting with head stiffly erect, tail point-
ing downward, resembling a dead snag,
is the bird known as “The Poor—Me-One,”
or American Nightjar.

An 8,000-pound elephant mother gives
birth to a single baby whose weight is
from 150 to 200 pounds. It is not weaned
until three or four years old and does
not reach full maturity until about eigh-
teen years of age. Elephants have three
means of defense—the snout, with which
they squirt water to teach the curious to
remain at a respectful distance; the tusks
with which to gore an enemy, and their

- main weapon of defense, the forefeet,

used for crushing and trampling.

The largest mammal in the world,
often attaining an excess of 40 tons, is the
whale. The newly born whale usually

 

These Animals Depend on Their Flee’rness to Escape Their Enemies.

68

weighs about seven tons, and takes ﬁve
years to reach maturity. The tail of the
whale, a mighty weapon, is capable of
crushing a good-sized ﬁshing boat as if
the boat were made from egg shells.

The alligator, as a means of defense,
uses its mighty tail and also its razor-
sharp teeth. With one blow of its tail
the alligator can easily break the leg of
a large man and throw him a distance of
several feet. The alligators make nests
of leaves, twigs and other debris. Here
they deposit their eggs, cover them and
wait for the decomposition of leaves,
etc., to furnish sufﬁcient heat to hatch
the eggs. And although the alligator
mother does not feed {her young, she
remains in the vicinity of the nest until
the babes appear. They, like other liz-
ards, shift for themselves from birth.

(To BE CONTINUED)

&

Clever 9Coons

ONCE saw a demonstration of how

quickly ﬁremen at an “engine house”
prepared to mount their apparatus the
instant of the alarm. What intrigued
me most was the speed with which some
of them slid down a brass pole, four or
ﬁve inches in diameter, from their
second-story quarters.

Some time ago, there was published
the story of an Oklahoma farmer who
had been bothered by the depredations of
some raccoons that made frequent raids
on his corn, cleverly evading both the
farmer and his dog.

One night, wakened by the dog’s bark-
ing, he took his ﬂashlight and gun, went
toward the barn and saw a big raccoon
on a branch of a cottonwood nine feet
above and nearly four feet out from the
comb of the barn roof. As he took aim
from beneath the tree, the ’coon mysteri-
ously vanished.

Hearing several soft thuds on the roof,
the farmer darted out from under the
tree and saw ﬁve ’coons hurrying along
the comb of the roof to the other end
of the barn.

Ten feet out from that end of the
barn stood a thirty-foot section of twelve-
inch iron pipe set in concrete. The top
of the pipe, eight inches lower than the
comb of the roof, supported one end of
a steel track, four inches wide, that car-
ried the big hay fork used inside the
building.

The ﬁrst raccoon walked fearlessly out
on the narrow track, hugged the pipe
with his front legs, slid down and van-
ished, the other four following in rapid
succession and, in less than a minute,
vanishing over the creek bank, leaving
the farmer so amazed that he forgot even
to try to use his gun.

Now, who learned ﬁrst to make haste

by sliding down a pole?

—Etta W. Schlichter

OUR \DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AT EASE

Lt. Val Kosorekl of Yonkers. N. Y.. rests

with a stray dog he adopted' on one of the

concrete tank obstacles marking the Sieg-

fried Line. The dog was appropriately
named. "Siegfried."

@

Discriminating Collie

ONCE owned a collie, by the name of

“Lady,” who had just become the
mother of four little balls of ﬂuff. For
four weeks she was a perfect mother;
then she decided it was time for me to
see to feeding the puppies and her place
was back in the house, where she had
stayed until her babies came. I didn’t
feel that way and kept shutting her up
in the garage.

Early one morning the telephone rang
and a neighbor said, “Are your little
puppies all there?” “Yes, I think so,”
I answered, but decided to dress and take
a look. The garage door was open and
no dogs. Soon Lady came up wagging
her tail and seemingly delighted to be
home.

The telephone rang again and the
same neighbor said, “Two of your pup—
pies are on my porch.” So, my husband
started out to see what was up.

Lady, he found out, had somehow
coaxed the little ones to the neighbors’
houses and left them at different places,
but what seemed an odd thing was that
she had taken them to three families who
were very fond of dogs and skipped one
house where people lived who didn’t like
dogs.

—Susie M. Mansﬁeld

1928

“Petey” Apologize

DON’T know too much about dogs. I

judge them solely by the expression
in their eyes, whether they be mongrel
or blue blood. I visit in one home where
there is a little brown cocker spaniel,
called “Petey.” I like the expression in
his eyes, but we don’t make a big fuss
over each other. Once in a while I throw
a scrap of paper or something in the air
for him to catch. I guess we both in—
dulge in this mild exhibition to show we
don’t exactly dislike each other, but "he
never wags his tail when I come in, or,
I’m sure, is not sorry when I leave.

But he’s different towards his master.
They show a superabund-ance of affection
for each other. This one day, while
Petey was fast asleep on the rug, with
his paws under his chin, in the character-
istic dog manner, his master suddenly
left the room. Petey woke up immedi-
ately, cocked his head to one side and
listened intently to the receding foot-
steps. He threw me a quick inquiring
look, full of worry.

I walked over to him, and in the most
humoring voice I could muster, said,
“What’s the matter, Petey?” He looked
up, a woebegone expression in his huge
brown eyes. Thinking‘to amuse him and
distract his worry, I picked up a scrap
of paper from the nearby waster basket
and tossed it to him, but, strangely, he
made no attempt to go fortit,gas though
saying to me. . . .

“Not now . . . this is no time for play

. . where did my master go all of a
sudden?” Even my talk seemed to annoy
him, for he was all for vigilant watching
of the door and listening. Then, sud-

denly, the familiar, heavy, quick foot—-

steps: Petey sat up on his front paws,

S . -. . . By SOPHIE MILLER

and his sad face seemed to wreathe in
smiles. There was terriﬁc excitement on
the part of both, when the door was
thrown open by the master. Petey jumped
up and down, Wagged his tail furiously,
as though the man of the house had just
returned from a bombing mission.

Then Petey rushed over to me, which
he never does, laid his head on my lap
for just a quick second, and with those
pleading brown eyes of his, seemed
.to say, “I’m sorry I was rude to you a
minute .ago and didn’t play with you. I
know you tried to be nice to me and allay
my fears, but I’m such a worrying cuss
when my dear master is out of my sight.
Please forgive me.” ‘ ‘

Then, he did a most unusual thing, so
I thought anyway, for I know nothing
about dogs. He rushed over to the waste
paper basket, stuck his inquisitive nose
around, chose the scrap of paper I had
tossed to him before, clutched it boast-
fully in his mouth, and came over to drop
it in my lap as a peace offering of humble
apology, as if saying, “Please, I’ll play
with you now. Let’s make up and be
casual friends again, like we were.”

I took it and tossed it in the air. He
jumped for it with unusual enthusiasm
and brought it back to me. I patted him
on his smooth brown head. “It’s all right,

Petey . . . no hard feelings . . . I under—v

stand.” He wagged his tail once or twice,
gave me one long last look, to make sure
I wasn’t angry and went over to his fa-
vorite corner to curl up and go to sleep.
As I say, I know nothing about dogs—
judge them only by the expression in
their eyes. But little Petey doesn’t need
speech. His almost human eyes express
his beautiful soul. -

p .

Odd - Facts - in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

He Travels without Feet

The snake can travel fairly fast,
And yet he has no feet;

To watch the harmless kind glide by
Is really quite a treat.

But what is true, and yet seems queer,
And sounds like telling fibs,

Is that the snake when moving, really
Walks upon his ribs!

  
  
 

  

- x"
‘a

‘“

‘

‘

“ﬁg
1:“ w- , I

     
  

.“ ‘

  

\
O-

l!
‘
’$

1;.
I

 
     

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




New Contest for Children

IN our September issue, we opened a new Animal Contest for our young readers. For
you who missed the last three issues and would like the chance of winning one of our

28 prizes, just send your subscription and ask that it start with the September issue.

Be sure to read the following contest rules before starting.

Rules for Animal Contest

1. This contest is open to all paid subscribers to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, 15 years of age or under.

Fourth Puzzle Set

HIE question this month is: In what book, story, or
poem would you ﬁnd the following animal char-
acters?
Below you will ﬁnd listed the names of fourteen ani-
mal characters, familiar to all of you. In What book
or story did you meet them?

2. Prizes will be as follows:
First Prize ........ $25.00
Second Prize ...... 10.00

Third Prize ........ $5.00
Twenty-ﬁve $1.00 prizes.

3. With the ﬁrst entry enclose .O'F'FICIAL ENTRY BLANK

found on this page, signed by your teacher. Only ONE entry.
blank is needed for entire contest.

 

 

Answer as many as you can.

 

 

 

4- This ¢°ntest will run for six months, one set of Puzzles in each Cheshire Cat ........................
issue of this magazine for FIVE months. The sixth entry
will consist of a scrapbook of not more than eight pages, Dancer """""""""""""
including the cover, made up of interesting pictures or BI‘GI‘ Rabbit ........................
stories selected from your copies of OUR DUMB ANIMALS.
BE SURE TO SAVE YOUR MAGAZINES. Start right now Wolf (a dog) ------------------------
thinking about YOUR scrapbook entry. It will be judged for Henny Penny .......
its attractiveness and originality. """"""""""""
imin ricke ........................
5. You may send in each set of puzzles as you complete them, J y C t
being sure your ﬁrst set is accompanied by the ofﬁcial entry Freddy ........................
blank, properly signed, or you may submit all ﬁve sets and O ‘
scrap book together (with OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK) at 5031" ---------------------
tl‘e ¢°mPleti°n 0f the “me“- Good Fortune ........................
6. All entries must be postmarked on 'or before“ midnight, Rikki-Tikki-Tavi ........................
February 25, 1946. .
J Inks .........................
7. Each entry, whether sent separately or all together, must
bear the contestant’s name and address (the same address to Uncle Analdus ------------------------
which OUR DUMB ANIMALS is being sent). Royal ........
8. Address your entries to ANIMAL CONTEST EDITOR, 180
Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass. Shere Khan """"""""""""""
9. Winners will be notiﬁed by letter and their names will appear
in the June issue of the magazine.
10. In case of ties, duplicate awards will be given and the deci- OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK
sion of the judges will be ﬁnal. We regret that we cannot Name ...........................................................................................
enter into any correspondence concerning the contest. (Please Print)
11. All entries become the property of OUR DUMB ANIMALS Address ........................................ ( ell-leer) .......................................
and none can be returned.
............. (CltyandZone) (state)
Age ................................
A special subscription rate of 75c will be
‘ (Have your teacher ﬁll in the next three lines)
allowed to all contBStants° Teacher ........................................................................................
(Signature)
P lease send to School .................................. . ........................................................
OUR DUMB ANIMALS Address ........................................................................................
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass. ........................................................................................

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December 191,5

 

 




. :w...,._——.._~__..m..-..w i y.» w...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lessons in Kindness
24me 7am“

Just published is our new l2-page book-
let. containing actual projects. bibliog-
raphies. and material charts tor the
teaching of Humane Education.

 

 

Use TIP-0N8 for Identiﬁcation. At-

 

 

 

 

 

 

With prolects tor .grades from. kmder- “active and useful in many ways;
garten through the snxth year. 'l'l'llS book- grinned grit?l youdr name and ad-
. . . . ress on ig -gra e gummed paper.
let Will be of mestimable value. both In They are neatly packed in three
schools and for the use of animal protec- handy dispenser boxes of 100 each.
. . . . 300 white or assorted pastels for
“on soc'ei'es- $1.00. “Flick Your Thumb—Out
. , They Come.” No C. O. D.’s.
Five cents each $2.50 per hundred Mail Order: Filled Postpaid 31.00
The Paul Revere Shop
. I782 Massachusetts Avenue
Lexington 73, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I944 Bound Volumes

 

 

While the-y last we have a limited supply
of bound volumes at Our Dumb Animals. LYNCH BROS.
782:,b00k containing the twelve issues tor CARRIAGE COMPANY
From past experience. we know that
many people like to keep a permanent ESSEX AND PEARL STREETS
tile tor ready reterence to the many in- CHELSEA
tormative articles on nature and animal
care. CHElsea 3049-300li
These books. containing 240 pages and

 

 

 

 

 

 

approximately 200 striking examples ot
animal photography. make splendid gitts.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

especially to school and public libraries.
Children find the magazine helpful in
their school work and both children and
adults enioy reading the many stories ARMSTRONG CO
about animals. ' O
H Price............$l.50 North Station
American Humane Education Society M
l80 Longwood Ave.. Boston l5. Mass. BOSton’ ass.
Since 1832

 

ABERTHAW COMPANY J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
funeral éerhi'ce ‘

C 0 N T R A C T 0 R S Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80 Federal Street Boston

Telephone. LlBerty I264 THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

An Unusual Pupil

PECULIAR situation exists in one

of the city schools in Pueblo, Colo-
rado, since the ﬁnest attendance record
is held by a big blue cat. “Boots” has
been attending the same school for the
past three years.

He is rarely absent, and is extremely
punctual. Each morning he meets the
ﬁrst teacher to appear, and enters with
her. Should he ﬁnd all classroom doors
closed, he raises his voice loudly in pro-
test. I have seen teachers go down the
hall and open each door in order that
Boots might see that the children had
not yet arrived. When he was satisﬁed
that they were not there, he was just as
eager to be let outside.

Each teacher knows his favorite
schoolroom, and no one disturbs him even
though he may sleep all through the
classes. Children stoop to pet him, but
none ever thinks of tormenting their
favorite.

Boots stays for lunch, and is an expert
at begging his food. He is well fed,
since each child will divide at least one
choice morsel with him.

Not until school is dismissed, does
Boots think of leaving. When the chil-
dren go home all his interest in school
is over.

——-Lillie B. Rooney

@

Seals Land in California

ALK of landing operations has set a

new pattern of activities for seals
along the coast of southern California.
No longer content to frolic in coastal
waters and sun themselves on wave-
splashed rocks, two seals recently came
ashore in search of adventures on dry
land.

The most recent venture of this sort
took place in the early part of May this
year. A lone seal was found by a sheriff’s
deputies in the streets of Altadena, Cali-
fornia. This foothill community is fully
25 miles inland from the Paciﬁc Ocean.

Just a week previously another of
these aquatic mammals staged a landing
operation of its own. It was captured
in the port of San Pedro, well away from
the salt water that is its natural habitat.

The overland excursion by the seal
that reached Altadena after a journey
of at least 25 miles may have set some
kind of a record among these sea-going
mammals. It will at least stand until a
more ambitious seal attempts a deeper
peéietration of the California country-
s1 e.

—Jasper B. Sinclair
In the Canton of Tessin, Switzerland,

it is a violation of the law even to throw
a stone at a dog or other animal.

"‘5 V . - , .
~ -, .’,' ... . ,,, mnﬁvAI‘r, -..l'.. “'_:( ‘ , .. Z .. .
«itsalwisavazze*xd:}¥§$'»k~’=wu-"1'*5" " ‘ ‘ ‘ "

ANIMAL AND

Naturalists, carrying on research
work in Arkansas last summer, report
seeing a group of ﬁve grasshoppers who
brought food every day to a disabled
ant. This puts to rout the old fable.

Speaking of ants, a Tacoma, Wash-
ington, picnicker has solved the ant
problem by taking along a pet ant—
eater when going on his Sunday picnic.

At least one United States city coun-
cil—that of Fresno, California—has
voted to give free dog licenses to ca-
nines returning from the battleﬁelds.
Why not make this an "American in-
stitution?”

"Peppy,” eleven - year - old terrier
owned by a Washington, D. C., woman,
is credited with having saved the lives
of forty-ﬁve persons within the past
two years. His loud, terriﬁed (and no
pun is intended) barking awakened the
occupants of the apartment where he
lives on two occasions when serious ﬁres
were raging.

An Illinois manufacturer announces

' his intention to offer for sale, after the

war, air-conditioned dog houses.

It doesn’t seem possible, but these
items may be charged to manpower
shortage:

A small railroad company in Africa
employs giraﬁes to guard the grade
crossings. The animals are trained to
substitute for stop signals.

A Michigan woman has a pet chim-
panzee that selects all of her vegetables
and market stuffs, brings the smaller
and more urgently needed items home
and even manages the ration stamp
business.

An Australian war worker has
trained a kangaroo to awaken him at
the ring of the alarm clock.

Here is a classic you may have read
before:

On mules we ﬁnd two legs behind,
And two we ﬁnd before.

We stand behind before we ﬁnd,
What the two behind be for.

Monkeys are imitative. Malvina H off-
man, in her book, "Heads and Tales”
speaks of pigmies in the African bush,
trying for hours to unlock a trunk left
temporarily in a jungle camp. Failing,
they ﬁnally went away, when some
monkeys watching from nearby trees,
skipped down, unlocked the trunk with
the greatest of ease, and helped them-
selves to its cantents.

—-]ack Pearson

 

    

 

16

 
  
   

    
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
    
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

Disciplinarian
By MARY AGNES COLVILLE
HIS happened more than ﬁfteen years
ago. But it is still one of the most
outstanding anecdotes in my collection
of amusing incidents.

One summer morning, an acquaintance
of mine approached a rural home with
the intention of going in and purchasing
some eggs.

As she stepped inside the gate leading
to the front entrance ﬁve lively, half-
grown puppies rushed from the rear of
the house, and hurtled themselves at her,
all yelping as loudly as their lungs would
permit. They succeeded in impeding her
progress to such an extent that she could
get no farther, try as she would.

The visitor was astonished at the sur-
prising strength and tenacity of the
small wriggling bodies in actually keep-
ing her from her destination. Kind words
or attempted reassuring caresses seemed
to avail nothing against this determined
canine onslaught of clutching, clawing
paws.

She was attempting to turn around
and make her way back to the road once
more — resigned to abandoning her er—
rand—provided she could successfully
escape without the danger of being
tripped — when suddenly something un—
expected happened. A shrill voice com-
ing from the direction of the front porch
rasped out furiously and authoritatively
—“Line up, you rascals—line up I say,
this minute. And stop that barking!
Aren’t you ashamed of yourselves? Now
get out of here!”

To her utter amazement, the visitor
beheld an angry green parrot leaning
forward from its perch on the porch to
administer this startling scolding. But
what astounded her even more was the
sight of ﬁve drooping, guilty—looking
puppies lined up in a row, cringing in
sudden silence before the parrot’s loud
tirade. Not only that—but forthwith
slinking noiselessly out of sight toward
the rear of the house. No displeased
master or mistress could have expected
his or her express commands to meet
with more prompt obedience. The way
was suddenly magically unimpeded and
the porch was reached without further
ado.

Presently a door opened and the
woman who had the eggs for sale came
out to minister to the visitor’s wants.
After the purchase was made, the still
astounded visitor related What had hap—
pened. To which the mistress of the
house replied, “Yes, it takes ‘Barney’

(referring to the parrot) to keep these
dogs in order. He must have been asleep
or he would have come to your rescue at
once. It’s the truth, Miss, that he can do
more with these puppies When they go
on a rampage than my husband, my three
sons or I can do. He’s the best dis-
ciplinarian on the place.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1944 bound volume $1.50
Colored .Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-
tive pictures and verses, six in set . . . 1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches .5 cts. each

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ..................... $1.25 per 100
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ "
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs ........... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................... 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4' pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 ” “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ......... .75 “ “
WhytheToadissoUseful.............. .30 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. .................... .50 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ................................ .50 “ “

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free
Lessons in Kindness ....... each, 5 cts.; $3.50 per 100
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-

tion, 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls . . . . . . . . . .2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ..................... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals .................... .50 “ “

Band of Mercy

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant . . . .. .. .. . . . 25 cts.
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 per 100
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ "
Band of Mercy Register ................ 10 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

 

 

 

4—
Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private.
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1944 issues. There you Will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It Will be an invalu—
ableaid to your children in their
school work.

Futhermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1944
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

_

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

* ‘k ‘k ‘k

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is

a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

funeral Serbia:

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

P URELY PERSONAL

HIRTY-FIVE years ago I was elected President of our two Societies to suc-
ceed their founder, George Thorndike Angell. These thirty—ﬁve years have

brought a wealth of opportunity to serve the great cause for which our
Societies stand.

Whatever has been accomplished in the way of growth and ever-widening
activities has been due in no small measure to the loyal support of a Board of Directors
who have always awarded me their conﬁdence and good will. To three of these
Directors who have served as Trustees of our Permanent Funds, most grateful
recognition must be accorded. Without recompense, they have given us the bene—
ﬁt of their long experience in the ﬁnancial world. Not the least of whatever prog-
ress has been made has been due to the ﬁdelity and devotion of the more than one
hundred employees connected with the various departments of our service.

Personally, nothing has given me greater pleasure than to see the progress made
in the development and world-wide reputation of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital, founded thirty years ago as a memorial to Mr. Angell. It was something
of a venture for, to the best of my knowledge, at thattime no such hospital of just
that kind was in existence anywhere. The cost of the new building, to house not

only such a hospital but all of our various ofﬁces, seemed an amount too great for us
to attempt to raise. ‘

But the Directors, hesitating a little at the beginning to accept my recom—
mendation to erect an animal hospital, ﬁnally backed the project heartily, and the
growth and standing in the world of veterinary .medicine and surgery of our
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital have been far beyond our fondest hopes.

After these long years I gladly—yes, happily—turn over to my successor the
ofﬁce I have held. Years ago I met a young man at a humane convention and heard
him speak, and at once said, "That is the man I want to take my place when I resign.”
That young man all readers of our magazine, and others familiar with our work, now
know as Mr. Eric H. Hansen, for the last three years our Executive Vice-President.

To no one else whom I know could I turn over this ofﬁce of President so gladly
and conﬁdently. H18 years of experience in humane work, his character, his ability
as an executive, his ability as a speaker, ﬁt him in every way for the position.

The Directors, however, do not wish me to drop out entirely from all ofﬁcial
relations with the Societies, and so have elected me to the ofﬁce of Chairman of the
Board. That means I shall still have a desk in the President’s ofﬁce, leaving, how-
ever, the management of all phases of our work to the new President.

To all friends and members of our two organizations, to whom I owe so much
through these thirty—ﬁve years, go now my kindest personal regard and gratitude.

Jae}

O

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

OPENING THE FERST BROADCAST

(Lefi' +0 righi‘) Presideni‘ Eric H. Hansen, Miss Margaret J. Kearns.
Announcer Ed Keane, Chairman of the Board. Dr. Francis H. Rowley.

M. S. P. C. A., BRGADCASTING!

1RD AND ANIMAL LORE” comes to you through
the courtesy of the Massachusetts Society for the Pre- .
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Yes, we have taken to the air. Each Saturday from
2:45 to 3:00 P.M. we are presenting a program of interesting
stories and facts about animals and birds taken from Our Dumb
Animals. In addition, well—known personalities will come to the
microphone from time to time to give you their personal interpre—
tation and experiences with our animal friends.

Have you heard about the two pigeons that set up housekeeping
in the busy Communications Oﬁﬁce of the U. S. Coast Guard; or
the Czechoslovakian cat that traveled to Panama to ﬁnd a new
home; or the mother dog that gave her own puppy ﬁrst aid treat—
ment? Did you know that butterﬂies use perfume? Can you
answer such questions as whether or not all mammals can swim;
or about the ability of the hummingbird to fly backwards?

If not, then you are in for a treat, for of such will our programs
be composed. And we want you to feel that this is your own pro-
gram. It is‘a new venture on our part and your suggestions on
how we can better the broadcasts will be welcome.

Be sure to ask your friends to tune in and if you have any
suggestions, won’t you drop a note to. Radio Station WHDH,
Hotel Touraine, Boston, Mass?

Remember! WHDH~—850 on your dial—each Saturday—-
2:45—3:00 PM.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

   
  

HE oldest allegory in existence, many

scholars believe, is the Indo-European
one in which the cat represents light and
the mouse darkness. In this instance,
not the sun, as in other myths, but the
moon, is the light that conquers. The
whole story is told in a single sentence
of a Sanskrit manuscript, the age of
which is unknown: “The white cat de-
vours the grey mice of the twilight.” It
must have been familiar in oral tradi-
tion in India and other countries long
before it was reduced to writing, for that
is the way of ancient stories.

The allegory points to an early asso-
ciation of the cat with divinity (light)
and of the mouse with evil (darkness),
though the clear-cut differentiation in—
sisted on by later theologians is missing.
The mouse devil is only grey, not black.

The ﬁrst cat that we know by name in
history was “Borehaki,” the little friend
of King Hana, who doubtless, in common
with other Egyptians, regarded his pet
as in some measure divine. Hana and
Borehaki lived in the royal palace about
2000 B. C. Hana seems to have been an

April 1945

*1

Photo by Louis A. Puggard

unimportant ruler—he did nothing for
his country that now is remembered——
and he probably would not be even a
name to us were it not for the fact that
he, or his pious relatives after him,
erected a votive tablet breathing a prayer
for him and his lovely pet. So this
ancient cat is immortalized for us, and
we can see him in fancy seated beside
King Hana on the throne while servants
wielded the cooling fans, or running
down the splendid corridors of the pal-
ace, his old earrings tinkling like a
miniature music box.

Mohammedans, while not considering
the cat divine, regard the animal highly
in honor of the Prophet, who himself
was a lover of cats. Considering'a dog
unclean, Arabs will eat from the same
plate with a cat. Many Egyptians share
this feeling. Mohammed’s favorite cat
was “Muezza.” The most famous story
about her tells how she fell asleep on a
corner of the Prophet’s robe while he was
engaged in meditation. Rather than disturb
her when he was ready to leave, he cut off
the portion of the robe where she lay.

Cat
on the

Hearth

é? Nahum
ﬂwm
Ga

Memorabilia about
the species,

feline domesticus.
Cats of today seem to
have inherited many
traits from their
days of deifieation

in ancient times.

According to another Arabic tradition
Mohammed promised Muezza a place ih
Paradise. In honor of her, he is alleged
also to have miraculously given all cats
the ability to- light on their feet, regard-
less of the way they fall. Modern sci-
entists, naturally enough, explain away
this reported miracle. 7

More cat memorabilia by Nelson Antrim
Crawford will appear in a later issue.

69

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

n

Ioglike Similes

AN’S best friend has don-e consider-
able to enrich our language and
quite a few “doggy” phrases have ,be-
come a part of our everyday speech. We
use our canine friends to mirror our own
traits and weaknesses and to illustrate
homely bits of observation and wisdom.
Some of them, as it happens, are no
credit to us. How, for instance, do we
humans repay the loyalty and friendship
of our dogs? Well, when anyone is being
badly used, we often hear them complain-
ing bitterly that they are being “treated
like a dog” or are “living a dog’s life.”
So much for human gratitude.

People we know are often compared
to dogs of one kind or another. A gloomy
man is a “sad dog.” One who likes to
step out and have a good time is a “gay
dog.”
dissipation, and neglects his responsibil-
ities and opportunities, we say he has
“gone to the dogs” or even to the “tarna-
tion bow wows.” We often say the same
about the country or business conditions,
when things go wrong or don’t pleas-e us.
A cur isn’t considered much of a dog, and
to call a man one is deﬁnitely an insult.
One who has been caught in some misdeed
often wears a “hang-dog” look as a con-
sequence. On the other hand, when a
man faces trouble and danger without
giving up or losing heart, we admire his
“bull-dog courage.”

When it comes to matters of affection,
we speak of “doglike devotion” to de-
scribe an unquestioning admiration that
not-hing can shake. But when young men
fall in love for the ﬁrst time, their
infatuation is often so complete that on-
lookers smile and make remarks about
“puppy love.”

There doesn’t seem to be any reason
Why a hound shouldn’t be as good as
another breed of dog, but for some reason
our language doesn’t reveal a very high
opinion of it. A scoundrel is often called
a “hound” or even a “dirty hound.” One
who avoids his fair share of work is a
“lazy hound.” Then, too, we will hear a
man complain about how his creditors,
boss, or maybe his wife are “hounding”

Tribute .. . . . .

A dog is a friend, and when he dies
A man should be pardoned if his eyes

Grow blurred with tears he cannot shed
Because his friend, his dog, is dead.

July 191,5

If he overdoes it to the point of"

What words, but of
approval, could describe

this happy family?

ﬁg [an/m a4. .
spice/1.

 

him to death, alluding to. the way these
dogs will keep after their quarry, with-
out giving it a chance to let up or rest.

“Every dog has his day,” they say, and
if you “give a dog a bad name,” you
might as well hang him, for he will never
get rid of it again. This is often too
true, also, where a man is concerned. The
kind of bickering that goes on between
unhappy married couples is very aptly
described as a “cat and dog life.” Of a
benevolent and helpful person it is Often
said that “many a lame dog did that man
help over a stile.” An old medical belief
that “like cures like” is reﬂected in the

1%

Never’again will he rush to meet me,
Leaping high with joy to greet me.

Never again will he bravely bark
At evil forms that crowd the dark.

   
     

Photo by Louis A. Puggard

suggestion to use a hair from the dog
that bit him.

When it comes to weather, we have our
“dog days,” spells of sweltering heat in
midsummer. This expression comes to
us from ancient times and has its origin
in the fact that the sun was nearer Sirius,
the Dog Star, during the hottest part of
the summer. Then, people sometimes
say it is “raining cats and dogs,” when
we are getting a heavy downpour.

In conclusion, if we are looking for
good advice to keep us out of trouble,
there is a lot of wisdom in that warning
to “let sleeping dogs lie.” '

By ANYA P. SALA

And when I walk, I shall walk alone,
Because my loyal friend has gone.

A dog is a friend, and when he dies
A man is pardoned when he cries.

129

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

your neighbor sent to war when it comes back to

the family again?‘ Will it be a thoroughly reli-
able and safe playmate for your children and for the
neighbors’ children? Will it attack the postman orthe
garbage man or those who come to make deliveries?
The answer cannot be given without qualiﬁcation, any
easier than our physicians and psychiatrists can predict
accurately how every returning soldier will react to
civilian environment after he has been through the
training to kill or be killed and has carried out this
dictum on the battleﬁeld.

During the past eighteen months almost all of my
patients have been War Dogs and, in this time, I have
had an unequalled opportunity to see the training and
behavior of these dogs of many breeds.* At the same

WHAT may you expect of the dog that you or

time, my task as their veterinarian made it necessary

that I must be friend to all of them.

‘This experience has heightened the regard that I
have always had for man’s best friend, but it has also
made me realize more than ever that there are vast
differences in the personality, intellect, character and
capabilities of individual dogs and in understanding

Coast Guardsmen take their sentry dogs for an exercise lull along an isolated stretch of beach on the Atlantic coast.

is over. It can safely be predicted, however, that well-
trained dogs will always be a part of our Army, or
International Police Force, if that is what it is to be
called. Dogs of these breeds have also demonstrated
their usefulness in police work and wiil certainly be
utilized to a greater extent in this country than has
been the case heretofore. It is not correct to assume
that because these dogs are working instead of living
as pets that they will be unhappy. One should re—
member that the shepherd and Doberman pinscher be—
long to the “working” dogs and those very traits for
which they have been noted for years are those which
they demonstrate most fully when they are at work
and their greatest enjoyment of life comes from doing
their jobs well and from being praised for it.

It must not be inferred from all of this that no dog
of either of these breeds can be a family pet or a
children’s dog, for we brought “Brenda” home with
us and Brenda is a 65-pound shepherd with almost two
years of service in the Coast Guard.

*Dr. Schnelle served as a Captain in the Army Veter-
inary Corps, Remount Depot, Front Royal, Virginia.

When the War 0g Comes Home

By DR. GER -. B. SCHNELLE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR DANGER

Silhouetted against the sky. a Coast Guardsman
and his faithful companion look down along a part
of our country's coast line. vigilant against any

these differences lies the answer to the question of how healthier than when it entered the Army, so that it danger threatening our shores

the War Dog will act in home environment. If you 0 would be better able to aid‘and protect his human

your neighbor sent a dog to the Army because it had companion. Also, a fundamental part of the training is

bitten the postman, the garbage man or the neighbor’to have the dog “win” always in its contact with the

child, can you expect him to come home a loving and enemy. An understanding of this factor will help you

affectionate pet that will tolerate advances from any realize that when your dog comes home he will develop

one? Or did you send the neighborhood bully amon quickly a stronger protective instinct towards the

dogs (a ﬁghter) off to the Army thinking that heyfamily and thus come to the defense of any of its

would be taught to get along with other dogs and be members when he judges that they are threatened by

come a docile occupant of your door-mat when he cam others.

home? Think of this if you did. His Army trainin . . .

.. job he m... . ; minim intazstrrznri5:1: grands;

well as gunﬁre, explosions, smoke and hazards of a1 able part of the patrol work bein doneib d

sorts. On his job he must do this and he learned to ex dogs became unnecessary and mgan do :7 $318 all;

pect that the other dogs that worked with him would turned to their owners Durin th' y g _

do the same. However when he comes back to Mai : ' . g 1s process, they were

“ i, . carefully checked for d1sease and given a thorough

Street and the “snooty chow next door 810.1198 11,? t“examination by competent trainers to ascertain

'hlm 3110‘ says, Look here, the IS my territory, dewhether detraining was required. Most of the dogs
Zﬁgeigmk that your eX—War Dog W111 turn h1s othe of most of the breeds needed little more than a family

i C
. . . . I 0 return to in order to become respectable members
i O O O C O
As1de from the spec1a11zed 30b Of war that your dog of c1v1lian soc1ety again. In countless numbers of cases

may have been taught, he or she was taught obedienc donors of dogs could not take them back because of
to the command Of a handle? Any affection that was ltered circumstances and a great many of these were
developed for the soldier Wlth whom the dog worked iven by their owners to the soldiers or sailors who
was not taught. Instead, this was a natural emotional I. ad come to know and like them during their service
response from the deg to the cafe and affection and ogether. These men did not beg the owners for title
praise which was lav1shed upon it. Th1s response de—_O their dogs because they were ﬁerce ﬁghting ani—
pended upon the individuality or “personality” of the I, als but rather because the were, ood-natured
dog and would not be lost, but might rather have been ompanions that a man would bye proud i) send home
heightened by the fundamental principlesof training. ’0 his family for safekeep ng for the duration

In order to develop the natural protective instinct that ‘ '
the dog has towards its family of humans and to make All this time the larger and most suitable dOgS,
full use of this instinct so that the dog might help the articularly the shepherds, Doberman pinschers and

ON PATROL DUTY

A Coast Guardsman and
his serious dogl making'a
routine patrol. always on
the ale-rt for suspicious
actions offshore. Both day
and night found our loyal
canine warriors carrying
on their lonely vigils.

soldier detect the enemy, close affection between sol-
dier and dog was encouraged. The dog, just as the
soldier, was well cared for and made stronger and

'lhesapeake retrievers, were carefully screened to pick
out those individuals best adapted for combat training
and we will not hear much of these dogs until the war

 

 




' , , , k‘ , , I ' I , — I '__.:a{zi“n.'i-¢._: H V 7 A 1‘ t ﬁtgfgfm w” , ,, ,, “ in" -' 7

 

 

 

 

 

Franklin I. Jordan, F.R.P.S.

 

o
LLI
':
D
O-
LU
a:
Z
3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A “ﬁle one and a big one pose for Jtheir picture.

Stubborn As a Mule I

By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HE old phrase “stubborn as a mule,” not always intended

in a complimentary vein, might well be modiﬁed to “de—

termined as a mule.” It would be more ﬁtting to this sturdy
four-legged friend.

Actually, the mule has been much maligned in its time. So
much so, in fact, that its virtues have often been overlooked.

It is frequently stubborn, of course, but it is more often
ﬁlled with a determination to do the job at hand. In this
respect, it is more determined than most animals when put to
similar tasks.

The hardihood of the mule has never been better illustrated
than in war-time, where it has generally displayed itself as
much better ﬁtted to withstand cold, rain, snow, hunger and
privation than the horse.

Reports by American artillery batteries to this effect were
frequent in the last war. Where horses and mules had been
exposed to the same conditions, the horses were generally sent
to the rear as unﬁt for further front line service. The mule-s,
on the other hand, were again ready for combat duty after
a few days’ rest.

For some years, the Georgia and Missouri mule were
facetiously credited by the people of the “Cracker” and “Show
Me” states with having won the ﬁrst World War. The debate
continued till a second war made them forget past rivalries.

It may be a surprise to Georgians and Missourians, alike,
that they can no longer contend for leadership in this regard.
Texas now leads all the states in the number of mules on Lone
Star grazing lands.

It is not surprising, though, in a country that now travels
on wheels and farms with tractors that the number of United
States mules is decreasing. Last year there were only 3,500,000
left to carry on their tradition.

130

Turtle That Remembered
By ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

EVENTEEN years ago, a little girl walked into a ten—cent
store, put down a dime, and walked out of the store carry-
ing a baby turtle not larger than a ﬁfty-cent silver coin. The
ﬁrst week in May, 1944, after that turtle had attained a length
of over one foot and a shoulder breadth of comparative size,
he was run over and killed by a heavy truck. Now, his owner
is as deeply grieved over “Toby’s” death (as that was his
name) as you would be over the loss of a favorite family horse
or dog. Toby had simply worked his way into the heart of
every member of the little girl’s family.

Promptly on his arrival, Toby was given the freedom of
the house, which he accepted. He was also presented the use
of a lily pool in the front yard not over six feet from the
sidewalk. He lived in the busy part of the city where auto—
mobiles, street cars and trucks were constantly passing. Toby
associated constantly with his new owner, except when winter
came, and he told her good-bye until spring. At ﬁrst, he chose
to creep to the bottom of the lily pool and sleep until spring-
time, but of late years, he simply walked into a dark closet
saying by his act, “Excuse me, friends, I will see you a little
later!”

When Toby grew to turtlehood, it was not surprising that
he became addicted to wanderlust, and persisted in taking
long strolls all alone along the busy streets. His. owner found
it a ﬁne plan to print his name and telephone number in White
on Toby’s back. This always kept her informed as to his
wanderings, except on about two adventures annually. On
these adventures, Tobvaould stroll away and never be seen
or heard of from one to two weeks, and after his owner had
worried over his absence and about abandoned hope of ever
seeing him again, she would be thrilled on looking up the
street to see old Toby waddling slowly along the sidewalk.
Now, she would hide to see if he would quickly recognize his
home, and he never failed to walk right in and as he halted
and his admiring owner looked into his face, he seemed to say,
“Well, I’ve surely had a ﬁne trip, but believe me, the best of
a journey is getting back home!”

Where he had been on these long journeys, nobody ever
knew. Neighbors from (a half mile around knew him, and
searching parties were never able to ﬁnd him, but Toby always
managed to “show up,” bringing joy over the return of the
prodigal adopted son.

Living as a close neighbor of Toby’s, I sometimes paid him
a visit. On my ﬁrst call, the spring morning was chilly and
Toby did not like cold weather at all. While I sat in the
parlor and chatted with his heroine, he waddled restlessly about
until she threw an army blanket about his body, letting his
head protrude. This so pleased Toby that while we sat and
chatted for an hour, he remained quiet at our feet, behaving
as if he were as deeply interested in our subjects of conversa-
tion as we were. He was so interesting that I decided to run
down his ancestry. I discovered that he was born and captured
in a bayou in Louisiana. The distributor who sent him to the
ten cent store told me that Toby was only one of a quarter
of a million other little turtles that he sent out through various
stores annually.

That an animal as low in stature as a turtle is able to meander
about the sidewalks and streets of a busy city for seventeen
years without getting lost, and escaping the crushing wheels
of trafﬁc is little short of being a miracle.

4%

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 7-13, 1946.
OUR DUllIB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLD WEATHER ADVICE

UGGESTIONS on the care of animals during the win-
ter months has been issued by Dr. Erwin F. Schroeder,
Chief of Staff of our Angell Memorial Animal Hos—
pital.

Dr. Schroeder points out that animals, like human beings, suffer
as a result of extreme, cold weather, and should be given careful
attention. Horses, in particular, require special consideration
during the winter.

Since the shortage of tires and gasoline, these animals have come
back into daily use in greater numbers. In this respect, horses
should not be forced to carry too heavy loads, especially when
pavements are slippery because of ice and snow. Furthermore,
they should be properly blanketed, if they are required to stand
longer than ten minutes in below-freezing temperature, though
they should not be covered while in motion.

It is equally important, in winter as in summer, that dogs be
given the necessary amount of regular, outdoor exercise for their
well-being, although such periods should be shortened in the
event of stormy weather.

If allowed to remain outdoors too long in the cold, Dr.
Schroeder stated that long-haired dogs, particularly, were likely
to suffer from serious frost bites as a result of snow and ice
becoming impacted between their pads. For this reason, all dog
owners are cautioned to examine carefully their pets’ feet after
exercising them in the snowy weather, in order to preclude the
possibility of these painful frost bites.

Cold Weather Don’ts

DON’T overload work horses.

DON’T race horses on slippery pavements.

DON’T fail to blanket horses when standing longer than ten
minutes in below-freezing temperature.

DON’T blanket horses while in motion.

DON’T give horses too cold water.

DON’T allow dogs to chase automobiles.

DON’T tie dogs outdoors without providing kennel or suit—
able shelter.

DON’T permit cats or dogs to remain outdoors overnight.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Collie, Rabbit Guardian

By A. M. VITALE

OWZY” is seven years old and might

be called a rabbit dog. Not that he
hunts or harms rabbits, but because he’d
rather protect them. Towzy, when a
puppy, had as a playmate in the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Townley, of Facian
Lakes, New Jersey, a cottontail rabbit,
of which he was very fond.

However, the rabbit, which Mrs. Town-
ley had rescued half starved along a
country road near her home one bitter
cold winter’s day, disappeared after be-
ing with the Townleys for almost two
years. Towzy was broken-hearted for
days afterward, but ﬁnally cam-e around.
However, he never forgot the playmate
with whom he had had such good times
in his youth.

Towzy is now a well—developed Collie
and likes to sit for hours watching the
wild rabbits near his home, which is
situated near a large woods, scamper and
play. He makes no move to chase or
harm them.

During hunting season the dog seems
to sense that his rabbit friends are in
danger. During that time, he actually
stands a sort of guard in the backyard,
keeping an eye out for hunters and- their
dogs. On more than one occasion, he has
been seen to save the lives of rabbits, who
do not fear him, by barking and setting
up a commotion when a hunter nears.
The rabbits, and there are almost always
a few near by, scamper for cover at the
alarm.

On one occasion, when a hound dog
caught a rabbit off guard and began
chasing it across the ﬁeld behind Towzy’s
home, ToWzy distracted the hound to
such an extent that he lost the rabbit.

Towzy doesn’t care for squirrels much,
however, although he never makes a move
to molest them.

4%

My Alarm Clock
By ELIZABETH CHARLES WELBIORN

In the wee small hours of morning,
Just before the day is dawning,

I hear a tap-tap on the floor,

Then a plop-plop at my door

Something soft and white and furry
ls coming toward me in a hurry.

I quickly cover up my head, ‘

And snuggle deeper in my bed.

But the covers will not hide me—

A leap and he is there beside me!

He licks one ear and then the other,
When I feel that I will smother.

Wriggling merrily he goes
Beneath the sheets to get my toes.
After that, I struggle up.

I can't hold out against a pup!

132

ANIMAL AND

Cats are favorite mascots aboard
practically all merchant ships, with the

exception of oil tankers, where tabby is

taboo because the electricity in her fur
is considered a ﬁre hazard.

It is recorded that just prior to the
French Reign of Terror, a famous duke
employed a separate servant for each of
his seventy-odd dogs; demanding a daily
written report on each animal’s condi-
tion and activities. '

Two British dog owners have spent in
excess of three thousand dollars each,
during the past year, in an effort to save
their pets from execution, the sentence
meted out by the courts. One of the
animals bit a woman, the other killed a
cat.

One report tells of an English soldier
who recently committed suicide because
of separation from his German Shepherd
dog. Though it is not too uncommon
for a dog to die shortly after the death
of its owner, this is the ﬁrst known
instance of the reverse procedure.

For more than one year, a Seattle
chow has appeared at the Providence
Hospital during visiting hours, twice
daily. He gazes intently at everyone
who enters; then, when time is up, walks
sadly away. Various kinds of investiga-
tions have failed to disclose for whom
he is keeping his strange vigil, though
he seems to note most carefully small
elderly women.

The reading of the will of a recently
departed New Yorker disclosed a stipu-
lation that his nephew-heirs must give
a seat at the dinner table to their late
uncle’s dog—or forfeit their legacies.

A Kansan reports that he has trained
his cat to feed his pet mouse. Sure tabby
isn’t fattening up the little fellow with
an ulterior purpose in mind?

"]ake,” rooster mascot of a Dutch
merchant ship, is an indispensable man
in the opinion of the vessel’s crew. He
and his ship have been bombed in seven
seas, for three years, and he has never
lost a feather. The men aboard have
vowed to quit if ]ake comes to harm or
is left ashore.

——]ack Pearson

Playmate for a Day
By MURIEL C. RUNDLETT

MY eyes scanned the ground around
me. A tiny brown object was
nibbling at something a few yards away.
It looked a little like a ﬁeld—mouse, but
it was a bit too large for that. As it
neared my chair, I discovered that it was
a baby chipmunk. It was so cunning
that I longed to pick it up in my hands.
I crept softly to it and knelt on the
ground.

At ﬁrst, like all wildlife, it would back
away and sit up on its haunches, wiggle
its little nose, and look at me saucily with
its almond-shaped black eyes. I sat
perfectly still and pretended not to notice
him. He crawled over one foot, then up
into my lap. After a few more excur-
sions, which showed him that there was
nothing to fear, I was able to pick him up.

My, what sharp little teeth he had!
He did not mean to bite, but he could not
help using those pointed needle-shaped
tools with which he opens nuts. Before
the end of the day, the joke was on me,
as I could not move without that tiny
bunch of fur chasing me and using my
legs as a ladder to make his ascent to my
pockets where he found it warm enough
for a little nap. Lat-er, he would peep
out as if he were saying, “You wanted

me, now what will you do with me?”~

Several of his brothers and sisters ap-
pear-ed from the woods, but they com-
pletely ignored me.

When I was about to drive home that
nigh-t, I wondered if I should ever see him
again. He watched me'from the wood-
pile, his wiry little tail waving a good-
bye. I never did see him again. Some
weeks later he had disappeared.

One little creature had stepped out of
the animal kingdom to make friends with
a human being for a day.

@

Feline Psalm
By RENA MANNING

Wisp of exquisite creation
Furred and furled upon my knee,
Soft paw-hands that signal “Joy!"
Closing, opening, metrically.

Eyes that seek mine—small twin moons;
Silken head to cup my palm;

Here we hold our own communion
While you purr your faithful psalm.

Stroking you, my hand soothes every
Weary, homeless kitten-waif;

Holding you, my heart would guide them
Into havens, warm and safe.

May they find securer shelters

By our Great Creator planned—
He who made your fur, your breath,
Soft in love against my hand.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

    

 

 

 

 

 

»-....—.‘

._..l -a‘a-Iuakum

‘ ‘ n . ‘T‘Js V _ .
,7 ,_ . . , .Z-r', .». el,u‘-‘.:,L‘_Z.
Efﬁgé" ="-; 3A.). - ' Jude‘- ‘r' ‘5’

Elm “illanh of ﬂirrrg or

Eluninr ﬁumanr iiimgnr
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
VVILLlAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creaa
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-oﬂice address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and ﬁfty-nine Bands of
Mercy were organized during November.
These were distributed as follows:

Georgia ................. 60
Virginia ................ 42
Florida ............. 33
Pennsylvania .............. 20
New York ........... 2
Massachusetts .......... 1
Tennessee . . . 1

Total number of Bands. of. Mercy or-
ganized by Parent-American Society, 269,-
163.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 82
Number of persons in audiences, 15,278

:13

Something to Crow About
OOSTERS crow every morning as a
matter of course —'-but once in
awhile we hear about an unusual bird
who really has something to crow about.
One such fellow made the newspapers
of Lynchburg, Virginia, after displaying
qualities not often evidenced by his kind.
He had never been anything but the
head of his family and then one day, a
hen who lived in the same barnyard lost
an argument with a lawnmower. The in—
quisitive biddy had poked her head too
close to the revolving blades, and in a
twinkling the greedy mower had snapped
off her bill.

The unlucky chick could have died of
starvation, but the rooster chose the oc-
casion to step from the ranks of ordinary
fowls into the limelight of believe-it-or-
not creatures. Tenderly, deftly, that bird
popped morsels of food into the gaping
mouth of the mutilated chicken——-not
once but for every meal, each and every
day until a new beak had replaced the
missing one. The rooster never neglected
his patient until the chicken was again
able to forage for herself.

Surely this rooster can be credited
with more than thought. His actions
proved that his tiny brain not only
grasped the problem, but reasoned it
through to a solution and carried it out.
—Ida M. Pardue

18

. - ms -.;:,.;...,.-,;;-w 41.}. -‘ ':,1."(':.'4‘;..'-A :..;-e=,~r.z.~;w.;ecr~

L»... :r" :f .—-r,‘

    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
  

   

  

GOOD NEIGHBOR POLICY ACTS IN REVERSE

Mr. Lucius D. Potter. of Greenfield. Massachusetts. recognizes that the birds are good
neighbors of his during the warm months when they rid his gardens of harmful insects.
When winter comes he entertains a flock of over a hundred Evening Grosbeaks at his

teeding station.

Their diet consists mainly of sunflower seeds.

@ 7
The Shepherd and His Dog

FAMOUS American actor of half

a century ago, Joseph Jefferson,
known for his inimitable portrayal of
Rip Van Winkle, was one who had a
sincere appreciation of the singular bond
existing between a man and his dog.

In his autobiography, Jefferson tells
feelingly of riding through a forest in
Australia one day and coming upon a
large black shepherd dog. To his sur-
prise, the dog ran out of the bushes to
greet him with ecstatic barks and to
lick his hand. The actor was naturally
astounded at such a display of affection-
ate welcome on the part of a canine to
whom he was a total stranger.

The dog bounded away, and a little
later, returned in the same joyous man-
ner, accompanied by his shepherd mas-
ter, a gaunt shabby man whose attention
he had attracted by his excited barking.

The shepherd explained to Jefferson
that his dog, “Jack,” knew that he was
very lonely and seldom saw another
human being for long months at a
stretch, and that the collie was truly de-
lighted that, at last, his master would
have company.

The actor felt that he should hasten
on at once, but he was so touched by
Jack’s ﬁne solicitude for his master’s

     
 

happiness, that he consented to spend the
night with the pair.

Jefferson recounted how Jack, the
collie, lay contentedly at their feet, all
that evening. He said, every so often,
the dog would look up eloquently and
heave a deep sigh of satisfaction, as
much as to say—“the old man is all right
tonight—he’s got someone that can talk
to him.”

——Mary Agnes Colmllle

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to an-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at lzl5 over Springfield radio station
WSPR—I270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
January 2—"Animals in the News."

January 9—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

January lb—"True Dog Stories."
January 23—"Animals in General."

January 30—"Understanding Our Ani-

mals."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS




 

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa:
tion Trust Fund.

1%

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

****‘

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

,_,_._ A,._,, , ‘,,_ #SVM_A— —7 7/ ‘.____

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 685
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,176
Operations .................. 275

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 231
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 658
Operations .................. 141
Totals

HOSpital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 243,637
Dispensary cases ............. 606,370
Total .......... 850,007

FEBRUARY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, BROCKTO‘N AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 11,356
Cases investigated ............ 395
Animals examined ............ 3,281
Animals placed in homes ........ 212
Lost animals restored to owners . 66
Number of prosecutions ........ 3
Number of convictions ........ 3
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 26
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ...................... 1,878
Horse auctions attended ........ 13
WWII- Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 59,103
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ................ 52

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended tor the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is |80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. information and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

April 191,5

Medals to Animals

HE Allied Services Mascot Club,
. founded by Britain’s People’s Dis-
pensary for Sick Animals, has awarded
the Dickin- Medal to two pigeons used
during the invasion of Europe. The
Dickin Medal is awarded to Service mas-
cots, guard dogs, carrier pigeons, etc.,
who have done some feat of gallantry or
endurance. It is equivalent to Britain’s
Victoria Cross and has now been awarded
to a number of pigeons and dogs.

One of the pigeons now honored is
“Gustav,” the ﬁrst pigeon used in the
invasion for carrying messages from
ship to landing beaches. He has accom-
plished two years of useful work for the
R. A. F. The other pigeon is “Paddy,”
who made the fastest time from Nor-
mandy during the invasion, of four hours
and ﬁfty minute-s. He served in North-
ern Ireland on air-sea rescue work before
joining the pigeon group being trained
for the invasion.

A wire-haired terrier named “Beauty”
has also been awarded a medal for gal-
lantry. She was the ﬁrst dog in Britain
to trace buried victims in air-raid debris.

During the early days of the London
blitz of 1940, she accompanied her
master, Superintendent W. Barnett, of
the P. D. S. A. Animal Rescue Squad,
during and after raids.

One day she located a cat trapped in
the ruins and since then 63 other animals
owe their lives to Beauty’s intelligence
and perseverance.

 

RECEPTION COMMITTEE

A Coast Guard combat photographer

caught this picture of two waits of war.

With the Japs driven back from Lingayen

Gulf. a little Filipino boy and his dog came

out from hiding to greet the American
liberators.

73

 

 




 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1944 bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-
tive pictures and verses, six in set 1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches .. .. .5 cts. each

About the Horse

Care of the Horse .. .. ......$1.25 per100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 . .. .. . .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer.................... .30 ” "
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4pp. Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs . . . . . . . . . . . 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.
Lyons .50 ” “

The Story of Barry .30 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls . .. .. .. .. .. .3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider . . . . . . Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. . . . .. . . . cloth, $0. 45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2. $0. 50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer . .. . . . . . .50 “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .50 “ “
About the Cat
Care of the Cat ........................$0.75per100
The Cat in Literature.................. .50 “ “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve . . . . . . . .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
DoYouKnowAboutThis?.............. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals .50 “ “
WaysofKindness...................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits .30 “ "
Cruelty at Eastertime ..... .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. .75 “ “
Whythe ToadissoUseful.............. .30 “ “

HintsontheCareofCows.............. .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine . .. . 1.00 “ “
AWiseFish........................... .50 ” “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? . . . . . . . .$0.30 per 100
Foreword from ”Michael Brother of

Jerry” .30 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4pp. .50 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4pp. .50 “ “

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley.............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley . . . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley.......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley . . . . . . . . . . Free

Kindness and Humane Education . . . . . . . .$1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. . . . . . . . . . . . 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades ............................... each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants . . . . . . . . each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Edd dy cloth, $1. 20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,"
play ...............3 cts. each; ten for25c.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each ; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play . . . . . .2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls . . . . . .. . . .2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ......................$1.50per100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

HowtoTeachIt..................... .50 “ “
ATalkwiththeTeacher................ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies . .. .. .. . .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals . .. . ..... .. .. . . . . . . . .50 “ “

Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00 “ “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) $300 per100
Band of Mercy Membership Card . . . . . . . . .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy . . . . . . . . . . .50 “ “

Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Band of Mercy Register................ 10 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED *

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

funeral Bernice

Local—Suburban—D istant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A GALENDAB OF 0063
4W pm

The number of dog lovers in

this country is legion. Here
is a newly designed calendar
for them. In its twelve pages
and cover appear thirteen
favorite dogs of America
drawn by the famous artist,
Gladys Emerson Cook. The
portraits of the big dogs are
noble and striking; those of
the smaller ones are gay and
lovable; the puppies are en-.
chanting. Each page contains
a quotation from a famous
writer, extolling the nobility
and faithfulness of our most
loved petsI in a remarkable
collection of inspiring trib-.
utes.

l2 pages and cover in color.
plus a description of each
dog on the fourteenth page.

Size 8" x IO". Boxed.

$| .00 postpaid anywhere in
the U. S. A. Send check.
cash or money order. Sorry,

no C. O. D.'s.

THE PAUL HEVEHE SHOP

1782 Massachusetts Ave,
lexington 73, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

I ‘ . 0
. . ._. L. . - u -~ .- v; . ~ 0»
,- _,...,,..~,wuu:i‘9-8'- "'

Cruel Device

UR attention has been called to a
new type of trap called the “Won-
der Rat Board,” which is, in effect, a
board covered with adhesive. This sub-
stance attracts rodents and they are, in
turn, held fast to the sticky surface,
much like catching ﬂies on fly-paper. _
While we fully realize that rodents do
much damage to foodstuffs and other
property, and know that there are times
when their disposal is necessary, yet we
feel that these creatures should be ex-
terminated as humanely as possible. The
method used by these boards is utterly
abhorrent to us and, we feel sure, to all
right-thinking individuals.
Unfortunately, there is no way by
which the manufacturer or distributor
can be prosecuted. It is only the indi-
vidual who, knowingly permitting an
animal to die a slow and lingering death,
would become punishable under the law.

a

Free Lecture

UNDER the auspices of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., Mr. Thornton W.
Burgess, well-known author of animal
stories, will present another of his popu-
lar free lectures, “Teaching Kindness
through Animal Stories,” with colored
moving pictures.

These features will be presented in the
Lecture Hall, Boston Public Library,
Copley Square (entrance from Boylston
Street), at 3:30 P.M. Doors will open
at 2 P.M., Sunday, April 15. ‘

&
Frogs That Bark and Bite

HE frogs of South America are just
as strange as some of the plants and
animals found there. There is one family
of them, the horned frogs, who both bark
and bite if they are disturbed. These big
frogs, which grow to the size of a small
dinner plate, spend their lives in the for-
ests where their green and brown coloring
matches their surroundings and helps to
conceal them among the fallen leaves and
other rubbish on the ground. When dis-
turbed, they bark like an angry puppy
or, as some naturalists describe it, a
sound between a squeal and a bark. While
there is a saying that barking dogs never
bite, this is not the case with barking
frogs. They do bite and bite hard when
they are annoyed. The wound is a pain-
ful one as these frogs are not only big
but also have very strong jaws for their
size. More than that, they are also said
to take a grip like a turtle or bulldog
and then hang on. Naturalists who study
these animals have learn-ed to keep their
ﬁngers out of reach, or else.
—J0hn H. Spicer

72

 

Prized Dalmatian-{Missing

R. A. R. EVANS, veterinarian in

charge of our Springﬁeld branch

of the Angell Animal Hospital has been

searching without success for his missing
Dalmatian, “Penni.”

The dog, a valuable show animal, dis-
appeared from Dr. Evans’ home in Wil-
braham. Penni, a male, is eight years
old. Both'his ears are black, he has a
black nose, three black spots over his left
eye, two on his left cheek, and the general
color is white with black spots.

A Prayer

Loving Father, great Creator,
Author of all living things,

Each one sanctioned by Thy making
To the world its message brings.

Each one his appointed task has;
Each one has his path and part.

Loving Father, great Creator,
Place us each one in Thy heart.

From the sweet and tender birdling
To the dog, the friend of man—

Each one has his own fulfillment .
In the wisdom of Thy plan.

Touch our hearts with truth and justice;
Let Thy rule now be fulfilled,

In the golden bright millenium,
Grant their anguished souls be stilled.

May they, too, know love and justice;
May we feel our brothers kin,

And forgive us that we know not
Separation is a sin.

Grant us peace and joy unending
In that sweet millenium time,
When we say in humble reverence,
Every living thing is Thine.
—Anonymous

 

Indicating that the dog might have
been taken from the premises, Dr. Evans
stated that Penni had never wandered
from home before. The dog’s mate,
“Budge,” has pined for Penni and sits
on the living room couch all day gazing
wistfully out of the window.

Should any of our readers have in-
formation concerning such a dog, we
shall appreciate their getting in touch
with us or with Dr. Evans, 53 Bliss St.,
Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In a search for "story-telling pictures." we
are announcing our annual photographic

contest to end June 30. I945.

Cash prizes amounting to $95 and ten
additional prizes of subscriptions to OU'R
DUMIB ANIMALS are offered for clear. out-
standing photographs of wild or domestic

animals and birds.

The contest is open to all. either profes-
sional or amateurI but entries will be ac-
cepted only from those who have taken the

photographs.

PRIZES
First Prize ........... $25.00
Second Prize ......... I5.00
Third Prize ........... 5.00

Ten $3.00 prizes Ten $2.00 prizes

Write to Contest Editor, l80 Longwood
Ave.. Boston I5. Mass.. for further details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




.gjﬁom
t/ze
G/zai'rman

0

@LM’

09741313693

 

 

An Important Announcement

T the recent annual meeting of the Massachusetts Society for the
PreventiOn Of Cruelty to Animals and the American Humane
Education Society, Mr. Eric H Hansen was unanimously elected

President of both Societies by the Board of Directors. His election was
instituted at the request of Dr. FranCis H. Rowley, who had expressed his
desire to relinquish the ofﬁce of President which he had held for the past

.3 5 years.

Dr. Rowley was, however, persuaded by the Directors to accept the
position of Chairman of the Board, and we are conﬁdent that his host of
friends and admirers all over the world will be happy to know that he will
continue his invaluable association with the Societies’ activities.

Mr. Hansen, who for the past three years has served our Societies as
Executive Vice- President and who has been actively connected with the
humane movement for 20 years, is eminently qualiﬁed to assume the re-
sponsibility of the presidency. His fundamental knowledge of our work,
his deep-seated convictions in regard to animal welfare, his farsighted plans
for the future, and his genial personality have earned for him the full con—
fidence of the Board. We bespeak for him the continued c00peration, not
only of our members and friends, but of the staff. 1

Dr. Rowley and Mr. Hansen have worked together for the past three
years in complete accord, and with two such capable leaders continuing to...
guide our activities, we look to the future with conﬁdence. ' '

WW:

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sportfolio

The following column taken from the
Fitchbnrg Sentinel is very much appre-
ciated. We hope it will explain to its
readers why a law was passed prohibiting
the showing of horses with set tails.

AN in his sports has generally
drifted pretty far from outright
cruelty. True, a beaten ﬁghter still takes
a hammering before he goes down for the
count; a lineman or a back may play on
although suffering serious injury. But
that is a far cry from the bull ﬁght,
roosters battling to the death under
smoky lights or pit dogs gouging out
each others’ throats.

Just as illegal as matching ﬁghting
cocks or skewering a tired out bovine is
the setting of horses’ tails. A recent bill
passed by the legislature outlaws horses
with set tails from being exhibited in
show rings. Although Massachusetts is
one of the few states in the union to
take this forward step, it is plenty hard
boiled about it and an owner who tries
to show a horse with an altered tail is
subject to arrest and ﬁne.

The Athol show, last Sunday, brought
home this fact to this neck of the woods.
Owner of a very valuable ﬁve-gaited
saddle horse had entered his animal in
that class at Athol. He had previously
admitted at another show that the horse’s
tail was set and he had been summoned
to court. So, when he appeared at Athol,
ready to show, an MSPCA agent in-
formed him that as soon as his horse
entered the ring he would be a two—time
violator. After a .brief discussion with
other owners of gaited horses, whose
animals also had set tails, it was tenta—
tively agreed not to show.

Then the fun began. The owners
“sold” their horses. “New owners”
worked on the theory that as such they
would not be guilty. A few of them sent
a cute feminine emissary to inform the
agent that they might get tough if he
interfered. But the agent, Harry Smith,
is no pushover. An ex-state trooper, six
feet tall and ruggedly built, he said that
would be just dandy and when do we
start. Smith looked a little too eager for
the boys and the row never materialized.

But the exhibitors were not done. The
gaited champion with its new “owner”
on its back was a late entry. He ﬂashed
through the class and, on its termination,
raced out of the ring. Before Smith
could reach him, he had dismounted,
jumped into a car and beat it to Long-
meadow. But Mr. Smith is patient as
well as tough. The owner is still in the
state and, we understand, a warrant is
upcoming.

Much ado about nothing, this prosecu-
tion of owners of show horses, the aver-

190

age sportsman will perhaps say. Mr.
Average Sportsman would change his
tune, however, if he saw a few examples
of set tails or if he saw a tail being set.
This is an example: A young horse which
has show possibilities, good looks, and
manners and gait is selected as the vic—
tim. The heavy muscles on the under part
of the tail are severed, thus allowing the
top muscles to pull the tail up beyond its
normal height.

Then the tail is tightly bound in a
loop that would make a pretzel retch. An
elaborate crupper arrangement is fas-
tened to it and buckled securely to a girth
which resembles the saddle of a driving
harness. Hour after hour, day after day,
this rig, a “dumbjock,” is kept on until
the wounded tail heals. Not only does the
animal suffer the anesthetic-less opera—
tion, but must endure the continued
strain of the dumbjock—a devil’s in-
Viention.

The result of all this pain is a set tail.
The object is to have the horse carry his
tail straight up from his back for six or
eight inches and double sharply down.

secrery"

Fm “ms '1
PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY
TO AMMLS

 

 

Even when it’s good, it looks terrible.
When a bum job is done, the poor,
crippled, almost useless tail ﬂops over on
one side, a rotten example of trying to
gild the lily. As a ﬂy—swatter it is useless.
S0, more power to the horse’s defender,
Harry Smith, a right and reasonable guy,
but a very rugged customer when so—
called sports attempt to go to town.

. a
Small Paws

Small paws that burrow
And small paws that climb
Tread noiselessly,

Yet leave a certain rhyme
Of motion in the

Sedges and the swale,
Where kindred creatures
Can discern a trail.

Small paws embroider"
Patterns in the dew,

And leave taint etchings
All along the slough; _
Small paws go softly

For a little space—

Lonely, perhaps,

But always full of grace.

—Mariorie Hunt Pettit

   

——Courtesy of LOOK Magazine

"He says two big dogs are picking on him!"

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

Ear-Cropping

RECENTLY, Governor Thomas E. Dewey, of New York,
signed, “with the tacit approval of the humane organizations of
the state,” a bill legalizing the cropping of dogs’ ears, and thus,
after sixteen years of legally prohibiting that hideous practice, it
once again is permissible in the Empire State.

The news has disturbed humanitarians everywhere because,
even though it was realized that the old prohibitory law was being
violated, it was still better than the new law which permits vet-
erinarians to perform the operatiOn whenever they are requested
to do so.

Massachusetts has an Anti-Ear-Cropping Law which is not
all it should be, but it is, at least, a control of an unnatural and

cruel fashion, and any attempt to change it in this Common-
wealth will produce the strongest of opposition sponsored by our

‘ Society and, we believe, by all other humane organizations in the

State.

As a society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, what
other course could we follow? Laws to prevent cruelty to animals
in Massachusetts were put on the statute books many years ago
through the efforts of Mr. Angell and Dr. Rowley, and to see
them amended or removed would be to break faith with those
unfortunate animals who would suffer as a result thereof and with
the many thousands of humane persons who believe in our Society
as the champion of animals’ rights.

There will be no changes in the Ear—Cropping Law in Mas—
sachusetts, if we can prevent it. I

 

.._‘—.—- rq—v—u‘ov< . . ..

 

 




 

 

 

M
M
“h-

 
  

 

__Pedro E. Hernandez

.___..._-—_.___.__ ‘

”SAYI UNCLE!"

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

      

f
sNCIRcLee HE GLO9

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M, MORRILL

it

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 48 Central Street. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Ofﬁce reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part
OI the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the Ofﬁce

entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particu-
larly prose articles of about 300 words, are
solicited. We do not wish to consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in
excess of twenty-four lines. The shorter the bet-
ter. All manuscripts should be typewritten and

an addressed envelope with full return postage
enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Pub-
lication Ofﬁce. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massa-
chusetts. Entered as second-class matter. June
29. I9I7, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass..
under the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate OI postage provided for

in section II03. Act of October 3. I9l7.
authorized. July I3. l9l9.

Address all communications to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS. I80 Longwood Ave.. Boston l5, Mass.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868 U. S. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 78—No. 2 FEBRUARY. I945

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

it
Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel
‘A’
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board

59:
Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice- President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President, First National Banlr of Boston
if

Massachusetts S, P, C, A, American Humane Education Society

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer‘s Assistant Fie'd WWW?" 0‘ “'9 5mm
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California

Mrs. Florlda L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

. . Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
HARRY L- ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
HARVEY R. FULLER ‘J. ROBERT SMITH

Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

t P t'n Off'cers
Cw" Y ”59“" g ' Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvama

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk

FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex _ FB'e'g" c?"es"°“d'“g Rep'ese“*a*“’es
E Luls Parela Cornelo .................... Ecuador

WILLIAM W‘ HASWELL’ Methuen Western ssex Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Ita-ly
JOSEPH E HASWELL Methuen Western Essex S. C. Batra ........................... India
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira

Hampden Hampshlre and Franklln Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford

Bristol and Plymouth 7:?

HAROLD G ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucxet

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire Ange“ Mammal An'ma' H°5P'*a'
and Dispensary for Animals
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, 180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100
Methuen . .
w w HASWELL Su erintendent veter'"a"a"s
' ' ’ p E. F. ‘SCHROEDER, D...,VM Chief of Staff
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. c. A. G B SCHNELLE V...IMD Asst Chief
Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue : 3' RACUHNI‘SSEIEISI ’X 3‘ "D
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street C. L. BLAKELY VMD
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshlre Roac *M S. ARLEIN ,D\./..M '
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue “:L. ' H. A A V. M.
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville :1: ASC MM N D M
Wenham, Cherry Street W. WILCOX D..V
Brockton, 226 Pearl Street N- ‘- GRE'NER DVHM
FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.
Branches and Auxiliaries W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
Northampton Branch of Mass. S. C. A.—-—PROF HARRY L° ALLEN, Superlntendent
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER, . .
Treas. Sprlngfleld Branch
Telephone 4-7355
HoI oke Branch of Mass. 5. C. A.—AARON M. . . .
BAGGy Pres. , BROOKS WHITE, Treas. 53-57 Bliss Street. Springﬁeld. M355-
Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R. Veterinarians
MILLER, Pres. , MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas. A. R, EV VAN V.M
:2
Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S. if] lé' [STEELIEOE ’VV.N°\M D
TAYLOR, Pres. , MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas. H. J. KOPP V...MD

Boston .Work Committee" of Mass. 5. P. C. A.— R M BARLOW’ V'UMD .
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman. ‘ *On leave of absence—military serwce

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Calendar
animals

M For only ten cents you will be able to obtain our
5 N new 1946 Calendar of Animals. A handy size to

hang over your desk, and just right for Christmas
cards or gifts, this calendar combines utility with a beauty that you

will treasure long after the calendars, themselves, are out of date.

WM Twelve pages and cover, each illustrated with a
W true-to-life photograph (not drawing) of our ani-
$2M mal friends.
Printed in soft shades of russet to emphasize the
highlights of each portrait.
No reversing of pages to confuse the user. Each

month on its own separate sheet.

Size 4 1/2 inches wide by 8 inches long.

Cost—ten cents each.

(9M Please send your order now for as many calendars
pWO Now as you can use. When the supply 18 exhausted, we
shall be unable to procure more. Calendars will be

mailed to you in ample time for the Christmas season.

Send orders with money order or Check to:

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston -1 S , Massachusetts

 

 

 

 




A" *’ vmﬁ"!~Mia-tn‘i-‘a‘atsﬁtmwaézLiksaisamWa-n-“-'---"- "“ ' - ' -"~-“-H~ ....\.-.,.-.n-,~:_,.Q.-£~.;.r A‘..x.'.‘-..v~..-."~ , . . l. . . , _ .. -. . ""‘ WWW“ “-7. ~ .
”'2 . <- « yuan. .. .«A, .7...» A- k _ >

_ ‘ , ,, -. .4 .. ._... » ,.,-.. »_,1 ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dog Days

There’d be no need of bloody wars,
It all the groaning empire rods,
Were swayed, entire, by puppy paws,
The actors might not show such art,
But love would be the only part.
If lands were ruled by dogdom's heart,
There’d be no taxes, boards and laws,
And laughing tails would be the lords,
If all the world went to the dogs.

-—Archie Tech

@

Sixty-First Offspring

-61” means two things out at Nor-

throp Field, in Hawthorne, Cali-
fornia. Ofﬁcially, of course, P-61 is the
Army’s designation for the lethal Nor—
throp Black Widow Night Fighter, the
world’s largest and most powerful pur-
suit plane, now in combat against Ger-
many and Japan.

But unofﬁcially, to Northrop employees,
P-61 is the name of the latest offspring
of the plant mascot, a black cat long ago
given the cognomen of “Black Widow,”
bearing that name by virtue of a jet-
black coat, unusual maneuverability and
night-stalking proclivities which bear re-
lationship to the night ﬁghter.

Herewith we have pictured little P-61
making her camera debut at the hands
of Lynne Des Lauriers, an employee of
the Northrop plant. There is no symbol-
is’m in the name P-61. She is actually
the sixty-ﬁrst offspring of the plant
mascot, and as for the “P,”—-well, that
stands for “Puss.”

Many of Black Widow’s offspring have
left home for widerﬁelds, but little P-61
and some of her brothers and sisters still
do their night ﬁghting at Northrop Field.

——Clare-nce M. Lindsay

 

"P-bl" makes her camera debut.

28

ANIMALORIE

ELK is the second largest of the deer
family in North America, the moose be-
ing the largest.

MALE WREN abandons its mate if a
new nest does not please him.

.NIGHTHAWK is often called the bull-
bat.

HUMMINGBIRD is the lightest of the
common birds in the United States. It
weighs about one-twelfth of an ounce.

WILD TURKEY, trumpeter swan and
Canada goose are probably the heaviest
birds in this country, weighing from 1 5
to 31 pounds.

OSTRICHES are the largest species of
the bird family.

PARROTS—One of the smallest parrots
is the bee-bee or dwarf parrot, about
seven inches in height. Some can learn
to talk and whistle and are very inter-
esting pets.

OWL has noiseless wings, hides in a hol-
low tree during the day, and hunts for
food at night when he has the keenest
vision.

MOUNTAIN BEAVER can climb trees,
if they are not too tall, lopping off
branches as it goes, but leaving stubs
long enough to use as rungs of a ladder
on its return. Sometimes it tops the
tree, itself.

WOODPECKERS are the tree doctors of
the bird world. With their powerful,
sharp bills they dig insects out of the
bark and also cut holes for their nests.
At least half of the spruce-bark beetles
of the northeastern United States are
said to be eaten by woodpeckers.

TREE FROG climbs a tree by use of its
toes which have adhesive pads, enabling
it to climb vertically.

FINCHES are native everywhere in the
world except Australia.

@

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

Nesting Problem for Lineman

LINEMEN employed by a northern
California light and power company
had a recent opportunity to perform a
good samaritan act. They were topping
a giant tree and lopping off several of its
branches. .

On one of the branches to be cut away
they found a bird’s nest with its cluster
of tiny eggs. They securely fastened the
nest to the limb, cut away the branch
and carefully moved branch and nest to
a nearby tree. ‘

The branch bearing the nest, with its
precious cargo of eggs still intact, was

then ﬁrmly tied to one of the branches

on the other tree.

When the mother bird returned from
a morning foraging expedition she
promptly found the new location of her
nest. She must have been grateful for
the careful moving job, because the line-
men assert that they soon heard the
chirping of her cheery song.

——Jasper B. Sinclair

@

HE education of the heart should ever

go hand in hand with the cultivation
of the mind. Kindness toward all sen-
tient creatures and compassion for suffer—
ing in all its forms are the hall marks
of an enlightened community and the
badge of a cultured individual. It is a
grave mistake to believe that a gentle
nature is inconsistent with a forceful
character. Tenderness and pity should
never be taken as proof of weakness.
Men who have been great in a true sense
have never been indifferent to the rights
or blind to the needs of the helpless.

—H0n. George R. Farnum

 

"Manthorne Boy." highy respected member
of the household of Mr. and Mrs. W. E.

Schratlt. esteemed friends of our Society.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

He Was My Dog

By FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

HE was given me by an intimate
friend who owned his mother. He
was a cross between a highly-bred re-
triever and a setter. When he came to
me, he was only three week-s old. He
was black, with a lovely coat of semi-
curly hair and white breast. I came to
call him “Budge,” because that was his
mother’s name. He was not a large dog,
not easily excited, very digniﬁed and
affectionate.

I was selﬁsh about him, and I wanted
him all my own; so for months I fed him,
myself, gave him his daily exercise, and
he slept at night on a rug beside my bed.
Soon he learned to follow me wherever
I went. I was, fortunately or unfortu-
nately, I have never known which, a
clergyman and, believing that I should
know my people, their joys and sorrows,
their hopes and fears, if I was to make
the ministry of the pulpit a real blessing
to their daily life, I seldom failed to
spend the greater part of four weekday
afternoons calling upon my parishioners.
My almost constant companion on these
calls was my dog. He never crossed the
threshold of the home where I went. He
would lie on the doorstep, greeting me
joyfully when I came out. Once, having
to enter a lowly home by the rear door,
I was let out by the little—used front
door and, for some strange reason, for-
getting my waiting companion at the
back door, I went home, more than a
mile away, before I remembered him.
I hastened to the stable, harnessed my
horse and hurried back. There at the
back door he lay. There was no look of
reproach, no sign of hurt feelings—the
same glad, affectionate welcome.

The church in those days had its mid-
week evening meeting. Many a summer
evening, when the weather was extremely
warm, the doors into the vestry would
be open, and perhaps halfway through
the service Budge would quietly walk in,
come down the aisle and onto the plat-
form, and lie beside me until the service
was over. He had come from the par—
sonage, at least two blocks away. The
congregation was never in the least dis—
turbed. They knew me and they knew
my dog. On a Sunday, no matter how
warm the weather, or how many doors
were open, he never came near the
church.

At last a summer vacation came when
I was to be away for a few weeks longer
than I, up to that time, had ever been
separated from him. The night before
I was to leave, and while lying stretched
out in a hammock, under a tree in the
yard, I called him to me and bade him
jump up and stretch himself out on top

104

of me. I took his face in my hands and
said: “Now, Budge, I and the lady of the
house are going away for quite a vaca—
tion. You are going to miss me, but
don’t worry, I’ll be back, and I shall think
of you every day I am gone.” Of course
I might have hoped that he would under—
stand, but it was only a hope.

Toward the end of the second week of
my absence, I learned later, he seemed to
grow restless, refused to eat, and if the
children, playing with my cane or any-
thing belonging to me, had left it lying
on the ﬂoor, he would lie down by it,
with his head across it, and stay with it
by the hour. Down the street a little
way lived a dear friend to whose home
I went often for a brief social chat. Down
to this home, more than once, Budge
went at the time I was usually there,
put his paws on the windowsill of the
room where we always sat, looked in and
then would turn around and go home.
He would never accept an invitation to
enter the door. '

Well, one morning they found him dead
on the front porch. Had the housemaid
realized what he meant to me and tele—
graphed me, I should have started for
home at once. What a day that was for
me—the day when the sad news came——
only those who have lost such a four~
footed friend can know. I am not
ashamed to say that there were bitter
tears and long-lasting sorrow. The feel-
ing that he might have thought I had
deserted him, failed in my love for him
was what hurt me the most.

Many a lesson that dear dog taught

me. If I ever left him behind when he
wanted to follow me, I was welcomed
home with the same joyful greeting. If

in a moment of impatience or thought-
lessness I spoke unkindly to him, he never
remembered it. More than once I asked
his forgiveness. Never did he have to
ask mine.

This is the story of the end. The four
children wrapped a white blanket about
the much-loved body, laid it in their little
four-wheel cart, covered it with ﬂowers,
drew the cart back and forth through the
yard a few times, then buried it in the
garden among the ﬂowers. Alas! Dust to
dust, ashes to ashes.

A few days after my return, a well-
known doctor of divinity called upon me
and with what seemed to me like a jest-
ing laugh said, “I am amazed that you
should have confessed to many to really
weeping over the loss of a dog. Aren’t
you rather sentimental over such a loss?
It was only a dog.” This was my an-
swer, “I may be a pagan, perhaps I am,
but, Dr. , I would rather spend
my eternity with that dog than with
most of the so—called very pious people
I have known so far in the days of my
ministry.” Long years since that day,
I must still say the same.

&

“Is Thy Servant a Dog?”

THAT wonderful dog who went ashore
with a life line from a sinking ship
off the Newfoundland coast, and thereby
saved 92 lives, would make the ancient
Israelite who used this expression
ashamed of himself, if they happened to
meet. This hero of the shipwreck, when
no boat could be launched into the break-
ing sea and the life-savers’ line failed to
reach to the boat, tackled the hard job.

Would any of those 92, at last safe
ash-ore, have allowed anyone to use that
dog’s name and nature as a term of re-
proach? Perhaps Michelet was right
when he said, “The dog is a candidate
for humanity.”

 

Odd - Facts -

in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

He Skates on Water

The water skate or water strider
Can swim and not get wet; .
A comic lively little fellow,

The funniest swimmer yet.

He darts across the river top
Just like an acrobat;

But never sinks, because he’s light,
And holds his feet out flat!

     
   
  

x§§7\\w

$‘z/ry» s»:

:\\\\\ _ \\ “\ , / ﬂ
/

   

    
 

w y . \Mi‘lltgs‘iv’. \ §
, .. /«§\\)\\>\\“\\\\\\\\//
. //// \\\\
a //\\
III Sager-MOM

\\

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

7'”

 

DID you ever move into a perfectly strange neighborhood,
where the neighbors nodded pleasantly but indifferently,
and made no move to call or get acquainted? I did just that,
several years ago, when I married and. said good-bye to the
olldghome where I was born. The neighbors there were almost
like members of my family, for I had practically grown up
with them, and I was poorly prepared for the strangeness of a
new home and new neighbors.
The ﬁrst few months, I suffered acute pangs of loneliness.
I missed the over-the-hedge chats with the next door neighbors,
which are such an essential and enjoyable part of a housewife’s
life. All housework and no neighboring makes Jill a dull girl,
indeed. When my husband returned home from work, he
must sometimes have wondered at my almost hysterical wel-
come. I was SO glad to have someone to talk to, after eight
hours of solitary conﬁnement.

Then, one happy day, a freckle-faced, blonde Cocker puppy
came to our house to live, and thereafter, there was never a
dull moment for the Munsons. We bought dog books and
studied them, we made the acquaintance of the local veter-
inarian, we scoured the town for a rubber mouse and rubber

ball. We joined the Loyal Order of Dog Owners and discussed.

symptoms and methods enthusiastically, and bragged vocifer-
ously about “that smart dog of ours” to non-«dog-owners, until
they yawned in our faces.

We threw aside dignity and the inhibitions of our accumu-

lated years and frolicked with the puppy around the house;

Then we grew bolder and gamboled on the lawn, aswe decided
that our indifferent neighbors probably wouldn’t notice us,
anyway. We didn’t know the ways of people and dogs, but soon
we discovered that we possessed a new magic trick to win
friends and inﬂuence neighbors. The magic trick, of course,
was our furry bundle from Dog Heaven. The children came
ﬁrs-t, in two’s and three’s, begging to play with the puppy,
who gave them a riotous and friendly welcome, and mothers
along the street were soon besieged with pleas, “Mother, may
we go over to ‘Boo’s’ house?”

It wasn’t long before mothers and fathers, and even a
grandma and grandpa or. two, followed the procession to Boo’s
house, and the ice was broken. I was having so much fun with
the puppy that I had forgotten to be lonesome, and one day I
suddenly and happily realized that I was no longer an isola—
tionist. The new neighbors were like old friends, and we chatted
cheerfully over our wash lines and gardens, swapped recipes
and ideas and discovered mutual interests, while the dog
frolicked merrily around us, always ready for fun and friend-
ship.

People and dogs belong together. I am a happier woman
Since I discovered that fact of life.

We were lonesome in a strange neighborhood,
until “Boo” came to live with us. Then we joined

the Loyal Order of Dog Owners and became.

acquainted with our neighbors.

July 1945

Pe0ple and
Dogs Belong
Together

By MABEL S. MUNSON

 

Photo by Georgia Engelhard

131

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

   
     

f
“ch069 "IE oLo?’

Editor -— WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

'i‘r

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 48 Central Street. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Ofﬁce reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly it you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will ﬁnd the address to which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part
of the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce

entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particu-
larly prose articles of about 300 words. are
solicited. We do not wish to consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in

excess of twenty-four lines. The Shorter the bet- I

ter. All manuscripts should be typewritten and

an addressed envelope with full return postage
enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Pub-
lication ofﬁce. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massa-
chusetts. Entered as second-class matter. June
29. I9l7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass..
under the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for

in section ”03. Act of October 3. I9l7.
authorized. July l3. l9l9.

Address all

communication t
ANIMALS, s o OUR DUMB

I80 Longwood Ave.. Boston l5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded‘by Geo. T. Angell, I868 U. S. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 78—No. 3 MARCH. I945

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

19?
Officers
ERIC H. HANSEN. President DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

it:

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President, First National Bank of Boston

t9!
Massachusetts S. P. C, A. American Humane Education Society
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer's Assistant Field WWW!" 0‘ “‘9 50‘5“?
. . . Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Prosecuting Officers In Boston

. . Mrs. Florida L. Byrne Tacoma, Washington
100 '
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6 Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, G gia
. . Rev Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer Rev John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

HARRY 1" ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
HARVEY R- FULLER ‘ 1- ROBERT SM'TH Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
. . Field Representative
County Prosecuting Officers
D. . F. H. W t l, P'tt bu h, Penns Ivania
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk ' wm . 9” ze _' s 'g r”
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex . Foreign Corresponding Representa ives
Luis Pareia Corneio .................... Ecuador
WILLIAM W' HASWELL’ Methuen Western Essex Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
JOSEPH 5- HASWELL. Methuen Western Essex S. c. Batra ........................... India
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth 79.7
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and NantuCKet A II M _ I A . I H ital
T. KIN HA ' ' . nge .emoria mma . osp
G SWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire and Dispensary for Animals
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter. I80 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100
Methuen . .
W w HASWELL Su erintendent vetermmns
. ' ’ p E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. s. P. c. A. G. B. SCHNELLE. V.M'B'MASSI' Chief
Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue R. H. SCHNEIDER, . . .
- - - . T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street,
p' - C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
lttsfleld, 224 Cheshire Road
*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
- . *L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centeerlle
Wenham, Cherry Street *W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
Brockton, 226 Pearl Street N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.
FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.
Branches and Auxiliaries W. D. JONES. V.S., B.V.Sc. d t
P Ngﬂliﬁmggon Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——PROF HARRY L' ALLEN' Superinten en
Treas. R. Pres., MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER, Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
HolokeB -....— _ ..
BAGG? Pres. ;raBnI§OO‘I(fS ACllgiell-TITSE, rI'refeis.A AARON M' 53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R. Vefe'ina'ia'“
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas. A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
. *R. L. LEIGHTON. VMD
Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S. H. B. SIEGLE,
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas. H J. KOPP. V.MD

Boston Work Committee of Ma S P C A R: M' BARLOW’.VZM'D'
SS. 0 e o o— a . ‘
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS. Chairman. *On leave of absence—military serwce

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

7~ .
SNCIRcLPT ’75 (34.09

   

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

if?

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part
of the world. In clubs of five or more subscrip-
tions. sixty cents each. within the United States.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

it

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of from 300-400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subject.
except cruel sports or captivity. dealing with ani—
mals. especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-
tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAPHS should be sharp. depicting
either domestic or wild animals in their natural
surroundings. Pictures that tell a story are most
desirable.

VERSE about animals should be short. We sug-

gest from four to sixteen lines.

IM PO RTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten,
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-half
cent a word for articles; one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings: one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

7%

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office, 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts: editorial office, I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston
l5. Massachusetts. Address all communications to
Boston Office. Entered as Second-class matter.
June 29. I9l7. at the Post Office at Norwood.
Mass.. under the Act of March 3. I879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided Jfor in section IIO3. Act of October 3. I9I7.
authorized. July I3. I9l'9.

Founded by Geo. T. AngeII. |868
VOLUME 78—No. 6

U. 5. Trade Mark Registered
JUNE. I945

PUBLISHED BY
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

2’?

Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board

ALBERT A. POLLARDI Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

it

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMVBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
I United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

7’)?

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER *J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Mid‘dlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Worcester

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
“Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—PROF.
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-—JAMES
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. M. F. PETER-
SON, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. .H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................... ,. .. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning. . . .' ........... Turkey

79.?

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—éTelephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff

G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.

W. D. JONES. V.S.. BV.Sc.

HARRY L. ALLEN. Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian in Charge
’1‘ . L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. J; KOPP. V.M.D.
R. M. BARLOW, V.M.D.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

*On leave of absence— military service

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. E. F. Schroeder and Attendant Sline Dr. T. O. Munson uses the drug on "Tiny"

treat IIBoy" with penicillin.

 

as Nurse Dowling holds the patient.

Treatment by Penicillin

\MONG the very ﬁrst to use penicillin

in the treatment of animals, our

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital has
found the drug very effective.

According to Dr. Erwin F. Schroeder,
Chief of Staff, too much may be expected
of this new “wonder” drug, but, on the
whole, it has been found that it does all
that has been credited to it by the
medical profession. In other words, when
good judgment is used in the selection
of cases actually in need of this speciﬁc
drug and it is administered in the proper
dosage at proper intervals, beneﬁcial re-
sults occur.

“In order that patients may receive
the full beneﬁt of this valuable drug,”
continued Dr. Schroeder, “good nursing
is imperative. To date, the records of our
Hospital are more than encouraging be-
cause, of the accumulated number of se-
lected cases where all other treatments
have failed in various infections, this
new treatment, with but few exceptions,
has been the means of restoring the ani-
mals to good health.”

One of the most outstanding cases of

generalized infection was in a mastiffx

dog, weighing 168 pounds, that had an

 

 

OVER THE AIR

For those who like stories and facts about
our animal friendsl our Society sponsors two
distinct radio programs.

In Boston' ":Bird and Animal Lore" is
presented by Miss Margaret J. Kearns each
SaturdayI at 2:05 P. M.I over WHDH—850

on your dial.

In Springﬁeld. Mrs. Charlena Kibbe
broadcasts a similar program each Tuesday.
at 2:|5 P. M.. over WSPR—l270 on your
dial.

BE SURE TO LISTEN!

 

 

 

 

 

 

October 191,5

incurable skin infection. The dog had
been under treatment for a period of
approximately six months, with the
various sulfonamides and other internal
and local treatment. In spite of every-
thing, however, there was a gradual fail-
ing in general condition. When penicil-
lin was made available, the response to
its administration began to become evi-
dent on the fourth day, with a deﬁnitely
marked improvement each succeeding
day, and treatment was discontinued on
about the ﬁfteenth day.

Another case where this new drug
proved most effective, was in a greyhound
suffering from a bone infection of the
vertebrae of the neck that appeared to
be absolutely hopeless. With-in three days
from the time treatment was instituted,
the dog was physically relieved and is at
present well on the road to complete
recovery.

Also on the records are several cases
of bone infections of long standing. These
could not be controlled with other means
of treatment, but responded promptly to
the administration of penicillin.

“Jimmy,” a bull terrier, is using one
of his forepaws for the ﬁrst time in six

at

 

Dr. G. B. Schnelle treats an infected elbow.
Attendant Wilson steadies "Jimmy."

 

Chessie '

is cured of spinal infection by

Dr. Fred Keefe.

months, and penicillin has been used suc-
cessfully on 11-year-old “Tiny,” with
sinus and trench mouth. “Chessie,” a
tri—colored cat, is getting relief from a
spine infection.

“We are satisﬁed,” concluded Dr.
Schroeder, “that since this drug has been
made available in the veterinary ﬁeld,
that immeasurable beneﬁt to the animal
kingdom has resulted.”

DDT and Pets

ROMISCUOUS use of this insecticide

by pet owners may well result in
harm to their animals. Its use on dogs
and cats is-not without qualiﬁcations and
dangers.

DDT powder has been used at our
Hospital for the control of ﬂeas and lice,
on selected cases only. N one has been dis-
pensed. Its effect in the control of ﬂeas
has been quite remarkable, but no deﬁnite
conclusions as to its effect on lice have yet
been established.

Because it is a poisonous substance and,
therefore, its widespread use on animals

might well result in difficulties, by reason
of individual susceptibilities — that is,
varying degree of absorption, ingestion
incident to lapping of body surface by
the animals treated—we cannot stress too
strongly the importance of consulting a
local veterinarian before applying it.
We would caution all animal-owning
housewives, when spraying their homes
with DDT as a means of exterminating
insect pests, to be sure to take the neces-
sary precautions in order that their pets
might be protected from the possible
danger of poisoning as a result of its use.

193

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Progression

IN DISCU‘SSING the annual report for 1944 with Dr. Rowley, we agreed
that it was difficult to know how many of our readers and members really
cared to read a detailed report, which, at best, often fails to tell the whole
story. Yet, in order to explain our activities and demonstrate the constant
growth of our work, we are including statistical material which can be
found on pages 53-56.

We would like to comment brieﬂy here on a few of the high lights.

Although manpower shortages made it difficult .for us to obtain all the
help we needed, and with 33 employees in the armed forces, nevertheless,
more than 43,000 animals were treated in our two Hospitals last year, an
increase of nearly 3,000 patients over the previous year. This, we feel,
was a very real accomplishment, even though the deﬁcit for just the two
Hospitals amounted to $47,287.79.

Our agents in Boston and in our various branches, often working under
great handicap, inspected hundreds of thousands of animals at stockyards,
riding schools and elsewhere. -

A new branch was added during the year when we took over the Brock-
ton Humane Society, and this new unit has more than earned its place in
our midst by the excellent work it has performed.

Also, during the year, we produced a new 16-mm. motion picture, “Out
of the Heart,” in color and sound. We urge all our readers to see it, and
invite inquiries. 0

Considering Humane Education, it is fortunate fOr the future of that
important subject that present—day trends have swung away from the old
idea that the method of obtaining results was the enactment of laws to
compel teachers to accept Humane Education in the school curriculum.

Today, attractive programs, ready for teacher use, are constantly being
prepared and distributed and, judging from responses, they are proving
popular with educators everywhere. More and more, we shall enlarge the
scope of our efforts and, if possible, hope to employ a full-time director
of Humane Education activities this year.

To our Trustees, Directors, members and friends—to our Boston Work
Committee, to the Auxiliaries, to our staff—goes our sincere apprecia—
tion of invaluable assistance, much encouragement and excellent support.
We are counting on all of you to continue your interest in the difﬁcult
years ahead. '

Eric H. Hansen
é , W President

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Soldier’s , Soliloquy
(Found on the body of an Australian soldier)

- “‘Ye that have faith to look with fearless eyes

Beyond the anguish of a world at strife,

And know that out of death and night shall rise
The dawn of ampler life:

Rejoice, whatever anguish rend the heart,
That God has given you the priceless clower

To live in these great times and have your part
In Freedom’s crowning hour,

That ye may tell your sons who see the light
High in the heavens—their heritage to take—

I saw the powers of darkness take their flight;
I saw the morning break."

cﬁ

Some Canine Jottings
ByMﬁERRSEmMMK

ALSATIAN dogs were recently brought into London to
direct the work of searching for and rescuing people who
were trapped in ruined buildings by the buzz bombs. They
are credited with a keener instinct for this sort of work than
any other canine breed.

Our four-legged friends can look forward to a rosier postwar
world, too. In prewar days, comfortable kennels, special care
and privileges were extended canine passengers on several of
the transatlantic luxury liners. After the war, seagoing dogs
have the promise of enjoying even ﬁner travel care and comfort
aboard ocean liners.

. Dogs bitten by poisonous snakes in India at once disappear
into the jungles. After three days, they return to their homes,
famished and emaciated, but mysteriously cured of all traces
of the poison venom. Medical science can still take a few
lessons from Mother Nature.

.In some of the oldest churches in England, there are pews
still equipped with the iron hooks and rings to which church—
goers 1n medieval times fastened their bloodhounds, mastiffs
and other hunting breeds while they attended services.

A quaint medieval law, at one time, prohibited worshippers
from fastening their hunting dogs outside churches. The
attendants, therefore, circumvented the law by bringing their
canine companions inside the churches.

In the age of animal worship, some of the tribes of Western
As1a,_1dolized that faithful friend of man, the dog. In Java,
the red dog. was an object of admiration, each family main-
taining one 1n its household as a good luck symbol. If properly
colored dogs were not obtainable, wooden images were used
in their stead. ‘ ' ’ ’

There may have been a distant link between’those red dog
worshippers andthe ’Forty-niners who crOssed the plains of
Callfornla in search of gold. They applied the name of Red
Dog to one of the mining towns that mushroomed into existence
in the. Mother Lode country. But even Red Dog had a geo-
graphical companion in the town of Dogpatch.

26

 

“Rosie” Does Her Bit

NO place in war time for pet birds? The wounded Yanks
in one Ward of the huge United States 42nd General
Hospital, at Brisbane, Australia, think otherwise.

The soldiers know that in their parrakeet pet, affectionately
named “Rosie-the-Riveter,” or “Rosie” for short, they have a
perfect morale-builder.

Although bred in the wilds of New Guinea, the little emerald
green bird ﬁnds the Ward a delightful place to live.

From “wake-up” time to “lights out” Rosie tirelessly hops
from one sick bed to another cheering the wounded.

Perched on a patient’s ﬁnger, Rosie gazes solemnly into his
face, complete trust in her round, unblinking eyes, content—
ment on her parrot-like face.

If she notices that sudden tears ﬁll the soldier’s eyes or
feels his hand tremble at the touch of her small, warm feet on
his ﬁnger the bird gives no sign. Rosie’s affection, often the
ﬁrst in long, lonely, horror-ﬁlled months, is welcome and most
touching.

When the orderly makes his rounds, there is Rosie perched
on his head or shoulder enjoying a ride.

Her diet? Very impractical I fear. Rosie subsists mainly
on handouts which she begs from the soldiers’ trays at “chow”
time. Readily she takes food from the ﬁnger or picks it
daintily from the tip of a spoon. The men ﬁnd her irresistible.

A soldier, recuperating from a leg amputation, claimed
ownership of the parrakeet at the time this intriguing creature
came to my attention. A buddy gave it to him when he left
the Ward. He had received it the same way. It is like a
tradition. The ownership of the parrakeet passes from one

soldier-patient to another when the owner leaves the Hospital
to return to combat or sail homeward. The bird is a joy to all.
Pain lessens and war-jangled nerves relax as the soldiers
laugh at Rosie’s antics or revel in her attentions.

—Angela M. Kohl

 

 

 

In Ohio. the driver of an automobile may be fined as much as
$50 for passing a horse. or horse-drawn vehicle. without first
obtaining the consent of the person riding or driving the horse.

 

 

 

 

as S1 amt’

 

0UR.DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

ll” r79

~ l
i332...

Y childhood cat was an odd little

creature. I recall her with a chuckle
and a tear. She had inherited a Persian
temperament and bit of long gray fur.
Large-eared and completely foolish, she
craved attention and generally found a
means of attaining it, as well as our
undying affection.

A paradoxical personality was hers, for
no matter how often she sought the spot-
light, she strongly reSented more than an
occasional pull on the ear or scratch
under the chin.

Only when she held the center of the
stage was she completely happy. At such
times, her great yellow eyes would grow
dark with enthusiasm; her ridiculous
ears would cup forward; even her whisk-
ers would take on a proud angle, as she
marched regallly across the mantel or
deigned to cuff Mother’s ball or darning
cotton with her paw.

“Penny” had talent to spare. She
could push a bottle of ink from desk to
floor without the least damage to bottle
or ﬂoor, providing the cap was on, and
did so with regularity. She dashed off
many an original numiber on the piano,
her periods of inspiration usually oc-
curring in the small hours of the morn-
ing. Every opportunity for mischief was

Marched regally across the mantel.

Paradox of “Penny”

54f £04m W. i [elm/um

She would keep
close watch on

an intruder.

Ada"

recognized and seized. It is no wonder
that all of her kitttens were incorrigible.

An intense dislike of strangers (and so
she regarded all but two of our acquaint-
ances) was evident from the moment she
reached maturity. She particularly dis-
liked callers who chose to enter the front
door. Those who arrived at the back
were for some reason to Penny slightly
less suspicious characters.

A ring of the doorbell inevitably ﬁlled
our cat with a mixture of dread and
curiosity. Padding cautiously to the hall
door, she would peek out and then, in a
frenzy of fear, dash into the closet, from

a

which vantage point she would keep close
watch on the intruder.

Penny was with us for six years, and
reared many a family of idiotic little
kittens, each with as perplexing char-
acteristics as its mother.

There still exists a living example of

my old cat’s personality. Next door there ,

resides a temperamental bit of felinity
that has the honor of being a great great
granddaughter of Penny, many times re-
moved. As I watch her slink fearfully
away at my approach and then from a
safe distance turn, in hopes of my atten-
tion, I see the shadow of my old gray cat
taking the spotlight once more.

 

Each with as perplexing characteristics as
its mother.

Canine Character

T is early evening at Mountain Home,
Idaho. By ones and twos, soldiers
ﬁle out of the Army Air Base for an eve-
ning in town. They. line up to await a bus.
Suddenly murmurs of protest arise as
someone starts shoving. Then under-
standing smiles appear and the soldiers
step back to let “Butch,” an English bull-
dog, go to the head of the waiting line.
The bus arrives and Butch piles ma-
jestically in. Invariably he chooses the
front double seat. Often some uninitiated

October 191,5

G. I. selects the seat beside Butch and
becomes annoyingly boisterous. In that
event the offender is subjected to a
withering glance, or, if necessary, given
a warning growl. Butch is a “lone wolf,”
so his activities in town are a mystery.
It is rumored that he has multiple social
contacts to maintain.

His mission to town completed, the
bow-legged bow-wow heads for the serv—
icemen’s pick-up station to “hitch” back
to camp. Ignoring the orthodox method

of getting a ride, Butch spots a pros-
pect, gallops into the middle of the road
and deﬁes the confused motorist to run
him down. When the curious driver stops
and opens his door to investigate, Butch
lumbers in, seats himself and stolidly
looks straight ahead until the inveigled
motorist catches on.

Thus runs an evening off for lovable
Butch, the “character” of Mountain
Home, Idaho.

—Clem Philbrook

191

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

E shudder when we think about the

scavenging of the great buzzards
and the smaller garbage gatherers. Yet
these feathered folk, actually, render
mankind a wonderful service, for they
are the housekeepers of plains and moun-
tains and shores.

Soaring high in the Andes, the giant
condor is always on the lookout for any
delectable piece of carrion, although this
bird will also eat fresh meat. From tip
to tip, the wings of a condor sometimes
spread from eight to ten feet and would
stretch almost entirely across a small
room. After they mount into the air,
these birds never seem to ﬂap their huge
wings, but glide along on the wind cur-
rents like large black planes. However,
when their keen eyes sight anything to
eat they come zooming down and gorge
themselves until they can hardly rise
from the ground.

Smaller than a condor, but still a good
sized bird, is the turkey buzzard. You
have, no doubt, seen them many times

Avian

By KATHERINE PETERS

 

BENEFICIAL TURKEY ‘B‘UZZARDS
_ NATURE-AIDING MAGPIE

wheeling round and round in the sky.
Then you know that something is prob-
ably dead and they will soon be feasting.
Thus they will be aiding Nature in her
work of cleaning up.

High up, in motion, the buzzards appear
very graceful and beautiful, but a close-
up View soon dispels this notion. Their
dull, black feathers seem to hang on them
loosely, giving them an unkempt, un-
couth appearance, and their bald red
heads are scrawny and unlovely. Still,
this baldness serves a purpose, for in
eating no feathers are in their way to
get soiled with food that would be difﬁcult
to get off.

'Among the best housekeepers of the
western states are the magpies, those
quarrelsome mimics that often frighten
smaller birds by crying like hawks. They
are always questing for food, and their
chief‘delights are the small dead animals
that they ﬁnd in the regions where they
build their nests. They are pretty birds,
mainly black and white with a bluish

ﬂ

 

sheen to their wings and a very long tail.

Although fussy and noisy, a magpie, if
kindly treated, will soon become a pet,
for it is easily tamed and can be taught
a few words.

But perhaps the loveliest of all the
scavengers are the sea gulls. It is an
interesting sight to see a ﬂock of them
standing very still on a sandy beach, as
though they were in military formation.
They are considered valuable about a
harbor, because they make short work of
any dead ﬁsh or trash that they ﬁnd.

Their peculiar harsh cry pierces the
wind and the beating of the waves as they
skim low over the water. And screaming
hosts follow boats into port, ﬂapping their
wings and greedily waiting for any
refuse that might be dumped overboard.

Wisely, legislators got busy a number
of years ago when their beautiful feath—
ers were used to decorate ladies’ hats and
put an end to their slaughter for fear
that one of mankind’s most needed help‘
ers might be destroyed.

Pigeon AldS Normandy IIlVaSiOIl . . . By ESTHER D. HOOEY

E owe a great deal to pigeons in

the winning of the war; an incident
which has been related lately, shows this
to be a fact. A pigeon, bearing a mes-
sage beneath its wing, dropped on a tug,
forming part of a Normandy—bound con-
voy during the early days of the invasion.
Just why it chose the tug as a landing
place no one can tell.

When the pigeon was discovered, the
senior ofﬁcer of the convoy was at once
informed. He was on board the May—
ﬂower and it was dark at the time, but
not a moment was lost in transferring

July 191,5

the capsule containing the precious mes-
sage, which the pigeon had borne beneath
its wing, to him.

Fortunately, there was a young French
Canadian by the name of “Belland,” serv-
ing in the Mayﬂower, who was able to
translate the message which had come by
pigeon-post. It had been dispatched by a
French patriot behind the German lines
and the mess-age contained Vital informa-
tion concerning German anti-aircraft
guns, ﬂying bomb sites, fortresses, troop
trains and tank movements.

Belland did such a ﬁne piece of work

in translating the message, that he was
commended by the Admiralty for his
work. Wireless silence was broken to
notify shore authorities of the discovery
and it is needless to say that there were
a few ﬂying bomb platforms put out of
operation by the next night.

The pigeon was adopted temporarily
by the ofﬁcers of the Mayﬂower and given
freedom of the wardroom.

The unerring instinct which these
birds seem to possess is beyond the mind
of man to explain, and makes us stand in
awe of the Power which guides them.

133

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

"SPARKY" GOES TOPSIDE
When general quarters is sounded aboard
his Coast Guard combat cutter. "Sparky"

goes topside on the double.

&

Birds and Valentine’s Day

A LONG time ago the birds ﬁgured
prominently in Valentine’s Day fes-
tivities. This was because of the belief
that all birds mated on the same date——
February 14.

Because of this inﬂuence, the early
Scotch and English considered the ac-

ceptance of a Valentine as a mock engage-l

ment.

In fairly recent periods it was still
common in many places to consult birds
as to the future on Valentine’s Day. The
ancient Romans believedso implicitly in

the prophetic power of birds that they

coined a word which we still use today,
to describe the phenomena. Thus, we
say “auspicious,” which means “favor-
able ﬂight of birds,” to express favorable
appearance. .

In early Derbyshire, the hen and the
rooster were watched by maidens who
wished to know how soon they would be
married. On Valentine’s Day, the girls
knelt before doors and squinted through
the keyholes. If they could see, framed
in the tiny opening, a rooster and a hen
at the same time, their marriage within
the year was assured.

To catch a glimpse of. the husband-to—
be, required a rather unpleasant ritual
with a hen’s egg. First, the egg was hard
boiled. Then salt was substituted for the
yolk, and the whole morsel, including the
shell, eaten. without beneﬁt of water or
utterance of a single word. This pe-
culiar custom was supposed to cause the
future husband to appear in a dream.

——Ida M. Pardae
24

.,
W'Kmﬂ-wm w. ---—.—»~.——...._..__. '

Horseman,George Washington

By L. E. EUBANKS

acquaintance with them, young

George had mastered the art of rid—
ing his pony by the time he started to
school. But the school was a long distance
off, through forest and across streams to
the Falmouth church, where the sexton,
Hobbs, taught the “three R’s.” Mr.
Washington thought it time young
George should become a real horseman,
and of this the boy recorded in his
diary:

“I remember when my father was
teaching me to leap my pony, the pony
refused, and my mother ran out, we were
near to the house. My father sat still
on a big stallion and took no notice of
her entreaties. At last I got the pony
over and he fell with me. I jumped up
and was in the saddle in a moment. My
father said I must try again. Mother
ran back into the house, crying out that
I would be murdered.”

But Augustine Washington had his
way. He persisted in making his son
master horses, knowing how important
this would be to him in later life. At
the age of eleven, George was riding
horseback four miles to school with his
hornbook tied to the saddlebow. Before
.helwas sixteen he thought nothing of a
trip to Wakeﬁeld, a brother’s estate on
Pope’s Creek, ﬁfteen miles away, or up

POND of horses from his very ﬁrst

'to visit Lawrence at Mount Vernon,

thirty miles distant. He was perfectly
at home in the saddle. He broke the

‘ Washington colts, trained them to take

the fences and follow the hounds.
Throughout his life Washington loved

his horses and found his most pleasant
recreation in working with them. Right
into old age, he continued to ride daily.
His farm was one of the largest in Amer-
ica, some 51,000 acres. These he divided
into several small estates, such as Muddy
Hole Farm, Union Farm, and River
Farm. He gave each a regular weekly
visit.

A soldier who had served under Wash—
ington called at Mount Vernon one day
to see his former friend. 'Mr. Custis
gave him these directions: “You will
meet with an old man wearing a broad—
brimmed hat, riding upon a white horse
with a great umbrella tied to his saddle—
bow. That, sir, is General Washington.

Riding in a drizzling rain, when he
was about sixty-eight years old, is said
to have caused Washington’s death. He
took a cold that ended fatally.

@

Horses’ Christmas

BOUT a week before Christmas came

a gift from a friend of our Society.
Accompanying this donation was a verse
which told us speciﬁcally that the donor
wished it applied to aid in our yearly
custom of giving Christmas dinners to
our equine friends. Here is the verse:

I’m sending you a silver dime,
Almost too small to see,

Please give some horse an apple real
And pat his nose for me.

 

Odd Facts
in
Rime

 

 

a;

///// .

Why the Grasshopper Doesn’t Slip
A clever little acrobat
The quick grasshopper is;
At springing off from bush to bush,
He really is a whiz.

 

Ry CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

\/

He lands on slippery stems with ease.
For down below his hips

Some tiny spurs catch in the stems;
That’s why he never slips.

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-.._.__-__—..i _

 

He Loves Cats
By JIM WALSH

B. C. HALL, a bedridden Roanoke, Va.,
veteran of the ﬁrst World War, is
a man who really loves cats. He proved
his devotion a few months ago when he
advertised in the Roanoke newspapers
that he would pay $20 a month, in ad-
vance, to anyone who would give eight of
his pets a good home.

Scores of replies were received and,
after the World News published a feature
story explaining why the boarding home
was being sought, the number increased
to hundreds. The majority of letters,
however, were not from people seeking to
board the cats, but from animal lovers
who admired the advertiser’s goodness of
heart.

Mr. Hall placed the cats with a man
living in the country and, as this account
was written, all were still staying with
the farmer and seemed happy.

Ever since he was a small boy, Hall,
who hasn’t walked for 13 years because
disease has made his legs useless, has
loved all animals, especially cats. Know-
ing of his fondness, people, who had kit-
tens they wanted to get rid of, imposed on
him by leaving them in the hallway of the
apartment house in which he lives. The
job of waiting on both her husband and
the cats eventually became too much for
Mrs. Hall, and it was decided that some
of the pets must ﬁnd other quarters. In-
stead of simply having them taken to
some distant place and hoping they
wouldn’t ﬁnd their way back, Mr. and
Mrs. Hall proved their genuine love by
advertising for a boarding home.

“I’d far rather pay $20 a month than
lie here and know that some of my cats
were homeless and hungry,” Mr. Hall
said.

The invalid is well able to pay the cats’
board as he operates a proﬁtable mail
order business in rare coins. The pic-
ture here shows him with the several
cats to which he and his wife were most
attached.

192

ANIMAL AND

Cat Tales

Little items tucked away on back
pages of the newspapers reveal the fol-
lowing stories, especially interesting to
those of us who love cats:

Indignant because he was bounced
out of church by his master, "Dude,”
13-year-old cat, disappeared and stayed
away from home for three years.

"Ping,” a Texas cat, opens the re»-
frigerator and helps himself to his sup-
per when his mistress fails to feed him
exactly at six o’clock.

"Turpentine,” a California tomcat
owned by an artist, acts as butler by
yowling to attract the artists’ attention
when the door bell rings; biting bis
trouser legs when it is meal time, and
then turns friendly critic as he sits and
peers intently at the master’s art work.

Befriended by railyard workers at At-
lanta, Georgia, a stray dog, “Snooksie,”
passed the good deed on by adopting an
orphaned family of kittens. Daily,
Snooksie goes a long distance to a cafe
where the owner gives her a wrapped

package of food, which she takes to the

kittens and tenderly watches them eat
every bite.

N o alarm clock is necessary to arouse
a Brownwood, Texas, couple. They have
an eight-day wonder of their own,
"Squeegie,” their cat. Every morning, at
exactly seven o’clock, Squeegie wakes
his master and mistress by patting their
faces with his soft paw. Squeegie is un-
usual in other ways. He sits in front of
the radio whenever music is on, and
listens attentively. Upon request, he’ll
play dead, and he just» loves playing in a
pan of water!

"Rags,” a California cat, knows
where to go "when a fellow needs a
friend.” He had been taken to a veter-
inarian when suffering from a throat
ailment. It was a distance of several
blocks from his home, having to cross
the street where there was heavy trafﬁc.
Yet, Rags made his way to the veter-
inarian’s oﬁice, scratched at the door
until it was opened. The doctor saw the
cat was suffering from an injured leg,
apparently having been struck by a car.
After treating the wound, the doctor
telephoned the cat’s mistress. She didn’t
know that her pet had been hurt,
neither did she know he was away from
home.

——]ewell Casey

Prize Story

OME years ago, Mrs. George L. Tyler,
of Revere, won ﬁrst prize in the Bos—

ton Evening American’s dog story con-
test for the following story which she
has kindly given us permission to reprint.

“A few years ago, we owned a bull
terrier, who, at the time of this story,
was almost two years old. My husband
was a member of the South Boston Yacht
Club and always took the dog with him.
One day a kitten fell overboard and swam
under the raft. It would surely have
drowned but for the fact that “Spot”
plunged in and brought the all but life-
less cat to the raft, laying it tenderly
down in a sunny place back of one of the
boats.

“He lay there watching the cat, until
it showed signs of life, then helped dry
it. In some way, it had hurt its leg and,
in dog fashion, Spot would try to help
her by remaining constantly by her side.
From that day, his ﬁrst duty was a call
on his sick friend.

“If he could not go in by the door, he’d
swim to the raft and there was Miss Puss
waiting in the same place. After a while
kittens came and puss made her bed
under one of the overturned boats on the
raft. Spot made himself guardian and
protector of the family, taking his choic-
est bone from the earth in the back yard
to his charges. What he couldn’t under-
stand was their unappreciative reception
of his sacriﬁce.

“To see him run around those kittens
and keep them from falling into the
water was really human and many nights
he snuggled under the boat with them
until they were ﬁnally carried away one
by one. The strange part of this yarn is
that he was death on every cat in the
neighborhood, but the helplessness of this
particular one appealed to his loving
heart and harm was his last idea.”

a

Pet Cat
By W. J. MOTT

Against a burglar, I would be
But very slight protection:
But what I lack in other ways,
I make up by affection.
l purr as loudly as I can
When you are near to me:
And lick your hand to let you know
That you are dear tome.
When you correct me (for my good)
I do not really mind it:
For you and I know very well
That there is love behind it.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

umane Education Cf€d0

 

I BELIEVE that Humane Education is an essential part in the

development of all children.

I believe that it should foster in each child a kindliness,
thoughtfulness, and self-control in his relationships with all

animals.

Ibelieve that humanenessshould be developed through ex-
periences with all forms of animal life which are found Within the

child’s environment from the lowest to the highest forms of life.

I believe that the greatest value of Humane Education is the

development of desirable character traits in children.
I believe that the beneﬁcial results to animals are secondary.

I believe that the best approach to the development of such
desirable traits is through the stimulation of interest in animal life

by experiences With living animals.

I believe that these experiences should provide situations
through Which desirable feelings are stimulated and opportunity

then given to carry these feelings over into action.

I believe that sympathy for and understanding of animals
are best developed through understanding the needs and problems

of the family life of animals.

I believe that the development of true humaneness, not

sentimentality, is the surest foundation for true democracy.

—Dorot/Jea Clark

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
  

ECAUSE Christ was born in a man-
ger in Bethlehem, surrounded by
cattle, many legends have sprung up con-
cerning the behavior of animals during

the Christmas season. The superstitious
still believe that at Yuletide, the animals,
sensing the birthday of Christ, do pay
their respects to Him who was born
among them.

It is common belief in Ireland and
England that when the cock crows in the
stillness of the November and Decem-
ber nights, it is crowing to announce the
approaching Christmas season. Legend
has it that the cock acts in this manner
to scare off the evil spirits who might
dare be abroad during the Holy Season.

In the old world, the bees are said to
sing, the cattle to kneel in honor of the
manger and sheep to go in solemn pro—
cession in commemoration of the Visit
of the angels to the shepherds. Because
of their close association with the events
surrounding the birth of Christ, the cows
and sheep are given the best possible
care during the Christmas period.

There is an old Indian legend that still
persists in the upper regions of Canada.
Handed down from father to son, the Red
Men believe that on Christmas night, all
the deer in the world kneel and look up
to the Heavens. This is their way of
showing their respect to the Great Spirit.

In the German Alps, it is commonly
believed that the cattle have the gift of

December 1 91,5

language on Christmas Eve. However,
it is considered a great sin to play the
part of the eavesdropper upon them.
Legend has it that misfortune will fall
upon the head of the one who dares to
invade the sanctuary of the animals while
they are talking among themselves.

There is an Alpine story in connection
with the hard luck that does descend on
a “peeping tom.” It seems, as the story
goes, that the hired man on one of the
farms did not believe the legend of the
talking animals. He looked with scorn
upon such an idea and he boasted that
he would ﬁnd out for himself what an
absolute lie the story was. The super-
stitious pleaded with him to desist from
such a move as they predicted that no
good would come of it all.

But the hired man was stubborn and
when he stuck by his plans on Christmas
Eve, the good folks blessed themselves.
The hired man hid in the stables so that
he could be present during the night when
the animals were supposed to talk.

Legend has it that the hired man

found to his dismay that the cattle were '

all talking. And to his amazement, he
seemed to be the topic of conversation
among the horses. The supposedly dumb
animals talked about his death and they
discussed the weight of his body, espe-
cially when they would have to haul him
up the long, steep hill that led to the
church yard.

yuletioe
animal

~

egenos

ﬂy ﬂ. 2.
Keeling.

Iﬁutb toms ant sheep mere
present at the

ﬁatihitp ant: are thus
arenrbeb speeial

tare During

the thristmas season.

The story ends with the hired man,
dashing from the haunted stables, shriek-
ing wildly. The good folks who had
warned him, found him, a raving maniac,
and the tale closes on a sad note with the
hired man’s burial that same week.

All the superstitious believe that it is
their duty to be nice to every dumb ani-
mal during the Christmas holidays. This
period, they feel, is the animal’s special
season for rejoicing in the great Event.
And they realize that the Creator has a
special spot in His heart for the lowly
animals, since He permitted His only
Son to be born among them on that ﬁrst
Christmas Day.

.225.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Following are a few of the typical oases
investigated by our agents in their state-
wide crnsade against cruelty,-

Birds

On complaint that two boys were shoot-
ing birds with air riﬂes, one of our agents
visited the boys’ home. He talked with
their mother and with them, at which
time the boys admitted buying the guns
and killing various birds with them.
After explaining the seriousness of the
offense the air riﬂes were turned over to
the ofﬁcer to keep until the parents had
decided what to do.

Learning that a robin had been caught
by a piece of string in a tree, an ofﬁcer
investigate-d and found the robin held by
one leg to a branch and was helpless. By
standing on the roof of a car and using a
long pole with a knife attached, the agent
was able to cut off the branch and catch
the robin as it fell. After the string was
removed and ﬁnding that the leg was not
broken, the bird was released and it ﬂew
away.

Livestock

A case involving inadequate care of
livestock started an investigation. Our
ofﬁcer found 2 calves in the barn and in
the pasture, 13 cattle, 4 calves (1 dead),
2 horses and a bull, all in fair condition.
The animals’ quarters, however, were
very dirty and no hay or grain in evi—
dence. The agent gave the owner one
week to put his place in order and pro-
vide food.

 

Reunion of Li. Blanche E. Maher and "Shilling."

164:

Dogs

Receiving a complaint that the owner
had his dog tied with too short a rope,
our agent investigated and found a fair
looking police dog on an eight-foot rope.
The owner explained that the dog had
been on a long chain but 'had broken it.
Our oﬂicer explained that the dog ap-
peared to be in fair condition as to ﬂesh,
but advised owner to put up a wire from
one end of the house to a tree in the
yard to give the dog a long run. The
owner promised to do this and a sub-
sequent check proved him a man of his
word.

Leaving a dog out in all kinds of
weather without shelter was the source
of another investigation. The owner was
not at home, but word was left that he
should make sure that his animal was
given shelter. A return visit showed
that a dog house had been moved to the
enclosure so that the dog could have
access to it.

Cats

A telephone report that a man owned
an injured cat and was doing nothing to
relieve its condition, brought an agent of
our Society who found a black cat in fair
ﬂesh. The cat, however, had caught its
tail in a door and the tail was in very
bad condition. The owner agreed to

bring the animal to the shelter for treat- _

ment.

assess... . ,

Fd‘ﬁ‘ﬁﬁa?
ﬂﬂ‘ﬁﬁﬁ‘aﬂﬂVﬁﬂﬂ
{assessesraw

 

(See story)

 

Needed refreshment.

Relief From Heat

ITH the advent of hot weather and

the increase in the use of horses for
pleasure and commercial purpose-s, our
Society, as has been its custom for many
years, again reopened various watering
stations throughout the city in an effort
to aid horses suffering from extreme
heat. The lucky horse, shown pausing at
the station in India Square, received a
refreshing drink from attractive Ann
Heﬂer, while the driver looked on approv-
ingly.

&

Pet Joins Mistress

.HAPPY reunion was experienced re-

cently at our Angell Memorial Ani-

mal Hospital, Where “Shilling,” greatly-

loved pet of Lt. Blanche E. Maher, Army

Nurse Corps, of Waltham, Massachusetts,

was enthusiastically greeted by her mis-
tress.

A native of Trinidad, British West
Indies, Shilling was adopted by Lieuten-
ant Maher, who was stationed in Trini-
dad for 3.1 months. Shilling’s owner
declared that the meeting with the Eng-
lish—born canine was purely a case of
“love at ﬁrst sight.”

Returning to this country on leave, the
Army nurse found it necessary to send
her faithful companion by steamer, while
she made the trip by air. Hospital veter-
inarians, who were called upon to check
the animal’s physical condition, found it
to be in excellent shape—none the worse
for the long journey.

So great was Lieutenant Maher’s at-
tachment for Shilling that she could not
bear to leave her pet behind in Trinidad.
Consequently the pet was shipped di-
rectly to our Hospital where, in case of
mishap, it could be treated promptly.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Kindergarten,
Grades One, Two, Three

I. BASIC IDEA: Animals that live in the
water secure food and air in different ways.

II. SUBJECT MATTER: Aquatic Acro-
bats.

III. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:

Help secure materials (gravel, water
plants, food, small stones) and arrange a
suitable home for the different forms of
water life.

Go as a group to collect the various ani-
mals that live in water: insects, tadpoles,
snails.

Observe the different kinds of insects
and other animals.

How do they move through the water?

What do they eat? How do they eat?

How do they get the air they need?
Visit the museum and the zoo.

What other animals that live in water
do you ﬁnd in these places? (beavers,
muskrats)

Make a chart of the animals that live in
the water.

Show what they eat; how they breathe;

how they move about.

Return any ﬁsh or other water life to the
pond where you secured it when you have
ﬁnished watching it.

IV. DESIRABLE LEARNINGS:
Speciﬁc Ideas

Tadpoles, ﬁsh, insects, snails live in the
water.

These animals need food and air.

Fish secure air by means of gills.

Some water insects carry an air supply
about with them.

Some insects have mouth parts for suck-
ing their food; others have mouth parts
ﬁtted for biting food.

Attitudes

An increasing interest in the small crea-
tures that live in water.

A realization that when we take these
animals from their homes we must provide
other homes as nearly like them as possible.

A responsibility for the care and feeding
of the animals.

An absence of unreasonable fear towards
living creatures that are harmless.

These attitudes are evidenced in the fol-
lowing ways:

The child likes to watch the animals.

He asks questions about them.

He helps get materials to provide the
proper environment.

He helps to feed them and to keep the
aquarium clean.

He returns the animals to their natural
habitat when he has ﬁnished observing
them.

He is not afraid of dragon ﬂies or
“darning needles” as they are called.

Grades Four, Five, Six

I. BASIC IDEA: All living things have
certain needs. Some animals interfere
with man’s needs. .
II. SUBJECT MATTER: Aquatic Acro-
bats.
III. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
Observe various kinds of water insects.
How do they breathe?
What do they eat? How do they eat
their food? ' ,

October 1945

What advantage do these insects have
over other forms of life?

Make a chart that will show the com-
parison of the rate of breathing of: a
dog, a cat, a canary, yourself.

Compare the length of a water insect’s
stay below the surface with that of an
expert swimmer; for example: a pearl
diver.

From your observations: Which of
these insects interfere with man’s needs?
(Observe such insects as mosquito wrig—
glers, “perch bugs,” water boatmen,
back-swimmers) .

What are the best methods to use in
controlling the harmful insects?

What other animals living in the water
might be considered by some people as
needing control? (Ask your game warden
about muskrats and beavers).

IV. DESIRABLE LEARNINGS:
Speciﬁc Ideas

Some mosquitoes carry disease.

Other species of mosquitoes are annoy-
ing to us.

These harmful insects must be controlled.

Back—swimmers, water boatmen, and
water walking sticks feed on young ﬁsh.

Much damage is done in some places to
young ﬁsh by these insects.
Attitudes

An attitude of open-mindedness with
respect to authority concerning the harm-
lessness or harmfulness of various forms
of water life and the need for control.

This attitude is evidenced by:

An unwillingness to condemn any ani—

mal as harmful until proof is established.

REFERENCE MATERIALS
B°°ks °f Reference: (Titles marked with ‘4‘
are for children)

Cornell Rural School Leaﬂet Vol. XXXII,'

Number 2—Department of Rural Educa—
tion, New York State College of Agricul-
ture, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
Waterways in Fall —— Directions for
establishing an aquarium; charts and

     

> .1441? . 13. (ﬂy . ﬂ

diagrams of many common water ani-
mals; life histories and economic im-
portance to man.
*Duncan, F. M. and Duncan, L. T.—Insect
Life in Pond and Stream, Oxford
Good accounts of the more common
insect inhabitants of water.
Needh‘am, J. G. and Lloyd, J. T.——Life of
‘ Inland Waters, Charles C. Thomas
Excellent accounts of the life of ponds
and streams.
Morgan, Ann Haven—Field Book of Ponds
and Streams, G. P. Putnam’s Sons
An invaluable aid to identiﬁcation,
description and life habits of water
life.
*Porter, W. P. and Hansen, E. A.——Pond
Book, American Book Co.
Includes material on aquatic life suit-
able for children in grades 4-6.
NOTE: See September, 1945, issue “Our
Dumb Animals” for other references.

VISUAL MATERIALS:
Films:
Insects, Some Water—16 mm. silent, run—
ning time 9 minutes. Eastman
Striders, water bugs, dragon ﬂiesand
damsel ﬂies are observed in close-up
vieWs that are very good.
Frogs, Toads, and Salamanders—16 mm.
silent, running time 10 minutes. Eastman
The development of these different
amphibians from egg to adult stage is
pictured. .
Life History of the Yellow Fever Mosquito

——16 mm. silent, running time 10 min—

utes. American Museum of Natural

History

Photomicrographic views of the eggs,
hatching, feeding, swimming, and
breathing of the larvae.

NOTE: Practical helps for teachers in
carrying out this project are being prepared
in mimeograph form. Copies may be pro-
cured by addressing the American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave.,
Boston 15, Mass.

    
      

“@213.
Drawing by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt

ﬂy: {2.

SOME INTERESTING AQUATIC INSECTS
(Fig. I) Giant Water-bug: (Fig. 2) Riley's Strider; (Fig. 3) Stilt-bug. not an aquatic
insect; (Fig. 4) Skating-bug: (Fig. 5) Back-swimmer: (Fig. 6) Water-boatman; (Flg. 7)
Waier-strider: (Fig. 8) Dragon-fly coming out of its shell; (Fig. 9) CaddIs-ily:
(Fig. IO-l3) Caddis-worms.

195

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\\

Following are a few of the typical cases
investigated by our agents in their state—
wide crnsade against cruelty.-

  

Dogs

Receiving a complaint that an owner
had tied his dog’s mouth so it couldn’t
bark, and shut it in the garage all day,
one of our agents investigated the case
and found a seven-month-old springer
spaniel shut up in a garage with a cord
tied around its mouth so tight that it
could hardly breathe. Our ofﬁcer imme-
diately took the cord off, and as the owner
was absent at work, waited for him to
return. When questioned, the man stated
that he tied the dog in this manner and
shut him in the garage because the bark-
ing annoyed his wife, whowas sick, and
he was afraid the animal might bite
someone if it was just turned loose. He
further stated that he fed the dog twice
a day at 7:30 A.M. and again at 5:30
P.M. Our agent took out a complaint
against the owner, who, when brought to
court, was ﬁned ten dollars.

Learning that a dog had been left
with no food while the owner was away,
our agent investigated, Visiting the of-

CHAMPION DUSTY VULCANl
Holbrook. poses with Mrs.

   

owned by Mrs.
Robert Groves. daughter of Mrs. Jones.

\

s\\\

  

\\\ ,.

/////////

fender’s hut in the wood-s. The owner
was at home and claimed that he had
been gonethree days, but had left suf-
ﬁcient food for his .dog. He was cau-
tioned and warned that prosecution would
follow if he left dog without care.

Horses

On information that an accident had
occurred while transporting horses, our
ofﬁcer investigated and found that while
the owner was carrying three horses on
an auto truck, the right side of the truck
body ibulged out, leaving a space between
the ﬂoor boards. One of the horses got
its left front and left hind leg through
the space. Our agent with the aid of
the owner and three other men managed
to get the horse on its feet, but found
the animal nervous, sweating and a
scraped and bleeding wound on the hind
leg. Repairs were made and the owner
gave assurance that a new body would
be made for his truck.

Pet Shop

Inspection of a pet shop revealed two
monkeys in crowded quarters, although
in good condition. Proprietor agreed
readily to put them in larger cage.

 

m

Griffith Jones.

Pilgrim Kennels.

The dog was

one of over sixty of his breed in the twenty-fourth annual show of the Bull Dog Club
of New England. Inc.. held for the benefit of our Hospital.

224

 

Drowning of Pets

Rumor Is Disqualiﬁed

NE night last October, our night
telephone operator received a call
from a soldier who explained that he had
just landed from the S. S. Hood Victory,
a WarShipping Administration vessel.
He claimed that, while en route, twelve
live dogs had been thrown overboard and
drowned on direct order of a high rank-
ing army ofﬁcer. -

As soon as this information was re-
layed to our President, Eric H. Hansen,
he contacted Army Headquarters in Bos-
ton and was assured that a prompt in-
vestigation of all aspects of the case
would 'be put in motion at once. At the
same time our own agents proceeded
independently and succeeded in collecting
evidence which corroborated, the Army’s
report.

Under date of October 18, report was
made of the investigation ordered by
Brigadier General James C. Marshall,
commanding general of the Boston Port
of Em'barkation. "

“After two men had been bitten by a
dog, the transport commander ordered
that that dog be conﬁned for observation
and that the ship (be searched for other
dogs. All other dogs discovered were to
be taken to the ship’s hospital for chloro-
forming by a ship’s surgeon.

“One other dog was discovered in the
search and was turned over to the ship’s
medical ofﬁcer. The dog was put to sleep
and its body thrown overboard. No other
dog was thus treated.

“The dog which had bitten the two
men and, while being secured, a third,
was turned over, on the ship’s arrival, to
the Port of Embarkation medical ofﬁcer
to 'be held for observation.”

So ends the report, but between the
lines one may read the story of many a
heartache as a soldier and his pet are
separated. It seems pitiful, indeed, that
these men, who have become so attached
to their dogs, should not be allowed to
bring them home. Many of these pets
have gone through campaigns with their
masters, have faced death unﬂinchingly
to be with their adored ones.

We know of many, many dogs that
have been permitted to enter the country
with returning servicemen. Apparently,
however, in this case, some regulation
was violated. And even though only one
dog was put to sleep on the Hood Victory,
we can well imagine the feelings of the
soldier-owner and his comrades when this
loyal companion was destroyed, however
humanely, and its body consigned to the

sea.
@

jNYONE who is kind to animals is
' pretty sure to be good, also, to help-
less children, women and old people; in
other words, he is pretty sure to be
chivalrous—like the knights of old.
—Sir Robert Baden-Powell

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




Fourteen Years of Service

men and all agreed that a change for
the care of animals would be advisable.
The work of remodelling was begun.

The day of the ofﬁcial opening was
April 30, 1938, although animals had
been received at the shelter for several
months previous to that date. On the oc-
casion of the formal opening, Rev. Arthur
tection. FOZZO’WWQ Z'8 the story of the L. Winn led in prayer and Dr. Francis H.
Auxiliary’s start and activities up to the Rowley, then president of the Massachu-
Present time. setts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, spoke a few well
chosen words as did Mr. Guy Richard-
son, editor of Our Dumb Animals and
secretary of the Society. Others from
out of town were present, as well as
many of the Auxiliary’s own members,
and about sixty school children led the
company in singing “America.”

In the ﬁrst year, 168 animals were
cared for at the shelter and over the
course of years this number increased,
until the last year saw over 700 animals
committed to the organization’s care.

“As I look back over the fourteen
years,” says Mrs. Taylor, “had it not
been for the faithfulness of the mem—
bers, the cooperation of the townspeople,
and the strong backing of the parent or- @
ganization, we, as an Auxiliary, could
not have accomplished the ﬁne piece of

Some fourteen years ago, Mrs. Rich-
ard S. Taylor organized our Winchester
Branch Auxiliary, serving as its presi-
dent and faithful worker until the last
annual meeting, at which time she asked
to be relieved from active service. Mrs.
Taylor, however, will continue her life-
long interest in the work for animal pro-

T was many years ago, that a young
girl saw a driver beating his horse

mercilessly. Watching with pity in her
heart, she saw the old horse stumble and
sink heavily to the road. His heart had
given out; he was dead.

Some days later, the driver appeared
in court and heard the testimony of this
same girl—testimony that cost the man
l $25 in ﬁnes. This girl was Mrs. Richard
‘ S. Taylor and that was the start of a
career devoted to the prevention of
cruelty to animals.

In the summer of 1931., most of her
time was spent in making calls on all the
3 pastors of the churches, on the mer-
l chants of the town, on the Chairman of
the Board of Selectmen, on the Super-
intendent of Schools, and on the Chief

 

MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY

1 of Police. Says Mrs. Taylor, “It was work which I, as president, consider it
‘ simply marvelous, the kindly way I was to be. ' At 180 Longwmd Avenue’ 305““ 15
received by everyone.” “In conjunction With our work, we Cases entered in Hospital ...... 814
During that same summer, Mrs. Tay- have also endeavored to interest the chil— Cases entered in Dispensary -- - 1,659
lor and a friend visited the local dog dren in kindness to animals. We have Operations ------------------ 310

succeeded, at least, to some extent. This
has been made possible by the ﬁne c0-

pound. What they saw there convinced

them that something must be done. So, At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

 

 

 

 

 

on October 21, of that year, a number of Operation of the Superintendent of Cases entered in HOSpital ----- 232
Winchester women met at Mrs. Taylor’s Schools, Who has Be Kind to Animals Cases entered in Dispensary ,, , 724
y ‘ home and organized the Winchester Week observed in the schools each April. - Operations .................. 130
l Auxiliary of the Massachusetts Society And this, with the program of the Paro-
l for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. chial SChOOL brings every child in Win— Totals'
. m of
l . . y 1V1ng creature. Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 246,883
I was ready to functlon. From SUCh small beginnings, grew the Dispensary cases ........ 613 402
l = The following days, as Mrs. Taylor Winchester Auxiliary which has become, 1 . l . . ——————-—,
l went about town, many questions were in its years of activity, a power for real Total .......... 860,285
' asked as to what would be done with the good in its community and under its new
; animals and where they would be housed. ofﬁcers will continue to ﬂourish. We wish
5 These were questions that she had al- to take this opportunity to thank Mrs.
’ ready solved in her own mind, for on the Taylor for her years of faithful endeavor OVER THE AIR
piopeity SUlroundlng hel own home’ the and WISh an equal success t0 the new For those who like stories and facts

contractor had left a “cabin” on ﬁnishing
the restoration of the 160-year-old house.
So, for six years this “home” for the
animals proved sufﬁcient.

At the end of this period, a call to open
a more pretentious shelter was heard.
Mr. Arthur Bryer was called in one eve-
ning for a business discussion. He left
that night with the promise to come
again the following evening and bring

president. ‘

At the recent annual meeting, at which.
President Eric H. Hansen spoke, the
following list of ofﬁcers'was elected:
Miss Leontine T. Pote, president; Mrs.
John C. Gilbert, vice-president; Mrs.
G. Russell Mann, corresponding secre-
tary; Mrs. G. H. Dodd, recording secre—
tary; Mrs. William N. Beggs, treasurer. In Springﬁeld' Mrs. Charlene Kibbe
Newly elected directors were: Mrs. John br°ad°aS+s ‘3 Similar pmgram “Ch TueSday'

about our animal friends. our Society spon-
sors two distinct radio programs.

In Boston. "Bird and Animal Lore" is
presented by Miss Margaret J. Kearns each
Saturday. at 2:45 *P. ‘M.. over WHDiH—850

on your dial.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with him a plan for the construction of
a shelter. True to his word, he appeared
with the plan and a few days later ﬁve
members met with the Board of Select-

134

Clark, Miss Gladys Folts, Mrs. Alfred H.
Hildreth, Miss Evelyn Parker, Mrs. Rich-
ard S. Taylor, and Mrs. Wilbert E. Un-
derwood.

at 2:l5 P. 'M., over WSPR—l270‘ on your
dial.
BE SURE TO LISTEN!

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Spar" goes topside to see the sea.

Saga of “Spar”

ORALE Builder First Class is the

rate held by “Spar,” eight—month-

old fox terrier and mascot of a Coast

Guard manned Army freight supply ship

in the central Paciﬁc. Spar likes rough

weather, drinks Coca-Cola and is a good
sailor.

She was presented to the crew of this
trim 167-foot craft by Spars in the Dis-
trict Ofﬁce, Miami, Fla., and reported
aboard ship in September, 1944, Where
she has been crossing with the crew
ever since. '

Slight of build with a rough black coat
and razor sharp teeth, she stands a
regular watch aboard ship, sleeps with
the crew, and eats her meals in the
Captain’s wardroom.

When general quarters are sounded,
Spar makes a beeline for the bridge to
see what’s going on; and when the signal
to abandon ship is given, she hotfoots
it for a lifeboat.

She can climb a line like an old “salt,”
and the higher the sea and stronger the
gale, the better she seems to like it. She
never suffers from seasickness, which is
something the rest of the crew wish they
could say. ‘

For breakfast, she eats oranges and
eggs, although she is not averse to a

bone, if properly cooked. When liberty H

is given, she goes ashore with the crew.
Much later she returns to the ship and
sacks in for the night until called for
her regular watch.

Spar has no boy friends, but members
of the crew say she is waiting for “Sin-

bad” of Coast Guard Cutter CAMP-
BELL fame.
44

Cat That’s Part Dog

By EMELINE LA MONT ROSS

H'E little black ball of fur crouched ,
in the cardboard carton seemed.
scarcely alive at all. As the trafﬁc
whizzed by on the busy New York Street,
cold wet snow fell in the open box, and
only the faintest imaginable kitten-sound
made me bend and pick up its occupant.

“Inky,” who was destined to be a mem-
ber of a newspaper man’s family, was
thin, mangy and half—starved. We didn’t
expect to keep her, for we were sure our
pampered Cooker-Spaniel would not tol-
erate a rival. But “Happy” showed only
the most affectionate interest in the tiny
mite who slept almost uninterruptedly
for three days in a little basket under the
warmth of an electric light bulb. Occa-
sionally we roused the exhausted little
cat and persuaded her to lap up some
warm milk. Then Happy would lick her
gently and nuzzle her back into her
basket.

Later, when Inky frisked about, she
played with Happy’s long ears and stub
of a tail while the Spaniel gazed at her
with an amused tolerance. They seemed
to alternate the arduous duty of face-
washing. Happy could launder all of Inky
with two quick motions of her warm
tongue, but the little kitten labored long
and patientlyover the bigger job of the
dog’s ears and face. They slept close to-
gether in a big chair and shared all their
meals.

Perhaps it is due to the close relation-
ship of those early days'that our little
cat, even now, sometimes thinks that she

is a member of the canine race. In an af-
fectionate mood, she will leap on me or
one of the children and insist on licking
us, her sandpaper tongue grating over
ear or face. She will drink very little
milk, but loves any kind of dog-food.

One day when our little boy pulled her
tail, I jumped to save him from the vi-
cious scratch he had undoubtedly earned;
but in that second, much to my amaze—
ment, Inky had uttered a sharp sound,
half bark, half growl, and had snapped
at him, so quickly that only a baby’s
talent for eScaping consequences saved
him from a nasty bite.

We began to call her “Pup” and were
not at all surprised at her latest perform-
ance. The children and I had gone out
in the rowboat, taking Happy with us. As
we left the dock, we heard a mournful
cat—cry and looked back to see Inky
at the end of the dock, gazing after us.
Calling to her to go home, we went on
with our rowing, but the crying per”-
si-sted, —- Inky was following along the
shore, in and out of the tall reeds. Going
in close, we. saw that she was quite wet,
and, touched by such devotion, extended
an oar to a jutting piece of land. With
great grace and dignity she walked the
length of the oar, jumped into the boat,
and settling herself on the seat beside me,
proceeded calmly to the task of making
herself immaculate again. Her normal
poise regained, she thoroughly enjoyed
the boat-ride. In spite of her Jekyll-
Hyde personality, Inky is always a lady!

 

The lobster is a funny fish
He’s not like you or us;

He's really ludicrous.

 

 

The Inside-Out Fellow

Although he Pinches when he’s mad,

in
Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sager-mam:

The reason he’s so comical
ls just because he wears

His skeleton outside his flesh!
But do you think he cares?

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

O'LLIE’S great eyes were ﬁxed on By. They had
lost their devil-may-care look; they just watched
and watched, patiently, concernedly.

The face they watched was a young, handsome face
—By’s face—where a sort of laxity was causing the
eyes to close occasionally, and the mouth to smile,
contentedly.

Through the open window, the sounds of late spring
culminated to cause By’s drowsiness to become more
pronounced, till his head dropped to his chest, and
his muscles relaxed in sleep. ‘

Collie noticed the sudden movement of By’s head
with concern. With that indeﬁnable sixth sense pos-
sessed by a dog, Collie could tell all was not as it
should be. Something had been wrong ever since By
had come home about a week ago.

By’s homecoming was a surprise to the whole family,
but most of all to Collie. One minute, it seemed, Byron
Peters had been in Italy, and the next minute, there he
was, coming in the front door yelling, “Anybody home?”
just as he had when he was a boy. And it was Collie
who ﬁrst greeted him. .

Collie had been drowsing in the sitting room when he
heard the steps outside. He had heard the young voice
cry its greeting, and had bounded to see who the in-
truder might be.

By saw Collie dart through the sitting room door and
round the corner into the hall—a streak of gold to tan
fur with a spot of milk white covering a broad chest.
This had been his dog, once, when Collie was a gawky
youngster of seven months, inquisitive about every-
thing, frolicsome, loyal through and through. At seven
months, Collie had been a one-man dog, and By was
that man.

When By saw him streak past the open door, he won—
dered what kind of remembering the dog would do. It
had been sixteen months since By had seen him, and
he was wearing khaki now, not “civies.”

As Collie had turned into the hallway, that sixth
sense executed its command. He saw the 22-year-old
soldier, grinning like the kid he was, and sixteen months
faded into oblivion. By was home

The big dog had rushed to the soldier, his tail wag-
ging ﬁercely, causing his hind quarters to roll with each
swish. His eyes radiated to their depths. It was really
By!

When By had sat down, Collie, completely happy,
curled before his chair like he had as a puppy. Then,
suddenly, he had drawn away, troubled, as he was now
when By drowsed in the overstuffed chair in the sitting
room.

Collie stood up suddenly, stretched fore and aft and
ambled to the side of By’s chair. He thrust his cold
muzzle in By’s hand. '

The soldier started as he felt the soft head at his
elbow.

“Hello there, Collie,” he said, “guess I did a little
sleeping.” He patted the dog’s silken head.

“My dog.” By regarded the great animal with affec-
tion, then spoke softly. “Want to try our trick, Boy?”
Collie wriggled in delight as he heard By’s voice.

“0. K., Collie, go to my bedroom-3’

By didn’t need to go any further. The command was
familiar to Collie. He had been bringing By his slippers
long before his young master had left for the Army.

Collie started up the stairway. The same old trick—
and yet, it wasn’t the same, not really. It was peculiar
—By’s changing the trick so that Collie brought down
only one slipper.

September 1945

“Collie”
Could
Tell

leg/wee 74%“

 

Photo, William D. Barkley

“Collie” watched By patiently, con-
cernedly — his great brown eyes
fixed on his master. He could tell that
something was wrong. True, the By
he had loved so long ago was back
again, but he had changed. His clothes
were different. He was contented, but
strangely, he was no longer the ac-
tive, boisterous By Collie remem-
bered so well. And the trick—even
that was different, now.

165

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

. Queer

Armadillo

By DOROTHY L. SMITH
.._
ARMADILLOS WEAR, SUITS OF ARMCR

UADRUPLETS! That’s right. Not one,,not two, not
Q three, but four—that’s the number of offspring the

female armadillo may expect every time the stork makes
a call. Four babies every time. Not only that, but the sex
of all four will always be the same. If male, all of them will
be male. If female, all will be female. It’s just another one
of Nature’s strange whims that makes this true, regardless of
the mother armadillo’s feelings about the matter.

It’s a queer animal—the armadillo. Queer in the way it is
made, queer in its habits, and even queer in its choice of food.
Ants, it likes, and carrion food (dead stuff that has long since
lost its freshness). This gives its ﬂesh a taste not much
relished by those who like their hot dinners hot, and their cold
dinners cold. For in South America where the armadillo makes
its home, the natives really eat its ﬂesh. That is, if they can
catch the elusive animal. Its legs and claws are made for
burrowing, and if it is pursued it can burrow in the ground
quicker than any pursuer can follow. Besides that, it is a
timid animal, and seldom goes out except at night.

And the clothes that it wears! Ever see suits of armor in
a museum? Suits of armor that the knights of old wore, for
protection in battle? That gives a. rough idea of how this
strange animal is protected. An armor of bony, movable plates

ASmartDog . . . . . .

HE Wilson’s lived in town and “Ranger” was the family
dog. He was a big, brown, shaggy-haired dog with soft
brown eyes and the children all loved him.

When Laurence went to school, Ranger would go with him
as far as the schoolhouse yard, then go back home and almost
always he went to meet him in the afternoon, too. He seemed
to know when it was time. On Sunday he went to Sunday
School with Laurence and would lie on the porch outside and
wait until he came out. And when the children played games,
Ranger liked to be one of them, taking his place just like a
child.

Then the family moved out to the country. One day
Laurence and his father hauled a load of watermelons from
the ﬁeld up the lane to the house to feed the pigs in the lot back
of the house. They threw a lot of the melons over the fence
and stood watchng while the pigs ate them.

“That will be enough for today,” said Mr. Wilson. “We will
stack what is left here by the gate and feed them tomorrow.”
Ranger was watching them as they unloaded the melons. There
was a little bridge over a ditch in the gateway to the yard and
the melons were stacked just outside.

“Some strange cows might come in the night and eat them

February 191,5

 

covers the back and entire sides of its body. These bony plates
allow it plenty of freedom to move, and yet they protect the
ﬂesh beneath. Even the head is protected by a bonnet of bony
structure, entirely separate from the shoulder plates. And in
some species, the tail (if it has one, for they all do not) is also
covered. If attacked, the armadillo can roll itself into a ball.
When it does that, only the bony outside plates show, and all
the tender ﬂesh underneath is protected.

One of the queerest of the armadillo family is found in
Argentina. It is called the pichiciago. That’s a hard one——
pich'-i-ci-a'go. It is only ﬁve or siX inches long, which is very
small compared with the giant armadillo, which may measure
up to four feet long. Anyway, instead of ending in a tail, as
any respectable armadillo would, the hind part of the pichiciago
gives the appearance of being squarely cut off. It makes him
look mighty queer, like the rear end of a scow.

0 o o o o By MABEL W. STEVENS
up!” said Laurence as they put the last one down. “I don’t
think so,” answered his'father, “and, anyway, if they should
come Ranger will chase them away. Won’t you, Ranger?”
He stooped and patted the dog’s head. Ranger wagged his
tail and looked wise.

But in the night the strange cows did come up the lane.
The family heard Ranger barking loudly and Mr. Wilson got
up to look. In the bright moonlight he could see ﬁve or six
cows going down the narrow lane with Ranger right behind
them. He was sure Ranger would keep the cows away so he
went back to bed. But what do you think? Early the next
morning when Laurence and his father went out there was
Ranger rolling the last of the melons into the house yard!

After he had chased the cows away, he had rolled the melons
one by one, over the bridge, pushing them with his nose until
all of them were inside the gate. He must have known they
would be safe inside.

“Well, well, well!” exclaimed Mr. Wilson when he saw what
Ranger had done, “who would think a dog would know enough
to do that?”

I“Ranger does I” said Laurence, proudly.

27

 

 




 

 

 

 

Did You Know That:

IRDS with long, slender bodies, long
legs, long, curving wings and pointed
feathers—streamlining, in other words
—make for speed? They are the acces-
sories of the long-distance and high-
ﬁight birds, such as the eagle, gull, swift,
swallow, tern and albatross, whose pli-
able wing-tips are spread for balance;
over whose curved wings the air ﬂows.
Chunkiness of body and wings indi-
cate short~ﬂight or ground birds as the
sparrow, owl, grouse and game birds.
Birds with extended tails, such as the
pheasant, sparrow, etc., can ascend
quickly, but short-tailed birds, eagle,
waxwing and others, mount slowly, and
many of them ﬁrst run along the ground
before taking off, as do our airplanes.
The fork-tailed birds, such as kites,
man-o’-war, swallows and terns can
double and turn swiftly in the air.
Wings of certain members of the bird
family, as the penguin, ostrich and casso-
wary, no longer function in the air, but
still act as speed accessories, for, when
spread, they become balances; or, as with
the penguin, act as paddles in water.

The feet of most birds are curled
closely to the body when in ﬂight, but
when landing, the tail is dropped to act
as brake, wings raised for the glide, and
feet lowered, as in the landing gear of
an airplane. The eagle’s feet are power-
ful, strong and cruel; those of perchers,
such as sparrows, ﬁnches and the like,
curl about the branch when roosting,
and lock, so there is no danger of falling.
There is the snowshoe foot that spreads
over sand, mud and snow, preventing
sinking; and the webbed feet of ducks
which not only answer the same purpose
but act as aids in paddling.

Beaks take the place of teeth, and with
them most birds secure and crunch their
food. However, the eagle, shrike, owl
and hawk seize their victims with their
feet, tearing them afterward with their
beaks, which, among purely carniverous
birds, are often Roman-nosed. The long-
beaked birds are usually ﬁshers, and are
often accompanied by long legs and
necks; the longer they are the farther
out in the stream can they forage. Among
this class are found the herons, egrets,
cranes, ibises, bitterns and ﬁamingoes.
A duck’s bill possesses spoon-shovel fa-
cilities, with a strainer device, for elim-
inating undesirable debris.

Some birds, such as the robin and a
few creatures, the chameleon, for in-
stance, have eyes that can be un-
co-ordinated—being able to look upward
with one eye, down with the other; for-
ward with one, backward with the other.
The eyes of the eagle, ﬁsh hawk, condor,
buzzard, to mention but a few, are tele-
scopic; and it is claimed that birds’ sight
is interchangeable—passing from far-
sight to nearsight, due to lens adjust-
ment. —M. H. Morgan

48

ANIMAL AND

In a little town in Maine, a ﬁfteen-
year-old cat, named "Pollyanna,” re-
fuses milk, but has acquired a taste for
tea and coffee.

A Rube Goldbergian device is that
of a Canadian woman, who has an auto-
matic clock, which turns on a bright
light, which awakens a cage of canaries,
who sing their mistress awake.

Remember the trumpeter swans
which once inhabited this country by
the thousand? Today, there are only
ﬁve known breeding pairs. So rare are
births among this species that the ad-
vent of a pair of little cygnets occa-
sioned a public announcement by Secre-
tary of the. Interior Ickes.

A New Jersey woman has two parrots
which were in considerable disagree-
ment regarding the late presidential
election. Even after the voting was
ﬁnished, Mr. and Mrs. Parrot continued
to electioneer. This disgusted their
owner, who stated, "I expected parrots
to act better than people.” Didn’t we
all! .

It pains me to report that "Fala” is
ambitious. Any respectable fellow
would have been satisﬁed with having
helped to elect the ﬁrst fourth-term
President. But, not Fala! He nar-
rowly missed creating an international
incident, when it was found necessary
for the White House to refuse the offer
of a pair of kittens born in Bucking-
ham Palace. The State Department
diplomatically protested that the trans-
portation problem could not be handled.
But, we all see the "fala-cy” in that.

According to the latest ﬁndings of
researchers, it was the dog who domes-
ticated man; not the usually accepted
reverse situation. However this may
be, it seems that the canine manages to
outdo homo sapiens in almost every-
thing. ]ust when we were smugly
thinking of the Dionnes as the prize
jackpot along comes "Lena,” the fox-
hound, with twenty-three heirs—and
healthy looking little animals, too.

Recently, a misunderstood husband
ﬁled suit for divorce, on the grounds
that his wife fed him horse meat and
Spent the red coupons for steaks for the

0g.

The quite precise Orchard Oriole is
said to choose grasses all the same
length when building a nest.

—]ack Pearson

People Versus Grasshoppers
B-y WALTER K. PUTNEY

N 1545, at the courthouse in Savoy,
England, one. of the world’s most
curious trials was going on. It was that
of The People versus Grasshoppers. This
was no mock trial—it was a very serious
affair, brought about because of a ter-
rible plague of grasshoppers which the
farmers of that section could not subdue.
Every phase of regular court procedure
was present. The King’s attorney was
present to try the case and the grass-
hoppers had their counsel. The witnesses
were sworn in with due solemnity and
pledged themselves to tell the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth,
so help them.

One by one the farmers took the stand,
to testify that crops were being ruined,
grasslands devastated and even clothes
ruined by the insects. Each witness was
severely cross-examined by the counsel
for the defense and the efforts to trip
the witnesses and confuse them were as
energetic as they would be in a murder
trial. The witnesses for the defense
were put on the stand—men who were
nature lovers or scientists. These de-
clared that grasshoppers had as much
right to live as did the farmers or other
human beings and they swore that, if the
farmers had driven them to the pastures
where no crops were raised, the insects
could have enjoyed a happy existence.

The records of this extraordinary trial
show that the prosecution vainly en-
deavored to effect a compromise. whereby
the grasshoppers should move from cul-
tivated lands to ﬁelds and pastures not
used for raising crops; but the attorneys
for the defense protested and refused to
compromise. They said that the farmers
had that chance when the grasshoppers
ﬁrst arrived but failed to act. Now the
insects should be allowed to stay in the
ﬁelds. Furthermore, argued the defense
counsel, Nature gave the grasshoppers
their appetites and man had no right to
say what any insect should eat; also that
the pastures and scrub land did not offer
proper sustenance.

Arguments were long and heated. The
judge gravely weighed the evidence and
decided that the grasshoppers were
guilty of trespassing. He then ordered
the counsel for the defense to have his
clients move away from all cultivated
ﬁelds within forty-eight hours. If they
did not obey this edict, then the court
would order men to execute all of the
insects found in cultivated lands after
that time.

&

Because of increased difﬁculties in
mailing facilities, we ask our readers to
allow at least eight weeks for new sub-
scriptions to start.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

Practical Projects For Teachers and Parents 0

by Dorothea Clark

 

Aquatic Acrobats

T was October. The old red maple
stood like a tongue of ﬂame beside

the sun-warmed, swamp—protected pond.
The mirror-like surface of the water
reﬂected the brilliant blue of the sky with
its ﬂeecy white cloudlets drifting lazily
across it.

Beneath'the surface of the pond, a dif-
ferent world existed. This was a world
teeming with life and activity as the
warm rays of the October sun penetrated
the quiet surface. Flecks of sunlight ap—
peared among the shadows of the water
plants that grew luxuriantly in the pond.
In these sunny, warm spots were ener—
getic little ﬁgures scurrying swiftly from
place to place. Some appeared to rise
without eﬂort to the surface. Others
rowed gracefully with long fringe-like
oars from one sunny spot to another,
ﬁnally coming to'rest on the stem of some
plant where they became well-concealed.
At the bottom of the pond, a fat tadpole,
which had been hiding beneath some
fallen leaves, scuttled across a sunlit spot
to seek refuge in the shadow of another
plant. Underneath another pile of debris,
a crayﬁsh lurked. From this vantage
point, his stalked eye peered out in search
of some tender morsel of food. A long
stick-like animal attached to the stem of
a plant occasionally waved a slender leg
about as though feeling for something.
Now and then, a graceful black-lined
dace swam into the shimmering sunlight.
Then, as though sensing a hidden danger,
with a quick ﬂip of its tail ﬁn it darted
rapidly into the dimness. Here was an
interesting world indeed, one worthy of
further study.

The creatures of this water world are
well equipped for their aquatic life. Some
of them, such as the crayﬁsh and black-
lined dace, which spend their entire life
beneath the surface of the water, have
gills by means of which they are able to
secure oxygen directly from the air dis-
solved in the water. The tadpole, too, has
gills during this stage of its life, but
develops lungs when it becomes an adult.

However, many of the denizens of this
underworld are insects. These animals,
when adults, obtain their oxygen directly
from the air. This creates a problem. How
can they live in the water if they are
dependent upon the air for their oxygen

supply? These very energetic insects
Copyright 1945 by American Humane Education Society

solve this problem by carrying an air
supply with them. They move about
under a handicap, just as a boy would do
if he were compelled to swim about
under water with an inﬂated life pre-
server. The air supply makes them more
buoyant and in order to stay below they
must keep moving or cling to some object
heavier than they themselves are. If
they fail to do this, they rise rapidly to
the surface. Here are some excellent
examples of insect adaptability. Those
species that have taken to living in the
water have many remarkable ways of
being supplied with air. Some of the
water beetles carry a small silver—colored
bubble at the tip of the abdomen. This
is a bubble of air which serves as an
oxygen tank. Another beetle, the silver
beetle, has an attractive silvery under—
part. When the beetle is taken out of
water the silvery look, cause-d by a ﬁlm
of air, disappears. The water boatman
and many other water bugs collect and
hold air under their upper wings. The
back—swimmer not only obtains its air
supply in a similar manner, but also
swims on its back. In this way it is able
to obtain its food more easily.

The water walking stick and the mos-
quito wriggler have another device which
suits their needs. The walking stick looks
precisely like a stick. As it clings to a
plant stem, head downwards, lying in
wait for some food, it closely resembles
the plant to which it is attached. At the
end of its long body is a slender tube
which can be projected to the surface of
the water to secure an air supply. The
mosquito wrigglers, those creatures
which grow up to be the pests familiar
to us all, spend only the larval and pupal
stages of their lives in the water. The
mosquito “wiggler” or larva and the
pupa both have breathing tubes near the
end of the body. As the insect hangs
head downward in the water, the opening
of this tube is at the surface. It is be-
cause they spend so much of their time
here that they can be controlled by
spreading oil on the water. The oil
destroys them, not only by interfering
with the supply of air, but also by de-
stroying the tissues of the insects’ bodies.

Many of the aquatic insects are im-
mature forms, which after transforma-
tion, spend the adult portion of their lives
in the air. The best known of these are

the dragon ﬂy, the damsel ﬂy, stoneﬂy,
May ﬂy, caddis ﬂy, and dobson ﬂy. The
young of these insects never seem to need
to rise to the surface of the pond for air.
It is evident, therefore, that they must
have some special devices for securing
air. This is best observed in the damsel
ﬂy. The long slender body of this insect
carries its tightly packed wings on its
back as if all ready for the ﬁnal trans-
formation. The eyes, which nearly cover
each side of the head, are very con-
spicuous. At the end of the abdomen are
three long slender tailplates with a net-
work of ﬁne lines. These lines are small
branching tubes by means of which air
is conducted from the water into the in-
sect’s body. There are variations of these
devices as to size, number, and the place
where they are to be found. That of the
dragon ﬂy is probably the most inter-

esting. The young dragon ﬂy, known to

ﬁshermen as the per-ch bug, has the
breathing plates within the abdomen. It
can alternately draw in and expel water
from this cavity, thereby securing the
necessary oxygen. This process also may
serve as a means of locomotion or escape
from danger, for the water may be ex-
pel-led with such force that the whole body
is propelled with considerable speed.

Among the most curious inhabitants
of this pond are the young of caddis ﬂies
or caddis worms. These tiny creatures
might be called the masons and car-pen-
ters of the water world. Down on the
bot-tom of the pond in some quiet place
a bit of stem or a small pile of tiny
pebbles may suddenly begin to move. It
is a caddis worm, dragging its house
along, with just the fore part of its body
protruding from it.

There are many kinds of caddis worms.
Some build houses with straws or sticks
placed either lengthwise of the body or
sometimes cross-wise in log cabin fash-
ion. Some construct their home of tiny
stones or grains of sand. The material
used, regardless of what it is, is always
fastened together with silk which the
larva spins from its mouth. The dwell-
ers of these interesting homes can creep
about the bottom of the pond, crawl up
a plant stem, or ﬁnd security by with-
drawing withgn, if the need arises.

Within the waters of the pond, activ—
ities continue until the cold days of
winter arrive.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




Indian
Animal
Lore

By WALTER K. PUTNEY
O

MOTHER BRUIN AND HER CUB COULD
ALWAYS EXPECT FAIR PLAY FROM
THE INDIANS.

Indians come myths relative to the

ancestor and protector of each
kind of animal. This one great father
of the species was known as Elder, or
Elder Being, and gave rise to his family
and later became its protector, to see that
the species was not exterminated.

The Indians were very careful about
killing food or fur producing animals
and there were strict laws governing
hunting. No game law in any state today
is more drastic. No animals could be
killed for food that were not needed; no
fur bearers could be shot when fur was
not prime; boasting of big kills was
absolutely tabu. Furthermore, in many
of the tribes each hunter was obliged
to apologize to the spirit of the slain
animal and explain the need for food or
fur, at the same time offering something
in appeasement. Failure to do this
might cause that spirit to tell other
animals of the killing and all game would
become scarce. The Elder of that fam-
ily was also told and he did not replenish
the stock for one or more seasons.

F ROM nearly every tribe of American

 

It seems that the duty of the animal
Elder was to keep a steady supply of
game on hand for the friendly Indians.
He did not take offense when his animals
were killed, if all tabus were observed,
and provided the bones of those slain
animals were not harmed. Many myths
state that the bones are reborn as new
animals. Therefore, deer, beaver and
others were not molested by dogs and,
in many cases, the bones were gathered
together and placed in some cairn where
wild animals could not gnaw on them.

There was also an Elder for the ﬁsh,

snakes, owls, swans and other creatures

that had important roles in the life of

a

“Cricket” and Her Blanket . .

T is indeed interesting to note some

of the almost human actions of a
smart dog.

We have a friend who owns a little
fox terrier that, at times, seems to have
as much intelligence as a child. My
friend made a tight, deep box for
“Cricket” to sleep in and placed it on a
closed back porch. In the box is a blanket
which is large enough to fold several
times.

M arch 1945

Last week, the family left Cricket
locked up in the house while they went
to shop. She could go from her box to
any room in the house. It was a cold
day and Cricket cuddled up in her bed,
but she did not seem to be able to keep
warm. In the living room there was a
pleasant glow from the heater. To bask
in'this warmth went Cricket, but she
soon found the ﬂoor too hard for com-
fort.

The ﬁsh Elder caused the
ﬁsh to go to the spawning grounds in

the Indians.

the spring of the year. A legend from
South America speaks of the Mother of
Fish and not the Elder. She furnishes
ﬁsh for the people who live along the
coast, watches them carefully and takes
them to other places if tabus are not
properly observed. Among the North
American Indians, the Elder also fur-
nished the magic supposed to be con—
nected with snakes, owls and other
vulgar creatures and gave them the
power of disguising themselves as men
in order to learn more of Indian activ-
ities.

By FRED CORNELIUS

So, out she went, dragged the heavy
blanket out of her box and worked and
tugged until she had it in front of the
warm stove. Then, lying down on her
bed, she went to sleep and there the
family found her when they returned.

To accomplish this transfer, Cricket
had to drag the blanket across three
rooms, a hard task for so small a dog.
But she did it and that makes her almost
human, according to her master.

45

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

UR new ﬁlm, "Out of the Heart,” in sound and color, is now available

in both the two-reel and one—reel versions.

The former, which includes, not only the appealing story of a boy and

his dog, but also the story of our Societies’ work, has been deposited at

the following addresses:

Boston University
School of Education
84 Exeter Street
Boston 16, Mass.

American Museum of Natural
History

Film Department

Central Park W. & 79th St.

New York, N. Y.

University System of Georgia
Division of General Extension
223 Walton St., N.W,

Atlanta 3, Ga.

One-reel versions may be rented from the following ﬁlm libraries
for a very nominal charge, usually about ﬁfty cents:

University of California
Extension Division

Dept. of Visual Instruction
2441 Bancroft Way
Berkeley, Calif.

University of California
Extension Division

Dept. of Visual Instruction
813 S. Hill St.

Los Angeles, Calif.

Division of General Extension
University System
Atlanta, Ga.

University of Hawaii
Adult Education Dept.
Honolulu, T. H.

Visual Aids Service
University of Illinois
Champaign, Ill.

Fort Hays Kansas State College
Extension Division
Hays, Kans.

General Extension Division
Louisiana State University
University, La.

School of Education
University of Maine
Orono, Maine

Boston University
Div. of Teaching Aids
84 Exeter St.

Boston 16, Mass.

Visual Education Service
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis 14, Minn.

Extension Division
Umversity of Missouri
Columbia, Missouri

Visual Education
State Dept. of Public Instruc.
Helena, Montana

Syracuse University
Educational Film Library
Syracuse 10, N. Y.

American Museum of Natural
History

Central Park W. & 79th St.

New York, N. Y.

University of New Mexico
Extension Division
Albuquerque, New Mexico

Bureau of Visual Instruction
University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill, N. C.

Dept. of Correspondence Study
North Dakota Agric. College
Fargo. North Dakota

Oregon State System of Higher
Education

Dept. of Visual Instruction

Corvallis, Oregon

Audio-Visual Aids Library
Pennsylvania State College
State College, Pa.

University of Texas
Visual Instruction Bureau
Austin 12, Texas

Brigham Young University
Bureau of Visual Instruction
Provo, Utah

Visual Education Service
University of West Virginia
Morgantown, West Virginia

For those who may wish to own a copy for frequent showings, the

one-reel ﬁlm sells for $80; the two—reel, for $160.

Inquiries will be welcome.

American Humane Education Society
180 longwood Ave, Boston 15,§Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f 9
s’VCIRcLee ’75 GLO0

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

it

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Postage tree to any part
In clubs of five or more subscrip-

One dollar per year.
of the world.
tions. sixty cents each, within the United States.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

if?

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of from 300—400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subject.
except cruel sports or captivity. dealing with ani-
mals. especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-

tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAPHS should be sharp, depicting
either domestic or wild animals in their natural
surroundings.
desirable.

Pictures that tell a story are most

VERSE about animals should be short. We sug-
gest from four to sixteen lines.

IMPORTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten.
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-half
cent a word JFor articles: one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings: one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

it

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts: editorial ofﬁce, I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston
I5. Massachusetts. Address all communications to
Boston office. Entered as Second-class matter.
June 29, l9l7, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood.
Mass., under the Act of March 3. I879. Accept-
ance ior mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided for in section IIO‘3. Act of October 3, I9I7.
authorized. July I3, I9I'9.

OUR DUMB . I}

VOLUME 78—No. 9

 

SEPTEMBERI I945

Founded by Geo. T. Angell, I868
PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
- AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODYl BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance CommitteeI
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR.I President, First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER ‘ J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, I80 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53—57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-M|SS
IrSABEL B. CRESSLER, Pres; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—JAMES
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. M. F. PETER—
N, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS LEONTINE T.
POTE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM N. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colomb a
Luis Pareia Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkev

it

Angcll Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
I80 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6lOC

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
’M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
W. D. JONES, V.S., B V.Sc,
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D . Veterinarian in Charge
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.
R. M. BARLOW, V.M.D.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

*On leave of absence—military service

 




 

Only “Blackie” Knows

‘ By E. L. VAN DYKE

TRANGE, indeed, is the instinct'of
a dog. Lost in a maze of streets
whose signs he, of course, cannot read;
handicapped by aconfusion of inter-
mingling scents and distracted by motor
vehicles and other creatures not always
his friends, his brute mind,'nevertheless,
has an uncanny power to lead him to the
master he loves.

Take “Blackie,” for instance.

Blackie is a cross-bred spaniel puppy,
prized pet of Raymond W. Spencer, of
406 Charlesmont Road, Elmira, N. Y.,
and beloved playmate of the Spencers’
two-year-old son, Ray,,J r.

The Spencers went calling the other
night, taking Blackie along. Returning,
they put Blackie back into their car.
Perhaps he slipped out unobserved While
the Spencers were getting in. At any
rate, when they got home, Blackie was
missing.

For three days the Spencers hunted
high and low for the little black dog, but
to no avail.

Then came Monday, and Mr. Spencer
left for his job as a tool designer in one
of Elmira’s biggest war plants—a huge
factory more than ﬁve miles from the
Spencer home, and on the other side of a
river that Blackie had never traversed.
Before starting, Mr. Spencer looked
about the yard and in the car, but saw
no trace of his pet.

Three hours later, Mr. Spencer, work-
ing at his bench inside the factory, in
which, of course, no dogs were allowed,
looked up to see Blackie trotting towards
him past a row of machines.

Mr. Spencer thus describes the re—
union.

Self-Named

By ISABELLE GRAHAM

Once I acquired a cat

And what to name this cat

Took deliberation—

I thought of this and that—

No, not this, not that—

Then inspiration!

"I'll let him name himself,” said I.

I watched him scootabout,

Now in the house, now out;

Now on a chair, now off,

Now up the stairs, now down,

Cavorting like a clown,

Now out of the door, now in again—

Said I, "Well, that's that—

It suits him pat—

Since he is off again, on again

Out again, in again,

He’s named himself
"Pat-Finnegan."

F ebmary 191,5

BLACKIE AND
RAY SPENCER. JR.

“He raced towards me and jumped all
over me, wagging his tail and licking

my hands. I’ve never seen such a happy
dog in my life.”

One of the guards at an outer gate
told the dog’s master that he had seen a
black dog outside the gate earlier that
morning, but that the animal had dis-
appeared. It seemed evident that Blackie
had ducked inside the factory while other
workers were entering, had unerringly
found his way among the maze of cor—
ridors and assembly lines to his master’s
bench, ignoring the thousands of other
employees and the bedlam of noise and

   
  
   

confusion.

The happy reunion of dog and master
temporarily stopped production in that
part of the war plant, until Mr. Spencer
took the dog to the home of a friend
nearby for safekeeping.

At the Spencer home that night, little
Ray Spencer, J r., cried with joy at sight
of his soft-eyed friend—a friend he had
decided he might never see again.

How did a six-month-old puppy. ﬁnd
his way along miles of streets he had
never traveled before to the noisy interior
of a factory? Only Blackie knows—and

.Blackie cannot voice his explanations.

cﬂ .
'* Country Dog in the City

2N OTHER of those almost incredible

stories of a dog’s ability to locate

its master is the tale of “Brownie,” a
cocker spaniel.

Brownie’s owner, Roger Thornhill,
brought him to New York where the pair
were to ”stop overnight before journey-
ing on to the South where they planned
to spend the winter. They registered at
the Commodore Hotel and, as the day-
advanced, Mr. Thornhill decided to make

‘a business call at a Broadwayofﬁce.

Not long after, as he was talking to a
business acquaintance in the latter’s of-
ﬁce, a secretary came in with the news
that there was a dog whining in the outer
ofﬁce. Investigation proved that it was
Brownie, come to ﬁnd his master.

The dog must have escaped from the

hotel room when the maid had entered
to clean up. He then had apparently
found his way to the elevators in the
hall and ridden to the ground ﬂoor with
a group of people. From there, he must
have scurried out the front door of the

-hotel and somehow traced Mr. Thorn—

hill’s footsteps across 42nd Street and
as far as the oﬂ‘ice building on Broadway.

It seems probable that the dog had
next discovered the same elevator his
master had used in going up to the
eighth ﬂoor and had somehow left the
car at that stop.

No one will ever know just how this
feat was accomplished, but the fact re-
mains that a country dog traced his
master through the throngs and trafﬁc of
the world’s greatest city.

25

 

 




 

 

OME years ago, I was made to realize

that wild animals had and used wire-
less long before it was discovered by
Man. The white-footed mice, which
shared my woodland cabin with me, ﬁrst
brought this to my attention. These
large-eared creatures, which have brown
backs and white feet and bellies, are the
most beautiful of mice. Seldom do they
utter a vocal sound, but signal back and
forth to each other by drumming rapidly
with their ﬁnger tips or toes. The sound
so produced is a prolonged dr-r-r-r-r,
which varies in length and force.

Although I could never read the mes-
sages, the mice seem to understand them
as well as radio operators read the dots
and dashes ﬂashed through space.

The drumming mice caused me to
wonder if any other woodland dwellers
used wireless. Ah, yes, the woodpecker
does. In spring, this bird perches on a
dead tree or branch and, with its strong,
chisel-like bill, beats a rapid tattoo on the
resonant wood. This drumming produces
a long, loud roll which may be heard for
a great distance and serves two purposes.
First, it is the woodpecker’s love call and,
second, it is a challenge to rivals.

The ruffed grouse or partridge also
drums out its message of love. This bird,

June 1945

Drawmg by the author

The Varying Hare uses its own wireless method of communicaﬁon.

however, drums by ﬂapping its wings.
At ﬁrst, the sound is slow and deep, like
the thumping sound of an Indian’s tom-
tom. The tempo is then increased until
it is a drumming, rolling roar, like dis-
tant thunder.

"Thump-thump—thump-thump, thr-r-r-
r-r-r-r-r.”

This sound is made by the concussion
of swift wing blows upon the air and is
heard in front of the bird, but not in
back. The male or cook grouse only, per-
forms this feat and while so doing, it
struts about, usually on a fallen tree,
known as a “drumming” log. In the

spring, this thumping is both a love call»

to the hen grouse and a boast of deﬁance
to rival males.

Rabbits and hares also use the thump-
ing signal code. The message may be
thumped out slowly or rapidly, but never
so fast as the drumming of the white-
footed mouse. Unlike the mouse, which
taps with its ﬁnger tips, the rabbit
thumps with its hind feet.

The deer, too, signals with foot thumps.
Many times, while observing deer, I
have seen one animal peer into a thicket
and thump the earth with its front foot.
From the thicket would come a thumping
reply and a second deer would emerge.

Wild
Animal
Radio

é? Wall?»
Semi
a/m

Signaling among
the Wild creatures,
by the dot and dash
method, is a very
common means of

communication.

No reply from the thicket usually sent
the ﬁrst deer skulking off through the
forest.

In dark Africa, the natives, by the use
of jungle drums send messages from
village to village. The savages probably
learned this primitive method of com-
munication from the wild folk. It seems
very unlikely that the wild creatures
learned this act from the savages.

105

 

 




‘7'

. pv‘.

 

 

 

Christmas

"What means this glory round our feet?”
The Magi innsed, "More hright than noon.”
And voices chanted clear and sweet,

"Today the Prince of Peace was horn.”

N O WONDER it came to be written that angels sang over
the sheepfolds of Bethlehem the night that He was born. Who
could have dreamed, that in that common stable of the inn, from
whose doors the anxious couple had been turned, there was to be
born that night a Child whose name was to be "above every name”

ever spoken by the lips of men.

Who could have dreamed, that in that lowly, unknown
Mother’s arms there lay the Child to be known, to the end of
time, as the Christ of Galilee and Judea, and the Christ of Calvary
——the Christ whose "blessed feet . . . . were nailed for our advan—

tage on the bitter cross?”

Who could have dreamed, that from that night were to come
the Christmas days that for centuries have called forth the joyful
greeting, “Merry Christmas,” from untold millions of human

hearts and gladdened human homes?

In spite of all that war has wrought of sorrow, pain and heart-
break, our Christmas stands and Will stand, such is our faith, for
the dawning of that day when "Peace on Earth, Good Will to
Men” shall be no longer the echo of a far-oﬂC song, but Life’s
Eternal Reality.

F. H. R.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
    
  

\‘ Maggiﬁg‘ﬁw-

,. a} “:3“~?“§~‘\\\\‘\T{i’z‘

\ _ \\\\‘ \\\\ "\'“‘ .

.shmsts‘kaﬁ‘ss {Ks
\\ \\

 

 
         
  
 
 
  

0...... . O’VO“ - . ""‘;’. ~ _- ."‘;‘;'.f.f...:s. $7395...
0 ' ‘

 

\f‘ \h

. C
o .
' 6'
o a - 0
° ' ’0‘? 0‘0' :0:.. o‘
‘ ’30"?
.\ \\ .

"i ,' . ..| \z‘:;:- .. "3):!"
V .C“; C’L‘l‘; . ’0‘)» o s... *m :
o
s‘ 'I'x' q
ah \\\\\\ \ \..
\\ \\\\‘\x
99.0. ‘ ~ . ‘\;\>\‘
’s‘\\

   
 
 

     

 

  
  
    

.
' ' :0“ o o 0
' s
‘\ I \ \\ \-
. . . _
\\\\\ \ . I ....,_.‘ ‘ .,
. ., 3. 3... ~
\\ -x ‘ ‘
‘ \ ........
oooooo ’ J}. \\ ‘4 \\‘\\\\\\ \
l \
. ..... B}. ' ' ° v 0' 1”}. o o
g 50.0.0.9:33 .# ’1’: ‘ o o o o p r ‘
V'T "'""" '1' .», o0 '-o:oo “9.0;
‘. . O, ~’$'.‘:’:?:':".’:'."""v r.’ 2"!“ :’, ‘ff i'.’.ofofo?of¢;0,o ~ 3.5-1.3 .o:93.:o:o’o°.’o .... .4; l, 0‘; .
u . .. . l . . °‘~".‘.'.m:°:'; \ o o

50 5M4“ ARE NEWLY ,

01’ USS UMS

THAT A DOZEN WILL FIT
IN A TEASPOO/v.

 

 

Boy and Legend

By ANOBEL ARMOUR

He knew for certain that the cattle would bow down

As they had done that night in Bethlehem town,

Because the legend had assured him that they would.
And so he fought off dull-eyed sleepiness and stood

As still as any mouse and equally as gray

With shadows, back pressed against the new-forked hay.
There was the strangest light on low stall-bars

That seemed to be made up of all the Christmas stars
That ever had shone down on such a night as this:
Blinking at it, he heard his shuttered lantern hiss

And sputter out. The barn grew still and inky black
And midnight bells made disappointment shivers down his back
Because he couldn’t see a single animal's dark head
Until suddenly he heard a stirring in the shed—

And knelt. He couldn’t see a thing and yet he knew,
That in the holy darkness cows were kneeling, too!

43
Kinship

By BURNHAM EAToN

And so among the animals He come

And lit the roughened boards, the cob-webbed wall.
They saw His light before they heard His name.

Men knelt on straw and were not proud at all.

Some stood in starlight when the place was full.
The cattle gazed, the lambs forgot their pranks,
The men half-smiled and touched the matted wool
Or leaned and rested hands on willing flanks.

0, little brothers of the cloven hooves,

The furry paws, the twitching ears! We know
You look. to us for faithfulness that proves

Your faith . . . We look to Him . . . He meant it so.

2-26

Dog That Kept Sunday

By ESTHER D. HOOEY

EFF” was a ﬁne young dog that Mr. Bray bought for his

children. He loved .to accompany the Bray boys when they
took the cows to and from pasture, probably because there were
lots of squirrels and young rabbits to chase, as the way led
through a woods. Sunday morning, the Brays slept later
than on week days, and when the boys whistled for Jeff, there
was no response. This was strange for he was always ready
and waiting for them. They kept on calling him but it was no
use, Jeff would not go with them. Monday morning and all the

'rest of the week, he was ready and waiting for them.

Another peculiar thing they noticed about Jeff was his love
for a particular hymn. Now, it happened that the Brays lived
near a church in the little village, and whenever Jeff heard the
people singing, “There’s a land that is fairer than day,” Jeff
would join in with great fervor, howling at the top of his voice.
This was all right when he was willing to stay at home, but
when he followed the family to church and was put out rather
ﬁrmly and ordered to go home, what did he do but get under—
neath the church. It was a little village church and as it was
set up on posts, it was an easy matter to crawl under.

All went well until they began to sing Jeff’s favorite hymn,
then to the astonishment and humiliation of the Bray family,
Jeff joined in, and raised his voice above the voices of the
congregation. The Bray boys got out as quickly and quietly
as they could and managed to reach Jeff and take (him home.

Mr. Bray came to the conclusion that Jeff must at one time
have belonged to a minister and there learned something about
keeping the Sabbath; also it might have been there that he
learned to howl when that particular hymn was sung.

 

It is against the law in Dayton. Ohio, to feed a cow or hog on
any of the city's sidewalks.

 

 

 

/lo/S VEMJ

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Grandpa of the Reindeer

HE grandpa of Santa’s reindeer was
——a horse!

It is doubtful if gramps would recog-
nize his grandchildren. For surely, a
reindeer looks very little like a horse
with eight feet!

When Dr. Clement Clarke Moore wrote
his world-famous “Twas the Night Be-
fore Christmas,” in 1832, somehow it
was eight reindeer, and not the ancient
Christmas animal, which pranced from
his imagination to paper. And so grandpa,
born in Scandinavia and named Sleip-
ner, was presented with six typically
Yankee descendants!

The idea of a Christmas animal is
older than Christianity. It dates back to
pagan times, when an important deity
called Odin or Woden was the supreme
god. One of Woden’s most precious treas-
ures was Sleipner, a white horse with
eight feet. ‘

According to tradition, Woden, accom-
panied by his wife, Frigg, rode the sky
lanes down to earth once each year to
bestow good things on land and people.
Joy and success followed in his wake.
This descent was supposed to occur be-
tween December 25 and January 6.

When Christmas replaced all the pagan
fetes, Woden and his steed refused to
cease their yearly trips to earth. They
continued to arrive during the Christ-
mas season, and it is easy to see how
this conception fused with the character
of St. Nicholas, who was the original
Santa Claus.

The Dutch have never replaced Sleip-
ner with reindeer. In Holland, children
credit their Christmas toys to Sleipner,
who is sometimes referred to as a donkey
instead of a horse. A meal of carrots and
hay is always provided for the animal
who drops presents into the shoes of
good children and leaves switches for
those who have been naughty.

——Ida M. Purdue

a
Feast of the Ass

HE ass may be just a beast of burden
to you, but at one time this animal
had a festival in its honor every year!

The Feast of the Ass was a well-known
event until 1435, when the Church at
last banned its sacrilegious services.

On the appointed day an ass was
chosen to represent his kind, clothed in
priestly garments and placed at the head
of a procession which made its way into
a church. Then, stationed in a conspic—
uous spot where it could be seen by all,
the ass was entertained with songs and
chants.

The origin of this peculiar ceremony
is not certain, but it is believed to date
from the old Roman Saturnalia, great
holiday held in December, which fea-
tured all sorts of skits and buffoonery.

——I. Dampard

228

 

Little Friends of Christmas

By A. G. KING

T is Christmas Eve in Norway. Traps

and ﬁsh-nets have been put away, for
no dumb creature must be molested dur-
ing the holy season. The cattle have had
their extra meal, the cows have licked
salt out of a cow-bell, so that they can
ﬁnd their way home from the pastures,
when the summer comes. Birds are
swaying about the sheaf of wheat at the
top of the pole in front of the doorway;
inside the children nibble animal cookies
and ﬁll a shoe with barley for the “Christ-
mas Ram,” who is likely to come by on
Christmas Eve. If he leaves any grain
behind, the farmers will look forward to
a good season next year.

Tonight, all over the world, will come
the Christmas silence. At midnight, bees
will awaken from their winter sleep for
their one song of the year. As on the
ﬁrst Christmas Eve, beasts will fall on
their knees in adoration; even in Amer—
ica, according to Indian lore, the kneel-
ing deer lift up their eyes to the Great
Spirit. For an hour, dumb animals will
regain their power of speech, but woe to
the human that dares listen in!

For two months now, the cock has been
crowing with unusual energy to clear the
air of evil spirits. Tonight, he opens the
Christmas conversation. All speak in
Latin or, if in Brazil, in Portuguese.
"‘Christus natus est!” (Christ is born!),
says the cock. “Quando?” (When?),
croaks the raven. “Hac nocte” (This
night), caws the rook. “Ub-i?” (Where?) ,
moos the ox. “Bethlehem,” bleats the

sheep, while the ass brays lustily,
“Eamus!” (Let us go!).
In England, the salmon is a Christmas
ﬁsh, but must never be caught on Christ—
mas Day. Robin Red'breast, too, should
be held in honor. They say he dyed his
breast with the Savior’s 'blood when he
tried to pluck out the crown of thorns.
An old Gaelic legend says that one
Christmas Day, St. Columba set up a
huge cross on the Island of Iona, and to
it called the birds and ﬁsh of air and sea.

In the words of Fiona Macleod:

“Hearken,” he cried, with solemn voice—
“Hearken! ye people of the Deep,

Ye people of the skies, Rejoice!

No more your soulless terror keep!

“But, 0, dumb kindred of the skies,

O, kinsfolk of the pathless seas,

All scorn and hate I exorcise,

And wish you nought but Love and Peace!”

:13
Thank You

NE of our subscribers, in renewing

his subscription, says, “I wish to

take this opportunity to thank you for

the letter of thanks I received for my

donation of a year ago. It made me feel

good to think that my lonely dollar was
received in such spirit.

“I don’t think I ever spent a dollar that

brought me as much pleasure and satis-

faction as that one.”

 

Odd - Facts - in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

A Picnic Anytime

The Pocket Gopher’s a cunning rogue;

He’ll munch and munch and munch;
Andthen wherever Gophie goes,
He takes along his lunch.

Outside his head, upon each side,
A pocket you can find;

He fills them up with food to eat,
In the tunnels he has mined!

OUR DUMB

      

was '
II I

~' ~:.:"r‘-:Tﬁ?jf~h-:- ' a g .4 E ’L . , - . ..

ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Wide World Photo

Up the ramp they go.

Dog Leads Dog
UT in Chicago, “Silver,” a ﬁve-year-
old collie that is going blind, has
her personal Seeing Eye — an under-
slung, elongated dachshund.

Silver’s owner, who operates a kennel,
discovered several months ago that Silver
was going blind. The dog huddled in her
kennel and would not enter the exercise
grounds.

So, “Sascha,” the dachshund, was
chosen to keep Silver company and to act
as her guide. A rope linked the two dogs
and with Sascha leading, Silver ﬁnally
was coaxed up the ramps leading to the
playground.

Now it is reported that the rope no
longer is necessary, that Silver trusts
Sascha completely, follows her every-
where, and eats with a lusty appetite,
instead of merely nibbling.

@

Hero ?

Don't stare at me that way!
I only said

I got word yesterday

That he is dead.

Why, yes, of course I cried:
For who would not?

He was my greatest pride;

He shared my lot.

In battle front he served
Wherever sent,-
His courage never swerved,
Nor brave intent.
Myself they would not take:
I'm only three—
I sent him for my sake,
My dog, “Dundee!"

—Marie Taggart Keith

112

...............................................

..............................................

.;.;.;.;,;., -, ”9,5,3, , . ......................................................

N'MALAND

A Canadian author has solved the
age-old problem of telephone interrup-
tions. On a stand beside his ’phone, it
is said that he has a parrot trained to
lift the receiver and squawk, “Not at
home.”

Post-war canines may receive sun
lamp treatments, which, the inventor
claims, will not only improve their coats,
but will eliminate ﬂeas at the same time.

While the cat may have many good
traits, it is not noted for its faithfulness
in the same manner as a dog. However,
a Georgia kitty meets her mistress every
evening coming home from work.

A dog in England escaped the law by
joining a commando dog unit. The police
were eager to apprehend him, as he re-

portedly had bitten three people.

The deadly poison of rattlesnake
venom can be, and is daily, used to cure
so effectively that it is essential equip-
ment for army medical units. It is
used for making antivenom, an inocu—
lation against snake bites. This is ex-
tremely important in jungle combat
fronts. Also, venom is employed in the
treatment of asthma, chorea, epilepsy,
arthritis, excessive bleeding and cancer-
ous growths.

Dr. Wallace Craig, of the New York
State Museum, claims that birds do not
sing the same old tunes year in and
year out, but in many cases actually
compose as they go along.

An English mare, "Swag,” gave birth
in 1905, to six foals, including quad-
ruplets. A St. Bernard recently ushered
in 18 little brandy toters; a nanny goat
did a Dionne this year; while a sow
increased the pig population by 21., It
appears that increased birth rates dur-
ing war years apply to animals as well
as humans.

Fay Holden, the Ma Hardy of the
movies, owns a Chihuahua that can
answer a summons in three languages,
Spanish, French and English.

Amazing as it might seem, only one
horse has his statue in any race track
grounds in the United States. This one
is "Seabiscuit,” at Santa Anita.

—]ack Pearson

Jungle Mule Hospital
HE ﬁrst animal transport casualty
of the British 14th Army crossing
of the Chindwin River, in Burma, was
“Horace,” a brown mule which simply
went lame at the river bank and, limping
ten miles to an ambulance, was sent back
to the British Mobile Veterinary Sec—
tion’s mule hospital in the jungle.

Horace was the only patient in the
hospital, which has lines for 500 cases.
This speaks well for the care given to
animals on the march, but was a little
disappointing to the Ofﬁcer-in-Charge of
the hospital, Capt. D. A. Forbes, Royal
Army Veterinary Corps, a keen young
Scotsman.

“Twenty-four hours ago this site was
just plain jungle,” he told an ofﬁcer ob-
server. “Now we have lines for any
number of cases—the fewer the better,
but not on account of the extra work. It
shows there isn’t much wrong with the
health of the animals. We can deal with
almost any animal affliction, surgical or
otherwise, down to, or should I say ‘up
to,’ elephants.

“We have not had any elephants in yet,
but there are plenty about. I have learned
one interesting fact of elephant psy-
chology by experience. They do not like
the sight of shining surgical instru-
ments.”

Captain Forbes is an admirer of mules.
“The mule,” he says, “combines the will-

- ingness of the horse with the stubborn-

ness of the donkey, and has a sense of
humor. If he does not like you, he lets
you know it. He will go anywhere and
do anything within reason, but he must
be looked after properly, or else.”
——British Information Services

& .
Dog Maintains Vigil

OR almost three years a large dog has
been keeping a lonely vigil near a
telephone post on the outskirts of Sidney,
Nebraska. The dog, half collie and half
shepherd, was found there in the sum-
mer of 1942 following the breakup of a
trailer camp accommodating construction
workers. L

Still waiting for its owner, the ani-
mal attracted the attention of Sidney
residents, who started taking out food.
Extremely shy, the dog has made no
friends and will allow no one to come
close, with the exception of members of
the police department, who built a dog-
house for the animal’s protection.

The moment someone comes close, the
dog heads for the railroad tracks, along
which he has worn a path, evading good-
hearted visitors. _

He never leaves the immediate vicinity
of the post, and spends most of his time
lying still, watching the cars as they
go by on the highway, apparently hoping
one of them will contain his master.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




+‘.~___— _, ‘47—;— 1

 

 

0131):: 335mb. of jump or

31mm 191mm»: 12am":

ERIC H. HANSEN, President '
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post—oﬂice address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and seventy Bands of
Mercy were organized‘during May. These
were distributed as follows:

Massachusetts . . . . , . , . . . . 131
Florida .......... 32
Virginia ............... 7

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 270,410.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 171
Number of persons in audiences 12,272

d

IMAY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF

THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. WITH
HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON, ME-
THUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 15,707
Cases investigated ............ 222
Animals examined ............ 3,860
Animals placed in homes ....... 248
Lost animals restored to owners . 51
Number of prosecutions ........ 1
Number of convictions ........ 1
Horses taken from wori: ...... 8
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 30
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ....................... 3,307
Horse auctions attended ....... 28
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 53,641
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ............... . 27

July 1945

Springﬁeld Auxiliary Meeting

T the annual meeting of our Spring—

ﬁeld Auxiliary, marking the twelfth
year of its animal protection activities,
President Eric H. Hansen, of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A., was the principal
speaker. In his address he stressed Hu-
mane Education, especially as applied to
its inclusion as a part of the curriculum
of the Springﬁeld elementary schools.
Mr. Hansen spoke highly of Dr. John
Granrun, superintendent of schools, and
Miss Mary 0. Pottenger, supervisor of
elementary schools, whose cooperation
has mad-e possible the acceptance of the
program.

Presiding at the meeting was Mrs.
Robert R. Miller, who has served as pres-
ident of the Auxiliary for the past two
years. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, long-time
president of the parent Society, and now
Chairman of the Board, sent a letter ex-
pressing his regret at his inability to at-
tend and extending his appreciation for
the extensive work that the group is
doing in support of the Springﬁeld
branch of our Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. ,

Guests at the luncheon which preceded
the meeting were, in addition to Mr.
Hansen, Miss Mary 0. Pottenger, and
Miss Olive Smith, curriculum specialist
for Humane Education.

Following ’Mr. Hansen’s talk, Miss Pot—
tenger addressed the members, expres-
sing appreciation for what the Society is

 

doing to furnish a new program for use
in the schools.

Miss Smith then ﬁnished up brieﬂy
with an outline of her work as it per-
tained to Humane Education and her
plans for bringing the program within
the lines acceptable to modern school re-
quirements.

At the business meeting, Mrs. M. F.
Peterson, a former director of the Auxil—
iary, was elected president, together with
the following: First vice-president, Mrs.
Harvey R. Preston; second vice—president,
Mrs. J. Clarence Allen; recording secre-
tary, Mrs. Emerson W. Elliott; corre-
sponding secretary, Mrs. Robert F.
Hovey; treasurer, Mrs. Fred B. Korbel;
directors, Mrs. Walter B. Cruttenden,
Mrs. Robert C. Munroe, Mrs. Joel Harris
Newell, and Mrs. Sidney W. Stevens. Mrs.
Stuart M. Rob-son was elected an honor-
ary director.

Mrs. Charlena Kibbe gave a report of
the agent’s activities during the past
year that showed that Agent John T.
Brown investigated 399 complaints, cov-
ering the inspection of 2,901 animals. A
total of 25,122 animals were inspected at
stockyards and abattoirs and 385, at auc-
tions.

Dr. Alexander Evans, veterinary in
charge at the Springﬁeld hospital, also
submitted a report showing that over
12,000 cases were treated and 20,913 ani-
mals were cared for, nearly four times
as many as the opening year of 1931—32.

(Left to right) Eric H. Hansen. president of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.; Miss Olive
‘ Smith. curriculum specialist. Miss Mary 0. Pottenger, supervisor of elementary schools.
and Mrs. M. F. Peterson. newly-elected Auxiliary president.

135

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

m'l'hmiu

:5.
a"
r
3.
‘-
}.
‘

     

A“ _. g
“$1“me m

Birds of Our States

HIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted ofﬁcial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation
of the governor, or by long stablished precedent. The
remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds. Re-
gardless of their ofﬁcial status, however, each bird is
more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you some
clues about himself. Without looking at the answer,
see if you can identify him. Then study the informa—
tion so you’ll be able to know any of the state birds
wherever you see them. It will be lots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: I am seen from the Gulf States to Canada,
wintering from southern Illinois, southward. I am the
harbinger of spring. and my cheerful song is most
frequently heard in March and April. I am of a happy.
social disposition and like to be near people, so my mate
and I build our nests in orchards or in the gardens. if
bird houses have been provided. We, also, gladly take
advantage of a deserted woodpecker’s nest, or a hole in
a limb or fence post. . . . Who am 1?

Second Clue: By the middle of April, we have lined
our nest with thistledown, milkweed silk, moss, or ﬁne
grasses, for the four to six bluish- white eggs. I help
my mate care for our ﬁrst brood and then I have the
full care of them after she begins on the second set of
eggs. Grasshoppers, beetles, cutworms, spiders, and
many other harmful insects are fed to our ever-hungry
youngsters. I really have to work from dawn to dark
to feed so many mouths. . . . Who am 1?

Third Clue: I have long been the symbol of happi-
ness, and many stories, songs and poems have been
written about me. Gentleness and amiability are ex-
pressed in my soft musical voice. I am just about six

Photo by Eugene W. Gustafson

and a half inches long. The upper part of my body has DINNERTIME FOR THE BABIES

been described as “heavenly blue,” while my throat,

breast and sides are a dull red. Although possessing a a

sweet disposition, nevertheless, I’ll ﬁght English spar-

rows any time for possession of a desirable house. . . . . .

Who am I? thtle Babb“;
Fourth Clue: With the ﬁrst cool days of fall, we col- .

lect in ﬂocks, often associating with robins, orioles,. By BLANCHE ELLIOTT

song sparrows and kingbirds. We select sheltered,

sunny places where many insects may still be found. Once riding along in a buggy,

We usually remain longer than our friends and when A [7” that Olded its to

we do start southward, it is, indeed, ‘-good bye to sum- I ggy l. tl f 55' I7,

mer.” In the southern woods, we enjoy many insects 541” a cute it e M “f

as well as delicious waxy berries of the mistletoe and G0 hurrying, hippety-hop.

other wild berries. Farmers who have had us for ten-

ants always want us to return. . . . Who am 1? Id k h h h d
I have been designated as state bird of Missouri, 07w)" ”074/10 3’ e urrie

Idaho, Nevada and New York. 'Twas summer; his feet were not cold.
AnSWert '(IHIEIHIYIEI But I think perhaps that he hurried

"—Jewe" Casey For fear his mother would scold.

April 1945 77

 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Apartment Pets
By MARIE MANLEY '

Sometimes I see them sitting, wishful-wise,
Hard-pressed against the window-pane or screen;
And there is hopeless sorrow in their eyes,
Deiection in each drooping form is seen.

It matters not their prison bars are made

Of that elastic quality called love,-

Their lives are barren of the .sweet moist shade,
Or benediction of the sun, above.

They turn to people for companionship

Who brush them off as time :or whim decide;
50 only sleep is left as bored hours slip—

A helpless flotsam on relentless tide.

Of all our sins, I think this not the least—-

To tail in any way a little beast.

4%
Birds of Mythology

By JOSEPH BUCHANAN

HE ancients were not lacking in imagination, as the

legends woven around the birds of mythology will readily
convince you. Many of them, of course, were the feathered
friends with which we are still familiar.

Others were nothing more than fanciful creations of the
imagination, fashioned by the tellers of folk tales among the
Romans, Greeks, Egyptians and Norsemen—or among the
legends of South Sea Islanders and American Indians.

According to the tale related to the historian Herodotus, the
Phoenix bird was supposed to visit the ancient Egyptian city
of Heliopolis every 500 years.

The Phoenix never existed, yet it is still accepted as
the symbol of a bird that rose from its own ashes every 500
years——the symbol of the spirit of people building homes and
cities anew upon the ashes of disaster.

The Thunder bird was one of the most common species in
the myths of aboriginal tribes. It was an object of fear and
superstition in all parts of the world.

As its name suggests, it was supposed to be responsible for
all thunder and lightning. Among some tribes it was blamed
fOr all severe storms. It was even held responsible at times
for pestilence and famine.

The roc was another fabulous bird of immense size, about
which strange tales were spun. It never existed, but you will
ﬁnd mention of it in the legends and folklore of many ancient
peoples. <

The raven was the bird of Odin in Norse mythology. In the
classic mythology of Greece and Rome it was the bird of super-

stition and ill-omen. A lot of people still regard it in a similar .

light, which is scarcely complimentary to the sable-hued raven.
. Odin, according to Norse mythology, kept a couple of ravens
in his celestial residence. They were called Hugin and Munin,
and represented Thought and Memory. Odin sent them out
daily to gather and bring back tidings of all that was taking
place in earth and heaven. I ‘

Egyptian mythology reverenced the vulture. It was their
emblem of parental love. The vulture is commonly depicted
1n the hieroglyphics left by the ancient dwellers of the land
of pyramids and pharaohs.

Classic mythology stretched the imagination in accounting
for the existence of many of our feathered friends in forest
and meadow. Beautiful maidens, nymphs and forest dryads,
according to the myths, were touched by magic wands and

turned into songbirds whose duty it was to ﬁll the world with
song.

46

Criminals in Nature

VERY country has its troubles with vicious outlaws who

. do more damage every year than an army of ﬁfth
columnists.

Neither Sherlock Holmes nor the FBI can be called in to
deal'with these trouble—makers. Only science can help, for
these destroyers of property are insects whose appetites for
certain materials cause irreparable loss annually.

The Australian white ant, for instance, will go through
anything in his search for cellulose, which is his favorite dish.
Fences, books, telegraph poles—everything which is even
suspected of concealing this delicacy, is chewed into a sieve
by this greedy pest.

The bookworm likes books too. He doesn’t care a ﬁg for
reading matter—but he goes for the paper it’s written on in
a big way. He can digest the contents of a volume of en-
cyclopedias and never increase his knowledge one whit.

The wonderful timber forests of Canada are still suffering
from the ravages of another Lilliputian enemy~—_the destruc-
tive spruce bud worms which have already ruined 40,000
square miles of trees.

It may take a miracle to save the forests—a miracle such
as the one which saved the Mormons of Brigham Young’s
original Salt Lake City settlement from starvation.

The ﬁelds of grain, which represented food for the entire
Mormon party during the coming winter, were waiting for
the harvesters, when suddenly a dark swarm of voracious
insects—locusts, attacked.

There was no way to stop them—nothing the people could do,
except pray. They did pray, and were answered with a miracle.

The heavens opened and down swooped hundreds of sea
gulls, beautiful, white birds who fell upon the locusts and ate
them to the last chirping bite.

Perhaps man will work his own miracle to save the Canadian
forests by importing harmless birds with an appetite for worms.

—Ida M. Pardue

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

X S 3mm!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

Fine specimen of a Desert Tortoise belonging to the author.

Owners should learn the special needs of—

Y TWO Desert Tortoises, waifs
M taken in against a cruel world,

have just ﬁnished a vegetarian
repast of lettuce and bean leaves. They
have toddled after to Wheedle from me
the garden’s best, and affectionately in-
sisted on taking most of it from my
hands. As unoﬂ'ending as “Patient
Griselda,” they are not slow about “win-
ning friends and inﬂuencing people!”

Yet, I never look at the mild, trustful
eyes of these gentle vegetarians, or think
of the other friendly species of the
turtle tribe that have shared my garden,
without a pang. So few people are aware
of the tortures to which these creatures
(that scientists rate the highest of the
reptiles and credit with intelligence akin
to that of mammals) are subjected.

Not only in their use as food and in
the obtaining of tortoiseshell is this true,
but even in the traﬂ‘ic of these creatures
for pets there is much cruelty. They are
imported from afar, often injured, bought
to be killed by ignorance of their needs.
Some, as the little water turtles sold for
aquarium pets, have their shells painted,
which dooms to slow death by preventing
growth. (To save them, the paint should
be carefully ﬂaked off with knife or razor

blade.)
As with any pet from the wilds, hu-

March 1945

Tortoise

mane care demands duplicating the es-
sential features of the natural habitat.
For instance, the needs of our native
American tortoise, of which we have
three species, are very different from
those of the imported European tor-
toises. Both are vegetarians, as are all
the true tortoises (the completely ter-
restrial turtles.) But our Americans ab-

solutely must have DRY, WARM summer,

surroundings (though they must always
have shelter from the sun, too); the
European likes some garden moisture and
can stand cooler weather.

Again, our native American land-
turtles other than the true tortoises, as
the Box Turtles and Wood Turtles, re-
quire at least a wide pan of bathing

 

or Turtle

By ANNA C. WINLO'W
Photograph by William Hanson

water set level with the ground for easy
getting in and out. They, not the tor-
toises, are the chaps who eat up the bad
bugs of our gardens. And still again,
the treatment of the little water turtles
is something else, in which both heat and
meat play big parts.

So, identify your particular pet. Learn
all you can about its needs from authori-
tative sources. Two of these are Pope’s
Turtles of the United States and Canada
and Ditmars’ Reptiles of North America.

Remember, every animal is entitled to
certain basic rights: Companionship—
human and/or its own kind; good food;
protection; space. If tortoise roaming
must be restricted you’ll ﬁnd a surpris-
ingly 10w wire fencing does the trick.
If staked out, choose a type of chain
that cannot pull tight if it gets around
the neck. Many tortoises have strangled.

Guard against poison pest-controls on
store vegetables fed and in the garden.
The vegetarians eat a wide range of
tender vegetables, fruit, and herbage
like grass, clover, dandelion, mallow.
Don’t forget, even the Desert Tortoise
wants drinking water; and that he and
all the garden-dwellers hibernate in
winter in our country, when they must
be made comfortable indoors or out, ac-
cording to climate and species.

49

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ ~
oooooooooooooooo

no.
oooooooooooooooo

. .-
o,”‘V . ~... ... -.

. ll, ‘
”ll,:"'oo

“OTTER CUBS ARE
AFRAID OF THE WATER
~AT FtRST AND JHAVE. TO
BE FORCED INTO IT
BEFORE THEY CAN BE
TAuGHT TO SWIM.”

 

 

 

a
Pet of Jefferson Davis

HOUGH Jefferson Davis, the famous president of the

Southern Confederacy, was a notable bird lover, he had
a particular pet in his dog, “Traveler,” one of the most remark—
able animals of which we have record. It seems that this dog
had been brought from Europe by friends of his who had
purchased it in the Bernese Alps, and that later it was given
to Mr. Davis who had a home for his old age on the Gulf of
Mexico, called “Beauvoir.”

After Mr. Dorsey’s death, Traveler became the companion
and guard of Mr. Davis, permitting no one to come on the place
of whose good intent he had reason to be suspicious. In fact,
“Beauvoir” was under the animal’s care. All was safe while
Traveler did sentry duty on the wide porches; and no window
or door was locked or barred.

If the animal’s famous owner desired to give someone the
“freedom of the place” day or night, making safe that person’s
coming and going, he would put one hand on the person’s
shoulder, the other on Traveler’s head and say, “Traveler,
this is my friend.”

Traveler never forgot and for the future Mr. Davis’ friend
could go and come without molestation. Though Traveler
might be a terrible foe in case of necessity, Mr. Davis’ wee
niece, about two years of age, made a playmate of the animal.
Together they would roll gleefully on the grass.

A pet diversion of Traveler was rushing around after ﬁddler
crabs, but when walking with his owner it is doubtful if any
animal could surpass the gravity with which it seems he
regarded his role of bodyguard. Mr. Davis might, while in
deep thought, get too close to the water and be recalled to his
situation by Traveler’s taking hold of his trouser leg gently in
his teeth.

Then came the day when the dog seemed in pain. Mr. Davis
wrote a note to the most celebrated physician in that part of
the country, but though the doctor came, Traveler passed on,
his head on Mr. Davis’ knee. The tears of the bereaved dog-
lover coursed down his cheeks, as he said, “I have indeed lost
a friend.”

The entire family were at the funeral of Traveler, who was
buried in the front yard of Beauvoir, and a stone, beautifully
engraved, marked the resting place of the faithful companion.

—Cla/rence M. Lindsay

106

   
 

 

War Workers9 Mascot

HE workers at the Owens Yacht Company, Dundalk, Mary-

land, have a dog and a dozen cats as pets, besides a flock

of feathered friends that come to gather up the crumbs after
the pets are fed.

The king—pin among the pets is “Smokey,” a sleek, black,
short—haired German Shepherd, that was given to Capt.
Clarence Cramer, of the protection department, when the dog
was but a mere handful of ﬂesh and fur. Smokey is now over
a year old and has always lived in the ofﬁce of the guard force.

Smokey lives on the fat of the land. Everyone feeds him
as he ranges about the entire plant. Many of the men leave the
left-overs from their lunch boxes in the gate house as they pass
out and say, “Here’s something for Smokey.” Some special
admirer brings him a bag of bones every day.

On one occasion a workman who just didn’t like dogs hit
Smokey with an iron bar. The injured dog was rushed to the
animal hospital and the workmen took up a collection of $35.00
to pay the bill. The dog lost the sight of one eye, but the
shipyard workers rejoiced over the fact that his life was saved.
They made it so miserable for the miscreant that he soon quit
his job.

At another time, when Smokey had to be sent to the Balti-
more County headquarters f-or ofﬁcial observation, one of the
guards thought so much of the animal that he journeyed
several miles every day to see him.

Smokey is really an important member of the guard force.
He knows where all the watch-clock keys are located. As the
guard makes the rounds at night, Smokey leads the way. He
goes to each key and waits for the metallic click of the key
in the clock.

If any suspicious character is ever found loitering about
the premises, Smokey instantly corners that person and chal-
lenges him, and will not be satisﬁed until he believes the
guard knows of the presence of the intruder.

——L’ieut. Ray C. Ehrheart

   

   

  

., . ~.
' ' .. v ‘
, / .
I. x
- . , . e
y
I ' a
,
¢ ~"r "fl-o
. .‘1,1’..’;: '. -. :.

It's the law in Kentucky. that you m y t walk behind a mule

without speaking to the animal.

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, pastpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1944 bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches ..5 cts. each

About the Horse
Care of the Horse ..................... $1.25 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “

About the Dog

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... -.75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs ........... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ...............................
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................... 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

.50 II II

Distemper 1n Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. .50 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. ................................ .50 “ “
Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free

Lessons in Kindness ....... each, 5 cts.; $3.50 per 100

The Teach-'er s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1. 20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,"
play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls .......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1. 50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

 

 

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100 HOW to Teach It """""""""""" .' '50
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “ ougddggs? for Animals, a 28%;? (321%? 1.00 H u
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “ How to Organize a Society for the Pro-
Humane Educatlon Leaﬂet, No. 7. Farm tection of Animals .................... .50 " “
Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “ Band Of Mercy
Professor Frog's Lecture, 8 pp' """"" ‘75 u “ Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
Why the Toad 15 so Useful .............. .30 “ “ H n 25 t
Directions for the Care of Swine . .. . . .. . 1.00 “ “ Band Of Mercy pennant ' c S'
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 " " Band Of Mercy Membersmp card '50 per 100
(l u
The Jack London Club How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. Does It Pay, Story Of one Band Of Mercy '30 u ‘
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100 Band of Mercy Register . .. .. 10 cts.
Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.
In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "Massachu-

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

setts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals"
I868) Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended for the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "for
the use-of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital."
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or, it other

The Society's address is ISO Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass.

; that it is the second incorporated (March.

as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the

Information and advice will be

 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1944 issues. There you Will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It Will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Futhermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1944
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

‘A' ‘k * 1k

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE ALIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE DIASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, inc.

funeral Serbia

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ann Love and her dog, "Bu’rch."

“Butch”—the Dog Reporter

UTCH,” the tan and white police dog

—— Belgian, not German —— whose
master is the famous columnist of the
Washington Star, newspaperman Philip
H. Love, has a ﬁne record as a “reporter.”
Not only does Butch know all the neigh-
bors, and with an uncanny sureness
notiﬁes his family by special whines,
barks, or growls, when certain visitors
are coming, but he has quite a record
for tipping his master off from time to
time on major news events.

The strange gift appeared ﬁrst on
D Day when at ﬁve o’clock in the morn-
ing, Butch set up such a commotion of
barking and whining that his master got
out of bed to let him out. Then turning
to the radio, he heard the great news.
Similarly Butch reported the invasion of
Southern France; and again, on Election
Night, he let the family know when to
turn on the radio, to hear that the
Democrats had won.

So on April 7, when Butch began his
clamor at 1:00 A.M., Mr. Love hurried
to tune in, expecting to hear the news
of Germany’s surrender. Instead he got
one dead station and then some music!
He thought: “I’m too late, I’ll have to get
it in the morning papers.” But when he
went to roll out his car, he found that it
was the garage which had been invaded.

Usually Butch seems like a normal
dog. Sleeps in the cellar. Digs holes
under the fence, but never goes out of
the yard. Sniffs at the chickens down at
the family farm, but never really both-
ers them.

Now the family is all confused. Butch
must be a dual personality. When he
barks how are they to know whether it is
the police dog barking or the dog-
reporter? Whether to run to the radio
or the garage?

—Jack Pearson

Q32

ANIMAL AND

A California worker has solved the
alarm clock shortage by pressing into
service his brother’s fox terrier, which
promptly at six A.M. scratches on the
sleeper’s door and barks until he

succeeds in getting proper results. The

strangest part of the story is that the
dog never disturbs his client on the
latter’s off-day.

Some weeks ago, over two hundred
employees of a large New Jersey paper
plant walked out because. the super-
intendent inﬂicted a four-day penalty
layojjc on one of the machine operators
in the plant. A mouse was blamed for
the trouble since the operator turned
away from his machine to watch the
little fellow, thus permitting the equip-
ment to be damaged.

“Trigger,” the famous movie horse
belonging to Roy Rogers, can count to
ten, open and close doors, pick a gun
from a holster, roll a barrel with its
nose and drink milk from a bottle.

A sailor, apparently somewhat con-
fused, wandered around Floyd Bennett
Field, refusing doughnuts, coffee or any
kind of help from the Red Cross can-
teen workers. He ﬁnally explained that
he was on his way home with a hungry
pet canary and asked for some birdseed.

Up Portland, Oregon, way is a hen
that doesn’t even know that Easter has
passed. Since that holiday she has been
laying eggs of gay and colorful hues.
On latest report, she has featured a
number with brick-red band, edged
with a cream-colored stripe.

If you walk into a movie and ﬁnd
yourself seated next to a parrot, it will
be fairly safe to conclude that it is the
one owned by a returning sailor, who
bought the bird from a cockney com-
patriot and is trying to Americanize
its speaking voice.

The proprietor of a foot comfort
shop in Duluth, Minnesota, was
attracted by a scratching on the door
the other night when he was cleaning
up the place for the next day’s busi-
ness. He was greeted at the door by a
lame pheasant, which was promptly
taken to a local veterinarian.

His alarm clock doesn’t always
awaken an Adrian, Michigan, man but
”Old Faithful,” his cat, supplements it
by pulling his hair.

——]ack Pearson

Our Cover

UR cover this month was drawn ex—
clusively for Our Dumb Animals (by
Miss Rosina J. Burnell and reproduction
in color was made possible by contribu-
tions from interested friends. Miss
Burnell used as her model, “Sport,”
wire-haired fox terrier, owned :by Mr.
and Mrs. Rolland A. Chase, West New—
ton, Mass.

If any others of our readers would be
interested in having their pets used on
a special cover in color, the Editor will be
glad to discuss the cost of such a project.

@

Headless Rooster Lives

RECENT issue of Life Magazine
contained a series of revolting pic—
tures, utterly lacking in good taste, de-
picting a rooster partially decapitated in
an attempt to prepare the bird for din-
ner. Since the greater part of the skull,

' containing one ear, base of the brain and

jugular vein remained after the heads-
man’s axe had fallen, the creature re-
mained alive.

In this particular case, it was, of
course, an accident, although the subse-
quent exploitation of the hapless creature
Seems inexcusable. Later developments
prove only too conclusively the lack of
judgment used in publicizing such an
incident. At least one person, in New
York State, tried the experiment de-
liberately and was ﬁned, after an admis-
sion of guilt.

We can assure our readers .that our
Society will prosecute to the limit any
such experiments in our Commonwealth.

:13

Strange Case

IPPY,” a thoroughbred collie at the
Hillside Kennels, Monson, Massa-
chusetts, recently came up with a real
puzzler. Three weeks after she gave

birth to a litter of twelve puppies, she
presented her master, Fred L. Powers,
with a thirteenth member of the brood.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7‘ 9
memo}? "IE GLOP

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

7k

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part
of the world.

tions. sixty cents each. within the United States.

In clubs of five or more subscrip-

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

if

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly

prose articles of from 300—400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subject.
except cruel sports or captivity. dealing with ani-
mals. especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by‘good illustra-

tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAPH-S should be depicting

either domestic or wild animals in their natural

sharp.

surroundings. Pictures that Jrell a story are most

desirable.

VERSE about animals should be short.
gest from four to sixteen lines.

We sug-

IM PO RTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten.
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-half
cent a word for articles; one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings: one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

air

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office, 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts: editorial office. I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston
l5. Massachusetts. Address all communications to
Boston ofﬁce. Entered as Second-class matter.
June 29. I9I7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood.
Mass.. under the Act of March 3. I879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided for in section IIO3. Act of October 3. I9I7.
authorized. July I3. I9I9.

OUR DUMB . ‘

VOLUME 78—No. I2

 

DECEMBER. I945

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868
PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

sir
Officers
ERIC H. HANSEN. President DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel
it? .
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Boa-rd. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston
1‘!

Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

American Humane Education Society
Miss Olive Smith
Director of Humane Education, Springfield, Mass.

\Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
HARVEY R. FULLER ~ J. ROBERT SMITH Rev. John W- Lemon. Ark. Virginia
' Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative .
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex

WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia

JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester 5. C. Batra ........................... India.

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford Mrs. Maine C. E. Houghton .............. MadeIra

Bristol and Plymouth Dr. A. T. lshkanIan ................... MeXlCO

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis Mrs. AlIce W. Mannmg ................. Turkey
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire if

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MISS

IFSQESEL B. CRESSLER, Pres; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C A—JAMES
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Tr'eas.'

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. M. F. PETER-

SON: Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas. Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian in Charge
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
BARLOW, V.M.D.

Winchester Branch Auxiliar —MISS LEONTIN
POTE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM is. BEGGS, Treas. E T'

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-— R. M.

MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman. *On leave of absence—military service

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

r .
é~"’cri'>.c,\,‘\‘ﬁ ”5 (;,\,09

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

it

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage Jfree to any part
of the world. In clubs of five or more subscrip-
tions, sixty cents each, within the United States.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

it

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of from 300-400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subiect,
except cruel sports or captivity. dealing with ani-
mals, especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-
tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAIPHS should be sharp. depicting
either domestic or wild animals in their natural

surroundings. Pictures that tell a story are most
desirable.

VERSE about animals should be short. We sug-

gest from four to sixteen lines.

IM PORTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten.
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-half
cent a word for articles; one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings: one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

it

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office, 48 Central Street, Norwood. Massachu-
setts: editorial office, I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston
l5. Massachusetts. Address all communications to
Boston office. Entered as Second—class matter.
June 29. I9I7, at the Post Office at Norwood.
Mass, under the Act of March 3, I879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided for in section IIO3, Act of October 3, I9I7.
authorized. July l3. I9I'9.

OUR DUMB .

VOLU‘M E 78—No. 8

 

iAUGUST, I945

Founded by Geo. T. AngeII, I868
PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND .
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIET

it

Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEYI Chairman of the Board

ALBERT A. POLLARDI Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOWI Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY 8: STOREY, Counsel

fir

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee,
United 'Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President, First National Bank of Boston

ﬁr

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER * J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Worcester

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—PROF.
I? R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. \X/ARNER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——JAMES
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. M. F. PETER-
SON, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS LEONTINE T.
POTE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM N. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

it

Angell Memorial Animal HOSpitaI
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
’M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
=i‘W. A. \X/ILCOX, D.V.M.
W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53—57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian in Charge
*R. L. LEIGHTON. V.M.D.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.
R. M. BARLOW, V.M.D.
N. L. GREINER, D.V. .

*On leave of absence—military service

 

 

 




 

 

What of Tomorrow?

THE N ew York Times, in an editorial August 5, 1945 , pointed
out that the late William K. Vanderbilt’s estate of $35,000,000
dwindled to $5,000,000 by the time the federal government took
$25,000,000 in taxes and New York State ﬁve million more.

The editorial emphasizes that it is virtually impossible for any-
one to accumulate large fortunes today. For instance, it would
be necessary to earn $85,000 a year for ten years in order to
accumulate $100,000 under today’s tax schedules and allowing
only modest expenses for living. To accumulate $1,000,000
would mean annual earnings of $2,130,000 for ten years, or
$1,075,000 for twenty years.

It is obvious that only very few individuals ever attain such
large annual incomes, and the whole matter of ﬁnancing charitable
and educational institutions becomes a serious matter, as many
such groups have depended, to a large extent, on wealthy philan-
thropists to provide the funds with which to operate and expand.

Eleemosynary institutions have, over the years, developed and
educated a great many people to contribute regularly to worthy
causes, and many are the sons who have followed the habits of their
fathers, and, thusly, have continued to give generously. Whether
or not the new generation growing up will do likewise is open to
debate. '

Unless the tax picture changes radically, the era of large legacies
is over, and if the work of charities and educational groups is to
continue, new sources of income must be found and a different
group of donors developed.

A symposium on this important matter would seem to be in
order, and worthy of the most intelligent and serious thoughts
and suggestions the ﬁeld can develop.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Photo, Lynwood M. Chace

A chipmunk hunting for pine cone seeds to eat.

THEY may not buy War Bon'ds‘or'carryw-

bank books, but animals build up sav-
ings accounts which pay important divi-
dends. Instead of piling up money, they
make food deposits. Their banks may be
anything from an old tin can to a hollow
tree, but when the nights grow long and
chill and the leaves turn scarlet, nature’s
children are usually well prepared for the
coming cold winter months.

One of the most saving of all ani-
mals is the red squirrel. He works hard
storing up the nuts, pine cones and seeds
he cannot eat during the summer. He
even picks mushrooms, hangs them out
to dry, then stores them away. Often he
will deposit much more food than he
needs.

The squirrel’s saving habit is so
strong that he occasionally caches item-s
he cannot eat. One of the oddest of squir-
rel deposits was recently reported by a
Philadelphia golfer. A squirrel picked
up one of his golf balls and scampered
away int-o the woods. The golfer fol-

September 1945

mlowed-“theslittlewanimal and watched him

place the ball in a hollow tire-EWWh‘é’fi'the
squirrel left, the golfer investigated the
tree, and found. 56‘ golf balls stored there.

In the same family tree iswthe chipmunk,
although this pert, graceful animal with
the striped back, usually lives among
rocks or along fences. Its bank is a bur-
row, which it digs below the frost line
and in the autumn, it deposits there quan-
tities of grain or nuts. Its generic name,
Tamias, meaning steward, is suggestive
of this habit.

Animal banks take many odd forms.
The beaver fells a winter’s supply of
edible timber and ﬂoats it to his dam.
Then, stick by stick, he anchors his food
supply butt-ﬁrst in the mud of the stream
bed. Later, when hungry, he simply
dives down to his bank and brings up a
sapling. The beaver’s savingss account
pays double dividends. He eats the bark,
then uses the peeled stick to make re-
pairs on his dam or his lodge.

The woodpecker builds his own bank.

Animal bankers in
nature remind

us of the

human family.

Some save for a rainy

day; some hoard
useless objects just

out of habit.

With his strong bill he drives nuts into
the cracks in trees, fences, shingle roofs,
and even railroad ties. He also uses his
bill to push nuts or kernels of corn under
the soft bark of pine trees.

And let us not forget the lowly wood—
chuck who, perhaps has the most novel
banking system of all. This animal, in-
stead of hiding his vegetables for his
winter’s diet, eats heavily in the autumn,
taking on a quantity of fat under his
skin. Then in November, he drops off to
sleep in his burrow and does not awaken
until spring, fed during that time from
his inner source of supply.

169

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

In Praise
of the

Horse

By JASPER B. SINCLAIR
0

MORE THAN ANY OTHER ANIMAL. THE HORSE HAS MADE
HISTORY.

THE faithful old horse must lack song appeal. He has not
inspired the song writers of the world to the same extent

as the dog or many of our feathered friends. Yet he is not

without his share of reminders in song, poetry and prose.

True, some of the Tin Pan Alley contributions border on
the ludicrous. Particularly the “Horses, Horses, Horses”
refrain and the equally fantastic lyrics about “The Horse with
the Lavender Eyes.” But even that is better than being wholly
neglected.

The story of “Black Beauty,” of course, is perhaps the ﬁnest
of its kind ever written in any language, and one of the most
widely read of all animal stories. “Black Beauty,” like Long-
fellow’s well—remembered poem, “The Bell of Atri,” belongs
to the ages.

The recent Hollywood version of “My Friend Flicka” and
the Latin poet Virgil’s verses in praise of the plodding farm
horse span a couple of thousand years of literature dealing
with Dobbin.

One of Shakespeare’s kings would have gladly traded his
kingdom for a horse. But that, after all, was no genuine
compliment to the equine family. A horse at that moment
was only a means of saving his own royal neck.

A lot of classical poetry would never have been written had it
not been for the traditional association between man and
horse. Longfellow, for example, could never have written
“The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere” if the Boston patriot
had been unable at the last moment to borrow a horse from
Deacon Jones.

 

 

Brown Photos

Without the horse, “Sheridan’s Ride” could not have become
one of our school-book classics, nor could Browning have
penned the “Good News from Ghent.” And it was the cavalry
horse that made possible Tennyson’s “Charge of the Light
Brigade” and all the stirring cavalry selections that have
become a part of our military band and symphonic music
repertoire.

Mechanized warfare has at least that much to its credit—
it has spared tens of thousands of horses the terrible tragedy
of ﬁghting battles that were no concern of the animals them-
selves.

In the past, the fate of the horse in wartime has deeply
moved all right-thinking people. But nothing was ever done
about it till gasoline motors ﬁnally spared these animals the
perils of a man—made battleﬁeld.

Some poet or song writer should pen a word of thanks for
this. It is the least that can be done after all the centuries
in which the horse has so unﬂinchingly play-ed its hero’s part
in the front line of battle.

His Island, Yet Awhile . . . By MARY FERGUSON LEGLER

Before the sun has warmed the island rocks,
King-fishers whet the chilly steel-gray air
Upon the grindstone of their raucous throats,
And leave the morning keener than before,
Sharpened to singing thinness, tremulous,
Almost transparent, silver-edged and sheer.
Hard by among the little fallen cones

And balsam needles, bright red killikinick
Awaits the dainty nibbling of the deer

M arch 1945

Who browses undisturbed nor needs to prick

Soft, lowered ears; his dainty hoof may bruise

In unconcern the fragrant Wintergreen

And huckleberry, spilling purple juice.

This is his island now,- and yet awhile,

The summer lingering, it will be his,—

Clean winds and ripened fruit, untortured breath.
Better he does not dream November soon

Will come with scent of man and gun and death.

47

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Thomas Cadillac’s” Travels
EMVWWHWTEWMME

PROBABLY no cat ever went on a stranger journey than

“Thomas Cadillac.” More than twenty years ago, he began
life as a friendless alley cat, in Detroit, Michigan. He might
have lived and died without anybody’s ever having heard of
him if, one day, he had not crawled into the packing case in
which the Cadillac Company was shipping a chassis to an auto-
mobile show at Sydney, Australia.

For seven long weeks the crate, with its imprisoned cat
passenger was on its way. Stored deep in the hold of a ship,
buffeted by high seas, it served as poor Thomas Cadillac’s state-
room.

When it ﬁnally arrived and the iron 'cleats and stout boards
were knocked off, the Australians had a surprise coming. They
had expected a chassis, but they hadn’t looked for a cat!

Poor Thomas was a pitiful sight. He was found stretched
out in the V-shaped enclosure, formed by the eight cylinders
of the engine. He was unconscious, and with his hair almost
gone, he looked as if he had lost 8.99 of his nine lives.

Workmen, supposing him dead, laid him to one side. But
a minute or two later, one man thought he heard Thomas
breathing. As he bent down to listen, there were unmistakable
signs of life.

No time was lost then. The cat was rushed to a veterinary,
and the latter proceeded to give Thomas ﬁrst aid. Within a
very short time, he had the overseas wanderer lapping a dish
of mush and milk.

Thomas became the sensation of the hour. His name and
picture appeared in the Australian newspapers, and the public
became interested in the strange traveler.

When Mrs. Poole, the wife of the American Cadillac agent,
heard about him, she had her husband bring Thomas to their
apartment. But, as Australia has strict regulations against
the importation of livestock, the cat’s stay in the country had
to be cut short. Mr. and Mrs. Poole decided to bring him home
with them.

On that trip back to America, no royal personage could have
traveled more comfortably and receive more attention. In
place of a narrow cell far down in the hold, Thomas had an
elegantly paneled stateroom with a woolen blanket to sleep
on, and all the good food he could eat. _

When the boat docked at Honolulu, the Cadillac agent with
eleven camera and motion picture men came aboard to honor
the little traveler. Thomas did not seem to mind, but posed
quite agreeably. The same thing happened at San Francisco.
In due time the cat reached Detroit, where he was welcomed in
a blaze of glory. After that, Thomas was given a permanent
home at the Cadillac factory. '

One may wonder how this remarkable cat survived his long
trip in the nailed-up packing case. His Australian life savers
discovered the secret. Lubricants all around the engine had
been licked dry. For forty-nine days, that sturdy American
alley cat had lived on nothing but grease and oiled paper!

a
Unwelcome Quiet

Our house is empty, silent now—
I never knew just how
A little dog could fill a place,
Scampering through at breakneck pace,
Scattering rugs—an upset chair-—
Confusion reigned most everywhere.
But what I’d give, if it could be
That he again would meet and jump on me.
—Capt. Ellis Reed-Hill

136

Off for the Week-End

OCKSIE” was just plain dog,—a mongrel, intelligent and
an adored pet. Often we took him with us to another city
to visit a relative, going by bus.

One day we missed Jocksie. Inquiry disclosed the fact that
a neighbor had seen him waiting at the bus stop and eventually
boarding the bus with other riders. A phone call reported
that he had arrived at the home of the relative. She agreed
to care for him and we planned to call for him.

One morning, two days later, he again disappeared. From
our window we saw the two o’clock bus stop. The sole passenger
alighting was Jocksie.’

Later, we learned that he had awaited the bus in the other
city and the driver, recognizing him, had stopped for him.
He had jumped onto a seat and dozed until near his destination,
then barked at the door when the bus had reached his “jumping-
off-place.”

—E'thel M. Rice

4%
For Hillside Acre

Here lie the joyous hearts; let no sad song

Rise from this sweet green acre where they sleep,
Even though waiting time seem overlong,

And the sad heart would claim its right to weep.
These were the loved and loving, these the true,
The eager and the innocent and gay;

These were the faithful to the best they knew,
And sure of Heaven as down is sure of day.

Then let the snows of winter cover lightly
These little mounds, and the returning sun
Gladden the ground, and the moonlight follow whitely,
And peace brood gently while the seasons run.
Weep for all earthly sufferers, as you must;
But let no mourning vex this happy dust.
—Silence Buck Bellows

 

British Oﬂicial Photo

The family cat. escaping unscathed from flying-bomb attacks.
waits patiently for its family to repair the damage.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B y Boys and Girls

ow we want you to write for us. If you are ﬁfteen years old
N or under and have written or want to write a poem or story
about animals, you are eligible to compete for a place on this
page. Each piece must be very short, and, of course, your very
own composition. Each contribution must be accompanied by a
note from one of your parents or your teacher stating that the
writing is original with you. Also, if you have a picture of yourself
and your pet, send that, too. Of course, we cannot promise to
print everything received, but the judges will pick out the ones
they think the best.

All letters should be addressed to Boys and Girls Editor, OUR
DUMB ANIMALS, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass. We
cannot return or acknowledge unused contributions, but we shall
do our best to print the best stories, poems and pictures received.

Following are a few samples of stories and verse written by
children. Can you do better than these boys and girls? Try it.

@
My Horse

By Roger Willis (7 years)

“Bobby” is my horse. I like to ride him. I feed him
apples every Sunday.

We have a red and black wagon. I ride far in the
wagon. Then we put Bobby in the barn and give him
one apple. When he sees the apple, he goes, “Hee!
Haw!” I know that he is happy.

41%
My Pal
By Sally Gorman Walsh (10 years)

My pal, I said to myself once more,

I recorded the terrible night,

That my Lassie had gone on a journey,
Yes, in a heavenly flight.

She was white and black together,
As only my Lassie could be,

Aye, but the collie was in her,

But she still had spitz, had she.

My Lassie has gone now to Heaven,
As I have already said,

But I’ll dream of my Lassie always,
Each night I get into bed.

And when I get to Heaven,

I think I’ll meet her there,

If I don’t, I’ll know that

During my life I’ve not been fair.

Yes, my Lassie has gone now,

But I’ll always feel her near,

And I think she’ll remember me as,
The one to whom she was so dear.

196

 
 
 

.ii , '
1 , Vw,

\ u,
'5'“:
.e

  
    
   

v I
WI“
.-

5.

s

-‘ {2/
" ' I

an‘ ‘ .

 

Photo by Jon D. Dodds

A HAPPY PAIR

Cooperation Conquers _ ,
By Mary Ann Messner (13 years)"

One warm spring morning last year “Butch,” my pet
homer pigeon, and his mate decided to build a nest.
The next day as I approached the pen to feed them,
I noticed the beginnings of a nest in the corner.

What’s so odd about that, did I hear you ask?

Well, just this. The nest was made of very fine, two
and three- inch- long weeping willow twigs. I’m willing
to admit I was puzzled, and for more than one reason.

I knew that pigeons do not ordinarily pick up twigs
two or three inches long, but rather about nine or ten
inches in length, also that the nearest weeping willow
tree is a full block distant from the pen. Most puzzling
was the fact that neither pigeon had left the pen.

On my second trip, with fresh drinking water, I
stopped short. On the trapboard (used as an entrance
for returning pigeons) stood four or .ﬁve English spar-
rows, each bearing a twig in its beak. In return for the
twig, Butch would allow the sparrow-s to ﬁnish his
food. So, in that manner two lifelong enemies reached
a satisfactory goal through cooperation.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

Animal

Clocks

Y closely observing different ani-

mals and birds, the keen student of

nature is able to tell, not only the
different seasons of the year, approach-
ing changes in weather, but is also able
to tell the time of day or night!

The laughing kingﬁsher of Australia
would make a most accurate alarm clock.
It is the odd habit of this strange bird,
punctually one hour before sunrise, to
set up such a din of whooping, laughing
and shouting that awakens even the
soundest of sleepers.

During the summer months here in
our own land, especially if one lives in
the country, there is little need for a
clock as the different feathered creatures
will tell the time.

Usually, the barnyard rooster crows
some three or four times just on the
stroke of midnight. But the ﬁnch is the
ﬁrst early morning singer and he begins
about 1:30 and approximately one hour

Color Variation in

(IOLOR variation in the wild ani-
mal world is very interesting.

The great majority of animal
species are characteristically colored in
a deﬁnite manner, exhibiting a pattern
of tints which are passed on through
heredity, with little or no variation from
one generation to another. Few are uni-
formly white or uniformly black. There
are a few exceptions, of course, such as
the polar bear and the snowy owl of arctic
regions and the black swan of Australia,
but these are rare.

On the other hand, domesticated
beasts and birds tell a different story, the
obvious inference being that they are
produced by Nature. This is not true.

F .e bruary 1945

 

later the blackcap joins in.

The quails give their call from 2:30 to
3 :00, and they are followed in about half
an hour by the song sparrows.

Next of the “time-telling” songsters
are the blackbirds, after which are heard
the larks who continue the musicale until
at ﬁve o’clock the English sparrows
drown, all music with their mighty chirp-
ing. About this time the barnyard roost-
ers really get down to business in an-
nouncing the approach of dawn.

Dogs, cats, horses, donkeys and other

animals know certain hours in the day.
My dog could tell within two or three
minutes of six o’clock each evening. He
would begin to walk restlessly about and
just as soon as it was six he would go
out on the porch to wait for me to come
home from work, except on Sundays, and
if I were away he would not take his
position on the porch.

By looking at the house cat’s eyes, one

@
the Wild . . . .

The principle of “law” of natural se-
lection which Charles Darwin’s re-
searches brought to light tends to elim-
inate whites and blacks. It is only when
this principle is abrogated by man for his
own proﬁt or amusement that animals
become pure white or black.

Pure white animals are termed “al-r
binos” by scientists, pure black ones
“melanos.” Complete albinism results
from the absence in the skin, hair, feath-
ers, coating of the eye, etc., of the minute
pigment-granules which normally deter-
mine the color of the particular structure.

There is a distinct difference, how-
ever, between partial or seasonal white-
ness. The former is a pathological con-

By JEWELL CASEY
O

No better indication of the sea-

son's change could be asked

than the sight of wild geese fly-
ing in formation.

can tell time of day with a fair degree
of accuracy. From early dawn kittie’s
eyes grow gradually narrower up until
noon, at which time they become almost
perpendicular lines. After that, dilation
begins and as the day wanes the eyes
gradually widen.

Horses are noted for their ability to
perform certain acts at the exact time
each day. A newspaper carrier in Eng-
land had a horse that always stopped at
the right house for the papers to be
delivered. And another thing he soon
learned to the amazement of his owner:
Two people who lived in different parts
of town paid for a paper between them,
taking turns week about reading it ﬁrst.
The horse soon learned this and would
stop one week at the ﬁrst address and
the following week at the other.

Without clocks or calendars, animals
and birds are evidently guided by little
things that we cannot observe.

By F. J. WORRALL

" dition and tends to involve certain phys-

ical defects, such as deafness, bad teeth
and weak eyes. The same appears to be
true of abnormal blackness.

The obvious answer to this seasonal
change is that animals are less conspicu-
ous. Some physiologists contend, how-
ever, that a white coat is to be preferred
in a cold climate because of its heat-
conserving covering.

It seems logical, nevertheless, that the
variation of color that exists among birds
and animals of the wild has always been
to bring their color schemes into har-
mony against their habitual backgrounds,
and thus to achieve a protective resem-
blance to Nature.

29

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Friendly Birds

OUR Florida jays and I became fast
friends one winter at Melbourne,

Florida. A neighbor introduced us. At
ﬁrst they eyed me suspiciously, but after
a few days of luring them with food they
condescended to adopt me into their fam-
ily circle.

I was surprised to see that they had no
crest. Only when angry did they rufﬂe
up their head feathers to simulate a crest.
Except for this they resembled their
northern cousins in looks and tempera-
ment.

In the morning I would go out and call.
Usually two would appear. A third
would soon arrive full tilt on my head.
We all would whistle and call until the
fourth would glide in. They greedily
ate and in their cocky, jay way begged
for more. If no more was forthcoming,
one would sometimes hop up to my head,
seize a hair, plant his feet, and pull until
I hollered “Ouch.” Satisﬁed he would
ﬂy away—often with the hair in his
beak.

They had no fear of me at all. When
I appeared without food, one or two
would often pounce on my head and start
pecking determinedly. I had many b1eed~
ing spots to attest to their strength.
When I shooed them away, they grum-
blingly retired to the nearest palm and
scolded my heartless actions.

We hated to have to leave our pets,
for we had grown fond of their mis-
chievous, raucous company.

—Jane J. Coﬁeg
d

To Subscribers

We ask our subscribers to be patient if
copies do not come through on time.
Because of increasing difﬁculties, from
eight to twelve weeks should be allowed
for new subscriptions to be entered.

88

 

 

 

 

Important Letter

THE following letter, signed by Presi-
dent Eric H. Hansen and {Chairman
of the Board, Dr. Francis H. Rowley,
was sent to all United States Senators
and delegates to the San Francisco Con—
ference:

“The undersigned, ofﬁcers of our two
Societies, speaking for themselves and
the many thousands of the Societies’
members, beg you to use your inﬂuence
in every possible way to secure a Peace
that will last, a PEOPLE’S PEACE.

“Only a PEACE based upon the
fundamental and eternal principles of
justice and humanity can endure.

“Only as each Nation, at the long-
f'ought-f‘or PEACE CONFERENCE, is
willing to insist upon an abiding
PEACE, sacriﬁcing where need be, some
of its own much-talked-of sovereign
rights for the lasting good of all—only
such a PEACE as the whole world is
praying for today, must be sought.

“Everlastin‘gly true are the words, ‘It
matters little who wins the war, unless
Christ wins the PEACE}

“With sincere respect, . . .

,7
6

Rabbit Chased a Cat

ELGIAN hares are capable of de—

livering hard. raps with their strong
hind legs. A citizen of Pueblo, Colorado,
heard a loud racket under the porch of
his house and saw a cat come running
out with a large mother Belgian hare in
hot pursuit and chased puss over a fence.
This is no doubt news to most folks, but
keepers of tame rabbits know of such
incidents.

—-Piteblo Indicator

@

The Jeweled Bird
By CORNELIA B. FUBBISH

Deep in cool grass,
Beside a brook,

I lay—forgotten

Was my book.

I watched a bird
Upon a tree,

A plain bird
Singing—melody
Outpoured

From swelling throat,
Rising and falling,
Each single note

01‘ crystal purity. . . .
A final trill and then—
The song was done,
The bird flew upward
Jeweled by the sun.

’To Bed in the Loft

By MILDRED MORSE

ID you ever see a cats’ ladder leading

to a loft, for the family cat to climb

at bedtime? We have one, and it is not

only a ladder but a claw—sharpening post

as well. Beside it stands the loft, where

our cats (we have ﬁve) sleep on occa-
sion. In the loft is the cats’ bed.

When we ﬁrst studied cats’ needs and
habits, we were advised, through reading
a book about cats, to go into the woods
and look for a log with the bark on it,
or for a dead limb about six feet high,
for a claw-sharpening tool. So we
searched until we found such a limb,
about three inches thick and branched
at the top. We nailed it to a wood base
and stood it up near our high chest of
drawers in the living room. On the top
of this chest we keep our sewing baskets.

At ﬁrst our cats (we had two at that
time) would sharpen their claws on the
log and climb up and down it in their
play. It really does help to save the
furniture. Then “Sammy,” our gray tiger
cat, got a better idea. He ﬁnishes his
supper, sit-s nonchalantly washing his
face for a minute, then decides to go to
bed. He climbs the “ladder,” steps over
to the “loft,” curls up in the softest
“bed,” and goes to sleep.

Then “Billy,” the black kitten, took up
the idea and scrambled to the loft, too.
He squeezes into the basket beside, or on
top of, Sammy, and perfect contentment
reigns. That is, until they hear some-
thing worth investigating, when they
yawn, stretch, step over to the ladder
and climb down almost as expertly as
they climbed up.

 

Sammy on his perch

DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.\\k\\

\\ \

 

/
//

 

Following are a few of the typical.

cases investigated by our agents in their
state—wide crusade against cruelty.-

An interesting case developed when it
was reported to one of our ofﬁcers that
a woman had pastured a man’s cows on
her land and refused to let him feed or
milk them.

On inspection, our agent found that
the cows, 27 in number, had damaged
her newly planted ﬁeld of wheat and
she was holding the animals until the
owner paid her damages. It was ex-
plained to the woman that her best
course was to release the cows to their
owner so that he could feed and milk
them, for if anything happened to them
while she was holding them, she would
be held responsible. If, on the other
hand, she let the cows go, had her dam-
ages estimated by a disinterested party
and brought action again-st the owner,
she could get redress through the courts.
Following this advice, she consented to
liberate the cows. '

The complaint in this case was against
a man who threw a stone at a dog and
broke its leg.

Our officer talked with the man who
claimed that the dogs attacked him, but
a witness to the action stated that the
offender was delivering furniture and
stopped to watch two dogs ﬁghting. After
one dog left, the man picked up a stone

 

 

and threw it at the other dog, breaking
its leg. A complaint was issued against
the man and he pleaded nolo contendere.
The plea accepted, he agreed to pay the
veterinarian’s fee of $25 for treating the
dog.

Tying hens’ feet together with string
was the basis for another complaint. In-
vestigation proved the complaint justi-
ﬁed. Nine hens were found with one
foot of each tied with string about a
foot apart. The hens were released and
owner warned.

Another case involved three menwho,
turned down at one riding academy for
abuse to horses, procured steeds from
another academy. '

Our agent arrived at academy and
waited for the three men to come in.
He saw them about a mile from the
school and noted that they were using
the horses all right, but were pushing
them right along. When they came in,
the animals were in fair condition, not
too wet. However our ofﬁcer lectured
the men and pointed out the stringent
laws aﬂ’ecting abuse of riding horses. He
took the names of the men and told them
if other complaints came to him, he
would have to take them into court. This
scene, taking place before ﬁfteen or
twenty other riders, served the double
purpose of warning the offenders and
cautioning all others against abuse.

John Buczek and William Dagenais wi’rh Jrhe dog receive +he awards from AgeniL Brown.

144

Kindness Rewarded

RONZE medals for kindness were

recently awarded to two boys at our
Springﬁeld Branch by Agent John T.
Brown.

William H. Dagenais, 18, of Spring-
ﬁeld, received his medal for rescuing a
dog from the river after it had been
thrown from the North End bridge. The
boy was standing near the middle of the
bridge when a car stopped and a man
kicked a dog from the car. Then he
picked up the animal and threw it over
the railing, and sped away.

Racing to the spot, the lad looked over
and saw the dog swimming for shore.
He ran down to the end of the bridge
and when he saw the dog stop near the
third“ span, apparently from exhaustion,
he went into the river and brought the
animal ashore.

Bringing the dog to our Springﬁeld
Hospital for treatment of a lacerated
foreleg, the boy reported the incident.
Unfortunately he failed to get the car
registration number. Agent Brown, how-
ever, is investigating the case, seeking
to identify the man, who so heartlessly
treated the dog, and bring him to
justice.

The second medal was awarded to John
Buczek, 16, of Chicopee Falls, for rescu-
ing a cat from the river. The cat, a
large malttese, was sighted on the middle
span of the Chicopee Falls bridge, about
40 feet below the roadway.

Mr. Brown, called to the scene, sum—
moned” aid from the ﬁre department.
Chief Ernest Laﬂamme answered the
call with six men. They lowered a 40-
foot ladder and the chief went down to
the rescue. The cat, however, started
around the eight-inch ledge where it had
been crouching, became frightened, leaped
into the river and was carried down
stream for a distance of ﬁfty feet. There
it managed to clamber out onto a stone
and ﬁnally made a jump to a small island.

Then it was that John Buczek went
into the water and brought the cat to
the mainland, and to Agent Brown who
thanked the young man profusely.

In presenting the medals, Mr. Brown
pointed out that they were medals of
honor, awarded to those who show ex—
traordinary kindness to animals in dis-
tress.

“The Society feels honored to know
that its humane education has gone forth
to produce good in our youths today.
In your acts of kindness, you have shown
what real American boys can do for
helpless creatures. The Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals commends your humane deeds
and presents these awards as a token of
its appreciation.”

Still another medal was awarded to
Malcolm Richmond for saving two dogs
from a burning shed.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

O
n
no
a
n
w
9

 

 

 

‘ I A ‘11131 i s
- . ‘.~.-.4:#H.W1m.wuwuuu..u.m
‘ . . . 4.. .. In JuiAu.

. . . .kdll‘ ...

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

American Humane Education Society

HE annual report of the American
, Humane Education Society for 1944,
shows that 1,882 Bands of Mercy were
organized during the year. This ﬁgure
brings the total number of Bands to
269,264. New members in our Jack
London Club totalled 24,082 with an over
all ﬁgure of 899,739. '

Our Field Workers made 1,104 ad-
dresses reaching 190,707 persons.

In the ﬁeld of foreign work, we were
able to send material to very few foreign
countries because of postal regulations.
However, literature was sent to Colom-
bia, Mexico, British West Indies, Aus-
tralia, Canada, and Syria.

Kindness Week

Be Kind to Animals Anniversary was
marked by our annual Poster Contest,
for which we received 6,137 posters from
444 schools throughout the State. Prizes
consisting of 2,133 gold and silver pins
and subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals
were awarded.

' We distributed 2,000 Kindness Post-
ers, 10,000 Humane Exercises and 15,-
500 blotters.

Mr. Thornton Burgess’ illustrated lec-
ture on Human-e Sunday was attended
by a capacity audience and we plan to
have Mr. Burgess return again for the
coming Kindness Week.

Outstanding during the celebration
was the ﬁrst international broadcast ever
given in honor of Be Kind to Animals
Week. On our side, Dr. Rowley ex-
changed experiences and good wishes
with Sir Robert Gower, Chairman of the
Royal S. P. C. A., in London. Five addi-
tional broadcast-s were given over local
stations through the courtesy of radio

stations WBZ, WCOP, WMEX, WEEI,
WORL.

New Developments

Another new development in Humane
Education was the inauguration of our
National Humane Key Contest, the
award to be given for the most outstand-
ing contribution to Humane Education.
The winner, from over one hundred en-
tries received from all parts of the
country, Canada and England, was Mrs.
Douglas Ayres, of Fort Plain, N. Y. Mrs.
Ayres’ entry was later produced in book-
let form and has been praised highly
by educators and other societies.

Our photographic contest drew some
560 entries, with $95.00 in cash and ten
additional subscriptions to Our Dumb
Animals being awarded.

Last, but far from least, comes the
production of the Society’s new ﬁlm,
“Out of the Heart.” We have received
numerous requests for, and inquiries
concerning, this ﬁlm and we are con-
ﬁdent that once copies can be placed in
ﬁlm libraries throughout the country
there will be a constant circulation,

56

reaching schools, clubs and civic organi-
zations.
The activities of our ﬁeld workers
follow.
Work in the East

William F. H. Wentzel, Field Repre-
sentative from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
continued, as usual, his lectures and dis-
tribution of literature. In all, he trav-
eled 2,300 miles, visiting numerous cities,
towns and villages in his section of the
country. In giving 53 school talks, Mr.
Went'zel formed 437 Bands of Mercy and
reached some 50,000 children. In addi-
tion, he secured 725 pledges to the Jack
London Club and distributed 261,500
pieces of literature.

During the year, Miss Lucia F. Gilbert
carried on her work in New Hampshire
and Massachusetts. She visited 46
schools, gave 196 talks, organized 276
Bands of Mercy, reaching 10,000 chil-
dren and 550 teachers.

Work in the South

In Florida, our representative, Mr.
R. E. Grifﬁth, traveled 2,889 miles, visit-
ing 45 schools in all. He gave 45 talks,
organized 297 Bands of Mercy, reaching
14,709 persons.

In Georgia, Mrs. Katherine Weathers-
bee carried on, as usual, her extensive
work in bringing Humane Education to
the children of her state. Visiting 106
communities, she traveled a total of
13,521 miles and gave over a hundred
talks in schools, camps and conferences.
She reached, in this manner, 28,248 chil-
dren. She attended 35 conference meet-
ings, held exhibits and distributed some
2,500 pieces of literature.

In Virginia, Mr. John W. Lemon re-
ports that he traveled 9,831 miles and
visited 277 communities. In this manner,
he was able to establish 291 Bands of
Mercy. He visited 174 schools and gave
243 talks before 18,571 children and
6,873 adults. During the year, he dis-
tributed 2,203 pieces of literature.

In Texas, Mr. F. Rivers Barnwell trav—

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday attor-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station
WSPR—l270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlene B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
March 6—"Animals in the News."

March l3—-"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

March 20—"True Dog Stories."

March 27—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

eled 6,336 miles throughout the state and
in Louisiana, Arkansas, and Oklahoma.
He gave 98 talks in 87 schools and estab—
lished 93 Bands of Mercy. Children
reached through these channels numbered
27,488. In addition, Mr. Barnwell gave
127 additional addresses reaching 24,244
adults.

Work in the Far West

In Washington, Mrs. Florida L. Byrne,
of Tacoma, carried on her humane work
in the public and vacation school of her
state through lectures, essay contests,
quiz games and the distribution of litera-
ture. Her humane program included the
planning of weekly broadcasts for a local
station.

As secretary of the Western Humane
Press Bureau, Mrs. Alice L. Park has
continued over the past year in the mail-
ing of press slips to some 500 editors.
In addition, Mrs. Park distributed large
quantities of literature and attended
teachers’ and humane conventions in
California.

1%

Deceased Friends

Who Remembered Our Societies in
Their Wills

The following left bequests to the Mas-
sachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals or to the American
Humane Education Society in 1944:

Seth R. Boyden, Foxboro

Mrs. Susan Cabot, Canton

Ingeborg Curtis, Paris, France
Alice M. Davenport, Malden

Marcia W. Davis, Quincy
Evangeline Hope Dexter, Sherborn
Jere A. Downs, Winchester

Cornelia M. H. Faile, New York, N. Y.
Edna Felton, Boston

Lelia A. Fl-agg, Haverhill

Ella Goodrich, Pit‘tsﬁeld

Jennie E. Hayward, Worcester
Corinne E. Helm, Quincy, Illinois
Albert R. Hetzer, Boston

Mrs. Mabel B. Hoyt, Fitchburg
Carrie E. Kalbﬂeisch, Winthrop
Irene Blissard Keeman, Needham
Emma F. Ludden, Beverly

Agnes MacDonald, Arlington
Sarah A. Marshall, Southboro

Pink M-esser, No. Conway, N. H.
Fannie Edson Morrison, Weston
Christina K. Paton, Springﬁeld
Woodbury Rand, Brookline
Josephine M. Rawson, Newton
Barbara S. Ross, Boston

Mary R. Sawyer, Salem, Mass.
James D. Stacy, Gloucester

Henry M. Swift, Cape Elizabeth, Me.
Elizabeth Downs Wadsworth, Winchester
Nellie ‘C. Williams, New York, N. Y.
Hobart W. Winkley, Boston

Mary E. Wynne, Dorchester

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

"Smokey”

As WE write this, we are thinking about “Smokey,” a little black
cocker spaniel with a bit of a white chest, sad eyes and a very happy
tail. We remember her last summer when she was sitting on the
lawn with our boy. It was the time of day when light has lost
most of its shadows, and the peaceful calm of the early evening

out—of—doors prevails.

They were intent upon themselves and in harmony with the
quiet forces of nature which surrounded them. When the boy
would move his head to brush back an unruly lock of hair which
always seemed to fall into his eyes, the dog would lift her head
and carefully look at his face—his eyes. Thus they would look
at each other for a brief while. Then the boy would reach out his
hand and touch her head, and instantly she would get up, come as
close to him as she possibly could, and then lick his hand and gaze
at him. The boy would hug her, and between them—without a
sound being uttered—would pass some mysterious thoughts of

understanding, of love and companionship.
Last week Smokey was killed—a victim of a hit—and—run driver.

Dr. Rowley once said, “Does death for them end all? No man
can answer that question. As to our own mortality, we cannot

prove it. It is a matter of faith, believing where we cannot prove.”

Dare we believe we shall see that cocker again?

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

@112 ilianh of Merry nr

3111mm ﬁnmanr Imagine

ERIC H. HANSEN, President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected. special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY
Two hundred and thirty-seven Bands
of Mercy were organized during Febru-
ary. These were distributed as follows:

Maine ..................... 51
Florida ........... 44
Georgia ............ 36
Virginia ................... 36
Texas ........ . . ...... 35
Massachusetts .............. 27
Pennsylvania .............. 5
NewJersey................ 1
Washington ............... 1
California ................ 1

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent-American Society
269,660. ‘

‘ SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made,
Number of persons in audiences,

a

Prepare for Kindness Week

ITH the coming of Kindness Week,

April 15-21, we urge other societies
and individuals to plan for some special
celebration. '

As a part of the activities we suggest
that a showing of our new ﬁlm, “Out of
the Heart,” would be a striking method
of bringing home the teachings of kind-
ness. Won’t you write to the nearest
ﬁlm library as listed on the back page of
this issue and ask that a copy of the ﬁlm
be reserved for you during some day of
Be Kind to Animals Week.

For teachers We suggest an order for
a quantity of Humane Exercises. Set
aside some day during the week for spe-
cial emphasis on kindness to animals.
These eight-page leaﬂets containing
poems, stories-and exercises are specially
prepared for the use of teachers. 'In

68
13,016

Massachusetts they. will, be distributed.

free of charge through'the schools. In
other states they'Wi‘ll sell for $1250 per

hundred or three cents each'.‘.;i..G.etfyour

orders in now.

1.3..

Our readers are} urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals-""0 various articles
and request local- editors to republish.
Such copies of the magazine so mutilated

will be replaced by us upon application,
if so desired.

78

Post-War Rescue Work

MUCH is being written in our Chi-
cago papers these days on the Post—
War Planning of the Better Housing
Program, which is badly needed in the
many poor districts of Chicago, as well
as elsewhere. Also, this program will
help greatly to alleviate the unemploy—
ment situation. The Better Housing
Programs are being planned in cities all
over the country.

New homes mean the demolition of old
ones in large, crowded cities, thus bring—
ing to light the many cases of deserted
animals. In the poorer neighborhoods,
there are always more homeless cats and
dogs than are found in the better neigh-
borhoods and the people themselves all
seem to have animals. But about the
suffering of the animals, a great many
of these people, upon moving, seem not
at all concerned. About the future wel—
fare of the dog, which has served them
so faithfully, as a protector and friend,
or their cats, which have helped to keep
free their premises of rodents, they seem
indifferent.

Many are left behind at the old home,
bewildered and frightened by the noise
made by the strange wrecking crews.
These conditions should arouse the de-
termination of all humanitari-‘ans to lend
a helping hand to these unfortunate crea-
tures, by cooperating with their local
humane societies or even going on their
own. The rescue work in these areas

requires time and patience. Some of these -

little creatures have become so terriﬁed
that they can be caught by humane traps,
only. Care should be taken to get kit-~
tens and puppies before taking the
mother. Cats that have had to serve their
purpose in dark basements and sub-
basements of large buildings in business
districts, and have never seen sunlight,
are many times neglected and left in
these buildings while they are being
vacated.

These abandoned animals have very
little chance of escape to any safety in
the business districts. Citizens seeing
and knowing of such buildings being
vacated should report it to their humane
society so that an investigation can be
made into the buildings to ascertain the
number of animals present.

Now is the time for humanit-arians and
societies to plan for e:A:tensive post-War

“rescue, work, if their city is planning on

.u

-. a Better Housing Program. These suffer-
’ ing animals need us;“we must not let
them down.“ ‘ '

—]if7".§;.ll'f’é'letz Hagzmd :

'Those who forget the past are con-
demned to repeat its mistakes.

—Santayana

 

New Kindness Poster

Order Posters Now!
HE new poster for Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week is ready for distribution.
An illustration in full color, adapted" from
an oil painting, the poster depicts a pa-
tient dog awaiting the return of its sol-
dier master. It tells a story—it has ap-
peal! _
Kindness Week this year is the week
of April 15—21. Plan to promote kindness

.to‘ animals n0w by sending. for as many
~ copies as you can use.

Prices are low
and posters will be sent postpaid:

Single copies ......... $ .10 each
Four copies .......... .25
Ten copies . . . . .50
Twenty-ﬁve copies . . . . 1.00
Seventy-ﬁve copies . . . . 3.00
100 copies ............ 4.00

' American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

OVER THE AlR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be” heard't'each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station r"
‘WSPR—EZW on your radio di—al.‘ This pro-_~ 1
gram is presented by Charlene: BL Ki-bbe»; j
and sponsored by the MassachusettsSociety”'
tor the Prevention of Cruelty to-Anirnals.} .' .-

Programs will be as follows: _ .
~ KIA-pril. 3—"Animals in the News." H '
till-\p'ril IO—"Emergency Care and Treats
' ' ment of Animals." . '

April I I7—"True Dog Stories." '

April 24—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

-.—......—.......——.....~.__..__

 

Legend of St. Hubert

HE Legend of St. Hubert’s awaken-

ing to a sense of the universal kin-
ship has been depicted in painting and
sculpture in every country in Europe for
over one thousand years. The painting
from which this tapestry was made was
executed by William Rauber. ‘

The story as related in history is that
Hui‘bert, ‘scion of a noble family, was so
devoted to “the chase,” that even on the
holy day of Good Friday, he went to the
great forest of the Ardennes in pursuit
of his pastime. Through the dense woods
he sighted a huge stag and as he took aim
with his bow and arrow, there suddenly
appeared glowing between the antlers,
the emblem of Divine Love—a shining
golden CROSS. Hubert fell to his knees
in awe and his hunting dogs crouched
beside him. He withheld his arrow, and
slaughter for pleasure ceased for the re-
mainder of his days. A new outlook on
life and its meanings came to him.

We are told that he had lost a beloved
wife whose early death left him with a
young son named Floribert, and, con-
secrated by his Vision, he left his estates
and former life and, retiring to the for-
est, built a hut near the place of his Vi-
sion, there devoting his life to loving
service to all living beings. Some years
later he was made Bishop of Liege and
on his death in 727 his son Floribert suc—
ceeded him as Bishop.

The body of Hubert was interred in the
Church of St. Peter, at Liege, «but was
removed about 825 to the Abbey of St.
Hubert built in the Ardennes forest, pre-
sumably on the site of the reputed Vision.

The hut in the forest had long been a

December 1945

The beautiful tapestry (size
8 ft. 6 in. by 4 ft. 6 in.) shown
in the illustration has been
presented to the Massachu-
setts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.
by Mrs. M. R. L. Freshel.
founder of The Millennium
Guild and long a member of
this Society. and now hangs
in the President's office. si-
lently preaching its sermon ot
humaneness.

destination for pilgrims and would seem
to have been the ﬁrst of the many “Chap-
els to St. Hubert” scattered over Europe,
to which as many as 50,000 pilgrims
travel yearly.

The most famed of these chapels is that

 

Bas-reliet over the tomb of
Leonardo da Vinci.

at Amboise, where an entire side of the
interior is given to a deeply sculptured
bas-relief of quaint design, showing the
kneeling Hubert, the cowering dogs and
the shining Cross. The Villa in which
Leonardo da Vinci died, and which was
a gift to him by Francis First, adjoins
this “Chapel of St. Hurbert” and here he
was interred, resting (beneath this me—
morial to the humane ideal, which may
have been his desire, as his entire life
was dedicated to the ideal of justice to
all sentient life.

Encyclopedists tell us that “Leonardo
da Vinci was the most versatile genius of
all time” and it is good to remember that
this “greatest” of men was one with us
in the belief of kindness to animals. His
biographers relate that he was so tor-
tured by seeing the captive birds shown
daily in Italian market places, to be
used for food or blinded for “sweeter
singing,” that he made it a practice to
purchase them and release them in the
woods. In his famed “Note-Books” he
writes: “I have from an early age ab-
jured the use of meat, and the time will
come when men, such as I, will look on
the murder of animals as they now look
on the murder of men.”

Incongruously enough, many Hunting
Lodges in Europe are decorated with de-
pictions of the St. Hubert Legend, a not-
able instance of man’s ability to read
into fact or fancy the intention he desires
to believe. But to the humane-minded,
the value of this ancient story consists in
its call on the higher instincts of man,
and the suggestion that to cease from
cruelty is in accord with Divine Love.

”229

 

 

 




.9:— *‘_ ,7 ﬁ"_%i-‘§? "if ‘8 A

 

 

 

 

 

r’noto by Carlton Batriquin

A BOY. A DOG. AND A NURSE

"Teddy is all right now." Nurse Kathleen Driscoll tells six-year-old Donald Rochetort.
of Everett. The lad's tear-stained face is once again wreathed in smiles over the good
health of his dog. Donald brought Teddy. an English bull terrierI to the Angell Me-

morialAnimal Hospital when the dog injured his leg.

Proper treatment saved this

boy's best friend.

Our Smallest Birds

. HE numerous varieties of humming

birds are found‘only in the Amer-

icas and the family has no close relatives
in the Old World.

There was once a lot of guessing about
how many strokes a humming bird’s
wings made each second. The answer of
200 strokes a second was obtained by
matching the bird’s hum with a note on
a violin.

Humming birds are among the clever-
est ﬂiers. They can hover motionless
before a ﬂower, are said to be the only
land bird that can ﬂy backwards and are
one of the few birds able to rise straight
up into the air. Then if they want to
hurry, they can go somewhere else at a
mile a minute.

When it comes to endurance the little
hummers measure right up with their
neighbors. One variety regularly mi-
grates the distance between Alaska and
Brazil, while the Ruby-throat at migra-
tion time crosses the 600 miles of water
to Bermuda and 500 miles of the Gulf
of Mexico to Yucatan.

—John H. Spit-c"
74

They Were Gods

AN you imagine the crocodile being

bedecked with expensive jewelry,
and living in elegant apartments adorned
with costly carpets?

This was the life lived by the crocodiles
in ancient Egypt, because they were con-
sidered as being sacred. A chosen num-
ber of these reptiles were given every
luxury that the ancients could think of.

When a crocodile died its body was
embalmed and very carefully buried.

The bull, which was called the “apis”
was also sacred, and was the center of
much superstition. The mere breath
of the bull “apis” would bestow the gift
of prophecy upon children—so thought
the ancients. The “apis” was supposed
to be the direct representative of the god
Osiris, and highly decorated statues
were made of them. When an “apis”
died great mourning took place until a
new one was found, then there was much
rejoicing.

Many birds and animals were Wor-
shiped and considered as emblems of the
gods, and dire punishment was meted
out to the one who harmed a sacred
animal.

---—-George S. Lookabaugh

Mis'nomers

E? OU can’t judge an animal by its
name.

The title ant-lion, for instance, brings
to mind a hazy picture of a ferocious
lion with an appetite for ants, or maybe
it’s an ant which likes lions? The ant-
lion is a tiny, ugly insect which digs pits
in the sand to trap its favorite food——
ants.

Nor is the ant-bird a bird which lives
on ants. This bird gets its name from
its habit of following ant trails in the
hope of ﬁnding an abandoned scrap, or
a wiggling tidbit which the ants do not
want.

The camel’s name has been taken in
vain to identify a number of products
with which it really has nothing to do.
For years paint brush manufacturers
have proudly advertised “camel’s hair
brushes.” The closest these brushes ever
got to a ship of the desert was in being
used to paint a picture of one. Camel’s
hair brushes are made either from pony
hair, or the hair of squirrel tails. As for
camel’s hair shawls, it isn’t the hump-
backed dromedary but the Cashmere goat
which yields his precious W001 for this
purpose.

—Ida M. Parduew

@

 

Photo by Carlton Patriquin

\ CAM ERA SHY

When the cameraman visited the Angell
Animal Hospital. he spotted this attractive
duet and set up his camera. Kitty was all
eyes and earsI but her pal. the cocker
spaniel. turned out to be camera shy and
took retuge behind kitty's cocked ears and
cast a wary eye at the man with the flash

bulb.

OUR DUMB ‘ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lessons in Kindness
14 Manual” 7W“

Just published is our new l2-page book-
let. containing actual projectsl bibliog-
raphies. and material charts for the
teaching of Humane Education.

With proiects for grades from kinder-
garten through the sixth yearI it will be
of inestimable value to teachers.

Five cents each $3.50 per hundred

 

 

 

 

 

 

I944 Bound Volumes

While they last we have a limited supply
of bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals.
each book containing twelve issues.

From past experience. we know that
many people like to keep a permanent
tile for reference to the many informative
articles on nature and animal care.

These books' containing 240 pages and
approximately 200 striking examples of
animal photography. make splendid gifts.
especially to school and public libraries.
Children find the magazine helpful in
their school work and both children and
adults enjoy reading the many stories
about animals.

Price ............ $ | .50

American Humane Education Society
I80 Longwood Ave.. Boston I5. Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Life of

Francis of Assisi

in Silhouettes

By
Sister Fides Shepperson, Ph. D.

The author of Cloister Chords at her
best in this charming booklet. The
story of a man, a saint, an animal
lover, these silhouettes invoke quiet
contemplation and provide .a sane-
tuary from worry and insecurity.

66 pages Price ﬁfty cents

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
|868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-
tion with any other similar Society.

Any bequests especially intended for the benefit of the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "for
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. if other
property. describe the property).

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. Information and advice will be
given gladly.

 

 

 

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it..

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one's or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

* ‘k ‘k i

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

 

 

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & sous, lnc.
funeral ﬁerhire

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
<_.__ -A-A‘M a“... '

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Animals in Fire

OF LATE, it seems, the Nation’s press has been carrying more

stories than ever before about horses and cattle dying in stable fires.
A few states, of which Massachusetts is one, have good ﬁre regula—

tions as they relate to animal protection. In the great majority,
however, adequate laws or ordinances to prevent such catastrophies .

are either very scanty or totally lacking.

As a matter-of fact, it is surprising that more animals do not
perish in the horrible way only a fire can produce. These helpless
animals are either tied in a stable or locked in a box stall, and, in
either case, they are unable to get out by themselves. The ﬁre
hazards evident in some stables and race tracks are shocking, to say
the very least. Careless smoking by stable employees near hay
storage—often on the same ﬂoor as the animals—harness or wagons
blocking the eXits, and the lack of sprinkler systems, as well as
trained ﬁre ﬁghters add to the danger.

Into this dark picture has come some light of hope. A Com-
mittee, composed of humane society ofﬁcials, is, at the present time,
giving serious attention to all these problems. Many valuable sug-
gestions have already come to the fore, and with the cooperation
of representatives of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, we
have every reason to believe there will come some concrete pro-
posals and standards. It will then be the duty of all humanitarians
and societies to help secure legislation where necessary and assist
in the enforcement of laws passed. This is a serious situation re—

quiring the attention of all interested in animal protection.

l

“mpg:

 

 

 

 

 

Aliillllilllll
3' 3H

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  

‘ Birds of Our States

THIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted ofﬁcial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation
of thevgorvernor, or by long established precedent. The
remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds.
Regardless of their ofﬁcial status, however, each bird
is more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: I spend my summers in various sections
of N'Orth America and winter in either Mexico, central
or northern South America. My family is associated
with the history of our country. The Chesapeake Bay
and its tributaries revealed many of my family to Lord
Baltimore, and because we wore the same brilliant
colors in dress—black and yellow—as did Lord Balti-
more he bestowed upon us part of his name. . . . Who
am I?

Second Clue: When the orchards are in bloom I
usually arrive in company with several other boy
friends and we just sing around and await the coming
of the females, who travel slowly in large ﬂocks. I am
especially noted for my richly colored plumage and
pleasing song, while my mate is among the most noted
architects in the world. . . . Who am 1?

Third Clue: Usually suspended from slender branches
of a fruit tree near a farm house, or in city parks, my
mate skillfully constructs a long, bag-shaped nest.
The nest is woven with exquisite skill into a long,
ﬂexible pouch that rain cannot penetrate nor wind
shake from its moorings. Bits of string, horse hair,
threads of silk and milkweed silks are among the ma-
terials used in building the pretty nest. Even brightly
colored bits of yarn are acceptable and frequently
some one from the farm house furnishes almost enough
of this material for an entire nest. . . . Who am 1?

Fourth Clue: Our family consists of from four to six,
and it is really true that our youngsters are great cry-
babies, but it can’t be because their cradle is not the
most comfortable to be found in all bird-land. It takes
many plant and wood lice, wasps, spiders, grass-
hoppers, crickets, hairy caterpillars, and cotton boll
worms and weevils, as well as numerous other insects,
to feed our babies. I help in this 'big task, but still ﬁnd
time to sing. . . . Who am I?

Fifth Clue: My scientiﬁc name is Icterus galbula,
and other names applied to me are “ﬁre-bird,” “golden
robin” and “hang nest.” Ever since the great natural-
ist, Linnaeus, published a scientiﬁc description of me,
back in 1758, I have been the Ofﬁcial State Bird of
MARYLAND. . . . Who am 1?

Answer: EI’IOIHO aaowmva

ewell Casey

M arch 1945

Photo by Harry H. Befus
The Calgary Herald

SATURDAY NIGHT BATH

Little Misses Dewain and Dona Smart. of Calgary. Canada. take
time off from their play to bathe their three-month-old Scottie.
"Blackie." Of course. they know that such a young puppy should
not be bathed. but in this case. Blackie had become so dirty that
day. that the usual brushing and combing. which is part of his
daily routine would not serve to restore his immaculate condition.
The little girls take turns each day in seeing that Blackie is fed the
right kind of food. that he gets the proper amount of exercise
and that his bed is always clean.

a
My Dog
By POLLY MURPHY

My dog is reddish brown
With a little patch of white.
He has a pair of dark green eyes
That sparkle in the night.

His tail is short and stubby
And always wags with glee.

He is my dog, my only dog;
He belongs to only me.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Springﬁeld Union Photo

Nurse Alice Paryscuk and patient.

T houghtless Cruelty

N unusual case of thoughtless cruelty
was recently treated by our Spring—
ﬁeld Branch of the Angell Memorial Ani-
m‘al Hospital. The dog, a white Spitz, was
brought to the hospital by a man who
noticed it in Chicopee Falls, and on
petting it discovered deep cuts in the
ﬂesh.

Upon examination by Dr. A. R. Evans,
veterinarian in charge, it was discovered
that an elastic band had completely en-
circled the body and had worked into the
ﬂesh. Because it was so imbedded, it
was invisible all the way around. In one
place, where the band passed behind the
foreleg, the skin had grown completely
over the band. In spite of long and
intense suffering, the dog was patient
and friendly while being examined.

It was found necessary to anesthetize
the animal, clip the hair from around
the wound and remove the offending rub-
ber band. There seemed be no reason to
expect other than a normal recovery.

The band was apparently placed on
the dog by a child or some unthinking
person. Numerous instances of dogs
and cats suffering from rubber bands
have occurred, including one in which the
leg had to be amputated. Some time ago,
a litter of ﬁve puppies brought to the
hospital were all found to have bands
tightly about their necks.

Pet owners, particularly with children
in the family, are urged to examine their
pets frequently to make sure that they are
free from bands and also that the collars
are not too tight.

Because of present uncertainty of mail
deliveries and the danger of loss in
transit, we would suggest that our readers
remit by check or postal money order
when renewing their subscriptions.

April 1945

Annual Agents9 Meeting

HE annual meeting of the agents of
the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, held
recently, was opened with the showing
of the Society’s new ﬁlm, “Out of the
Heart.” The ﬁlm, in sound and color,
gave the audience an over-all picture of
the organization’s work, with attractive
scenes of the various shelters throughout
the State, activities in the hospital, in addi-
tion to the appealing story of a boy and his
dog and what they learned from each other.
President Eric H. Hansen presided at
the meeting which was attended by the
Society’s ofﬁcers and agents from all
sections of the Commonwealth. Mr. Han-
sen opened the meeting with a word of
welcome and advice in connection with
the coming year’s work. He then called
on Chief Prosecuting Ofﬁcer L. Willard
Walker for a review of the past year’s
accomplishments and a few words on the
future program. “Constant vigilance on
the part of all our agents,” stated Mr.
Walker, “is of vital importance, not only
at stockyards and abattoirs, but at riding
schools, r‘odeos, horse auctions, and other
places where animals are found.”
Next to be introduced was Mr. Reed
W. Hitch-cock, Director of the Animal
Department of the Connecticut Humane

 

STEEL TRAP UNDER DISCUSSION

Society, with headquarters at Hartford,
Conn. Mr. Hitchcock outlined the work
of the humane agents in his State, stress-

ing the cordial cooperation between the

two Societies. He cited many instances
where agents of both organizations,
working together, had been able to amel-
iorate cruel treatment, especially when
animals had been moved from one state
to the other. Mr. Hitchcock, also, posed
a number of questions which he had been
unable to solve and the resulting dis-
cussion proved of beneﬁt to both societies.
We wish to take this opportunity to
thank the Connecticut Humane Society
for its courtesy in allowing Mr. Hitch—
cock to be our guest for the day.

During the meeting, the agents had an
opportunity of discussing problems
among themselves concerning questions
which may have arisen in their various
branches.

At the close of the meeting Mr. Han-
sen asked Dr. Francis H. Rowley, long-
time President and now Chairman of the
Board, to address the group. In his own
inimitable fashion, Dr. Rowley thanked
those present for their faithful service
to him and expressed the hope they would
continue to serve the new president in
like fashion.

 

(Left to right) Mr. Reed W."‘Hitchcocl<l Director of the Animal Department of the

Connecticut Humane,S”oci.ety;”Mr.‘L. Willard Walkerl Chief Prosecuting O'FlicerI Mas-

sachusetts S. P. C. A.: President Eric H. Hansen of, the latter Society. are shown

examining a common steel trap. The use of this trap is prohibited in Massachusetts
as well as several other states.

75

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dog with the Big Heart

MUT'SY’ didn’t mean to steal

“Kitzy’s” baby. In fact, she thought it
was her baby and that Kitzy had stolen
it, because it looked exactly like her own
six small puppies.

Now Smutsy was a small Chihuahua
dog with kind eyes and when her black
puppies were born, she stayed at home
and took good care of them, keeping them
warm and feeding them regularly.

Smutsy must have gone visiting, how-
ever, for one day when her mistress came
to see her and her babies she noticed an
extra small body in Smutsy’s bed. Upon
closer investigation she discovered the
extra little creature to be a very black
kitten. Then she remembered that Kitzy
had some babies too.

She took the kitten back to its own
mother where it belonged, but Smutsy
had other ideas. She followed meekly
along behind her mistress and waited
until the black kitten was safely back in
its own mother’s bed. It was the only
black one. The others were gray and
striped.

Smutsy gently picked up the black baby
and carefully carried it back to her own
bed and placed it amongst her own little
ones, looking up at her mistress as if to
say, “It’s mine, you can’t have it.”

Smutsy went calmly about her daily
duties as a good dog mother should and
the baby kitten shared with the puppies
in their regular feedings.

Smutsy’s heart was large enough to en-
compass all the black babies she saw.

—Dove F. Ellis

a

Strange Rescue

RIENDLY, ﬁghting porpoises are

credited by two members of the
Navy’s armed guard with saving their
lives while they were adrift forty-four
days on a life raft.

The men, both Kentuckians, were mem-
ber-s of the gun crew aboard a freighter
torpedoed in the Indian Ocean. They
managed to board a large raft which was
well provisioned.

On their twentieth day adrift, a school
of six whales sighted the raft. These
large mammals proceeded to form a line
and made a rush at the helpless men.
They sprayed all over the raft and the
waves they caused rocked it so hard it
was difﬁcult for the men to hold on.

As if in answer to their prayers, two
porpoises suddenly appeared and began
to battle with the whales. For awhile
there was doubt as to who would win the
struggle. At last, the six whales and the
two porpoises swam off into the deep.
Neither were seen again in the twenty-
four days longer the men continued to
drift.

—Dee Woods

168

A11 Exquisite Performer

By NELSON A. JACKSON

Y wife and I sat quietly on the edge
of a small bank. It was a beautiful
day in late April. At our feet trickled a

. tiny woodland stream; opposite rose a

gentle slope sparsely covered with hick-
ory and oak saplings. It was an ideal
place to watch while the birls, all un-
knowingly, displayed themselves.

Not more than 60 feet away at the top
of the bank, just across from us, was an
old hickory stump. As I glanced at this,
a rufﬂed grouse cock jumped onto it
from the farther side. He walked about
the stump, looking in all directions. Ap-
parently, as we sat among the rocks and
trees, we were not recognized as animate
beings but considered a part of the land—
scape. _ “J

When the cock was convinced that no
malicious snoopers were about, he spread

his ﬁne tail, raised his ruff, and with

drooping wings strutted about his plat-
form. Then he stood erect, lowered his
ruﬂ", closed his fan-like tail, and care-
fully preened himself. He cocked his
head to study weather conditions, once
more listened for any sound of danger.
Then, standing to his fullest stature, he
made the woods resound with his drum-
ming. We fairly held our breath in
stunned silence as we watched with
mounting wonder the spectacle.

His wings were spread and brought
down against his body, at ﬁrst slowly
and then with an ever quickening tempo,
until they were a mere blur. The rolling
boom of the drumming sounded no louder
to us in our reserved grandstand seats

than it oftentimes had as we had wan—
dered through woods and heard it from
afar. Ten consecutive times we saw this
cock grouse drum, and every time he went
through the same preliminaries. From
the time of his initial strut about the
stump until the conclusion of his drum,
about one to two minutes elapsed.

If I should draw a conclusion from
pure observation, I should say that the
booming was produced by the beating of
the wings against the body. However,
careful study has led to the conclusion
that it is actually caused by the passage
of air through the feathers of the

wings; much as the booming of the night-

hawk, who catapults earthward, only to
swoop upwards at the last possible mo-
ment, is caused by the rush of air through
the wings’ feathers. ‘

After a period of continuous thrills we
slowly arose with regret. Our talented
entertainer took one startled look and
made a grand dive into the nearby under-
brush.

Fifteen minutes later, as we reached
the road bordering the woods, we again
heard the drummer’s booming. It may
have been our drummer boy back on his
stump. The sound seemed to come from
that direction. As to the source of the
booming, we could not be certain. Any-
one who has attempted to follow the di-
rection of the booming of a drummer lad
to ﬁnd him in the act will testify to the
fact that such an attempt is aboutas
satisfying as that of foll’OWing‘a will—
o’-the-wisp.

 

Odd - Facts

- in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT .
Sketch by Bill Sagermann '

Nature’s Little Armored Tank

Behold the clever pangolin;
He pays no dentist bill;

And that’s because he has no teeth,
But yet he gets his till.

He lets his sticky tongue way out,
To capture ants to eat,-

And when he curls up in his scales,
You can't see head nor feet!

-~\/(.>M/////

Ly /// ( i
// 4'
”VI/[I .

  

[II

/

/// ///// Klimt"... %/ 7/ “I”;

:\.\_

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

libi'no.

 

Miss Olive Smith

Humane Education Director

NLARGING the scope of Humane
Education activities, our Societies
have enlisted the services of Miss Olive
Smith, who, beginning this month, will
take charge of this ever-increasing work
in the schools of Springﬁeld.

Miss Smith’s background of education
and seven years’ teaching experience
ﬁts her admirably for her new duties,
especially in Springﬁeld, where, for years,
the school system has whole-heartedly
espoused this type of education as in-
dispensable in the training of school-age
children.

Recommended highly by Dr. John
Granrxud, superintendent of schools, and
Miss Mary 0. Po-ttenger, general super-
visor of elementary education, we are
conﬁdent that Miss Smith will prove a
valuable addition to our staff and carry
forward the work already begun by our
Springﬁeld Branch.

Miss Smith is a native of Springﬁeld,
attending schools in :that city. In 1936,
she was granted the degree of Bachelor
of Science in Education from Bridge—
water State Teachers College, and, in
1938, earned her Master of Science de-
gree at Massachusetts State College, in
Amherst. At that time she was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic
honorary society.

From 1938 to 1940, she taught at
Carew Street School and was then trans-
ferred to Summer Avenue School, where
she has since :taught except for the 1941-
1942 school year, when she was an ex-
change teacher in Seattle, Washington.

1'72

The Friend of All ,
A loving tribute to Miss S. I. Eddy

I have a friend‘ whose friendliness extends

To all mankind. Whose heart of love entwines

Around a" life—plantsl birds. the animals.

Whose tender sympathies protect the weak.

Whose voice is raised‘ in printed protest 'gainst

All forms of cruelty. and thoughtless modes

By those who handle pets. or livestock "deals."

Whose artist soul portrays on canvas. as inspired.

Blend of soft tones with Nature's varying moods:

In "Gleams of GloryfI "Wings of Peace." "Rest
after Pain."

"Comfort in Sorrow." "Following Disaster—Hope."

She's a skilled gardener. whose gentle hands

Have scattered seeds of kindness all around.

For Io! these many years. She's dearly loved‘ by all.

And hnow. as life's soft evening shades play round
er.

May harvest sheaves of blessing. rich. surround her.

—AIice M. Reinhold. N.D.. Ph.D.
Pasadena. Calif.
May. I940

(Five years later. within a few weeks of her 94th
birthday' Miss S. J. Ed'dy passed away. and the
following lines are now added to the above.)

Those evening shades blended in sunset glow.

As our dear friend passed on. beyond our know.
Bright stars gleamed forth. guiding her weary quest
To glorious ‘SU'NRISE in the land of Rest.

—A. M. R.. May. I945

 

 

OVER THE AIR

For those who like stories and facts about
our animal friends. our Society sponsors two
distinct radio programs.

"Bird and Animal Lore" is
presented‘ by Miss Margaret J. Kearns each
Saturday. at 2:05 P. M.. over WHDH—850

on your dial.

In Boston.

Mrs. Charlena Kibbe
broadcasts a similar program each Tuesday.
at 2:I5 P. M.. over WSP‘R—I270 on your
dial. -

‘ BE SURE TO LISTEN!

In Springfield.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deﬁnite

Little Mary, about four years old, was
visiting her aunt when an ,old acquaint-
ance arrived from outrof town.

The lady, by way of conversation,
asked Mary where she lived.

“Well,” said Mary, very importantly,
“you know ‘Bobbie,’ the cat? I live right
next door to him.”

a
Humane Key Award

UR readers will remember that a

year ago we conducted a contest

for workable projects on Humane Educa-

tion. So great was the response that

material, usable for some time to come,
was received.

Because of this fact, it has been decided
to make the award of our National Hu-
mane Key each year to some person
selected for outstanding service in the
ﬁeld of Humane Education.

For 1945, the key was. awarded to Mr.

Warren W. McSpadden, Director of Hu-
mane Education, American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
New York City. Mr. McSpadden has
served the Society in this capacity since
1939, and through the years has, so far,
developed a program of education second
to none.

In the illustration, President Eric H.
Hansen (left) is shown making the pres-
entation, while Mrs. McSpadden looks on
with approval.

 

Presentation of the National Humane Key

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  
        
      
 
 
  
 

By ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

OT infrequently we meet people who
are left—handed, though right—
handed ones are so greatly in the major-
ity. But how many of us know that ele-
phants, that are trained to do such in-
telligent work for man, are also either
right- or left-handed, or more properly
speaking, right—tusked or left—tusked, the
latter being somewhat the more nu-’
merous?

In his wild state the elephant will dig
for salt earth, tear up roots and uproot
trees. All this he does with his powerful
tusks, working mostly with either the
right or the left, according to whether he
is right- or left-tusked, just as we use

 

one hand for most purposes, falling back
on the other only when necessary.

A student of the elephants in their
native state tells us that the tusk the
great beast uses in preference to the other
in time becomes so worn that it is ap-
preciably shorter than the other and
sometimes the tip breaks off, leaving a
jagged point which, in the course of
years, will again be worn smooth. But
not until his working tusk has become
badly broken will the elephant work with
the other, the transfer probably being as
awkward for him as working with the
left hand would be to a right-handed
person.

We are told that the two tusks are
seldom equal in weight, one usually
being from four to six per cent heavier

a

A Wonderful Home . . . . . .

HE home that I am going to tell you

about is built by a small spider and
surpasses that built by some humans. It
is built under the ground and is truly
a work of art. First he builds a circular
shaft in the earth, about a foot deep, and
from one-half to an inch in width. This
entrance to his home he makes water-
tight by glazing it over with a liquid
which is waterproof. Then he lines the
shaft with a covering of silk somewhat
like paper.

Sometimes this wise builder makes two
shafts or tunnels, the ﬁrst one descend-

. September 1945

ing in a straight line and the other
branching off like a catapult. The door
at the entrance of the home is the most
wonderful part of the spider’s home. It
is formed from layers of silk and earth
which exactly resemble its surroundings.
It even glues leaves and pieces of earth
to the outside or upper part of the door.
This makes it impossible to see the door
when it is closed. He actually makes
hinges of strong silk which is spun in
his own body, and with these hinges he is
able to shove the door open quite easily
from below. Should an enemy by any

Here is something
new about an animal
that has captured
human imagination

over the centuries.

“Right-
and Left-

Handed” Elephants

than the other. Unfortunately, the
author of the statement does not tell us
whether the working tusk or the other is
the heavier. It would be interesting to
know whether the use of the working
tusk adds to its strength, for the loss of
a tip would hard-1y account for such a
shrinkage in weight.

The statement is also made that young
elephants’ tusks are sometimes badly
worn, while an old stager is occasionally
found with tusks as good as new. Does
this indicate that, just as some of us
have better teeth than others, some ele-
phants have better tusks? Or may it
mean that in the elephant world, as in
the world of humans, there are drones as
well as workers?

By ESTHER D. HOOEY

means ﬁnd the trapdoor when he is pur-
suing the spider to his home, the spider
darting into his home, pulls the door
shut with his claws, and holds it tightly
in position.

The spider’s hearing is so acute that
he can detect the smallest insect if it
happens to walk near his home. If he
happens to hear an ant above, he rushes
up and grabs it, dragging it down the
shaft where he sucks its blood. The spider
is very cleanly, for it takes the carcass
of the ant out and throws it far away
from his home.

173

 

 

   
     
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
      
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
    

 

 

  

   




 

 

“Bill” and “Coo”

A lesson in matrimonial happiness

EVEN decks up, in the busy Communications Ofﬁce of the

United States Coast Guard headquarters, Washington,
D. C., Mr. and Mrs. (Bill and Coo) Pigeon are keeping house.
One day “Coo” tapped on the wind-ow and attractive Spar
Ensign Dorothy Egger, of South Orange, N. J., opened the
window and invited her in. Next day, Mrs. Coo came back
with “Bill,” her mate, bearing twigs. Inside the office, they
set to work building a nest in a wooden nut dish atop a ﬁling
cabinet.

Then came the eggs. Mr. and Mrs. Pigeon are a happy couple
and one day two white eggs appeared in the nest. Each morn-
ing and afternoon thereafter, Bill Pigeon ﬂew up to the
seventh deck, tapped on the window and Spar Ensign Egger
let him in. And so, at regular intervals, the watch changed
in the pigeon home. Father Pigeon took over the egg-setting
duty and Mother ﬂew off for chow with a gay ﬂip of her wings.
Either Bill Pigeon is a model husband or his wife has him
well in hand.

After ﬁnishing her meal of peanuts, bugs, or other pigeon
delicacies, Coo winged back, tapped on the window and resumed
her watch over the two white eggs. This always freed Bill

 

for a few hours and he took off to join the boys in the park.
But every night, so Ensign Egger insists, it was Bill who sat
out the night watch. Where his spouse spent the “lights out”
period nobody seems to know.

The pictures show Bill just coming in to take over the watch;
Coo ﬂuttering out on a foraging expedition; and again Coo
on the nest while her mate is out with the other fellows.

ﬂ

“Whiskers” Finds a Way . . . . . . . By MILDRED MORSE

HOW do dogs ﬁnd their way back to a home where they
have lived before? Sometimes the distance they must
travel is hundreds of miles, but there have been cases of dogs
showing this great endurance and perseverance. But, here
is another question which more than one person has asked:
How would a dog ﬁnd its way to a home place that it had never
seen, in order to be with its own people?

“Whiskers” was a stray, with several nationalities behind
him. He had very long black whiskers, which contrasted
sharply with his buff-colored coat, and gave him his name.

Now mountainous country does not make easy traveling for
dogs, nor, for that matter, anyone else. The mountainous
state of Colorado was the home of his people. That is, he called
them his people, because he had adopted them. He thought
they had adopted him. They gave him nice bones and let him
sleep on the enclosed porch at night.

But one day Whiskers noticed a great deal of rushing about
and banging of doors and roaring of motors, and his beloved
family went away and left him behind.

May 1945

He had learned when very young to get along as best he
could, but now he missed his master and mistress. He became
more and more hungry and lonely.

One cold day, about two months after Whiskers’ master and
mistress left him, they were astonished to see a strange and
yet familiar-looking dog come slowly up the driveway. He
limped, and he was very weary and very scrawny. But his
eyes carried a light of relief and satisfaction when he realized
that he had found the way, after so many weary miles. His
master and mistress are still marvelling at the fact that he
found their new home, thirty miles away from their old one.
They had been worried and now were relieved.

This true story gives us a lesson in kindness to the faithful
animals that help to make our homes happy and interesting.
We must never leave them to starve and freeze. If we cannot
care for them, we must provide some other home where they
will be loved and cared for. Animal protection societies have
been established for this very purpose—to ﬁnd homes for these
stray pets.

87

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

    

7~ .
€~Cincbeé HE GLO9

Editor —— WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor —— WILLIAM M. MORRILL

71‘:

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part
of the world. In clubs of ﬁve or more subscrip—
tions. sixty cents each. within the United States.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce
entitle the sender to membership in either of our

[two Societies.

1’?

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of from 300-400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subiect.
except cruel sports or captivity. dealing with ani-
mals. especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with Oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-

tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAIPHS should be

either domestic or wild animals in their natural

sharp. depicting

surroundings. Pictures that tell a story are most

desirable.

VERSE about animals should be short.

gest from four to sixteen lines. ' -

We sug-

IMPORTANT
All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten.

double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one—half
cent a word for articles; one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings; one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

‘1?

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion ofﬁce. 48 Central Street. Norwood, Massachu-
setts; editorial Ofﬁce. I80 Longwood Avenue, Boston
I5, Massachusetts.
Boston

Address all communications to
office. Entered as Second-class matter.
June 29, I9l7, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood.
Mass. under the Act of March 3, I879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage prO-
vided for in section IIO3. Act of October 3, I9I7.
authorized, July I3, I9I'9.

Founded by Geo. T. AngeII. |868
VOLUME 7'8—No. 5

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
MAY. I945

PUBLISHED BY
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, Chairman of the Board

ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MA‘COMBER. Chairman of the Boa-rd, First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER ‘J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, \X/enham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM \X/. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford

Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex

Western Essex

Worcester

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P.
P. R. LIEDER, Pres; C
Treas.

. A.———PROF.
MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,

Holyoke Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—JA
BOWER, Jr., Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas. MES

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. R B
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treoas.ERT R'

Winchester Branch Auxilia —-—MRS. RIC
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIArXA M. BEGGS,Hﬁ§aDs. 5'

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. ———
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman. P' c. A'

w“. "-7 w————-——-.—H.‘ E

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs.“ Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador

Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico

Mrs. Alice W. Manning. . . .' ............. Turkey
7%

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
I80 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY. V.M.D.
*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.
W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4—7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian in Charge
*R. L. LEIGHTON. V.M.D.
H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.
R. M. BARLOW, V.M.D.

*On leave of absence—military SGWICG

 

 

 




 

 

By ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

These two Dalmatians. owned by Dr. A. R. Evans. veterinarian in
charge of our Springﬁeld Branch. have always evinced an interest
in music.

HERE is plenty of evidence that animals are susceptible to
the power of music, though the emotions it arouses, while
pleasing in some cases, is seemingly quite the opposite in others.
A test was once made at the London Zoological Gardens, a
violin, ﬂute and piccolo furnishing the music in turn. Animals
that seemed pleased with the notes of the violin generally
showed either dislike or fear of the shriller instruments.

The polar bear was the animal that showed most pleasure.
He came and stood up in front of his cage to listen. On the
contrary, wolves, foxes and jackals snarled and cowered with
fear. Monkeys acted like humans, some nodding with appre-
ciation, others turning away with indifference, even disgust,
having “no music in their souls.” The elephant snorted and
trumpeted with rage. He was probably not a circus elephant
or he would have been used to a band at least.

Snakes, strange to say, showed most susceptibility. This is
hard to understand if they are deaf, as we are told. There
must be some other way than through their ears for the
vibrations to reach them. At least, the record said, all the
reptiles showed signs of being pleasantly excited by the music,
the cobra most of all. “On hearing the violin, it raised itself

 

on its tail in the traditional attitude, spread its hood and
swayed gently to and fro.”

An interesting story of two otters that were attracted by
music was told by Countess Vere Tolstoy.

A boy made himself a ﬂute of a willow twig, on which he
could produce notes both shrill and gentle. He was in the
habit of taking a dip in the river near his home in the morning.
Then, lying on the sand for a sun bath, he would play upon his
ﬂute. One day two black heads appeared out of the water and
remained motionless. Morning after morning they came and
the boy, who loved all animals and had that rare ability to
make friends with them, played different airs and learned the
kind the otters seemed to like the most. Tunes that pleased
them best brought them nearer till one day, to the lad’s
astonishment, they came out of the water and lay upon the
sand. Day after day he lured them nearer, till at last When
they heard the soft music of his whistle, they would wobble
out to meet him, even before he reached the river bank.

White Horse of Berkshire . . . . BleAMPARDUE

IGH on the slope of a steep hillside in Berkshire, England,
is a unique ﬁgure of a horse. It is the “White Horse of
Berkshire,” one of the oldest known carvings of a steed.

For centuries the huge animal, whose body spreads over a
two-acre plot, has galloped majestically on White Horse Hill,
which rises 893 feet above the ocean. He is called the “white”
horse because in cutting the outline, the artist went down
two feet, thereby exposing the chalk which forms the base
of the hill.

He might better have been dubbed the horse of mystery,
for his origin is unknown. Who was the sculptor who pains-
takingly cut him out of the earth, a great white ﬁgure 374

J cute J 945

feet long? He has piqued the curiosity of mankind for
hundreds of years, and there is only an old legend which offers
any explanation for his existence. This a tale about the
Battle of Ashvdown, won when King Ethelred vanquished the
Danes, in 871. The horse is supposed to be a monument to that
victory, but there is no proof to substantiate this theory.
Whatever the reason for the horse’s appearance, he is held
in great esteem by the people living in the vicinity of White
Horse Hill, who have made it their business to keep the antique
picture in repair. Every year the Villagers gather for a cele-
bration after the “Scouring of the White Horse,” in which
everyone helps to clear the carving of weeds and debris.

107

 

 




 

Our New Film ‘

E are glad to report that copies of our new ﬁlm, “Out of the Heart,”

are now available in both the two-reel version and one-reel version.

The former, which includes not only the appealing story of a boy
and his dog, but also the story of our Societies’ work, has been deposited
at the following addresses:

Boston University
School of Education
84 Exeter Street
Boston 16, Mass.

American Museum of Natural
History

Film Department

Central Park W. & 79th St.

New York, N. Y.

University System of Georgia
Division of General Extension
223‘ Walton St., N.W
Atlanta 3, Ga.

One-reel versions may be procured from the following ﬁlm libraries:

University of California
Extension Division

Dept. of Visual Instruction
2441 Bancroft Way
Berkeley, Calif.

University of California
Extension Division

Dept. of Visual Instruction
813 S. Hill St.

Los Angeles, Calif.

Division of General Extension
University Systeln
Atlanta, Ga.

Fort Hays Kansas State College
Extension Division
Hays, Kans.

Visual Aids Service
University of Illinois
Champaign, 111.

General Extension Division
Louisiana State University
University, La.

School of Education
University of Maine
()rono, Maine

Boston University
Div. of Teaching Aids
84 Exeter St.

Boston 16, Mass.

Visual Education Service
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis 14, Minn.

Extension Division
University of Missouri
Columbia, Missouri

Visual Education
State Dept. of Public Instruc.
Helena, Montana.

University of New Mexico
Extension Division
Albuquerque, New Mexico

Bureau of Visual Instruction
University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill, N. C.

Dept. of Correspondence Study
North Dakota Agric. College
Fargo, North Dakota

Oregon State System of Higher
Education ‘

Dept. of Visual Instruction

Corvallis, Oregon -

Syracuse University
Educational Film Library
Syracuse ]0, N. Y. ‘.

American Museum of Natural
History

Central Park W. 83 ’79th St.

New York, N. Y. .

Audio-Visual Aids Library
Pennsylvania State College
State College, Pa.

University of Texas
Visual Instruction Bureau
Austin 12, Texas

Brigham Young University
Bureau of Visual Instruction
Provo, Utah

Visual Education Service
University of West Virginia
Morgantown, West Virginia

 

New Kindness Poster

Order Posters Now!
HE new poster for Be Kind to Ani—
mals Week is ready for distribution.
An illustration in full color, adapted from
an oil painting, the poster depicts a pa-
tient dog awaiting the return of its sol-
dier master. It tells a story—it has ap-

peal!

Kindness Week this year is the week
of April 15—21. Plan topromote kindness
to animals now by sending for as many
copies as you can use. Prices are low
and posters will be sent postpaid:

@ Single copies ......... $ .10 each

The ﬁlms may be rented for a very nominal charge, usually trans—
portat1on costs, only. w : ///,t///’//ﬂWfﬁ//§/M/’M‘/%

Plan now to have a showing of this ﬁlm during Kindness Week, April
15-21. Get in touch with the ﬁlm library or depository nearest you.

   

t Four copies . . . . . . . .25
3, ~ Ten copies ......... .50
‘ whp want. Hf ml’ffy HI Twenty-ﬁve copies 1.00
muninr ﬁumanp mpagup Seventy-ﬁve copies . . . . 3.00

ERIC H. HAN-SEN, President 100 copies . . . . . . . . . . . 4.00

WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety Will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

.. NEW BANDS or MERCY
One hundred and ﬁfty-nine Bands of

 

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave, Boston 15, Mass.

 

Dear Boys and Girls:

I am a great big kitty, measuring 26
inches from the tip of my tail to my

 

 

 

 

nose. I have an extra toe on each paw, Mercy were organized during January.
but have lost most of my teeth. In 1937, These, Were distributed as follows: ' '
on a very hot day I, a homeless pussy, Georgia ................... , 79
lay down on a piazza to rest. A lady Virginia .................... 47
came out of the house and gave me a big Florida ................ 26
saucer of milk. She thought I was a kitty Pennsylvania .............. 4
; off on a hike, who had stopped to rest, Maine .................... 1
. but when she saw me there the next Kentucky ................. 1 TWIN MULES
‘ morning, she realized I had no home. Arizona . 1 This picture of an uncommon sight comes

Then she brought me into the house and

to us from Mr. Edward Lawrence. Brook-
gave me wonderful meals.

line. Massachusetts. who raised the mules
some years ago.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-

ganized by Parent-American Society,

Tiny Tim 269,423.

58

 

 

 

l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FAWN RESCUED BY COAST GUARD SPARS

l'Gus" was found in the woods. near the SPAR barracks in AlaskaI with a sprained
and badly swollen leg. Taken to sick bay for mendingI the fawn was soon able to
take milk from a bottle and was back on his dainty legs in almost no time. Gus made
many friends and even after his release into the forest he continues to drop in occa-
sionally on his friends at the base. In the picture he is shown expressing his thanks to

SPAR Maizie Steward.

Feeding of Turtles

N advising turtle owners what to feed
their pets too few writers explain the

difference in diet for land turtles and
water turtles. Land turtles eat almost
any kind of greens, such as dandelions,
lettuce, cress, cabbage, etc. Also carrots,
fruits, ﬂower petals—especially roses——
and many kinds of weeds which they
choose for themselves. A land turtle
must never be placed in water, as many
misinformed persons have tried to do,
to their and the turtle’s sorrow.

Neither are we told that water turtles
cannot swallow unless they are in the
water; therefore their food must be
placed in the water-pan or receptacle in
which they swim. The writer had a pet
water turtle, which almost starved be-
cause his food was always offered to him
on a clean paper, placed before him on
the grass. Naturally, he never touched
it, and it was only by chance that we
learned that it must be tossed to him
while he was in the water. A water
turtle. may be fed ﬂies and some of the
prepared turtle foods, but he prefers bits
of shredded beef of other raw meats, also
bits of raw ﬁsh.

Although a water turtle loves to swim
and it is cruel to deprive him of a pan

208

large enough for him to play in, he must
be able to get out of it when he wants to,
and to walk around on .terra ﬁrma. Also,
——and this is true for both kinds of
turtles—they must be placed where they
can enjoy the sunlight for at least a part
of each day.

The Grenad'iers’ Cat

URIOUS mascots had seen military

service long before the Army mule,
Navy goat and regimental dog became
the traditional mascots of America’s
ﬁghting forces. But it is seldom a house—
hold cat has gone into battle, which makes
the story of the “Grenadiers’ cat” the
more remarkable.

The Grenadiers’ cat belonged to the
42nd Royal Highlanders, popularly
known as the Black Watch. It was picked
up at the Bulgarian encampment of
Gevrackler and embarked at Varna when
the troops sailed for service in the
Crimean war of 1854.

Some weeks later the regiment went
into action at Alma. During the battle
an ofﬁcer passed a chance remark about
the cat. “Here it is, sir!” replied a
trooper, opening his haversack. There
lay the cat, curled up in its tight quarters,
unrufﬂed by the pounding of the guns on
the heights above the Alma.

“Bell,” as the cat was named, came
through its ﬁrst battle without a scratch.
The trooper who carried it into action,
and cared for the cat during subsequent
weeks of campaigning, was relieved from
all fatigue and guard duty by regimental
order. It was an official acknowledgment
of the morale-building effect of mascots
generally.

But the Crimean winter was tough on
Bell, as it was on thousands of soldiers at
that time. The cat sickened, was conﬁned
to the regimental hospital for a While,
and at length died at Balaclava. A
soldier’s burial was given Bell, the Grena-
diers’ cat, by the men of the Black Watch.
It was a rare feline honor for one of the
few cats ever to see front line action in
any army.

—Jasper B. Sinclair

 

Odd - Facts - in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

Smart Trafﬁc Dodger

An ugly thing, but friendly, is
The nightly flying bat;

He never has a traffic crash,
But dodges this and that.

He gobbles up mosquitoes, and

Some other bugs, no end;

Though mean things have been said of him,

He really is our friend!

  
 
     

   
     
   
 

  

     
     
 

  

:‘J- , . "’
I", /~ ‘
v" I - \“ I; .
ﬂ =—
’ z 4,

1/ 5,
/

  

. g,
,._,/

llll

llllllmmn:
I-":5!!|||l
In

lllllliiiiiiii" n1

.I';'::'w _
// (“-2113
‘ ,, z7"=,.5;{¢' : -‘ /
5;; 1-; _ _:
| , 9?
miiiii ml

": §'& 7. _.

4 4"'<~7-=§; ‘45:;7

 

 




 

 

Kindness

Week

IN most of the cities and towns of our
Commonwealth and throughout the
country, a Week has been set aside an-
nually to pay special tribute to our ani-
mal friends and helpers. This year,
April 15 was designated as Humane Sun-
day with Be Kind to Animals Week fol-
lowing, from April 16-21, inclusive. The
people of Massachusetts take special in-
terest in the observance of this Week,
since it was our own Society that orig-
inally sponsored the celebration thirty-
one years ago.

Representatives of our societies intro-
duced a resolution at the 1914 national
convention of The American Humane As-
sociation, providing for an annual week
of kindness to animals.

Since that time, through the issuance
of proclamations of governors, mayors,
school superintendents, and the eager
and active cooperation of the teachers
in our Commonwealth, Kindness Week,
Humane Day in the schools, as well as
Humane Sunday have become ﬁxed dates
upon the calendar. This movement has
now spread even beyond the borders of
our country.

Through the special exercises that are
held in the classrooms during this period,
there is implanted in the hearts and
minds of the school children, the seeds
of kindness—not alone for all animal
life, but kindness toward each other, as
well. In relation to this subject of Hu-
mane Education, a famous clergyman
and author, Edward Everett Hale, once
said, “We are all in the same boat, both
animals and men. You cannot promote
kindness to one without beneﬁting the
other.” What ﬁner endorsement of
Kindness Week could be proclaimed?

Following the lead of George T. An-
gell, our Society’s ﬁrst president, more
than eight million children in this coun-
try have been gathered into humane
groups. By this means, they have had
awakened and fostered in their minds
the great principles of justice, fair play

June 1945

 

Little Grace Regan. three. and Alice Regan. two. appear interested in a group of
prize-winning posters.

and kindness toward every form of life.
These are the same principles that Amer-
ica is advancing today with the objec-
tive of ending intolerance, lawlessness
and cruelty.

It seems ﬁtting, therefore, that inas-
much as Massachusetts is recognized as
the birthplace of this important, nation-
wide celebration, our citizens should join
in the observance of this Week whole-
heartedly.

Governor Tobin of Massachusetts,
Mayor Kerrigan of Boston, and oﬁ‘icials
of many of our cities and towns issued
proclamations this year, urging citizens
to observe the occasion, and particularly
requesting school teachers to set aside a
Humane Day with appropriate exercises.
The response has been notable with each
succeeding year.

Radio Broadcasts

An outstanding feature of Humane
Week was the daily broadcasts of officers
of the Society and members of the Hospi—
tal staff. No less than twenty radio sta-
tions participated in programs. The list,
though incomplete, included the following
contributory stations: Thornton W. Bur-
gess was interviewed by Carl de Suze on
Station WBZ on the opening day; also on
the same day on WNBH, New Bedford,
Charles E. Brown, prosecuting officer for
Bristol and Plymouth Counties, spoke.

On succeeding days Eric H. Hansen,
President of the Society, was interviewed
by Louise Morgan on Station WNAC; a
Round-table discussion was held on WBZ
with Eric H. Hansen, President, Dr.
Francis H. Rowley, Chairman of the
Board, and Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, Asst.
Chief of Staff of the Hospital, taking
part; a Round-table discussion between
Mrs. Adele Fread, head nurse at the Hos-
pital, and William A. Swallow, Secretary
of our Societies and Editor of OUR
DUMB ANIMALS, was broadcast over
Station W-EEI; Herman N. Dean, prose-
cuting officer for Middlesex and Norfolk
counties, spoke over Station WORL; Al-
bert A. Pollard, Treasurer of the So-
cieties, broadcast over Station WM‘EX;
Priscilla F-ortescue of WEEI interviewed
Dr. Todd 0. Munson, Veterinarian at
the Hospital; on Station WCOP Virginia
Dwyer interviewed Dr. Erwin F.
Schroeder, Chief of Staff of the Hospi-
tal; Miss Kathleen Driscoll, X—ray tech-
nician at the Hospital, spoke on Station
WM‘EX; Thornton W. Burgess was in-
terviewed by Margaret J. Kearns on
WHDH; Mrs. Charlena B. Kibbe broad-
cast “True Dog Stories” over WSPR,
Springﬁeld; Harry C. Smith, prosecuting
oﬂicer for Worcester County, spoke over
Station WTAG, Worcester; Harold G.
Andrews, prosecuting ofﬁcer for the Cape
Cod Area, over WOCB, West Yar—

115

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.3‘1 h..- \\\\\
\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\
\\ \\

\ \\ \\\\\\

\ \\“' \ \.
\\\\\ \.~>
\ .

a
””

 

      

WALRUS—Old male Paciﬁc walruses
weigh from 2,000 to 3,000 pounds.

 

 

General Lee’s Horse

SUPPOSE you were away from home for a long time and at
last you were on your way back. Would you do anything
that would slow up your journey?

Robert E. Lee, the greatConfederate general, did and the
reason was his love for his horse, “Grace Darling.”

Lee had been in Mexico during the Mexican War and when
he was ready to return to Arlington and his family he went
to great personal inconvenience just so that Grace Darling,
who had been wounded seven times, could be more comfortable.

A letter to his brother the day after his return tells the
story brieﬂy but touchingly. Lee wrote:

“I only arrived yesterday, after a long journey up the
Mississippi, which route I was induced to take, for the better
accommodation of my horse, as I wished to spare her as much
annoyance and fatigue as possible, she already having under-
gone so much suffering in my service.”

Lee was similarly devoted to his 'black-and-tan terrier,
“Spec,” and in his letters to the family often would include a
special message for his pet. 1

—Samuel Laﬂerty

a
To a Little Ghost

By SUE WYATT-SEMPLE

A little ghost on four white feet goes out
And in with me, sniffs trails, cuts monkeyshines,
Gets tangled in his leash, and turns about
To pause and give the trees their countersigns.
When I reach home, and all the house is hushed,
That little ghost comes tearing like a small
Tornado, and his spirits would be crushed
Should I forget to send him for his ball.

Except for that small omnipresent ghost,
Today, I walk alone,—my steps are slow;

I falter, and of faith I dare not boast,
Because where he has gone, I do not know.

I hope we two may tramp the fields together
Again in some fair bourn of stormless weather.

166

Reminders on Shipboard
By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

ANY of the old-time nautical terms went out with the

days of sailing. However, sailormen will tell you that

they included plenty of reminders on shipboard of our four—
legged friends.

For instance, the cat is linked with many parts of the
equipment of the old sailing vessels..For one thing, there is a
“catwalk” on ships as well as on bridges and dirigibles. The
“cat” is a strong tackle to sailor-s, while the “cat-block” is
used to lash the anchor ﬁrmly in place.

The “cat-head” is a beam projecting from a ship’s bows to
which the anchor is attached. And'the “cat-harpings” are
merely the short ropes or iron clamps used to tighten the
shrouds. Any sailing enthusiast can tell you that a “cat-boat”
is a small boat with its one sail on a mast near the bow.

If ever you had the privilege of going aboard “Old Iron—
sides,” you probably glanced into the brig. There you might
have seen the “cat—o-nine—tails” that once was used to discipline
unruly crew member-s.

Among the small boats on gallant “Old Ironsides” are the
port whaleboat and the starboard whaleboat, more familiarly
known to sailors as the port whale and starboard whale.

The two small platforms, one at each side and abreast of
the steering wheel on the frigate, were the “horse-block.” And
to a sailor the “horse” is simply a footrope to support a sailor’s
foot under a yard. With the passing of sail and the coming of
steam “horsepower” became a familiar word in the engine
rooms.

Many a cargo has been loaded and unloaded at shipside by
the “donkey engine.” And to sailors the “dog watch” covers
their shipboard vigil between the hours of four and eight in
the evening. Doubtless, the men who go down to the sea in
ships can add a few more reminders of our animal friends.

  

 

 

 
     
 
  
  

No person may drive a camel along a public highway, according
to the laws of Nevada.
?Wpl
W 6/”?
\ \ l'~l/\\l I' ‘
v ,' “ F] El

\ H E"

1:”.

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ Where to
Bury a ‘ Dog

SUBSCRIBER of the Ontario Argus has

written to the editor of that ﬁne weekly,

propounding a certain question, which, so

far as we know, yet remains unanswered.
The question is this—“Where shall I bury my dog?”

We would say to the Ontario man that there are various places in which
a dog may be buried. We are thinking now of a setter, whose coat was
ﬂame in the sunshine, and who, so far as we are aware, never entertained
a mean or an unworthy thought. This setter is buried beneath a cherry
tree, under four feet of garden loam, and at its proper season the cherry
strews petals on the green lawn of his grave. Beneath a cherry tree, or an
apple, or any ﬂowering shrub of the garden, is an excellent place to bury a
good dog. Beneath such trees, such shrubs, he slept in the drowsy summer,
or gnawed at a ﬂavorous bone, or lifted head to challenge some strange in-
truder. These are good places, in life or in death. Yet it is a small matter,
and it touches sentiment more than anything else. For if the dog be well
remembered, if sometimes he leaps through your dreams actual as in life,
eyes kindling, questing, asking,» laughing, begging, it matters not at all where
that dog sleeps at long and at last. On a hill where the wind is unrebuked, and
the trees are roaring, or. beside a stream he knew in puppyhood, or some-
where in the ﬂatness of a pasture land, where most exhilarating cattle graze.
It is all one to the dog, and all one to you, and nothing is gained, and noth-

ing lost—if memory lives. But there is one best place to bury a dog. One
place that is best of all.

If you bury him in this spot, the secret of which you must already have, '
he will come to you when you call—come to you over the grim, dim fron—
tiers of death, and down the well-remembered path, and to your side again.
And though you call a dozen living dogs to heel they shall not growl at
him, nor resent his coming, for he is yours and he belongs there. People
may scoﬂC at you, who see no lightest blade of grass bent by his footfall,
who hear no whimper pitched too ﬁne for mere audition, people who may
never really have had a dog. Smile at them then, for you shall know some- -
thing that is hidden from them, and which is well worth the knowing. The
one best place to bury a good dog is in the heart of his master.

—Ben H w La'l’lip’lndﬂ

from "How Could I Be Forgetting?”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Christmas for the Dumb
By F. B. M. COLLIER

Christmas feasts draw nigh again
Lavish meals for hordes of men,

But in ordering of this day

Birds and beasts had ample sway,

For dumb beast and feathered fowl,
Hearthbound, tame, or free to prowl
Gave, their service to the Christ

From the time of Isaac’s tryst

Till the last goat’s sacrifice

Ceased to purchase Paradise.

All the Bethlehem summit wild
Throbbed with news of Heavenly Child,
And the oxen, goaded, led

Loaned their shelter for His bed.
Patient camels loped afar

Following the yuletide star

And the lowly ass despised

Robbed sly Herod of his prize.
Sparrows, foxes, barnyard fold
Etched the Master’s teaching bold,
And the humble, common cock
Smote the traitor of His flock,

Then when kingly triumph came

The ass bore Him through loud acclaim.
So when spreading household board
Heap the stalls with corn that's stored
Extra meed of oats and hay,

Scatter grain where poultry stray,
Pile the bird trays, deck the trees
Heat the water that will freeze.

All the dumb folk, just like you

Have a share in Christmas, too.

@

Star of the East
By LILLIE KRONK LEE

Lead on, Star of the East, lead on
To better ways of life,

Till Brotherhood of Man takes place
Of bitterness and strife.

Lead on, Star of the East, lead on!
Proclaim the ”peace on earth,

Good will to men," the angels song,
The night of Jesus' birth.

Lead on, Star of the East, lead on!
Shine gently on the sod

Of those who died for humankind,
Like Christ—the Son of God.

:13

REFUGE—Some 200 years ago, Indians
in Kentucky set aside a game refuge for
bears and created what may have been
the ﬁrst game laws in America.

KING OF BIRDS has long been the title
of the golden eagle.

WOODPECKERS ordinarily do not

harm trees, but do destroy injurious tree
insects.

238

 

Betty Anne Stafford and "Wimpy."

Winner in Dog Show

AT a recent program of the USO, in
Tacoma, Washington, our ﬁeld
worker, Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, was
asked to participate. As part of the pro-
gram, a dog show was instituted, with
ﬁrst and second prizes donated by Mrs.
Newton Muzzy, who represented the Ta-
coma Humane Society at the show.

One prize, a year’s subscription to Our
Dumb Animals, was awarded to Miss
Betty Anne Stafford, whose dog,
“Wimpy,” was judged second in the en-
tire show. Here is a letter written by
Betty Anne to President Hansen:

“This letter is to tell you how much I
enjoyed your magazine, Our Dumb Ani-
mals. I received a subscription to the
magazine when my dog Wimpy won sec—
ond prize in a dog show at the USO No. 2,
in Tacoma. A photographer took some
pictures of the different dogs. I am very
glad that a picture of my dog and myself
was taken because yesterday my dog was
fatally wounded by a truck. It was the
only picture Wimpy had ever had taken.
I will always cherish that picture very
much.”

\

 

 

OVER THE AIR

For those who like stories and facts about
our animal friendsI our Society sponsors two
distinct radio programs.

In Boston. "Bird and Animal Lore" is
presented by Miss Margaret J. Kearns each
Saturday, at 2:05 P. M.. over WHDH—BSO
on your dial.

In Springﬁeld, Mrs. Charlena Kibbe
broadcasts a similar program each Tuesday.
at 2:|5 P. M., over WSPR—l270 on your
dial.

BE SURE TO LISTEN!

 

 

 

 

 

 

Is There a Racket?

TIME and time again, we have printed

stories about dogs that have found
their way back to the ‘home of their mas—
ters, after being left in another vicinity.
Can these stories have been pure ﬁction?

. We don’t think so.

It seems logical, therefore, that when
a dog wanders away, and many of them
do seem to seek adventure at times, and
fails to return, it is the result of con-
straint rather than lack of homing in-
stinct.

This question was brought to our at—
tention recently by a friend, Mrs. Caro—
line Hartley, The Little Farm, 14804 Wy-
andotte St., Van Nuys, California. Our
readers will remember the story of a
“Gentleman of Erin” in our October
issue. One actor in the story Was a small
Scottish terrier, called “Dingbat,” al-
though her real name is “Mary, Queen
of Scots.”

Mrs. Hartley wrote us that this little
dog scooted out of the gate last October
and has never returned, although a con-
tinuous search [has been in operation ever
since. Furthermore, a neighbor, shortly
afterward, reported the disappearance of
three Scotties and recovered two of them
by offering a large reward.

Dingbat, or Mary, is easily identiﬁed.
She knows her name; she is all black ex-

cept for a tiny white spot on her chest

and has a round black spot about half
the size of a dime on her tongue. She
is ten months old and rather small.

We ask that anyone seeing such a dog
report his ﬁnd to Mrs. Hartley at the ad-
dress given above. Only concerted effort
will put a stop to dognapping, if such is
the case in this instance.

a

Tantalizing Tom

0N my way to the clothesline one
morning not long ago, I witnessed
an amusing incident, with three principal
characters—two dogs and a cat. Each
of the dogs was on a leash. By straining
to the farthest point permitted by the
respective ropes, the two had come face
to face, about ten feet apart. Directly

between them, at the halfway point, sat,

a large, well-fed and entirely composed
Angora cat, calmly giving himself a bath.
Sizing up the situation, he had appar-
ently decided to be as tantalizing as pos-
sible, and was thoroughly enjoying the
frenzy of the two dogs, both of whom
were tugging furiously and emitting
yips of longing. As I watched, the cat
leisurely completed his toilet, and, after
looking about him contentedly, ambled
off in the direction of a nearby garage,
hoping, no doubt, to scare up a mouse or
two.
——-Grace V. Watkins

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Pompous Papa Penguin

IMAGINE going about all day in full-

dress! Foolish, you say? But Papa
Penguin doesn’t think so. Proudly he
struts around, displaying that long white
vest, rather comically resembling a little
old man with corns. Usually he waddles
along quite deliberately, but he can speed
up considerably when it’s mealtime.

Papa Penguin is strictly a Southerner.
He lives way down South near the Ant-
arctic, and, although he is an extensive
traveler, he never Visits the Northern
hemisphere. Of course, he hasn’t any
means of transportation, having sacri-
ﬁced his wings for powerful swinging
ﬂippers, so he hikes or swims wherever
he wants to go. No doubt if Olympic
meets were held at the Antarctic, Papa
Penguin would win the championship
trophy for all-around sports, for he can
toddle on ice; toboggan on snow; dive
into the sea to a depth of ten fathoms
(about sixty feet) ; and climb a cliff to a
height of six hundred or seven hundred
feet.

Papa Penguin and his family never
travel alone nor live alone, but rather
live in communities like people, and go
about in large parties. Penguins are very
friendly and large parties of them have
been known to visit the camps of Ant-

 

[uf 4laaence
cfe 17¢

”30%

 

  
 
  

 

Papa Penguin and
some at his good
friends and neigh-
bors line up as
though listening

 

arctic explorers. One such explorer gave
an interesting account of how Papa Pen—
guin gets his mate. He picks up a stone
in his beak, carries it and lays it at the
feet of the penguin he wishes to become

l
to a concert. “
Note that all are ill
properly attired

in full dress

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mrs. Penguin. If she accepts him, she
picks up the stone in her beak and moves
it away from him toward herself. After
this ceremony, they set up housekeeping,
making their nest in a pile of stones.
Mama Penguin cares for the babies at
ﬁrst, but when they are big enough to go
about, the whole community looks after
them. Papa Penguin is very devoted to
his wife and children, bringing them
food while they stay in the nest. Using

his ﬂippers, he dives into the sea for
shrimp—like

little animals, which he

 

Miss Hilda L. Olson and her pet.
N ovember 1 91,5

 

 

catches on his tongue by swimming, with
beak partly open, through water where
these little animals are plentiful. Papa
Penguin’s tongue is barbed, and as the
water ﬂows in at the front of his mouth
and out at the back on each side, the
shrimps are caught on the barbs of his
tongue and swallowed. Sometimes he eats
so much that food dribbles out of his
mouth and he can scarcely waddle. That’s

4%

In the Garden

HT is not often that we are privileged

to show a picture that illustrates so
well the affection that exists between a
human being and an animal.

The photograph at the left is self-
revealing of the companionship that pre-
vails between Miss Hilda L. Olson and
her beautiful Saint Bernard. Strolling
through the gardens of their home at
Rockport, Massachusetts, they enjoy the
invigorating air and sunshine of that
coastal town.

Miss Olson is an ardent admirer of all
animals and has long been a friend of
our two Societies.

Photo by Otto F. Rothe

regalia.

 

not because he’s a glutton, but because
that is his way of bringing home food
to Mama Penguin and the babies. When
he gets back to his stony nest where his
family await him, he brings up portions
of food from his stomach to his lower
beak, from which his family peck at it.

Yes, Papa Penguin has a right to be
proud. He always brings home the bacon
—or rather, the shrimps.

Bargain Day

In pity for the hungry birds
I bought a feeding-station,
And fastened it upon a tree
In eager expectation.

Now my reward, all undeserved,
ls more than I could know—

A sight incredible to see,

This bright bird in the snow.

The wonder is, in days like these
When costs forever soar,

A handful of cheap seeds can bring
A cardinal to my door!

—Frances Angevine Gray

205

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Seabag" is sworn in.

Mascot Sends Thanks

SOMEONE forgot to tell our Angell
Memorial Hospital that we once
harbored an educated tan boxer that
knew how to write and use a typewriter.
At least, President Eric H. Hansen re-
cently received a letter from the dog, who
is now a mascot aboard a Coast Guard
combat cutter. He was presented to the
ship just before it “shoved off.”

The dog, ofﬁcially addressed and listed
in the ship’s log as “Seabag,” elected to
write his own story. It follows just as
he typed it:

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
180 Longwood Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Blakely and Staff:

I don’t know if you remember me or not.
I am a tan boxer dog that left your Hos-
pital and joined the Coast Guard service.
That was last May. I was a guest in your
Institution at that time under what may
be called “protective custody.” The allega—
tion having been made that I went about
the streets biting people who rode bicycles.
To prove to you how absurd that statement
is, my shipmates aboard this ship will
solemnly swear an oath, to the fact that

during the entire time we have been at sea ‘

I have not once bitten a native riding a
bicycle. My shipmates all like me and I
have been very considerate and gentle with
them. I 'have not at any time shown the
slightest anger or malice toward anyone.

I am enclosing some pictures of my
enlistment and “swearing in” ceremonies
aboard my ship. They were taken the day
after we left port.. I also have my own
Mae West (life jacket), and the ship has
likewise ordered a special coat with my
name, name of ship, and a picture of a
polar bear on it. I wear it when it’s cold.

I am officially registered as an apprentice
seaman and have my own service record.
My duties aboard are to stand all dog
watches.

The crew all submitted a name for me

198

to be called by. A committee then picked
some of these names and submitted them in
return to the crew to be voted on. My
name is now “Seabag.” I have another
friend aboard. His name is “Ditty Back,”
he is a cat. We tolerate each other, and do
not ﬁght. But between you and me, cats
aren’t what they’re cracked up to be. They
act “snooty.” Always putting on the dog
—«or maybe I should say the cats.

I wonder if you would do me a flavor.
Would you put a service ﬂag with a star on
it in the window for me? Please.

Enclosed is .a money order for $25.00.
Please accept and use this as best you see
ﬁt.

Dr. Schoettner, the medical ofﬁcer that
came to the Hospital and recruited me,
sends his best wishes to your Staff and
wishes to thank personally the young lady
that helped him to pick me out, and also
the young lady at the reception room desk
who so willingly cooperated.

Again I thank, you for being so kind to
me. When I return to Boston I shall visit
with you. . ‘ "

Goodbye for now,

“SEABAG,” Apprentice Seaman

(EDITOR’S NOTE: The letter was
signed with a paw print.)

@

UT in the wildwood, in the big, open
wildwood, we come in contact with
the untarnished and forget the stress of
business and social life. We cultivate a
rare knowledge of beauty, sweetness and
purity, which cannot be attained else-
where, and upon our hearts there is im-
pressed full evidence of the mightiness
of the Great Creator.

—Burlingham S churr

Grateful Crew

HE story of “Gertie” is still another
indication of our service to the
mascots of ﬁghting men. Although we
made no charge for hospital treatment,
the crew of the U. S. S. Swenning in—
sisted on making a donation in gratitude-
for Gertie’s recovery.

The following letter reached us after
the dog had returned on ship-board:

“Enclosed herewith is a check in the
amount of $48.69, which amount is being
donated .by the crew of the U. S. S. Swen-
ning (DE-394) in appreciation of the
excellent care and attention given
‘Gertie,’ the ship’s mascot.

“It is desired that any amount in ex-
cess of the actual cost of treatment be
used in the care of the unfortunate
returning dog ‘veterans’ who have no one
to care for them.

“The crew wishes to take this opportu-
nity to thank the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and the Angel] Memorial Hospital for
their care of the ship’s mascot and their
assistance in returning her to her normal,
playful self. (Signed) The Crew.”

Gertie, a patient of our Dr. Schneider,
had an eye and respiratory infection.
She came of a long line of Navy mascots.
Her mother met her father in Africa
and had puppies in the mid—Atlantic,
dying at their birth. All the puppies
became Navy mascots and are still doing
their bit to add cheer to their masters’
lives.

 

 

There isn’t a secret he “keeps from me”

 

 

The New Dog

There’s a new dog lies on the parlour rug where the old dog used to lie,

A dog with a short white curly coat and a brown patch over his eye;

He takes his meals from the old dog’s dish, (and sleeps on the old dog’s chair,
And the rest have forgotten the Aberdeen who for ten long years slept there.

But at night when “the house is fast asleep” sounds a step I used to know,

And the dog that I love comes stealing back from the land where the Good Dogs go;
A dark shape opens the bedroom door, I hear a familiar Whine,

There are two black paws on the counterpane and a dog’s head close to mine.

There are shining seraphs to take him walks, real bones and a splendid pond;
And the baby angels throw balls for him in the ﬁelds where the grass grows sweet,
And he hasn’t forgotten a strange brown stone that he used to lay at my feet.

He remembers the deer “in Richmond Park,” and the cats he used to chase,
(And yet they can talk of another dog who shall take the old dog’s place.)
He tells me he looked for the old green chair where his basket. used to be,
But he found an intruder sleeping there so he came to hunt for me.

Oh, the new white dog is a faithful chap, and he earns his daily bread,

And the right to feed from the selfsame dish and sleep on the selfsame bed,
And of course he must be on the parlour rug where the old jock used to lie,
But a black dog visits me every night, pathetically asking why.

——L. B. Malleson (In an English publication; name unknown)

of life in the Great Beyond;

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




 

 

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

Practical Projects For Teachers ancl Parents '0

by Dorothea Clark

 

Pets for Children

WNERSHIP of a pet is a two—way
proposition. Every child who wishes
to acquire one should be made aware of
both sides of the partnership. As soon
as he becomes old enough to own a pet
of his own, he should be made to realize
his responsibility in the partnership. The
animal will give the child companionship,
pleasure, and satisfaction. The child
should provide proper living conditions,
regular care, proper food, kindness, and
sympathetic understanding. He should
perform his duties regularly; and he
should never be permitted to neglect his
pet, even if it involves inconvenience or
sacriﬁce for himself.

Children should, of course, have pets.
Relatives and friends are aware of the
value of some animal as a companion and
playmate for a child. However, there are
other values, far more important and
lasting, which need to be consciously
recognized. The daily companionship
and contact with a pet affords an oppor-
tunity for a child to practice again and
again such attributes as thoughtfulness,
gentleness, kindliness, patience, unselﬁsh-
ness, and loyalty to duty. On the other
hand, permitting a child to be thought-
less, to tease or torment an animal may
be responsible for the formation of un-
fortunate behavior patterns that often
persist into adult life.

Very small children can beneﬁt from
the companionship of a family pet. A
little child can be taught to pat the ani—
mal gently, and to avoid rough handling
even though the animal seems to tolerate
it. Such behavior hurts the child much
more than it does the animal.

As he becomes older, the child should
be taught thoughtfulness by giving him
a share in helping to care for the pet.
He may remind mother when it is time to
feed the pet, to replenish the water sup-
ply; he may help to air the bedding, or to
give the animal his daily exercise.
Through such ﬁrst-hand experiences, the
child is learning some fundamental
health needs and practices which he
should apply to himself.

As a background for providing for the
needs of some particular pet, it is desir—
able to have an intelligent understanding
of the basic needs of all living things.
All animals require food, air (oxygen),

Copyright 1945 by American Humane Education Society.

234

water, light, and a certain degree of
temperature. Those animals that have
been domesticated also need to be pro-
vided with clean living conditions and
opportunity for rest and exercise.

The fundamental requirements among
living things are still further shown in
their need for the same kinds of food
elements. Many people have the mis-
taken idea that animals, in general, have
an instinctive ability to select the kind
of food they should eat. Such a belief
leads them to the conclusion that any-
thing a dog or cat will eat is proper
food; that any quantity of food an ani-
mal will consume is needed. However,
the food requirements of all animals from
dogs to puppies fol-low a pattern similar
to the well-balanced diet of humans.

All animals need a certain amount of
building foods, or proteins and minerals,
to build and maintain the various body
tissues. They all require energy foods,
such as the starches, sugars, or fats, to
supply the body with heat and to furnish
energy for moving about. Minerals and
vitamins make for the smooth function-
ing of the body processes. Package labels
of many commercially prepared foods
for animals, even those on ﬁsh food, in-
dicate the presence and relative amounts
of all of these elements in the contents.
It is Wise, then, When selecting com—
mercially packed food for a pet animal,
to consider the package label, and to pur-
chase that food known to contain tissue-
building and energy—giving elements.

The kind of animal a child should have
for a pet must depend not only upon the
child’s preference, but also upon the
amount of available space. There should
be suﬁicient room to provide the amount
of activity the animal needs normally to
keep healthy. Because dogs deﬁnitely
seek the companionship of man, and, in
return, give lifelong devotion and loyalty,
they hold a high place in the list of
pets for both young and old. There is
no one breed more suitable for children
than another, and a mongrel makes as
good a pet as a pure-bred dog. How—
ever, when a child becomes older, he de-
velops a certain pride in owning a well-
bred dog.

.Much sympathy has been extended to
City dogs, and some would not approve
ownership of dogs in city blocks. The

OUR DUMB

truth of the matter is that city dogs often
receive better care than those that are
raised in the country. This is probably
because they receive more deﬁnite atten-
tion to their needs.

Cats: also very popular; especially
liked by little girls; good pets both in the
city and country; should receive proper
care and not be permitted to just grow
like Topsy.

White mice and rats: good pets for
older children. Cages should be properly
cleaned and cared for each day so as to
prevent any undesirable odor. Young
animals are full of life and very active.
Older children like to raise the young;
but, before starting on such a project,
should realize there is a responsibility in
the proper disposal of the progeny.

Guinea pigs.- more sluggish in move-
ments than rats or mice; require regular
care but are not too exacting in their
needs.

Canaries: cheery songsters that are al-
ways a pleasure in the home; require-
ments are more speciﬁc and they prob-
ably need supervision of an adult for
their care.

Rabbits: popular among children espe-
cially when there is an opportunity to
compare their ways with those of the
cat; should have some space on the
ground for exercise.

Tropical ﬁsh: interesting to have as
pets because of brilliant colors. Guppies
are easy to raise and multiply fairly rap-
idly; require heated aquarium with
thermostatic control.

Goldﬁsh: probably easiest of all pets to
maintain; should be kept in an aquarium
which has light but not direct sun-
light—for a few hours each day. If green
water plants grow well in aquarium the
ﬁsh will probably thrive too. Do not
overfeed.

Turtles and salamanders: care needed
is similar to that required by goldﬁsh.
Salamanders usually need small ﬂoating
board on which they may crawl when
they wish to stay at the surface of the
water.

Pets from local ponds.- many local vari—
eties of animals make interesting pets.
Crayﬁsh, tadpoles, and some kinds of ﬁsh
will thrive in a fresh water aquarium.
See “Special Bulletin” for October for
directions for making such an aquarium.

ANIMALS,

 

_'___—————._—.’




 

Kindergarten, Grades One,

Two, Three

1. BASIC IDEA: There are many kinds of
pets.

II. SUBJECT MATTER: Pets for Chil-
dren.

III. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
Make a list of all the different kinds of
pets owned by members of your class.

Put the names of domesticated animals
in one column.

Put the names of wild pets in another
column.

Observe several kinds of pets.

How are their needs supplied?

What do they eat?

How do they eat?

Visit a pet shop.

Find out all you can about the care
and cost of different pets. ~
What pets do children of other countries

have?
Invite the pet of one of your classmates
to school.

Plan what you should do to make its
visit to your room a comfortable, happy
one for the animal.

IV. DESIRABLE OUTCOMES:
Speciﬁc Ideas:
All animals need food, water, air, light,
and warmth. '
We must provide clean quarters, oppor-
tunity for exercise and rest for our pets.
Many of our pets have various ways of
expressing their feelings and can show us
when they are happy or unhappy.
Attitudes: 7
An interest and pleasure in the com-
panionship of pets.
An interest in understanding the ways
and the feelings of these animals.
A thoughtfulness for the comfort of
animals.
Self control in the presence of animals.
These attitudes ﬁnd expression in the
following ways:
Children spend much time with ani—
mals observing them and their ways.
They provide for the comfort of their
pets.
They refrain from teasing their own
pets.
They refrain from handling strange
animals.

Grades Four, Five, Six

I. BASIC IDEA: Animal pets differ in
their requirements.

II. SUBJECT MATTER: Pets for children.

III. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:

Make a survey of the various pets of your
neighborhood to discover: what they eat;
what care they received; whether or not
they appear contented.

Make a set of food charts grouping
together the foods which are especially
good for building foods; those which give
energy (heat and power) ; and those which
protect and regulate the body.

Consult the labels on packages and the
advertisements for commercial foods for
domesticated animals and other pets to see
what food elements each product is said to
contain. .

Plan a score card for scoring the care
given a pet based on the following: good
living quarters, cleanliness of quarters,

December 191,5

food, regularity of feeding, appearance of
animal, spirits of the animal (happy, lively,
etc.)
Make a home for some animal such as a
white rat, white mouse, or guinea pig.
Provide all the necessary conditions for
its comfort and well-being.

IV.—DESIRABLE OUTCOMES:
Speciﬁc Ideas:

Animals differ in their requirements as
to kinds of food, amount of water, light,
and temperature.

All animals need certain kinds of food.

People who own domesticated animals
are responsible for providing them with
proper living quarters, regular care, and
proper food. '

Attitudes:

An interest and pleasure in owning a pet.

A feeling of responsibility in taking daily
care of his pet.

A pride in owning a healthy and well—
cared for animal.

These attitudes are indicated by:

The time a child spends with his pet
and the way he treats it.

The regular care the child gives his
pet without being reminded; and the
cheerful manner in which he does this,
even when the task 'is laborious or un-
pleasant.

The attention the child gives to his
own diet; and his willingness to eat nu—
tritious foods that may lack appeal to
him.

REFERENCE MATERIALS

Books for Reference: (Titles marked With *
are for children)
*Beaty, John Y.—‘Farm Pets, Rand Mc-
Nally.
Stories of common farm pets; suitable
for young children.
*Bianco, Margery—All About Pets, Mac-
millan Co.
A popular book which gives complete,
clear, simple directions for the care

and feeding of many different kinds of .

animal pets. Older children.

 

Comstock, A. B.—Handbook of Nature
Study, Comstock Publishing Co.
Contains a series of questions concern-
ing various animal pets. These are
helpful to use in guiding children’s
observations.
*Comstock, A. B.——The Pet Book, Com—
stock Publishing Co.
Contains accounts on the care and
feeding of many kinds of animals.
Older children.
Crandall, Lee S.—Pets. Their History and
Care, Henry Holt & Co.
Suitable for children in upper grades.
*Flack, Marjorie and Wiese, Kurt—~The
Story About Ping, Viking Press.

A delightful story for very young
children about a Peking duckling.
*McC‘loskey, Robert .— Make Way for

Ducklings.
A delightful picture book concerned
with the raising of eight mallard duck-
lings on the Charles River in Boston.
*Newberry, Clare Turlay—Marshmallow,
Harper Bros.
The story of “Marshmallow,” a rabbit,
and “Oliver,” a cat. Fine illustra-
tions. Suitable for younger children.
*Piper, Watty — Animal Friends Story
Book, Platt & Munk Co.
Stories of farm animals, habits, use,
and origin. .

Visual Aids: Films.

The Farm—16 mm., silent—1 reel.

Farm animals and farm life as seen by
a group of children.

Farm Animals—16 mm., sound—1 reel.
Milking cows, feeding calves, horses,
colts, pigs, harnessing horses, goats,
kids and lambs.

Friends to Man—16 mm., silent—1 reel.
Cows, sheep, reindeer, and branches of
these families; how they contribute to
man’s life.

Kingdom for a Horse—16 mm., sound—-

1 reeL
All kinds of horses portrayed.

 

H. ArmstrongRoberts p etc

A KIND MISTRESS RECEIVES HER REWARD

235

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Red-faced Cormorant at its nes’r.

Feathered Subs
By KATHERINE PETERS

OME birds not only have wings, but

they have all the principles of a sub—
marine embodied in their makeup. They
dive quickly and easily into the water,
swimming and darting about beneath the
surface after their diet of ﬁsh.

One of the most skilled divers is the
loon. To see it waddle awkwardly about
on land, no one would suspect it of swift-
ness. But with its strong wings, it can
mount high into the air and then come
hurtling down into the water with a
great rushing noise. It is said that if
a hunter aims at one of these wary birds,
it will dive out of sight faster than his
shot. For this reason, its diving ability
is its greatest protection against human
enemies.

Another ﬁsher is the cormorant, a bird
which is easily tamed. It will plunge
after its prey, catching it in its curved
beak. If, by chance, it should seize the
ﬁsh the wrong way, the cormorant will
come to the surface, ﬂip the ﬁsh up in
the air, catch it correctly, then swallow
it. Because its throat is very elastic, it
can stow away quite a number of ﬁsh
before it starts on a meal.

Something like a cormorant in its
habits is the anhinga or snakebird, as it
is often called. However, it has a long,
slender, straight bill that will go through
a ﬁsh like a knife. Plummeting into the
water, it pursues all ﬁsh in sight with
a lightning-like speed, gulping down
one after another. With its body still

108

under water, it will thrust out its slim
head and neck, so that it looks like a
snake ﬂoating along the river.

But perhaps the most interesting of
all divers are the penguins, those funny
little fellows which strut around as
though they were going calling. However,
this is one bird that cannot ﬂy. Its
wings are little better than ﬂippers and
are used for swimming.

At night it sleeps on the water, bob-
bing up and down on the waves. It. is
never too stormy for a penguin to miss a
good dinner. In the roughest weather,
these birds are in the ocean diving in
and out after ﬁsh and other sea deli-
cacies.

Yet there com-es a time when a pen-
guin can only look longingly at the
water and wish that it had something to
eat. For almost six long weeks, it can-
not dive and catch any food. N o matter
how hard it might try, at this time a
penguin cannot get its head down. This
is because it is moulting, and the loose
feathers act as a buoy that prevents it
from sinking.

(ﬂ

Dog Gives Puppy First Aid

D. FRENCH, superintendent of
0 schools of Bristol, Va., relates a
story of his beloved pointer, “Queen,”
giving ﬁrst aid to one of her puppies.
Mr. French went down to his basement
one morning and found that the runt
of the litter was almost dead. The mother
had accidentally lain down on it, he found.
Knowing that it had a poor chance, and
seeing that it was barely breathing, he
thought the most humane act to perform
would be to give it chloroform. He picked
the puppy up and started to take it away
when the mother looked up at him with
pleading eyes. She began to whine as if
to tell him to put the puppy down.
Believing he understood the mother,
Mr. French put the puppy down on the
ﬂoor. The mother hovered over it,
put her nose against its chest and
gently pressed it, released, pressed again
and again until the little one began to
breath normally.
The revived dog became a much loved
pet of the household and in turn lavishes
its love upon everybody.

—L. F. Addington

(ﬂ

Emerson Said

N his essay on Worship, Ralph Waldo
Emerson said: “Every man takes care
that his neighbor shall not cheat him.
But a day comes when he begins to care
that he does not cheat his neighbor. Then
all goes well. He has changed his market-
cart into a chariot of the sun.”

Bird with a Personality
By WINIFRED HEATH

f HE Pufﬁn and his close cousin, the
Tufted Pufﬁn, belong to the ancient
order of Auks and have something of a
prehistoric appearance. Various names
have been given this clown among sea
birds—Bottle Nose, Pope, Sea Parrot,
Pufﬁn Auk. The oddest thing about the
Pufﬁn is that he wears his bright wedding
colors on his great beak. The great bill
takes on stripes of red, yellow, blue,
purple, with a red rosette at the corner
of the mouth. In addition he develops
horny plates over the eyelids, with an—
other imbedded in the lower lid.

The bill of the Tufted Puffin is not
quite so brightly colored as that of the
Common Puffin, but he has a long stream-
ing plume of straw—colored feather-s on
each white cheek. The bright red feet
are set far back in the body so that the
pufﬁn stands upright like the penguin—
but has an advantage of that quaint bird,
in that the pufﬁn still has the use of its
wings.

With his white breast, black coat, short
legs, and solemn air the pufﬁn has the
appearance of a plump and rather solemn
alderman. He is a powerful, but not very
graceful, diver, and in ﬂying seems to
have difﬁculty in getting off the land.
Usually he toddles to the top of some
nearby hill and waits for the wind to
give him a friendly. push. Often he
comes down ﬂat on the top of another
protesting pufﬁn.

The pufﬁn lives most of its life out on
the rolling waves, coming home to its
burrow only when about to start house-
keeping or to keep an eye on its mate as
she tends their one egg or chick. Unlike
most seafowl the pufﬁn is usually silent,
but occasionally utters a deep, sepulchral
note, usually as it is coming in to shore.

The Tufted Puffin is found in great
numbers on the Aleutian Islands where
its bright coloring blends beautifully with

'the green of the grass and the gay colors

of the many spring ﬂowers.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Boys and Girls

ow we want you to write for us. If you are ﬁfteen years old
N or under and have written or want to write a poem or story
about animals, you are eligible to compete for a place on this
page. Each piece must be very short, and, of course, your very
own composition. Each contribution must be accompanied by a
note from one of your parents or your teacher stating that the
writing is original with you. Also, if you have a picture of yourself
and your pet, send that, too. Of course, we cannot promise to
print everything received, but the judges will pick out the ones
they think the best.

All letters should be addressed to Boys and Girls Editor, OUR
DUMB ANIMALS, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass. We
cannot return or acknowledge unused contributions, but we shall
do our best to print the best stories, poems and pictures received.

Following are a few samples of stories and verse written by
children. Can you do better than these boys and girls? Try it.

&
My Pet Chose Me

By Paul Kimball (11 years)

One Saturday night I found a little white kitten which
was almost frozen. I patted him and, when I walked
away, he followed me. He looked so cold that I picked
him up and put him inside my coat.

I took him home, creeping into the house quietly,
because I was afraid my sister would ﬁnd out that I had
brought home a kitten. I took him into my bedroom
and then went into the kitchen to take off my overshoes.
Much to my dismay, as my sister walked into the
kitchen through one door, the kitten appeared in the
other.

My sister cried out, “Oh, what a lovely kitten! Where
did he come from?”

I replied meekly, “I found him.”

Imagine my delight when she said, “He is so pretty;
let’s keep him.”

Now the kitten has grown big and we all love him
and hope to keep him forever.

.3

Ginger Likes Music
By Joy Baddish (7 years)

“Ginger” is Joy’s dog. He can do many tricks. He
can stand on his hind legs, roll over, say his prayers,
and ﬁnd things he hides.

Best of all, Ginger likes to play the piano. He jumps
up on the piano bench and pounds the keys. He likes
music. Maybe he is playing Mairzy Doats.

I made up this poem about Ginger:

Ginger likes to stand and play
On the piano every day.

176

 

"SPOTTY" TAKES A DRINK

This tame little tawn doesn't mind the attentions of a small play-
mate. Do you have a picture of yourseltc and your pet?

cﬁ

How Timmy Turtle Climbed the Wire Fence

BOBBY found a small turtle with a red-bordered
shell down 'by the pond. He called it “Tommy,”
and wanted to take it to the school garden.

Benny brought one a little smaller. He called it
“Timmy,” and brought it to school the same morning.

Miss Blank was puzzled. Books said that turtles
would eat each other’s legs and tails if placed together.
She ﬁnally decided to try them, feed well with turtle
food, and remove the ﬁrst one that started nibbling.

The turtles proved friends. Miss Blank ﬁxed a low
wire fence around the radish bed and placed them in
it. She sunk a Wide-mouthed can in the dirt for a
pond and put a small pile of stones in it for them to
crawl on, when they wanted to be out of the water.

Soon Timmy got over in the onion bed—no one knew
how. He was running so fast and rubbing his eyes.

“The onions make his eyes smart,” said Benny.
“We’ll have to get him back.”

They did, then watched to see what he would do.

Miss Blank had placed a small can in one corner to
stop up a hole where the ends of the fence came
together.

Tommy went up to this. Timmy climbed on Tommy’s
back; then Tommy raised himself up until his head
just reached the top of the can, and would you believe
it, Timmy climbed out over Tommy’s head.

Which turtle was bright enough to plan this I do not
know. It looked as if both worked together. But the
children all saw how Timmy got over the wire fence.

—Bessie L. Putnam

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Seventy-seventh Annual Report
For the Year Ending December 31, 1944

REPORT OF CHIEF PROSECUTING
OFFICER FOR THE ENTIRE STATE

L. Willard Walker, Chief Ofﬁcer

Complaints investigated ........ 2,847
Prosecutions .................. 57
Convictions .................. 50
Animals inspected ............. 42,767
Miles traveled ................. 175,341
Horses, injured or unﬁt for service
—humanely put to sleep ..... 404
Horses taken from work ........ 105

Small animals, injured, diseased or
unwanted, humanely put to sleep 19,408

Animals placed in homes ........ 2,201
Animals returned to owners . . . . 620
Ambulance calls .............. 9,356
Animals inspected at stockyards . . 709,525
Cattle, swine, sheep, humanely put
to sleep .................... 588
Ambulance mileage, Boston ..... 34,157
Kept under constant inspection:
Slaughter-houses ............ 67
Poultry slaughter-houses ...... 97
Pet shops and chain stores ..... 58

ANIMALS TREATED IN BOSTON
HOSPITAL DURING 1944

Hospital cases ................ 10,691

Dispensary (including animals at
Attleboro Clinic) ............ 21,211

Operations ................... 3,603

ANIMAL TREATED IN SPRINGFIELD
HOSPITAL DURING 1944

 

Hospital cases ................ 3,027
Dispensary ................... 9,208
Operations ................... 1 ,559
SUMMARY
Total cases treated in Boston . . . . 31,632
Total cases treated in Springﬁeld . 12,235
Total cases treated in Attleboro . . 270
44,137
Cases in Hospital since opening,
March 1, 1915 .............. 241,595
Cases in Dispensary since opening,
March 1, 1915 .............. 602,278
843,873

M E T H U E N
W. W. Haswell, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................... 64
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 1,587

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 1,036
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 45
(placed in homes) ....... 115
(humanely put to sleep) . . 2,856

March 191,5

Average number of horses
cared for (per month) . . . 11

Horses (humanely put to , _
sleep) ................. 44
Mileage .................. 6,200

PITTSFIELD

T. King Haswell, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................. 120
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 2,857

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 1,622
Smlall animals (returned to
owners) ............... 19
(placed in homes) ....... 195
(humanely put to sleep) . . 2,675
Horses (humanely put to
sleep) ................. 7
4. Prosecutions 8 Convictions . . 7
Mileage .................. 16,872

SPRINGFIELD (OFFICER)

John T. Brown, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer
1. CASES

Complaints received (investi-

Number

gated) ................. 399
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 2,901
At Stockyards and abattoirs . 25,122
Auctions ................. 385
Total .................. 28,408
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals 326
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 2
(placed in homes) ....... 3
(humanely put to sleep) . 65
Horses (taken from work) . 14
(humanely put to sleep) . 8
4. Prosecutions 14 Convictions .. 11
Mileage .................. 18,423

SPRINGFIELD (HOSPITAL)
l. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 850
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 416
(placed in homes) ....... 1,586
(humanely put to sleep) . . 6,576
Mileage ................. 10,937

NEW BEDFORD AND
ATTLEBORO

Charles E. Brown, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer
William J. Lees

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-‘
gated)" ................ 249
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 3,390
Abattoirs and stockyards . . . V 21
Auctions ................. 3
Total ................. 3,414

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted animals ..... 407

Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 30
(placed in homes) ...... 111
(humanely put to sleep) . . 1,751
Horses (taken from work) . . 20
(humanely put to sleep) . . 13
4. Prosecutions 6 Convictions . . 5
Mileage ................. 24,778

BROCKTON SHELTER
Herbert Liscomb

From Opening of Shelter, June, 1944
ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 338
Small animals (returned to
owners) ................ I
(placed in homes) ....... 70
(humanely put to sleep) . . 2,064
Mileage .................. 3,988

H Y A N N I 5
Harold G. Andrews, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer
1. CASES

Complaints received (investi-

gated) ................. 41
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED

Number

On investigations only ...... 1,151
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals 555
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 6
(placed in homes) ...... 4
(humanely put to sleep) . . 906
Horses
(humanely put to sleep) . . 2
Mileage .................. 24,302

W E N H A M
Fred T. Vickers, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................ 176
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 2,665
Auctions ................. 1,891
Total .................. 4,556
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals 327
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 10
(placed in homes) ...... 20
(humanely put to sleep) . . 778
Horses (taken from work) . . 23
(put to sleep) ........... 24
4. Prosecutions 11 Convictions . . 10
Mileage .................. 14,765

53

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. Thornton Burgess (right) talks with Sec-
retary W. A. Swallow before the Humane
Sunday lecture.

(Continued from Page 116)

by setting apart this day as ‘Rowley
Day,’ I want to assure you, as I have as-
sured him, of my appreciation of this
honor, and I am sending to you all, young
and old, my sincere and heartfelt regard,
and would be glad if I could take the hand
of each one of you and wish you all of
life’s best blessings. Let me quote to
you a word about kindness spoken by
one of America’s greatest thinkers,
scholars, and preachers:

“‘Kindness—it is a great, vital ex-
pression of all excellence, the deepest
root of the noblest humanity, and its con-
summate ﬂower.’ ”

The awarding of prizes was then in
order, and Attorney Samuel Resnic gave
out Be Kind to Animals and Band of
Mercy pennants to 12 very happy young-
sters. The climax of the program was
the awarding of 15 books by Attorney
Neil J. Moriarty, who emphasized that
“the highest purpose in life is to spread
deeds of kindness in the world, and to
heal all discord that might tend to dis-
tract love for God and His creations.”

We quote three of the letters written
to Dr. Rowley from the youngest to the
oldest children. Little John Ricci, Jr.,
age 4, writes: “I like animals.” Says
Barbara Brackman, age 11: “Dear Dr.
Rowley, I like all kinds of animals, and
I would take good care of one if I had
one. All people should be kind and good
to them. I had a collie and one day he got
killed. And I loved him so much.” John
O’Rourke, 18 years old, wrote: “Dear Dr.
Rowley, I wish to congratulate you on
your many achievements in the past as
well as the present. As long as such men
as you exist, there will never be large—
scale cruelty to animals. May your good
work continue in the future.”

118

In the Field

Our representative, Mr. W. F. H.
Wentzel, reports that in Pittsburgh the
celebration was recognized extensively
with emphasis placed as usual on poster
contests throughout the schools. In ad-
dition, a number of medals and citations
were presented for heroism and kind-
ness.

An outstanding report from the Rhode
Island Humane Education Society of its
Kindness Week activities shows that this
organization more than equalled its ﬁne
record of other years.

Dr. James F Rockett, Director of Edu-
cation in Rhode Island, gave a stirring
radio address in an appeal for Humane
Education, landing the efforts of the So-
ciety and calling attention to the great
force for character development inherent
in this type of teaching.

Governor J. Howard M-cGrath and
Mayor Dennis J. Roberts of Providence
gave the Society messages of greeting for
the celebration.

Mrs. John R. Rathom, secretary for the
Society, gave a timely and inspiring radio
talk on the need for Humane Education
in present world conditions.

As in former years, Milton R. Halla-
day, Providence Journal artist, drew a
cartoon for his paper dealing with the
celebration.

In the schools, the Society distribute-d
10,000 copies of the humane poster, plac-
ing copies in every school in the State, in
addition to displaying them in various
business establishments, post ofﬁces, li-
braries and other public places.

In addition a pet show was sponsored
at the Providence Boys’ Club and the
Army Signal Corps took moving pictures
to show soldiers throughout the world.

New System of Dunking

I WAS surprised the other day to see
a new system of dunking. A purple
grackle was seated on a maple bough with
a huge crust of bread in his bill. As I
watched him, I wondered how he was
going to manage to take it with him, as
it was almost as large as he was. He
would drop it onto the ground every time
he tried to ﬂy with it.

Suddenly, he seemed to have an idea.
He ﬂew straight to the bird bath. Soak-
ing the crust in water for a few sec—
onds softened it. Then he picked it up
and dropped it on the ground where he
separated it into small pieces. He peeked
at each one carefully and soared to his
favorite hiding place.

—Muriel C. Rundlett

a
To Patsy

Dear wistful little canine face.

Pressed against the screen's dark lace—
As I go through the door, and leave
You sitting there to softly grieve—

] know I’ll find you waiting still,

When I return across the sill.

If I go through that other door,

Shall you miss me more and more—
Refusing love, and care, and food—
Forsaking every earthly good—

’Til some kind gentle hands undo

The heavenly gate—and let you through?

—Mary G. Brande

 

Be Prepared .
In response to many requests, we are publishing a new calendar for next
1 9 4 6
Calendar of Animals

Composed of a cover page, and 12 leaves bearing a monthly calendar,
each sheet will be illustrated with an actual photograph of one of our ani-

year, to be called the—

mal friends.

Bear in mind that these are not drawings, but true to life photos, re-
produced by the best art of the engraver.

Over-all size of the calendar will be 41/?” x 8”.

Outstanding as gifts or Christmas cards, they will sell for ten cents each.

Please place your orders immediately for as many as you can use. We
shall be glad to reserve any number as long as the supply lasts.

All orders should be sent to:

American Humane Education Society

180 Longwood Ave, Boston 15, Mass.

—
OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Moose from Isle Royale at a Wallow

heir Majesties, the Moose
By E. J. GAGNON

SLE ROYALE, Michigan’s untouched
and primeval wilderness, is a veritable
paradise for most species of sub-arctic
Canadian and Michigan animals. Located
50 miles northwest of the Wolverine
state’s Keweenaw peninsula, it has been

Chat with Double Trouble

N several occasions, I had visited the
edge of a blackberry thicket to en-
joy the happy-go-lucky calls, and clown-
ing of a beautiful yellow—breasted chat.
One afternoon just after a drenching
rain, I happened to pass the same black-
berry thicket, but this time instead of
being amused by familiar calls and
antics, I was surprised to notice the
female chat clinging devotedly to her nest
that had been washed loose from its
mooring at one side. As the mother
bird ﬂew away, the three young birds
inside almost tumbled out of the nest.

After pulling the nest into an upright
position, I secured it in place with a piece
of ﬁshing line I had with me.

The second trouble was evident when
I noticed inside the nest that a well-fed
cowbird ﬂedgling had just about smoth-
ered the two little chats that were the
rightful occupants of the nest.

After disposing of the young cowbird,
and carefully checking on my job of
supporting the side of the nest, I went
away with a feeling that some birds must
have a pretty tough time of it rearing
their young.

——George A. Smith

May 191,5

a national park since 1931—one of the
nation’s newest and latest.

Nowhere else within the conﬁnes of the
United States do moose ﬂourish so ex—
tensively. In 1926, it was estimated there
were 3,000 on the isle together with a

@

 

number of woodland'caribou, the latter
found nowhere else in the country, ac—
cording to the Department of Interior.

Through lack of food their numbers
decreased rapidly until 1934 saw less
than one-third left. Existing on a diet
of ground hemlock, spruce, aspen and
willows, they are the supreme attraction
of the only national park of the old
Northwest Territory.

In 1935, with a desire to preserve the
species in Michigan, approximately 100
of the animals were planted in protected
regions of Michigan’s upper peninsula
by a merciful Department of Conserva-
tion. Live-trapped on the island, they
were transferred over Lake Superior in
Conservation patrol boats.

Deﬁnitely herbivorous, these creatures
are the largest members of the great
American deer family. Possessing large,
ﬂattened antlers, the species is closely
related to the European elk, only larger.

They take to the dense woods for hide
ing seclusion as soon as humans ap-
proach, but when surprised in their wal-
low or while feeding in a group they are
apt to stampede over anything in the
way of their escape.

A gaunt animal, they possess no beauty
of form, according to ordinary standards
or when compared with the deer or elk.
Nevertheless, they are highly majestic
in their own right. Visitors at Isle
Royale have rightly termed them “King
Beast of America’s Primeval Wilder~
ness.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ Babes of the Woods”

By J EW‘ELL CASEY

HE wombat and opossum-s, like the kangaroo, carry their
young in abdominal pouches for some time after birth.
As soon as young opossums, which sometimes number 10 or 12
in a litter, are old enough to leave their mother’s pouch, they
clamber aboard her back. She curls her tail over her back and
the youngsters reach up with their tails and give them a twist
or two around the mother’s tail and with their tiny forefeet
clinging tightly to her fur, journey around in her search for
food.

Most hum‘anlike of all wild creatures are the apes. The
mother, which may weigh about 150 pounds, will give birth
to a single infant, weighing about ﬁve or six pounds. She
nurses and coddles her baby much as a human mother. When
it is old enough to be taken around, the youngster rides upon
mother’s back, clinging tightly to her neck. The young attain
full growth at about the age of eight years.

Mother Nature has bestowed upon the order of turtles one
of her most ingenious protective devices—the two shells which
joined at the sides by bony bridges completely encircle these
odd creatures.

The armadillo is also ﬁtted out with a suit of armor which
encases every part of the body except the breast and abdomen,
thus protecting it in a measure from the sharp claws of larger
animals. While the porcupine is equipped with barbed spines
which serve even the young, when a few days old, with most
formidable weapons.

Perhaps the sloth, who travels topsy-turvy style beneath
branches of trees, forms the most perfect basket in which to
cradle her single baby which snuggles down on mama’s breast,
clinging tightly to her neck, in a most contented manner.

One of the most highly interesting and the only mammal
capable of true ﬂight is the bat. Bat mothers produce from
two to four young, which they lovingly and carefully try to
protect at the ﬁrst hint of trouble by wrapping membranous
Wings about them. When young the babies cling to their
mother’s breast and apparently unhampered by as many as four
clinging mites, the mother nightly soars away in search of
mosquitoes and numerous other harmful insects. Fleet as
the bats are, many of them fall prey to night hawks and owls.

The sticky-yellowish, foul smelling discharge emitted by the
skunk has earned this pretty creature the respect of man and

86

 

 

    

beast—no other weapon is necessary. However, this animal
“stench bomb” launches its gas attack only when frightened
or annoyed.

When the Peruvian llama takes a dislike to a person he
registers disgust by ejecting with considerable force and un-
erring aim, a stream of acrid saliva into the face of his visitor!
And some species of ants squirt acid at their enemies as a
means of protection. Petrels defend their nest and young by
squirting a smelly oil at any intruders.

Most squirrels are born in litters of three and four, tiny,
blind and helpless. The mother can transport her young with
the greatest of ease. She grasps the skin of the baby’s stomach,
whereupon the baby curls securely about mother’s head and
neck, giving her'the odd appearance of wearing a large neck-

1ece.
p In a serene manner, “junior” hippopotamus rides upon the
spacious back of mother, while young beavers ride upon moth—
er’s wide, ﬂat tail.

D‘oubtless the echidna of Australia can lay claim to being the
most peculiar of all living animals. A four-legged creature
with spines similar to the porcupine, a long darting tongue
like the anteater and a beak like a duck, lays one or two
leathery—shelled eggs which are placed in her abdominal pouch.

@

Horse Sense and Nonsense

MATHEMATICS was not J asper’s strong point, and at the
examination he was given a problem as follows:

“If one horse can run one mile in a minute and a half, and
another horse can do the same distance in two minutes, how
far would the ﬁrst horse be ahead if they ran a race of two
miles at their respective speeds?”

Jasper worried over this for some time, and then thought
of a way out.

“I regret to say,” he wrote, “that I cannot deal with this
problem, as my parents have always told me never to have
anything to do with horse-racing in any form.”

 

In Williman’ric. Connecticut. an ordinance decres +ha’r a horse
must carry a tail light when traveling after dark.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

Fighting Felines at Sea

By W. J. BANKS -
0

THE SHIP'S KITTEN JUST FITS IN THE
SAILOR'S HAT.

AVAL mascots represent a fair
cross-section of the world’s fauna,
ranging from» “Charlie,” a uniformed
chimpanzee who heaves on the hawser
with the best of them, to “Seaman Jake,”
a mouse whose chief claim to fame is his
ability to sip sweet tea while perched on
the rim of the mug. But the ship’s cat
has a unique place in the affection of
most sailors. For he is the recognized
luck charm, the special guardian of the
vessel’s food fortune.

That is one reason why everybody
aboard, including the “old man” himself,
will go to any length to see that the
ship’s cat stays aboard. “Whiskey,” mascot
of a destroyer which went through some
of the hottest ﬁghts of the Mediterranean
campaigns, once deserted to a sister ship
while the two destroyers were in port.
Months afterwards, the two ships met
at sea. “Return my cat at once,” was
the skipper’s abrupt signal. And “time
out” from the 'Battle of the Mediter-
ranean was called while a boat was low—
ered and Whiskey returned to his—beg
pardon, her—rightful domain. At last
reports Whiskey was nursing four alp-
propriately dusky kittens, having en-
joy-ed a spot of shore leave in an African
port, while the. ship was en route to far
eastern waters.

Cats, with traditional feline aplomb

The Talker
By MARION H. ADDINGTON

My dog can’t talk, but he can give
The very grinniest grin

When he stands waiting at the door
For me to let him in.

And if I whistle him to come
As I start down the walk,

His wagging tail tells me so much
He doesn’t need to talk.

Then, when I say, ”Come on, let's go!"
He gives a happy bark,

To say it’s great, the tWo of us
Are going for a lark.

So even if there is no speech,
That he can have for his,

He never seems to lack for ways
To show how glad he is!

August 1 91,5

and self-conﬁdence, are among the least
affected of all animals by the din and

,’

danger of gunﬁre. “Scouse, mascot of
the British cruiser Exeter, made his un-
rufﬂed rounds of the decks and battle
stations during the ﬁrst spectacular
naval engagement of the war, which led
to the scuttling of the battleship Graf
Spec. News photos showed Scouse to be
the ﬁrst ,crew member to descend the
gangplank when the badly damaged
Exeter returned to a British port.

a

  

“The cat came back” theme received
further conﬁrmation when a merchant-
man sank through enemy action in the
Gulf of St. Lawrence. Weeks after-
wards, when rescued seamen were re-
cuperating at a town hundreds of miles
away from the scene of the disaster, who
should turn up but “Torpedo,” the ship’s
cat! No one had heard of him since the
sinking, and how he made shore, and
then found this way back to his pals, is
still an unsolved mystery.

Sentries of the Wild

UARD duty seems to be an instinct

ever present in the realm of wild-

life. At every bir-d and animal rendez-

vous can be fOund sentries ever on the
alert for danger.

Animals who depend upon speed for
their existence against enemies have
good hearing, a keen sense of smell, and
excellent eyesight. A mountain sheep
sentry can spot danger at a distance of
ﬁve miles.

The beaver sentry’s well-known warn-
ing signal, the slapping of his ﬂat tail
on the water, can be heard for quite a
distance.

When a ﬂock of crows meet in a woods,

it is a very noisy session indeed, but thl
sharp-eyed sentry’s clear cry at the sight
of danger can be heard above all the
rest.

Never do you see a whole ﬂock of
sheep lie down at the same time. When-
ever the ﬂock beds down, a few will
always remain standing to act as sentries.
When these get tired and lie down, others
will immediately arise to replace them.

Very rare is the incident of a bird or
animal sentry “sleeping on the job,” but
if one should happen to do so, dire
punishment is meted out to him by the
others of his kind.

—George S. Loolcabaugh

149

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ l . .
.(zllﬂlauaelll 4.0-," ‘.. 7
-’1_:",.‘.:‘:'_.‘ . ', u” 1

Birds of Our States

THIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted ofﬁcial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation
of the governor, or by long established precedent. The
remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds. Re-
gardless of their oﬂicial status, however, each bird is
more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you some
clues about himself. Without looking at the answer,
see if you can identify him. Then study the informa-
tion so you’ll be able to know any of the state birds
wherever you see them. It will be lots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: Not only am I a very beautiful bird, with
my rich coloration, dark brown gorget, long nodding
crest, and alert carriage, but I am also extremely useful
to farmers and gardeners. Before being classed as
“game birds,” we were almost as much at home in
gardens among rose bushes and other ﬂowers, as in
the stubble ﬁeld. Occasionally we would “borrow”
nests from the barnyard hens. If not, I would help my
pretty mate build a nest upon the ground near a house.
. . . Who am I?

Second Clue: After being hunted so much, we began
to fear those who had once been our friend-s, and went
deeper into the wildlands to raise our three broods of
from ten to eighteen in each, annually. All of us are
great eaters and our food consists chieﬂy of weed seeds
and insects which are harmful to agriculture. Our
babies are dainty, ﬂuffy little fellows, and are able to
care for themselves soon after hatching. In times of
danger they are taught to ﬂatten out on the ground and
are not easily seen, since they are so near the color of
the soil. . . . Who am 1?

Third Clue: At night, after the babies grow up, we
roost in trees, often several families meeting in a
favorite tree. We enjoy each other’s company and are
very sociable. Our enemies include snakes, Wildcats,
foxes, coyotes and hawks, as well as men with guns.
. .. . Who am I?

Fourth Clue: In the early seventies, it was not un-
common for Several thousand of my relatives to gather
near water holes and, when ﬂushed, bands by the
hundreds rising at the same time with a mighty whir of
wings, made a most impressive sight. . . . Who am 1?

Fifth Clue: Our rangeland is in the Paciﬁc coast
region from southwestern Oregon and Nevada through
California. By action of the 1931 Legislature, I was
chosen Ofﬁcial State Bird for California. . . . Who am I?

Answer: 'IIvno AHTIVA
. _ —Jewell Casey

July 1945

 

 

Photo by Russell S. Anderson

COMRADES IN ARMS

@

Playmate

By IDA M. FORREST

I saw a great, big hop toad
In our garden today,

He was catching hugs and worms
In his funny way.

His mouth opens very wide,
His eyes almost 1201) out,
He croaks a very sad song,
I don’t know what it’s about.

I like him very much. I hope
He makes his home with me,

For I haven’t any playmates,
And he’s good company.

137

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

,1
.3
‘:
(
Z}
’
.

    

\
a.
3:5
3::
s
:~ -

 
 

\ , " a x
: #34 " EJ . § . ”6' {1 g”:
g u )3 'h v\ ‘F. \\ ./ /' .
f ‘1 ;\ \Q'i’ ’-\‘ ”,9- V ”f . .\ Q? -\
g \5‘ f. 1' r} a ”\‘W'gairf’r . f?“ x y .' §
5 "' (A? ' .-_-‘--‘ ' .- 5/ $9M \\
_,‘ " ,. \hi "“5 \ f as”, 5T3 Kc; 53% -.‘ w,f7ﬂ':;z w‘, 3‘
V A I j g y 5-. . ‘ ‘3 9&1'7'" ‘ '1.~ [/1 uh? '56“; ) ﬂ ‘
‘ / n x“ ‘ it‘wjlﬁaf “1"" - S} .. 6*» ‘1 s”
l . , ﬂ 1-,? . H,“ 1.. ,’ / h$§§ M§ ,\ “Q

I

Birds of Our States

HIRTY-SIX of our states have adopted ofﬁcial state

birds, either by legislative action, by proclamation

of the governor, or by long established precedent. The

remaining twelve states have unofﬁcial state birds.

Regardless of their ofﬁcial status, however, each bird
is more interesting as a friend than a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you
some clues about himself. Without looking at the
answer, see if you can identify him. Then study the
information so you’ll be able to know any of the state
birds wherever you see them. It will be lots of fun.
Try'it.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: I reside only in the desert lands of south—
western United States. Here I remain throughout my
entire life. I am small, reddish brown, speckled with
darker brown and have a rather long tail. I have a
sweet voice and with head thrown back and tail droop—
ing, I completely put all I have into my music. .
Who am I?

Second Clue: My pretty little mate and I select a
building site in the spiniest of all cacti, the cholla.
Here we are assured of protection from our natural
enemies by the dagger-sharp stickers. Our nests are
made of grass, gourd-shaped, with entrance through a
tunnel at the side. . . . Who am I?

Third Clue: We build a number of nests and keep
them all in repair. When needed, new ﬁbers are added
and sometimes the entire nest is covered over. These
extra nests are called "‘cock nests” and when not being
used to cradle our four to seven eggs, or youngsters,
they are used as sleeping quarters and winter homes.
. . . Who am 1?

Fourth Clue: I assist in feeding our brood and our.

food consists almost entirely of injurious insects, with a
few weed seeds and fruits for variety. We are good
friends to the fruit growers and gardeners, since it is
surprising how many insects it takes to furnish sufﬁcient
food for our family.

Fifth Clue: We are the largest of our tribe, but have
similar habits to those of tour cousins “House” and
“Carolina.” By act of the Legislature in 1931, I was
chosen Ofﬁcial State Bird for the State of Arizona.
. . . Who am I?

Answer: 'NEIHAA SfLLDVO
—Jewell Casey

June 1945

ways...»
”in
*9 l
1
l
4
I .
. u

 

 

 

 

Illustration by Rosina J. Burnell

BEGGING FOR KINDNESS

@

Teen chy
By KATHERINE SIMONS

Mayrant is just a little hoy
Who started school last fall;

And there, one day, ahoue the play,
He heard a kitten call.

The children stopped and looked around
And—hungry, cold and lost——

Upon the ground, at last, they found
The kitty wet with frost.

Mayrant said: ”I will take it home
And make it warm and fat;

And it’s so small that I will call
It 'Teenchy-Weenchy Cat.’ ”

117

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DOG PROVIDES COMPANY

By ANGELO PATRI

F, in your household, you have a returned serviceman

who needs to rest, and cannot ﬁnd rest, try him with a

puppy. If he ever liked dogs, he will like that puppy,

and having him to pet, tend and train will give him
something he needs—an interest that does not demand too much
of his energy, yet offers him companionship, loyalty and love.

A dog that is loved and caredfor soon fills a niche in his own-
er’s life that is diﬂicult to describe, yet easy to feel. His devotion
is comforting, his snuggling presence warms the lonely heart, his
care becomes a pleasant duty that calls thought away from the past
to the present peaceful moment.

One of my neighbors is an elderly man who is alone in the
house all day. He keeps busy with the chores inside and out of the
house, but it was a lonely business until his daughter gave him a
puppy. He and the puppy are inseparable. Each day there is a

tale of some new trick, some new understanding shown by the dog
friend.

All people do not like dogs. That is not easy to understand,
but it must be accepted. Those who do, must protect their pets
and that means they must be on the watch against discriminatory
laws, against any show of ill—treatment of any animal, and support
cordially and generously the associations organized for the protec-
tion of animals. These organizations are necessary to the health
and welfare of the community. The animals are an important part
of our lives. They have a great hold on our affection, they per—

form useful tasks, they are family members and must have their
place made secure.

If your soldier left a dog at home, care for him as the apple of

his eye. If he always wanted one and never got one, why not give
him one when he gets home?

——-C0urtes_y of Boston Herald

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

SmallCitizens of the Forest

jured fellow creature; the chari—

table red bird who took it upon
himself to feed a full—grown brother who
had a deformed beak; the eagle who
loyally followed her mate which had been
taken captive—these and many other
acts may be observed ﬁrst hand by the
nature lover.

Jealousy, loyalty, devotion, fear, and
charity make up the characteristics of
animals, birds, insects and reptiles just
as in human beings.

For ﬁve years it has been my happy
privilege to “spy” on a pair of mourn—
ing doves as they courted, built their
nests and raised their families in a tree
in my yard. I do not know whether they
are the same doves each year, but I do
know they arrive on the same day of
the month; build their nest on the same
limb and depart the same day each fall.

One day while driving along a country
road, a male mockingbird, evidently so
engrossed in whatever birds think about,
ﬂew headlong against my windshield
with such force that it fell to the ground.
By the time I could park and walk back
to the scene of the accident, two other
helpers had arrived—two ladies. One
was a ﬁeld lark and the other a mocking-
bird, and, while they seemed greatly
concerned and were uttering low cries
of distress, they were not “helplessly
wringing their hands and standing idle,”

BIRDS rendering ﬁrst aid to an in—

but were dragging the injured bird out,

of the road! Upon examination, I found
the mocker was only stunned and within
a short time he regained consciousness,
gave himself two or three shakes and
ﬂew to_a nearby tree where his two

friends were anxiously waiting.

Upon one occasion, I saw a redbird
feeding another full-grown redbird. As
this was such an unusual procedure, I
continued watching, edging nearer until
I discovered WHY the act of charity.
The bird being fed had a deformed beak

and was incapable of picking up food.

I don’t know how long this strange
friendship existed, as it was only a few
days later when the cardinals left my
vicinity for the season.

One spring a splendid specimen of
bald-headed eagle was caught in a trap
which had been set for wolves. Upon
nearing the trap, the captive’s mate ﬂew
uncomfortably near the trapper’s face,
screaming threats of deﬁance. Planning

to send the eagle to a nearby zoo, he was"

placed in a cage overnight. Next morn—
ing, with all trace of haughtiness re-
placed wit-h subdued sadness, the loyal
matte was perched atop the cage. So
touched by the pathetic picture was the
trapper that he opened the cage and
permitted the captive to soar away with
his mate. )

Another case where love won out was
when the mot-her deer followed to where
one of her two fawns had been taken,
jumped the high fence, let the baby
nurse, then leaped out and lost herself
in the woods. Next morning she appeared
again and went through the same pro-
cedure and continued to do so, until out
of pity for the mother who deﬁed civili-
zation in an attempt to care for her baby,
the captured fawn was given its freedom
and permitted to bound joyfully away
with its mother.

——Jewell Casey

@

 

WILLIAM S. HART

Shelter As Memorial

VERYONE has heard of William S.

Hart. Everyone remembers him as
being one of the pioneers of motion pic—
tures. But few people know William S.
Hart, the man. He stands now revealed
as a gentleman of ﬁne sentiment.

A life member of our Society, Mr.
Hart recently donated a sum of money
toT the Connecticut Humane Society for
the purpose of maintaining a suitable
memorial to his beloved sister. This
memorial has taken the form of an ani-
mal shelter, operated by the Society in
Westport, Conn., “Bill’s” ﬁrst home.

Known for his love of animal life, this
memorial is indeed a ﬁtting tribute to
his sister and gives a genuine insight
into the character of a man who will
forever remain in the heart of America.

Cat Likes to Swim . . . . Seeing Is Believing

 
 
 
  
   
 

M arch 191,5

gives you a close-up of his unusual cat.
A+ the right he's done 1+ again as he walks ashore. We are indebted to KODAKERY,
newspaper of the Eastman Kodak CompanyI tor this story and pictures of Spike.

diving in like a true Weismuller.

and just as regularly, he dives gracefully into the water and swims ashore.

Here is a real exception to most preconceived ideas that cats hate water. "Spike." pet of Richard Schimpt, Rochester, N. Y..
on his first boat ride. decided he didn't like it. so he dived in and struck out tor land. Now Spike gets a ride regularly,

At the lett, Richard

These pictures prove it.

In the next picture. Spike is saying' "One, two. three." and in the next one he's

 

51

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H u M A N E E r ,,

Practical Projects For Teachers and Parents

 

CATI N

by Dorothea Clark

 

Enide to Teachers and Parents

Introductory

Self-control is an essential factor in
character development. It manifests it-
self in the actions of the child in his ﬁrst
acquaintance with the dogs and cats that
he meets. He learns never to handle a
strange animal until the animal has had
a chance to get acquainted with him. In
his meeting with worms, crickets, and
other forms of life, he does not yield to
an impulse to step ovnjthem, [but is more
interested in watching-them-to see what
they are doing. As he grows older, he

controls his desire for hunting, trapping
or collecting.

In developing any feeling of emotion,
the interest stimulated should be followed
by an opportunity to do something to
strengthen the desired fee-ling.

In planning an educational page for
teachers and parents, it has seemed wise

things to do which do not involve too
much labor or time, and which are within
the ability of the children.

The suggestive outline will cover three
age levels: Kindergarten and grades 1-11;
grades III-IV; grade-s V—VI. The organi—
zation of the outline will cover the fol-
lowing points:

to consider the types of help for which I Basic ideas

they have felt the greatest need. The II Subject matter
ﬁrst request of many teachers has been for 111 Suggested activities
speciﬁc information made easily acces- IV Desirable learnings
sible. The second request is for speciﬁc V Reference materials

‘ Voices of the Harvest

ALL is the time of harVest in the
rhythmic change ‘of the seasons.
Then it is, that all nature seems toteem
with increased activity as though to
make the most of the shortening warm
days and the lessening intensity of the
sun’s rays. True, many of the voices
heard now have been heard throughout
the summer, but, at this season, we hear
them in their great hallelujah chorus as
they approach the end of their singing.
These insect choristers have been sing-
ing only since becoming adults. When
young, they may be seen, but not heard.
Only as they become mature and acquire
wings, do they have the ability to produce
sound. Just why they make these noises
is still an unanswered question. It was
once believed that the sound was the
mating call of the male. Later investiga-
tions seem to indicate that the sounds of
some are more numerous when there are
other males around. Of course, the
females never sing for they have no
sound apparatus. As a little child once
remarked, “The father cricket sings and
the mother cricket lays eggs.”

Here we have a way of distinguishing
the two sexes. The female of the familiar
black cricket has a long, needle-like pro-
jection called an ovipositor by means of
which it can deposit its eggs below the
surface of the soil. The broad, sword-
like ovipositor of the katydid and other
long-horned grasshoppers is used to de-
posit eggs in vegetation. The short-
horned grasshoppers, the true locusts, have
four plate-like projections with which
eggs are laid in soil or in fence posts.

Copyright 1945 by American Humane Education Society

174

Many adult insects produce sound, but
not all of them have specialized parts
with which the sound is produced. The
buzz of the bee and the drone of the ﬂy
are made by the vibrations of the wings
as they ﬂy. These sounds vary and are
considered by Some to (be expressive of
different feelings on the part of the bee
or the ﬂy. These differences are no doubt
due to the variations in the vibrations of
the wings. They might be called an
incidental sound, just as the sound of
your automobile engine is merely that
made by the moving parts of the motor.
With other insects, there are specialized
parts for producing sound. Some of the
most familiar insect instrumentalists are
the cricket, grasshopper, katydid and
cicada. The familiar chirp of the cricket
is made by the rubbing of .a ﬁle on the
under side of one Wing across a hardened
surface on the upper side of the other.
This has the effect that would :be secured
by rubbing the teeth of a comb over a
piece of rough sandpaper. The wings are
thrown into vibrations that may attain a
speed of ﬁve thousand times a second.
The katydid has a similar device. The
grasshopper, with his rasping, scraping
sound, uses a different method. His
scraper is carried on his hind legs in the
form of teeth or spines. These he scrapes
against a thickened vein of .the wing
which extends along the side of his body.

The cicada is perhaps the most ac-
complished musician of all, if judged on
the basis of his highly developed instru-
ment and not on the basis of the sound
produced. The adult male vibrates mem-
branes stretched over a pair of sound

chambers, located at the base of the
abdomen, to produce 'a very loud, shrill
drumming sound which many people con-
sider disagreeable and nerve-racking.
Cicadas are, therefore, different singers
from other insects in that they are the
only ones having parts whose sole pur-
pose is for producing music.

Many people have heard the nightly
dispute of “Katy-did, Katy didn’t.” As
the nightsbecome cooler, the argument
becomes less heated and’shorter. Here
we have an illustration of the manner in
which the insect chorus is affected by
temperature and light conditions. During
the day, a rather feeble chirp of a cricket
or the scrape of a grasshopper may be
heard. But it is not until the evening
hours of a warm summer night that the
full chorus is heard. Then a ﬁeld full
of these insects produces sound that, at
times, is truly deafening. One can notice
the effect of cooler weather on the cheer-
ful chirp of the chicket. The tempo
becomes much slower :as the cooler
weather approaches. In fact, there is a
tree cricket that is called the temperature
cricket because it is said the temperature
can be computed on the basis of the num-
ber of chirps he makes a minute. Here
is the formula: Divide the number of
chirps a minute by four. Add forty. The
result will be approximately the Fahren-
heit temperature. Try it with your
children.

As the fall days =become frosty, the
chorus gradually dies down until one
hears only an occasional sound. After
the ﬁnal killing frost, the earth becomes
silent.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 




OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1945

Chairman of the Board
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

President

ERIC H. HANSEN

Vice-President
CHARLES G. BANCROFT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

Honorable Leverett Saltonstall, U. S. Sen—
ator

His Excellency Maurice J. Tobin, Governor
of Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke, Mass.

Baldwin, Mrs M. W., Sioux City, Iowa

Barton, Mrs. Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, New York, N. Y.

Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.

Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Dethloﬂ’, Walter J., Albany, N. Y.

Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.

Downey, Walter F., Boston, Mass.

Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., Santa Monica, Cal.

Friedrichs, Charles W., San Francisco, Cal.

French, Marie, St. Joseph, Mo.

Johns, Charles R., London, Eng.

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.

@

Rejected for Service

HE sad fate of “Blackie,” cocker

spaniel puppy, in being rejected for
overseas service led to his becoming a
patient at the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital.

Blackie was the mascot and ﬂying
companion of Lt. Hugh Woods, of Texas.
When his master was ordered overseas,
they planned on shipping out together.
But just when everything seemed to be
working ﬁne the ship’s security ofﬁcer
discovered the plot.

Rules being rules, Blackie was evicted.
To solve the problem, the Red Cross was
called in and it was decided to enter him
in the Hospital for treatment of a minor
ailment and then send him to his master’s
parents in Texas. '

So Blackie was eventually shipped to
the Lone Star State in his own private
crate, complete with watering tray and
ample fodder——there to await his mas-
ter’s return.

In the' illustration, Mrs. Richard C.
Floyd, of,,,;the Red Cross Motor Corps,
bids goodbye to Blackie as Dr. Rudolph
H. Schneider, Hospital Veterinarian,
carefully places the puppy in his travel-
ing “home.”

M arch 194.5

Landes, Bernard S., Colorado Springs,
Colo.

Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey

Orcutt, William Dana, Boston

Packard, Bertram E., Augusta, Maine

Peck, William R., Holyoke, Mass.

Phillips, William T., Philadelphia, Pa.

Rathom, Mrs. John R., Providence, R. I.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. M. D., Santa Barbara,
Cal.

Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario

Schleck, Leo P., Madison, Wis.

Schraﬁ't, W. E., Winchester, Mass.

Smith, Efﬁe E., San Francisco, Cal.

Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, East Haverhill, Mass.

Wentzel, Dr. Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: WILLIAM A. SWALLOW

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President and
Chairman, Finance Com., United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

Charles E. Spencer, Jr., Pres., First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, Chairman of the Board
Eric H. Hansen, President

Miss Sarah J. Eddy John R. Macomber
William Dana Orcutt John R. Forgie

William E. Putnam Hon. Percival P. Baxter
Charles G. Bancroft Edward G. Fischer
Walter M. Kendall Charles E. Spencer, Jr.
Stanwood K. Bolton Victor A. Friend

 

Honorary Members

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill

Miss Louise de St. Hubert G,uyol New
Orleans, La.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Louis Paareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

a

American Fondouk, Fez
Annual Report for 1944

Daily average of large animals hospitalized 19.1
Daily average of dogs in the Pound fed by
Fondouk ................................. 10.8
Animals put to sleep—certiﬁed by Veterinary
Surgeon as incurable . . . . . . 844
Animals hospitalized during che. year (235
sent by Police Dept.) 703
Number of visits of inspections to the native
Fondouks . ... .. . . ... 5,379
Animals inspected during these visits . . . . .. . 77,534
Animals treated on the spot . . . . . . . .. .. . . . 5,988
Animals sent to Hospital .................. 1,299
Number of infected pack- saddles destroyed .. 75
Number of Arab— bits destroyed 48

Number of animals brought to the Fondouk by
their owners for treatment (Out- patients) 8,414
Animals transported to Hospital . . . . . .. . . . . . 109

GUY DELON,
Superintendent

:13

Because of present uncertainty of mail
deliveries and the danger of loss in transit,
we would suggest that our readers remit
by check or postal money order when
renewing their subscriptions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THERE are two ways in which we can view the
Giraffe. We see him at the Zoo as a freak of
nature ; ‘on the other hand, if we regard him as a lovely,
delicate creature of the wilds, we ﬁnd him in his natural
haunts under sunny African skies. There he roams in
graceful freedom among the colorful mimosa trees and
over sandy plains in complete harmony with his sur-
roundings. The giraffe is usually to be found in groups,
feeding contentedly in the company of the striped
Zebras.

Known once by the ancients as the Camelopard'be-
cause of his beautiful leopard-like coat and his camel-
like gait and habits, this name of the common species
is still preserved in scientiﬁc archives as Giraffa camelo-
pardalis.

The most striking characteristic of the giraffe, of
course, is his great size. Being the tallest animal in the
World, he attains a height sometimes of eighteen or
nineteen feet, the female a foot or two less. Long legs
and neck account for his extra inches. He has a short,
broad body wit-h prominent shoulder-blades and the
forelegs are longer than the hind legs which slope
gradually to the tail. The neck carries a short, upstand-
ing mane and the head is delicate and ﬁne, with dark
eyes fringed with long lashes. Short thick horns spring
from the high forehead over the eyes, peculiar in that
they are covered with skin, tufted at the tips with dark
hair. These are really not horns at all, but bony
prominences which later become part of the skull.

His wide nostrils are of distinct use to an animal
living among the blinding .sand‘storms of the desert for
they can be closed at will. His ears are large and
pointed.

Fitted for his trek through the desert are the broad
cloven hoofs and Nature has also endowed him with a
tough hide with which to force a passage through the
well-named “wait-a-bit” thorn which grows profusely
throughout his native land. By means of his long
sensitive tongue and upper lip, he reaches to the tree-
Eops and gathers in the acacia leaves of which he is so

ond.

The giraffe, like the camel, is capable of traveling
long distances without water for months at a time.
Some naturalists claim that he ﬁnds moisture in the
succulent watermelons which grow at certain seasons
in the desert. However, the fact remains that the
giraffe can go waterless for weeks at a time. When
drinking or grazing they spread their forelegs widely
apart, in order to reach the ground.

Being of mild and pleasant temper, the giraffe is
the most harmless of creatures but he is by no means
defenseless. Exceptionally wary, keen of eye and ear,
he is ever onthe alert at the merest hint of danger, and
if in need of a weapon, he will lash out with his power-
ful hoofs as a horse does. He is also capable of deliver-
ing a smashing blow with his head which he uses like a
croquet mallet, by a swing of his powerful neck.

The giraffe is one of the ﬁnest examples of camou-
ﬂage in the world. His dappled coat blends perfectly
with the lights and shades of the mimosa trees and,
tall as he is, he is almost invisible.

November 191,5

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  

 

Symphony
in '

‘ Patches
$4; 4.}. Wen/mall

....... . ..... The sliding-board ot the
‘ animal kingdom. the
giratte's body is one
continuous slope from
shoulder to tail. Its
beautiful. light-brown.
dappled coat blends so
wonderfully with the
variations of light and
shadow on the trees
that it is almost invisi-
ble. The giratte is the
tallest animal in the
world and might well
pass as a survivor of
the prehistoric age —

207

 

. 4 ~ez

 

 

 




 

Thereby
Hangs a
Tail

41; /1//. all.
Meagan

Tails are both useful
and ornamental. Imagine the
squirrel without its

eloquent brush; a dog

without its wig-wag.

OW bare and almost indecent an

animal or bird would look without
a tail. There are a few of these, how-
ever, such as there are being largely
found in Australia, that land of primi-
tives and strange animals.

The tail, however, is more than a mere
ornamental appendage, and its shape is
inﬂuenced by its uses. Among birds, a
short, stubby tail, accompanied by stubby
wings, is an adjunct of water or ground
birds that nest on or close to the ground.
It functions primarily as a rudder. In
the case of high-ﬂight birds, where the

May 191,5

The flag-wavingl fluffy olive branch of the squirrel

tail is stubby, the wings are long and
pointed, and the tail functions, in this
case, also as a rudder. When the bird
wishes to descend and lowers its landing
gear (its feet) the tail comes down, too,
acting as a brake.

Among the warblers, whose nests are
principally in the higher branches of
trees, the tail is longer, and the wings
are long and pointed. Birds that turn
in swift ﬂight have forked tails.

In animal land, the tail 'has many uses.
Denied vocal speech, the tail becomes an
accurate measure of temperament—the
scolding squirrel switches its plumed
brush with every syllable; the lion lashes
its tail in which there is said to be a
small spiky protuberance that incites
to greater anger; the husks on the tail
of the rattler express tremulous and
dangerous emotion; the friendly wig-wag
of a dog conveys its message of comrade-
ship.

The muscular, almost hairless tail, tas-
seled at the end, of the buffalo, lion, etc.,
is a club with which it lashes itself into
a fury, while the strong, thorny tail of
the alligator is a real club whose dis-
abling qualities are directed at the vic-
tim. The ﬂag-waving, ﬂuffy olive branch
of the squirrel, fox and others is not only
a speech complement, a balance in ﬂight,

 

Photo by Jack Dolph

but on chilly nights, forms a wrap—around
for tender noses and paws.

The tubular, practically hairless tail
of prehensile creatures, such as the
American monkey, opossum and other
strap-hangers, is extremely muscular
and ﬂexible; while the meager ﬂap doing
duty as a tail for deer, rabbits, etc., is
mainly a signal or follow-me-lads to de-
pendent relatives or friends. And each of
its special wig—wags has its own signif-
icance. The beaver’s thick, ﬂat trailer
is not only a valuable tool, an S. O. S. in
times of danger, but is also a soft, thick
cushion upon which he sits while whit-
tling down his dinner to beaver size.

Its strong tail is the third point in a
triad to the kangaroo, when resting or
spying out the country; while the long
hairs of a horse’s tail make it a switch
of parts. The tail is a rudder with swim-
ming creatures, is a rigid arrow with a
pointer when nosing out a covey. The
tails of many lizards are detachable, and
new ones are grown, placing them in the
list of re-tailers. The elephant’s ap-
pendage at either end is a liberal rendi-
tion of “Twice Told Tales.”

Every animal is very proud of its tail,
and ashamed when, as with the horse and
dog, it is docked for foolish human
reasons.

85

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7‘ 9
GNCIRcbee HE (_-.,\_06

Editor -— WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

59.7

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free +0 any part
of the world. In clubs of five or more subscrip-
tions. Sixty cents each. within the United States.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

sir

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of from 300-400 words are solicited.
Articles of more than 600 words cannot be ac-
cepted. Such articles may include any subiect.
excep+ cruel sports or cap+ivi+y. dealing with ani-
mals. especially those with humane import. Human
interest and current event items are particularly
needed. Also acceptable are manuscripts dealing
with oddities of animal life and natural history.
All items should be accompanied by good illustra-
tions whenever possible. Fiction is seldom used.

PHOTOGRAPHS should be sharp. depicting
either domestic or wild animals in +heir natural
surroundings. Pictures that tell a s+ory are most
desirable.

VERSE abou+ animals should be short. We sug-
gest from four to Sixteen lines.

IM PO-RTANT

All manuscripts should be neatly typewritten.
double spaced and each article on a separate
sheet.

No manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by a self-addressed. Stamped envelope.

Payment on acceptance at the rate of one-half
cent a word for articles: one dollar and up for
photographs and drawings; one dollar and up for
acceptable verse.

ﬁr

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts: editorial office. I80 Longwood Avenue, Boston
l5. Massachusetts. Address all communications to
Boston office. Entered as Second-class matter.
June 29. I9I7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood.
Mass. under the Act of March 3. I879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage pro-
vided for in section IIO3. Act of October 3. l9l7.
au+h0rized. July l3. l9l9.

Copyright 1945, American Humane Education Society

OUR DUMB .

         

VOLUME 78—No. ll NOVEMBER. I945

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. |868
PUBLISHED BY '

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
. AND .
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

7%
Officers

ERIC H. HANSEN. President DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Chairman of the Board
' ALBERT A. POLLARD Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel
if:
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES C. BANCROET. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston
‘19!

Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY. Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne. Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwe-II, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts

HOWARD WILLAND Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
. J. ROBERT SMITH

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN

HARVEY R' FULLER Field Representative

County Prosecuting Officers Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk Foreign Corresponding Representatives

FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia
WILLIAM w. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex tu's P3185019? -------------------- Eula“?
eona . e ................... a.
JOSEPH 5‘ HAW/ELL, Methue” Wemm Essex 5. c. rBatra..a.vI.s..i.l ................... India
JOHN T- BROWN. Springfield . _ Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Hampden, Ha-mpshIre and FrankIIn Dr A T Ishkanian Mexico
HARRY C- SMITH» WOVCQSler Worcester Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS. Hyannis 'i‘r
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, and Dispensary for Animals
Methuen ISO Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff

G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

R. H. SCHNEIDER. V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

:M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53—57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro. 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch Of Mas S. C. A. —M|SS
ISABEL B. CRESSLER, Pres; MRS-Ci sARTHUR S. WARNER, -
Treas Springfield Branch

Holyoke Branch of Ma ass S. P. C. A.——JAMES Telephone 4-7355
BOWER, Jr. Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas. 53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary— MRS. M. F. PETER-
SON, Pres.; MRS. FRED B. KORBEL, Treas. Veterinarians

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS LEONTINE T. A R. EVANS, V...,MD Veterinarian in Charge
POTE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM N. BEGGS, Treas. *R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
R. M. BARLOW, V..MD
Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—

MRS. GEORGED D. COLPAS, Chairman. *On leave of absence—military service

 




 

 

 

 

 

0131):: {Earth at ﬂicrrp or

Sluniur 3911mm league

ERIC H. HANSEN, President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NIEW BANDS OF MERCY

Three hundred and forty—nine Bands
of Mercy were organized during April.
These were distributed as follows:

Massachusetts ............. 140
Georgia ................... 60
Florida .................... 48
Virginia ................... 44
Texas ...................... 29
Pennsylvania .............. 26
So. Carolina ................ 1
New York .................. 1

Total number of Bands. of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 270,240.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made,
Number of persons in audiences,

:6

APRIL REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

220
34,368

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 13,555
Cases investigated ............ 177
Animals examined ............ 2,306
Animals placed in homes ....... 255
Lost animals restored to owners . 64
Horses taken from work ........ 8
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . , 27
Small animals humanely put to i
sleep ..................... 2,384
Horse auctions attended ........ 19
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 57,557
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 48

11+

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 818
Cases entered in Dispensary 1,487
Operations .................. 313

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 235
Cases entered in Dispensary 648
Operations .................. 145
Totals

Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 . ............. 245,837
Dispensary cases ............ 611,019
Total .......... 856,856

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday afternoon
at 2:30 over Springfield radio station WSPR
—l270 on your radio dial. This program
is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe and
Sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
5—"Animals in the News."

June l2—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

June

June l9—"True Dog Stories."

June 26—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂ

Distinguished Visitor Welcomed

President of American Veterinary Medical Association Visits Hospital

WE recently had the pleasure of a

visit to our Angell Memorial Ani-
mal Hospital from Dr. James Farquhar-
son, President of the American Veter—
inary Medical Association, and Professor
of Surgery and Clinics at Colorado State
College, Veterinary Department, Fort
Collins, Colorado.

In connection with his trip to Boston
Where he addressed a meeting of the
Massachusetts State Veterinary Medi-
cal Association, at which he discussed
surgery and showed colored motion pic-
tures depicting operations performed on
various domestic animals, Dr. Farquhar-
son made it a point to tour our institu-

 

\v
' 'A‘xx\.‘\\_\\

Chatting with Dr.

tion and study the techniques employed
by the veterinary staff at the Hospital.

In concluding his call, he commented as
follows:

“This is my ﬁrst visit to your Hospital,
but from what I have seen of it, I am
very favorably impressed. I wish that
all the veterinarians engaged in this type
of work had the privilege and opportunity
of visiting this institution. From what
I have heard about the Hospital, and
from what I have seen today, and from
the splendid work your veterinarians
have been and are doing, I think they
are setting the standard which we can
all look up to and try to follow. I wish

we had many more such institutions.”

 

James Farquharson are. Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle. Assistant Chief of

Staff (left). and Dr. Erwin F. Schroeder. Chief of Staff (right).
OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This Iguana Migh’r Easily Be Mistaken for a Prehistoric Monster.

M

rehistoric Survivors

By F. J. WRRALL

exist outside fairy-tales. Yet in an

island of the East Indies the Komodo
Dragon, nine feet or more in length,
lives to prove that it is true. It was
discovered in 1912. Though docile in
the society of man, he is fond of ﬂesh
and preys on such mammals as deer.

Another creature which has survived
almost unchanged from long ago is the
King Crab. In spite of his name, he is
really not a crab at all but a sea-cousin
of the spider and scorpion. About
eighteen inches long, he lies all day hid-
den in the sand, with only his eyes ex—
posed. At night he hunts for food along
the sea bottom. He lives in the seas of
North America.

The Tuatera, the New Zealand Lizard,
was an inhabitant of the Earth when
ﬁrst the monstrous Dinosaurs appeared
and while the face of Nature has changed
completely, the Tuatera has lived prac—
tically unchanged through millions of
years. Today they are carefully pre-
served on certain small islands off the
coast of New Zealand. They live a slug-
gish life in holes which they share with
sea-birds, biting and clawing only if
disturbed in any way. .

The Giant Iguana of the Galapagos
Islands, off the coast of Ecuador, is also

50

IT IS difficult to imagine that Dragons

 

believed to be a primitive survival. Black,
ungainly creatures, about four feet in
length, they bask in herds on the lava
rocks. On the land they are sluggish
and stupid for they have no enemies
there to sharpen their movements. In
the water they are fast swimmers and
feed mostly on seaweed, fungi, and other
vegetation.

Giant tortoises, which are not unlike
the monsters of prehistoric times, have
survived on islands where they can live
undisturbed.

Crocodiles, too, must be included as
survivors of the prehistoric earth. The
earliest crocodiles were hard to distin-
guish from Dinosaurs, for their front
limbs were shorter and weaker than
their hind—limbs. Later they developed
along two parallel lines like the crocodiles
and alligators of today.

Apparently some of these reptiles sur-
vived by decreasing their size in suc-
ceeding generations to ﬁt themselves to
the changing conditions of Nature. The
enormous herbivorous creatures must
have consumed such vast quantities of
food that they could only live where
great swamps provided ample vegetation.
When the swamps dried up, the race was
to the swift, not to the huge.

Swimming Voltage
By L. E. EUBANKS

OW that there are electric razors,
wafﬂe irons, clocks, and what not,
it will hardly seem startling that there
should be electric ﬁsh swimming about
in the seas. And these creatures are far
more interesting than electric irons.
With all our electric devices it is a prime
necessity that, if they are to operate,
they must be connected to some circuit
from which they receive the electric
current that makes them run. But not
so the ﬁsh; in some mysterious way he
is his own power plant. In electric
glands within his body he stores up a
charge and becomes a swimming storage
battery.

On the Paciﬁc Coast, from Vancouver
Island and south past California, is
found one species of this strange ﬁsh. A
member of the torpedo ﬁsh family, it is
sometimes called by that name, but it is
also known as the electric ray or cramp—
ﬁsh. A very similar ﬁsh is found along
the Atlantic Coast. Usually about a foot
long, it may attain a length of three feet,
and weigh seventy—ﬁve pounds.

The electric rays may be easily recog—
nized from their broad, circular bodies
and long tails. Possessing no spines and
only small ﬁns, the smooth skin is in a
contrasting color scheme, black above
and white below. They love the sea bot-
tom and may occasionally be found partly
buried in the sand of ocean beaches.

The glands that make this ﬁsh a living
storage battery are located at the sides
of the head, each gland consisting of
several hundred large cells resembling a
honeycomb, and ﬁlled with a clear, jelly—
like substance. Each organ is hid-den
away below the skin and cannot readily
be noticed when looking at the ﬁsh. Any-
one touching a torpedo ﬁsh with the bare
hand or foot is easily aware of the shock,
however. When angry or afraid, it has
the ability to “step up” production.

An even stronger swimming power
plant is the electric eel of South Ameri-
can waters. This eel, not even a distant
relative of the ray or torpedo ﬁsh, is
only a few inches in diameter and about
three or four feet long. Yet it is able to
deliver a shock that can stun other ﬁsh
at a distance of several feet.

Neither of the electric ﬁsh under dis-
cussion, by whatever means its power is
developed, can be considered an impostor,
possessing some kind of freak electricity.
For the electrical discharges of both have
been measured and will register current
and voltage on electrical instruments. An
eel tested at the New York Aquarium re-
vealed a potential of well over 200 volts.
Of the two, the eel possesses the strong-er
battery, being able to deliver a series of
shocks over a period lasting several
hours. The ray or torpedo ﬁsh, however,
quickly runs out of shocking power.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS




 

 

 

/

These three chums. eating from +he same dish. illustrate an outstanding example of unusual friendship.

Utterly alien creatures sometimes form—

able than others, yet nearly all of

them yearn for companionship.
When for some reason or another they
cannot associate with their own kind,
they sometimes form lasting and ﬁercely
devoted attachment-s to creatures utterly
alien.

Some animal relationships are of a
mutual assistance agreement. Perhaps
the most noted of these “I’ll-help-you—
you-help—me” pacts is that of the ﬁerce
crocodile and the small plove'r. The little
bird is permitted to pick morsels of food
from the razor-sharp teeth of the mighty
reptile without fear of being swallowed.
And to pay for the plentiful meal, the
bird twitters a warning alarm if danger
approaches.

Another “lend-lease” agreement is be-
tween the rhinoceros and the African tick
bird. This obliging bird rids the rhinoc-
eros of ticks and other annoying in-
sects, and in return the huge beast
tolerates the bird for the favor rendered.
The birds, in return for their work, have
a constant source of food.

In India there is a certain specie of
crab which carries a couple of stinging
sea-anemones around in its claws as a
protective measure. The anemone looks

August 1945

SOME animals are notably more soci-

Unusual Friendships

like a'beautiful ﬂower, but is really a
poisonous animal. The advantage in this
case seems to be one-sided—nothing is
gained by the anemone in this strange
relationship.

The three-toed sloth, who spends most
of its lazy life hanging from the branches
of trees would be an easy ‘prey for many
animals were it not for the odd friend-
ship between it and great colonies of
gray-green algae. These algae are almost
the exact shade of certain plants upon
which the sloth lives, therefore, they
make a perfect camouﬂage for the sloth,
and it in return furnishes them a good
home.

The giant clams off the Australian coast
would not be nearly so large were it not
for the assistance given them from little
algae which grow inside the shells of the
clams. The ocean algae supply oxygen
to the huge “bivalves.

No one has been able to ﬁgure out
what advantage either the rattlesnake
or armadillo gain by associating together,
yet they are frequently found occupying

the same underground home.

Like many human friendships, some
animal friendships are not to be ac-
counted for either by the theory of pro—
tection, mutual aid, or loneliness. For

By J'EWELL CASEY

example not many years ago a Spitz dog
in Atlanta, Georgia, adopted a cat and
soon afterward took upon herself the
care of two young mice. She seemed to
know instinctively that cats and mice
were not usually good friends, yet she
managed to teach her foster children to
respect one another and live harmoni-
ously together.

There are authentic records where
milch cows have adopted orphaned calves,
fawns and moose calves. Dog mothers
have adopted baby coyotes and cat
mothers have adopted baby skunks.

One outstanding example of unnatural
friendship was in Southwest Texas,
where a Brahma cow adopted a mule
colt. The colt’s mother died, and no one
could say just how the adoption came
about, but the cow raised the colt and
was ﬁercely devoted to it.

A rancher in Texas raised a litter of
dogs and hogs together. The pups and
pigs played together as one big happy
family. When in trouble if a pup called
for help, the pigs would invariably rush
to the rescue.

Given the opportunity, almost any com-
bination may develop between one kind
of creature and another, just as between
people and any kind of animal.

145

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Humane Literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S, P, C, A,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1944 bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 'x 28 inches, attrac-

t1ve pictures and verses, six in set 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches .. .5 cts. each

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ..................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 " “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 ” “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100

Care of the Dog ....................... .75 "‘ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs ........... 1.50 “ ”
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “.
“Don" and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ "
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................... 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. . . . .. .. . cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat.” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp... ..
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ................................

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our

Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education

Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... g ............... Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free

Lessmis in Kindness ....... each, 5 cts. ; $3.50 per 100

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1. 20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each, ten for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them, "
play ...................... 3 cts. each, ten for 25c.

I’ 11 Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls .......... 2 cts. each, six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1. 50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need,
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each. $0. 50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

 

 

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .s1.oo per 100 HOW to TefaCh it {”‘1 """" h t radio '50 A
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “ How to Organize a Society for the Pro-
Humane’ Education Leaﬂet. No. 7. Farm tection of Animals .................... .50 " “
Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .............. - ........ .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “ Band Of Mercy
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ......... .75 “ “ Badges. gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts
Why the Toad is so Useful .............. .30 “ “ "B d f M ,, n t 25 cts
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “ an 0 ercy pe nan """"""""""
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 " .. Band Of Mercy Membersmp card 50 per 1'00
g u u
The Jack London Club How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 ‘ ‘
C I
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30
What is the Jack London Club? . .. .. .. .$0.30 per 100 Band of Mercy Register ................ 10 cts
Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.
In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "Massachu-

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals"
I868) Society tor. the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequests especially intended tor the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital."
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF REQUEST

I give to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass.

: that it is the second incorporated (March.

as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the

Information and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

.50 per 100 I

 

 

 

' Use TIP-CNS for Identiﬁcation. At-
tractive and useful in many ways;
printed with your name and ad-
dress on high-grade gummed paper.
They are neatly packed in three
handy dispenser boxes of 100 each.
300 white or assorted pastels for
$1.00. “Flick Your Thumb—Out
They Come.” No C. O. D.’s.
Mail Order: Filled Postpaid $1.00

The Paul Revere Shop
1782 Massachusetts Avenue
Lexington 73, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s ail there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years. '

There is no anxiety.
income. No

It is no experiment.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of
waste of your estate by a will contest.

‘k *A' 1k ‘k

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180 ~
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

 

 

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Since 1832

J. 5. WATERMAN & sous, Inc.
funeral Satire

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

' l ' ,‘ I v . I "V > , I. ~ . "it I
, - - ,. 7 g . . ' .. A '.. .-~ ‘ ' v \ .~ ‘, , . r. ~
-~ ‘ ' ‘ ' . f .7 - . *‘ ?-'“'45"V‘§"%Wamﬁm 32-06“ - “ *" "'-‘-”~
_ ,. -‘ ' ' l ' “ ' ' ,

Upping the Swan
By WINIFRED HEATH

“With wings held close and slim neck bent,
Along dark water scarcely stirred,
Floats glimmering and indolent,

The alabaster bird.”

(From poem by Leonora Speyer)

HE beautiful Mute Swan is said to

have been ﬁrst brought to England
by Richard the First, the Lionhearted,
who brought one with him when he re-
turned from the Crusades. All the de-
scend-ants of this bird were regarded as
royal property with the exception of a
few owned by the ancient and honorable
Companies of Vintners and Dyers. In
early days the young swan, or cygnet,
was regarded as a special delicacy for
royal tables, and anyone who destroyed
one of these birds might suffer the death
penalty. El 7.

A curious old custom is known as
“Upping or HOpp'ing the Swan.” Every
year the King’s swan master with two
assistants sets out to “up” or mark every
bird in the kingdom. The Upping is
done by putting a nick in the bird’s bill,
two nicks for the King, and one for each
of the honorable Companies. At one time
there were great swanneries in Eng-
land but the birds have decreased in
number, especially during this last ter-
rible war.

North America has two very ﬁne mem-
bers of the family, the Trumpeter and the
Whistling Swan. The Trumpeter is a
large bird measuring ﬁve feet in length
and his call is loud and not very musical.
He was in danger of disappearing en-
tirely due to human greed and women’s
vanity—but certain bird lover-s managed
to rescue the last remnant and the Trump-
eter has come back to a certain extent.

The Whistling Swan is slightly smaller
than the Trumpeter and is distinguished
by a yellow spot on his bill and one of the
largest windpipes in all the feathered
family. His usual note is a deep “boom
boom” but travelers who may be trusted
say that they have listened to a mortally
wounded bird singing its last soft, me-
lodious notes. The legend of the “last
song” of this beautiful bird has long
been regarded as a myth but, like many
other supposed myths, there seems to be
truth in the old legend and there really
is a swan song of death.

There are about eight different species
of the swan in the world and they are all
white, but in Australia, the land of unique
creatures, there is a splendid black swan
With white ﬂight feathers and coral beak
banded with ivory.

a

It makes little difference who wins the
war unless Christ wins the peace.

——-Fosdick
'76

-.‘f.3¢,-347v2ii6{.%',’3ri~13 “'w“ h M

ANIMAL AND

Gene and Eddie Bumpass were owners
of the ﬁrst dog, a German Shepherd, to
be shipped from their town to the Dogs
for Defense Commission. Gene is eleven
and Eddie is seven years old. The two
brothers made a service ﬂag to hang in
the window of their play room.

In New Mexico, a baby deer was
rescued from a pack of dogs and was
given a cell in the Albuquerque city jail
to occupy while recuperating.

W. B. Collier, city treasury director
of Houston, Texas, has ruled that mules
which have served many useful years
in the city’s employ are entitled to be
maintained as pensioners with full se-
curity.

The D. E. Carson family, of Chicago,
have delegated their small Spitz dog a
hero’s place because her barking aroused
them from sleep in time to make an
escape from their blazing residence. Ten-
year-old Ianice Carson even took some
satin ribbon and made the pet a Purple
Heart.

They are fond of skunks insist small
boys of a certain community in Okla-
homa, and specially are they fond of a
family of skunks who moved their resi-
dence under the red brick school house
and became so obnoxious that school
had to be turned out.

A fox terrier dog was named as heir
to the twenty thousand dollar estate
of Mrs. Margaret Myers, of Detroit,
Michigan. '

Delegates from the Daughters of the
Confederacy have asked that the old
horse trough on the lawn of the county

court house, Ft. Worth, Texas, be re-

moved to a safe place and preserved,
rather than be destroyed as the court
had ordered.

A man with a pet squirrel was ap-
proached by a Salvation Army Lass sell-
ing the organization magazine. N at only
did the man present a coin, but gave
the squirrel a nickel, which the little
animal promptly dropped into the
tambourine.

"Guardian of the bullfrogs” is the
term by which fellow members of the
Texas House of Representatives address
Representative W. M. Spacek, who
oifered a bill to prohibit catching, pos-
sessing or selling bullfrogs during

yarch, April and May under penalty of
ne.

—Dee Woods

Au Revoir

LAST spring I made a real pet of the
little toad that lived in our garden.
Eventually he allowed me to softly
scratch his head and seemed to enjoy the
sensation. He ﬁnally became so friendly
that he would follow me about the garden.
I named him “Bumpsy.”

We have an outdoor porch, stone-
paved, even with the ground. One day
while sitting there, I saw Bumpsy hop
onto the porch, something that he never
had done before. He came close to my
feet and remained there for fully a half
hour. I wondered about it, wondered if
anything were wrong and if he had a real
reason for coming to me like that. Finally
he hopped away. The next day he was
missing, and the next day and the next.
As days went by I again wondered if his
close visit had had a purpose.

It was about two weeks later. I was
sitting in my accustomed place on the
porch when I saw Bumpsy hopping
toward me, but—he was not alone! With
him was another fat little toad. Straight
to me he came, the other toad remaining
a few feet away. I scratched his head
and he blinked contentment. Finally he
hopped back into the garden, Mrs.
Bumpsy following.

I feel sure now, that his ﬁrst chummy
prolonged visit to the porch was an at-
tempt to say “Good-bye until I see you
again.”

With the advent of cool weather, my
two little toads have gone into winter
quarters. In the coming Spring I fully
expect to ﬁnd Mr. and Mrs. Bumpsy
awaiting me in my garden.

—Ethel M. Rice

 

SACK DRILL

Coast Guard dog. "Jack." sleeps in prepa-
ration for combat in the Paciﬁc area.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Life Saver
Gulls

By CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

OW many birds among our

feathered friends can boast of
a monument erected in their honor?
Yet such a monument stands today
in Salt Lake City, in honor of the
gulls, without whose timely aid early
settlers in the Valley of the Great
Salt Lake might have perished.

Hundreds of acres of wheat had
been planted in that valley in the
spring of 1848, and the prospects of
a bountiful harvest were promising,
which was well, because a large num-
ber of immigrants were expected
during the summer months — and
more in the autumn.

But in the latter part of the month
of May, crickets began to attack the
wheat ﬁelds far and wide, and
shortly a devouring horde had swept
down the valley, leaving neither
blade nor leaf!

The pest increased alarmingly,
and the people prayed and fasted.
Children often cried with fright,
and the women begged God for
help. Even if "God moves in a mys-
terious way His wonders to per-
form” it may well be that no one
of those people dreamed in what
way help was to come. But from
the islands of the Great Salt Lake
came myriads of strange, snow-
white birds; gulls, winging their
way.

Imagine their joy when the gulls
pounced upon the black crickets,
gorging themselves! For days the de-
struction went on; and the "winged
deliverers” having destroyed the
plague, quietly returned to their is-
land homes. Their work was done,
the crops spared, the people saved
from starvation!

In time a beautiful monument was
unveiled in Salt Lake City, on which
a tablet reads:

“SEA GULL MONUMENT
ERECTED IN GRATEFUL
REMEMBRANCE OF THE
MERCY OF GOD TO THE
MORMON PIONEERS.”

Thorwa

Monumenl l

s
lolsen's {amou

, Pictu
Perry ‘

|
6.
"Lion 0'! Lucern

Sal’r Lake CllY'

0 5+. Bernard. "Barry."

An”mal
Statues

 

 

, ears :?§¥$

. a; mm Q52); 3"??? ‘wzuf, «G

’"WE‘QX’Eéw 33!! HQ
’Dé my. HM.

. w." .8. Ma:

3%: may aim-z. £253“?
ad's:

Erec’red by +l1e Royal 5. P. 1C. A.. in London. in memory of
animals +ha+ los+ +hair lives in World War I.

STATUES, monuments! and other memorials have

been erected in honol of animals since time im-
memorial. The stories of llWo of these are told On these
pages. l .

The Lion of Lucernq was hewn out of solid rock
by the Danish sculptor, Tgorwaldsen, and dedicated to
the bravery of the 17 5 SW ,lSS Guards who, in 1792, met
death guarding the French» Tuileries.

No collection of such pictures would be complete
without the monument erected to the memory of
“Barry,” the St. Bernard dog, who saved forty lives
and lost his own. '1

The story of “Greyfrier’s Bobby” is so well known
to dog lovers as to need no repetition. Sufﬁce it to Say
that this little dog, for Siourteen years, stood watch
over his master’s grave. .

And as to “Prunes,” the faithful burro, a monu-
ment to whom was erected at Fairplay, Colorado, the
pack animal is immortalized by the many miners whom
he served. Prunes was one of the many animals that
helped in the development of the West.

I
i‘fonOring u

Prunes,

. r,
9348630312
szncnm

£0

Ch“ rem

”’*¢~nnu§.

, $33

< cart: i 18?;
K ’ “V“
. n.5, ,~-.o.< .
N1,{.\‘.-2:\ ”mm"; W"

.“"¢O's

'l
famous burro,

“"9 {we};
R ’3 8‘.

the ’

~. . In .
we“), 33mg“; 2.5M" «’33,

”m? I»;

e

(y a?
3811‘?
aithfgx ck:

. .
“’0‘!“

Famous Horses

of Venice
By ETHEL R. ADAMSON

HE four bronze horses that sur—

mount the main entrance to St.
Mark’s cathedral in Venice are
among the most interesting statues
in the world. No ﬁgures perhaps
have been moved so often from place
to place, or been connected with so
much of historical interest. They
are believed to have been modelled
by the famous Corinthian sculptor,
Lysippus, in the fourth century B.C.,
and to have originally formed part of
a group of twenty-four Macedonian
horses. They were brought to Rome
by Augustus Caesar, after one of his
conquests, and placed on top of his
triumphal arch, where they remained
during the reign of Nero and sev-
eral subsequent emperors.

When in the fourth century of the
Christian era the Emperor 'Constan—
tine moved the seat of empire from
the Tiber to the Bosporus, he took
the horses with him to Constanti—
nople to adorn the empirical hippo—
drome. Then, when this capitol was
plundered by the Venetians in 1204,
the doge Enrico Dandola brought
them back as spoils of war to Venice,
to stand guard undisturbed for five
hundred years, above the portal of
St. Mark.

But even here the travels of these
prancing steeds were not ended. For,

.*-:when in 1797 Napoleon conquered

Italy, he had them sent to Paris with
other trophies and mounted in the
Gardens of the Tuileries, where they
watched the triumphants and finally
the defeat of the modern Caesar.
After Waterloo, Venice claimed
them for her own. During the world
war they were removed to a place
of safety in case of air raids.
Back on their ancient platform
"Before St. Mark still glow his steeds
of brass,
Their gilded collars glittering in the
sun,”
unchanged by their many journey-
ings except that their golden skins
are covered with the autographs of
tourists.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Elephant's toot is built for pure support.
It is large and flat with a cushioned surface.
protected by broad nails.

The spreading
toes of the camel
keep it from sink-
ing in the sand.

 

Penguin's toot is webbed.

4001 Wded

MOTHER NATURE, in her inﬁnite wisdom, found it

necessary to design many types of feet for her
countless creatures of the wilds. She made particular
patterns — types best suiting their needs — for each
family group.

In many instances, the feet, or portions of them, are
used for purposes other than merely walking. For
example, the feet of the ﬂesh-eating animals are
equipped with sharp, strong, retractile claws, which
are used in defense, as well as in securing food.

The feet of most birds are so designed that even when
the creatures are fast asleep, instead of losing their
grip, the toes clamp tighter around the limb or perch.
A clever muscle arrangement extending down the leg
on the outside of the joint draws the toes and claws
tightly when the bird settles. The weight of «the bird
acting as a lever, pulls the muscles tighter, so the bird
can sleep Without fear of falling and being devoured
by some lurking enemy.

The feet of the hummingbird—smallest of all birds
—and those of the osprey, hawk-ﬁsher, are so con-

structed that neither bird can walk or even hop on the
ground.

 

The huge feet of the polar bear help it

 

in swimming.

Rabbits use their te tor walking. running

In the case of the hummingbird, one f0
placed ahead of the other in walking anodE :ﬂgfecfhrpee
the feet are used only for perching. , ’

The osprey’s feet are equipped with powerful claws
Wthl’l. are used in capturing food and securing nesting
material. Both are obtained while the bird is in ﬂight.

' The polar bear has enormous feet, measuring one-
s1xth of the length of the entire body, and armed with
powerful. claws. The feet of this animal are particu-
gigs, distinguishgd frqu those of other bears in that the

are covere wit close- ' ° '
prevents their slipping on thseitceilalrs, a pr0V1810n that

. Cottontail rabbits use their feet for walking and run-
ning and for talking! The talking is accomplished by
the animal resting most of the weight of the body on the
forefeet and striking the ground in a series of thumps
With the hind feet. This causes a vibration that other
rabbits feel and understand. It is believed that rabbits
send Signals of fear, anger and love.

The starﬁsh has hundreds of feet, and upon some are
noses! The foot used as the smelling organ is not
needed to help the starﬁsh move about, but it is of the
same structure and can be used as a foot if necessary.

Although the pretty dragonﬂy has six good feet it
cannot walk, but must ﬂy, even though it desires t0,g0
pgilfygranvery siiogtbdistance. The feet and legs are used

a sor o ' ' ' ‘ '
arewcaptured in ﬂizsIkC-et in which to carry insects which
ost animals as large as a camel woul i '
the desert sands, but the peculiar construciiosnngfltllig
pﬁme‘l s feet prevent this from happening. The foot of
t is .ship of the desert,” has two toes, and under the
oes is a cushion spread out so wide that the animal

does not sink m .
uch when walkin '
loose sand... g or running over deep

In order that the

ma - .
search of food and iy y run quickly over SHOW m

n-evading enemies, the feet of the
$2?de giéouse are equipped in winter time with snow-
. tiff spines grow out of the toes on both sides

resembling snowshoes In w
- arm w
the grouse are perfectly smooth. eather the feet Of

The velvety paws ot the cat on w h it may walk with utmost noise-
lessness. nevertheless conceal sh claws which it may sheath or
unsheath at will. The dog, on t other hand. has teet especially
adapted to runningI with hard diions that will not wear out from
a hard run. His hard claws a-specially designed for digging.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tapir's toreteet and hindteet do not match.

Perhaps the most sure-footed creatures in the world
are the mountain sheep and goats, whose feet are spe-
cially designed for hazardous climbing. The center
of the foot is made of a substance somewhat similar to
very tough rubber, while outside is the hoof of very
hard material. Thus, the sharp hoof with the rubber
pads permits these mountain climbers to go up and
down sheer cliffs without any danger of falling, or even
slipping.

That queer animal, the sloth, uses its three, long
curved claws on the toes, which are perfectly formed to
hook around branches of trees where it spends almost
its entire life eating leaves and twigs. When absolutely
necessary to walk, which is very seldom in a lifetime,
the sloth folds up those sharp claws and walks upon
knees and elbows. . .

The king penguin, the bird that walks in an upright
manner, uses its right foot as an incubator! There is
a piece of skin above the foot, which is pulled down
to cover the one egg, hold it in place and keep it warm
for the entire period of incubation. .

The foot arrangement of the tapir is different from
all other hoofed animals, inasmuch as it has four toes
0n the forefeet and three toes on the hindfeet, all
separate and With nail-like ho-ofs. . .

The ostrich, largest living bird, is unique among birds
in that it has only two toes on each foot. As chief
weapon of defense, the feetayelvery strong and the

' n ostrich is very pain 11 . .
lelédbfdiieckers’ feet are ﬁtted out With four strong
Claws, two pointing backward and two forward, for
the purpose of grasping the bark of a tree while boring

within for grubs. t 1. .
The feet of the larges ivmg
phant, are furnished with ﬁve toes, and the sole of the

' ' Instead of
foot is formed of a very thick pad of skin. .
the elephant walking upon the sole of the foot, it

t 11 walks upon its toes.
ac(Iliaiulyythe foot of the snail protrudes from the shell,
and upon this foot is the head! There are slender

muscles attached to the top of the shell and to the foot,

land animal, the ele-

 

Powertul feet and talons of an eagle.

 

 

 

Familiar foot of the cow has double hoots.
giving it a spreading toothold tor placid
wandering.

 

Strong-clawed and web-
tooted is the platypus.

ﬂy jewel! Bade?

by which means the animal is drawn into its shell.

, The toes of tree frogs are expanded into adhesive
disks making it possible for them to go up and down
trees and to cling to any other surface. Somewhat
similarly, the geckos, small lizards of the desert, are
ﬁtted with ﬂattened spongy, sticky toes, which enable
these little creatures to run with great speed on smooth
surfaces, even on ceilings.

Beavers carry a comb on the second toe of each hind
foot. This queer double nail arrangement is used to
comb their fur.

While it is true that bats use their feet very little for
walking purposes, the feet, with ﬁve nearly equal-
length, slender toes, each bearing a claw, are very
important. With the feet, bats hang suspended, head
down, from tops of caverns, roofs or barns, or other
dark secluded places where they sleep throughout the
day in summer time. In winter, they sleep both night
and day.

The feet of that queer bird-reptile-mammal, the
duckbill platypus, are indeed odd. Equipped with very
strong claws, the feet may be folded up and walked
upon, or spread out with web between toes enabling it
to swim. The male has a hollow, movable spur on the
inside of the hind feet, supplied with venom.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Wi’rh complefe confidence.
born of +rus+ and pasl' kind-
ness. ’rhis bird. which Coas’r
Guardsmen call a I'gooney."
made a pin-poinl' landing on
+he helmef of Boal'swain's
Ma’re Second Class George
Lambrinos. as he s’rood a’r his
gun sfafion during ’rargef
prac'lice.

"Doc Sunshine.’I masco’r of a
Coasi' Guard-manned +roop
’rranspori'. plays no favorifes.
He is s’rrong for his seafaring
mafes and sl'rong for soldiers
heading overseas as rein-
forcemen’rs or coming back
as casual’ries. His bunk is a
K-ra’rions box alongside +he
sack of Leonard J. Smi’rhI
Seaman Firs’r Class.

 

THE nondescript dogs, the kittens,

the monkeys, the parrots—all the
animals and birds that go to sea as
mascots on Coast Guard ships—lead
the "life of Riley.” Comrades of the
enlisted men on deck, in the engine
room and in the galley, they are ac-
cepted into the full kinship of the
fo’c’sle and get the best of every—
thing.

In truth, there are 52 "Be Kind to
Animals Weeks” on the Coast
Guard—manned transports, LSTs,
frigates, destroyer escorts and com—
bat cutters all over the globe. There
is a rough and ready kindness that
dogs prefer.

Every Coast Guard ship has its
mascot. Some have several. Dogs,
naturally enough, predominate, but
you’ll ﬁnd the purring felines, gar~
rulous parrots, monkeys, and such.
In fact, if the line weren’t drawn
somewhere by the ship’s command,
there undoubtedly would be pet
tigers curled up in the bunks, pet
seals wallowing in the showers, pens
for pet alligators on the aft deck,
pet elephants trumpeting from the
No. 3 hold, and pet giraffes poking
their necks through the ventilators.

"Kingll receives firsf aid a1"
sick bay for a minor injury.

Mascof ”Nosey" perches on fhis CoaswL
Guardsman‘s shoulder +o wa’rch his sewing
fechnique.

Most of the dogs are plain mutts
—-stray wanderers who fell in with
liberty parties along the waterfront.
From the hard knocks, the cold and
the uncertainties of a landlubber’s
existence, the dog mascot steps
aboard ship for a life that is free from
care and worry, a plushy life of
warmth and comfort, a rollicking
life with a whole shipload of good
companions.

The ship’s mascot dines on the best
the galley has to offer. Naturally
that doesn’t mean that the choicest
cuts of beef, smothered in mush—
rooms, are served whole to the ship’s
dog. But you can bet he enjoys a full
meal of vitamins without relying on
pills, and bones with plenty of meat
clinging to them. Generous ship—
mates are quick to share with a
puppy nuzzling at their knees and
turning appealing eyes at their plat—
ters.

The mascot’s quarters are the
crew’s quarters, where he is free to
pick his own bunk and enjoy the
comradeship of the whole jolly com-
pany. Ask any ship’s dog. He’ll tell
you “the life at sea is the life for me.”
You can have your frilly boudoirs

Two of "Gismo's" shipma’res admire her happy fam-
ily of nine newly born puppies. all fui'ure mascofs.

and hearth rugs. The ship’s dog
prefers the rugged camaraderie of
the fo’c’sle, even if there are no
orientals to stretch out on and no
satin slippers to chew.

There’s a whole corps of pharma-
cist’s mates, and a sick bay equipped
with the most modern surgical gad-
gets to serve the ship’s dog, if he suf-
fers cuts or bruises. And the ship’s
doctor is there to lend a willing, ex—
pert hand, if it be a more serious case
calling for surgery.

When liberty parties go over the
side, the ship’s mascot—be he a dog
or a parrot, a monkey or a cat—is
not forgotten. The mascots go
ashore to see those strange exotic
ports and enjoy the gay recreation of
their off-duty shipmates.

Coast Guardsmen have risked
their lives for animals. A Chief
Boatswain’s Mate in San Diego, Cal-
ifornia, went into the sea to rescue
two oil-covered ducks in distress. He
saw them cleaned of oil and fed, and
then turned them loose to ﬂy their
wild ways.

uGismo,” mascot of the Coast
Guard-manned tanker, became the

mother of nine puppies on one Pa—
ciﬁc voyage. There was more ex—
citement over that "blessed event”
than an enemy bombing attack could
have provoked. Every man aboard
had a kind hand to offer. Every man
aboard was proud as "Punch.”

At a Coast Guard base radio sta-
tion in the Paciﬁc, "Nipper” and
"Scrappy” are the father and mother
of 17 sons and daughters in the U. S.
Coast Guard service—all on duty as
ship’s mascots. Erected beside their
kennel is a service flag with 17 paw
prints, proclaiming this canine
couple’s contribution to the armed
forces.

Coast Guardsmen even celebrate
their mascot’s birthdays, complete
with cakes, fresh—baked in the galley.
They give their mascots gifts for
Christmas; they spend long hours
sewing them life jackets and uni—
forms. They even bestow ratings
upon them and provide them with
ID cards and service ribbons.

So, it is no wonder that these ani-
mals fancy their seafaring lives and
serve loyally their ships and ship—
mates.

loyal+y.

"Nipper" (lefl') and "Scrappy" have I7 children serving as
mascol's. A service flag wi’rh l7 paw prin+s aHes’r fheir

 

sea: igxaif; n:

é be

"'35;

writ s
‘ a,

ii

I}

 

 

 

 




 

W. Olsen

-R

N
m
T.
A
R
E
P
o
O
C

 

 




 

 

 
 

#4:...

Here is part of a great elk herd in Jackson. Wyoming. These animals must often be provided‘wi’rh food when Jrhe snows are deep.

 

Prolonged cold and heavy snow mean suﬂering for—

Snowbouud Creatures

[HEN blizzards sweep the land, pursued by the fury of

northeast winds, and the frozen snow drifts on hills and
valleys, the wild quadrupeds and birds of the air exhibit that
intelligence that enables the ﬁttest among them to survive the
ravages of weather. But heavy snow and prolonged frost
intensify the suffering and struggle for existence, even among
the vigorous animals of the mountaintops, who, in prolonged
spells of severe weather, are forced to descend the slopes in
quest of food and shelter.

Sometimes, when overcome by cold and fatigue, the birds
become torpid, and remain (except for their beaks) covered
by snow for several days. Then, aroused by keen hunger, they
strive to force their way to the surface.

Deer are singularly weatherwise, and when snow is threaten-
ing, they come down from the hilltops and lie in the valleys to
escape the wintry blasts. Like sheep in the snow, deer strive
to maintain warmth by huddling together in the shelter of a
bank or under rocks. The heat of their bodies often prevents
the snow from freezing around them. A scanty picking of
vegetation may be found here and there in hollows by scratch-
ing up the snow, and shoots of moss and evergreen provide
meagre sustenance until the grass grows again above the
mantle of white. Where there is copious growth of ivy in the
woods, deer will defy starvation in the most rigorous of win-
ters. Their hardships are, however, very severe when snow
remains for several weeks upon the countryside.

Rabbits fare somewhat better when the earth is covered
with snow, as they possess the shelter of warm burrows under-
ground. However, sometimes weakened by want of food, they
are less wary than usual by the necessity of ﬁnding it and fall
easy victims to their enemies.

Foxes do not suffer as much privation when snow is lying,

December 1945

By F. J. WORRALL

though they may be forced to change their hunting grounds.

The hibernating squirrel and dormouse are usually prepared
for a bitter winter. Mo'les dig deep into the earth during
sharp frosts. Barn rats and mice escape the trials of hard
weather by ﬂocking to farms and habitations of men at the
ﬁrst approach of winter.

Snowbound birds endure greater hunger and are more
tormented by the grip of cold than the mammals.

The store of berries may have been plentiful in the autumn,
but in long frost this fare runs short, and hosts of birds ﬂit
disconsolately about in their search for food. The shyest and
wariest of birds are tamed by snow. Wild ducks and geese
come within easy range of the gunner. At night, along the sea
marshes, the air rings with the plaintive notes of wild fowl.

Snow spells suffering and tragedy for most feathered crea-
tures in the woodlands. Food in plenty lies beneath that crisp,
gleaming coverlet of white, but the impenetrable depth of snow
closes the store house and locks the larder.

When Nature deprives the 1birds of their sustenance, it is
then they draw near to man for the scattered crumbs, and soon
there will be a company of grateful guests.

Too often, we humans think of snow as something white and
glistening; something to add atmosphere to the holiday season.
Few of us, unfortunately, stop to realize the hardship it creates
in the lives of animals or the number that perish in the struggle
for sustenance. But for the food supplied by interested people,
many birds and mammals would be unable to survive.

In fact, many bird lovers establish feeding stations around
their homes and in the forest. Seed mixtures, bread crumbs
and meat scraps attract certain species, while others prefer
beef suet and peanut butter. Try it this winter. You will be
amply repaid.

227

 




 

 

 

Robins at Home
By D. s. HERRICK

AKE up, children! Breakfast’s

ready,” says the mother Robin as
she alights on the edge of the balcony
where she and her mate have made their
nest. The big, fat worm she carries in
her beak is quickly disposed of by the
little family in the nest, and they ask for
“more, more!”

When it comes, it is brought by both
of the parent birds. “Here’s another
helping, children,” we can imagine them
saying, if their bills were not too full
for them to say anything plainly. The
little birds are more than ready for it,
reaching up for the next morsel with
wide-open mouths. Even after receiving
this, they are not satisﬁed, and beg for
more.

Daddy stands on the edge of the nest
and looks archly down on them. We can
almost hear him saying to them, “That’s
all for now, children. We’ll get you some
more presently. Just settle down now and
go to sleep again.” -

That is just what they do after a few
soothing chirps from the mother bird,
who sits by the nest a moment before
ﬂying away to ﬁnd another worm for
them.

Now, if anyone cares to know how I
took this interesting picture, this is how
it came about. Last May, a pair of robins
took a fancy to the ﬁre escape under my
window and built a nest in one corner
of it. I watched them with great inter-
est as they brought straws and grass
and even a bit of string, and wove them
together. The ﬁnal touch came when
one of them squeezed it into the required
depth and regular shape by squatting in
it and slowly turning round and round
while pressing against the sides. Then
came a day when the mother bird sat
quietly on the nest for a long time; and
when she ﬂew off she left an egg of a
beautiful light blue color. This hap-
pened on four successive days. Then the
birds took turns sitting on the nest to
keep the eggs warm. In ten days the
ﬁrst egg was hatched.

By this time, I began to wonder if I
could not get some interesting snapshots
with my camera. To do this required
some planning. I had to set the camera as
near to the nest as possible, to get a good
picture of such small objects; and I had
to keep well out of sight, for the instant
I showed myself at the window, the birds
were off. By setting the camera on the
corner of the window sill, pointing a
little downward towards the nest, I
could reduce the distance to four feet.
This was too near for the regular lens
and focusing scale; but a portrait at-
tachment got over that difﬁculty.

So, when all the four eggs were
hatched, the fun began. By keeping the

June 191,5

 

window and the screen up when the light
was favorable, with the camera all set
and ready, and by watching the nest
through a slit below the window shutter,
I was able to make several exposures on
successive days.

The nest is still there, and I am won-
dering whether that pair of robins or
some other will ever use it again. For
their convenience or that of any other
bird that would like to use my ﬁre-
escape, I have fastened a basin of water
to the railing. All the birds have scorned
it until today, when a blue jay alighted
for an instant on the railing, hopped
along to the basin, took a hasty sip and
ﬂew away. Perhaps there will be others
this year.

,

Boot-Wearing Dogs

AVE you ever heard of those Aus-
tralian sheep dogs that wear boots?
Well, Australia, as you probably know,
is a great sheep-raising land and sheep
dogs are a great help in herding the
ﬂocks as they are in our own western
sheep-raising lands.

During part of the year, in Australia,
the prairies, where the sheep graze, are
covered with a pretty wild ﬂower called
bindi—eyes. It is a beautiful ﬂower, but
it causes great injury to dogs’ feet, be-
cause its leaves are toothed and quite
sharp.

Since the shepherds must have the help
of their dogs all the time, they hit upon
the idea of making soft leather boots for
them when the bindi—eyes come along.
Oddly enough, the dogs seem to sense
this kindness on the part of their mas-
ters and they don’t object to the boots
at all. Indeed, they come right up to
their masters to have their boots put on
at the times when this is necessary.

—N0rman C. Schlichter

Travels 6,000 Miles

WHEN Captain Stanley C. Raye went
off to war, his black cocker spaniel
was inconsolable. For a few weeks he
wandered listlessly around the house,
then suddenly disappeared. All efforts
to ﬁnd him were fruitless.

The family ﬁnally decided that the
dog must have been killed, but Mrs. Raye,
to her amazement, has received a letter
from her husband, who is 6,000 miles
away on a South Paciﬁc island, telling
her that the dog is with him and is as
excited as the Captain over the reunion.

Captain Raye wrote his wife that one
evening he was sitting in his tent on
the island when an ofﬁcer came down the
road leading a cocker spaniel on a leash.
The Captain was amazed at the likeness
of this dog to his own, whose name was
“Joker.” He uttered the dog’s name, and
that was enough. The little fellow al-
most went crazy with joy and delight at
having at'last found his master.

The ofﬁcer told Captain Raye that he
had found the dog walking through an
Army camp, hurriedly snifﬁng his way,
as though he were looking for some one.
So, he adopted the dog and took him
along when he left for the Paciﬁc area.

Surely, truth is stranger than fiction,
but this is a true story ”of a dog who
went to look for his master and, through
coincidence, found him 6,000 miles away.

—-Esther D. Hooey

@

Animals in Tapestry

HT is a curious and interesting fact that

out of 1522 ﬁgures worked into the
famous Bayeux Tapestry, 762 are ani-
mals.

Included in this number are 202
horses, 55 dogs, and a miscellany of 505
four-footed creatures. The Bayeux Tap-
estry, which was a prized display in the
Bayeux Museum in Normandy before the
war, is a pictorial history of the Nor-
man Conquest, in needlework. Its exist-
ence was not even known until 1748,
when the masterpiece was found.

The inﬁnite patience and artistry of
the ﬁne stitches which resulted in this
unusual picture is credited to the wife of
William the Conqueror, with the assist-
ance of her court ladies. Its 72 sections
total 214 feet in length, with a width of
20 inches.

—Ida M. Purdue

:13

To Subscribers

We ask our subscribers to be patient if
copies do not come through on time.
Because of increasing difﬁculties, from
eight to twelve weeks should be allowed
for new subscriptions to be entered.

113

 

 




v
s A; .A..__.__;‘-i _. .

New Contest for Children 5 ’

N our last issue, we opened a new Animal Contest for our young readers. For you who
missed that issue and would like the chance of winning one of our 28 prizes, just send your

subscription and ask that it start with the September issue.

 

Be sure to read the following contest rules before starting.

Second Puzzle Set

HAT animal comes to mind when you read these
names? In fact or ﬁction each name is closely
associated With one or more animals. Can you think

Third Prize ........ $5.00 of just one animal connected With each? 1‘
Twenty-ﬁve $1.00 prizes.

RulesliforQAnimal Contest

1. This contest is open to all paid subscribers to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, 15 years of age or under.

2. Prizes will be as follows:
First Prize ........ $25.00
Second Prize ...... 10.00 . . .

erte your answers oppos1te each name, out out the

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dick Whittington ..................

4. This contest will run for six months, one set of puzzles in each D . 1
issue of this magazine for FIVE months. The sixth entry anle """""""""" u
will consist of a scrapbook of not more than eight pages, Little Bo Peep ..................
including the cover, made up of interesting pictures or
stories selected from your copies of OUR DUMB ANIMALS. R‘Oddy MCDowaH """""""""" 1
BE SURE TO SAVE YOUR MAGAZINES. Start right now Alice in Wonderland ..................
thinking about YOUR scrapbook entry. It will be judged for . . 1
its attractiveness and originality. thtle MISS Muﬁ'et .................. j

5. You may send in each set of puzzles as you complete them, Mr- McGregor ------------- :
being sure your first set is accompanied by the ofﬁcial entry Santa Claus .................. 3
blank, properly Signed, or you may submit all ﬁve sets and
scrap book together (with OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK) at Paul Revere ..................
th lt' f th t t. . . .

e comp e Ion o 6 con es thtle Red Rldmg Hood .................. 3,3

6. All entries must be postmarked on or before midnight, ‘1'
February 25, 1946. The Lone Ranger ..................

7. Each entry, whether sent separately or all together, must Old MOther Hubbard """""""""" 9i I
bear the contestant’s name and address (the same address to Pinocchio ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
which OUR DUMB ANIMALS is being sent). .

Goldllocks ..................

8. Address your entries to ANIMAL CONTEST EDITOR, 180 , 9;
Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass. Orphan Annle .................. f1!

9. Winners will be notiﬁed by letter and their names will appear i:

L in the June issue of the magazine.
9 10. In case of ties, duplicate awards will be given and the deci- OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK 9
sion of the judges will be ﬁnal. We regret that we cannot Name ....................................... {4:3
enter into any correspondence concerning the contest. (Please Punt) 9‘
11. All entries become the property of OUR DUMB ANIMALS Address ........................................ (Ska) .......................................
and none can be returned.
............. (CityandZone) (State)
Age ................................
A special subscription rate of 75c will be 1
(Have your teacher ﬁll in the next three lines) .:
allowed to all contestants. Teacher ................ , ........................................................................ 9::
(Signature) .
Please send to School .........................................................................................
OUR DUMB ANIMALS Address ........................................................................................ _
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass. ........................................................................................
t 3
October 191,5 197 y.
i

found on this page, signed by your teacher. Only ONE entry
blank is needed for entire contest.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

animal

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f~HT?—Pho+o by J. W. Vei+ch BLESSED IS THE PEACEMAKER—Pholo by Crawford Robbins

. .. i ENTRIES of nearly six hundred prints in our annual photographic
FR OLI C IN THE SPRING . _‘ g contest yielded a wide variety of animal subjects.
Pho+o by Florence Higgins Nor+hway . _ p i _ The judges, in fact, had often to argue the respective merits of one
' ‘ " ‘ ‘ photo against another before a choice could be made. We believe that
their work was outstanding in choosing those prints that best portrayed
the spirit of the contest, that of story-telling values.
From the few reproduced on this page, our readers and future con-
testants will gain an idea of our aims. We believe that animals often act
like human beings, showing a complete gamut of the emotions, and it is

our desire, by pictorial presentation, to show our animal friends in their
true light.

 

WINNING CONTESTANTS
"First Prize—$25—Pedro E. Hernandez, Brookline, Mass.
Second Prize—SS 1 S—Georgia Engelhard, New York, N. Y.
Third Prize—$5—Crawford Robbins, Detroit, Mich.

T/aree Dollars Each Loey Ringquist, Yosemite National Park, Calif.
, A/S John S. Burtt, Ann Arbor, Mich.
% W' veltCh’ Seattle, Wash. Harold D. Barlow, New York, N. Y.
edro E. Hernandez, Brookline, Mass. Clyde Martin, Swampscott, Mass.
INVASION Ill/2113' gelﬁaple, LES £115,858, CalifI. d Otto F. Rothe, New York, N. Y.
18 . uggar , ort ayne, n .
PhO'l'O by M. K. Temple Eats; (gfmweél,l‘li\levsilY§‘k, N. Y. Subscription to
- . sen, a we , . . .
Floren’ce H. Northway, Graigeville, Idaho OUR DUMB ANIMALS
Americo Grasso, Chicago, Ill. Pedro E. Hernandez, Brookline, Mass.
Otto F. Rothe, New York, N. Y. O. V. Gordon, Des Moines, Iowa
Mrs. Eugene Landess, Fayetteville, Tenn. Mrs. Eugene Landess, Fayetteville, Tenn.
H. Mathews, Brooklyn, N. Y. | f
Gertrude E. Youngvall, Los Angeles, Cai .
Two Dallars E6161, Colonel Larson, Whitehall, Wise.
Georgia Engelhard, New York, N. Y. W. K. Baker, Decatur, Georgia
Clyde C. Martin, Swampscott, Mass. R. W. Olsen, Caldwell, N. J.
R. W. Olsen, Caldwell, N. J. Ninia McAlexander, Birmingham, Ala.
Seldon Morran, Kenmare, N. D. Ed. Cumiskey, North Bergen, N. J.
Mrs. H. Nestler, Strathmore, Calif.

 

THE JAY-WALKERS
Pho+o by Mrs. Eugene Landess

 

 

"‘See cover for ﬁrst prize winning photo.

ASKING FOR MORE
Photo by A/S John S. Bur’r’r

it i I?
1;. n..1u~ «0’; ~ \o

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adventures of “Brig”

NE sunny morning last fall, an

undersized canine, part fox terrier,

part beagle and parts unknown, trotted

up to the barred main entrance of the

Brig at the U. S. Naval Training Center,
Bainbridge, Maryland, and peered in.

Before you could whisper “hot dog,”
the Brig gate opened and the midget dog
was whisked inside. He was led with
pomp to the galley door, where he was
treated to an old ham bone.

It was the start of a beautiful friend—
ship.

The dog, it was soon discovered, was
the property of a warrant oﬁ‘icer living
nearby, and the daily trip to the Brig
soon developed into morning and after-
noon jaunts.

In November, the blow fell. A Brig
guard, whose activities took him down
to the Administration Building, reported
back pale and trembling. The puppy, he
announced, was in the hands of the
Center dog officer and an uncertain fu—
ture was in prospect for him.

Brig personnel went into instant ac-
tion. Off sped the two chiefs to the
Provost Marshal. The result. The canine
was turned over to the Brig for safe-
keeping for its unofﬁcial mascot. He was
to be accorded no special privileges, and
must not be allowed to stray.

Naming him was no problem at all. He
was tagged “Brig,” and a regulation dog
tag was issued to him, with his name,
pedigree, billet, etc.

It didn’t take him long to enter into
the Brig routine. When inspecting
parties came aboard, Brig trotted right
along. He never ventured into the galley
and he maintained, at all times a courte-
ous, but reserved attitude to the part-
time members of the Brig, which is eX-
actly What a good member of the official
household is supposed to do.

84

Winged Royal Family

By JASPER

IKE the slightly addled world in which
we live, the world of winged crea-
tures also has its own royal families.
Among our feathered friends the King-
bird and the Kingﬁsher must surely be
two of the leading members.

Another representative in the species
is the King vulture, which dwells alone
with his mate 'in the densest parts of the
South American forests—especially in
the trackless jungles of the upper Ama-
zon where no one envies him his domain.

The Kingbird, by the way, came by its
royal patronymic because its crest was
said to resemble a diadem and because of
its dictatorial manner with other birds.

The Baltimore Oriole, of course, has a
noble lineage. According to some re-
ports it was so named because its colors,
which are black and orange, were the
same as those on the coat of arms and
livery of Lord Baltimore.

The one-time lord proprietor of the
Maryland colony, he also gave his name
to the city of Baltimore. Ever since
colonial times the Oriole has been asso-
ciated with Baltimore and the Old Line
State of Maryland. It is one of the few
democratic American birds to be named
for English nobility.

Even the gayly-plumaged Cardinal
bird might qualify for a place in the
feathered royal family. It could at least
serve as a reminder of the days when
some royal families- of history did the
bidding of cardinals.

The royal family of birds has its coun—
terpart in the" royal family of winged in-
sects. Notable among these, perhaps,
would be the Emperor moth and the

B. SINCLAIR

Monarch butterﬂy, as well as the mother
of the hive, the Queen bee.

The Mon-arch butterﬂy has a rival in
Queen Alexandra’s bird-winged butter-
ﬂy. Found in the dank jungles of New
Guinea, it has a spread of ten inches and
is said to be the largest of all the world’s
butterﬂies.

Those Monarch butterﬂies are cham-
pion long-distance travelers. Millions of
them annually ﬂy the milkweed trail from
the Canadian Rockies to their winter
homes. in Paciﬁc Grove, California, a
ﬂight of at least 1,000 miles.

They reach Paciﬁc Grove in October,
spend the winter months clustered around
the nearby pine woods, and in March
spread their wings in ﬂight northward
again to their Rocky Mountain summer
homes in the Dominion of Canada.

43
Cats in Service

I know you were surprised to hear

Cats have gone into service this year!
Rats and mice were devastating
England's food camps penetrating.

50 cats were called to the Allies' cause,
Danger to food was given pause!

England marshalIed feline forces,

Doing what mankind endorses.

Dogs have always been protected,

But heretofore cats were neglected.
They had no legal status before,

But now they earn that right, and more.

lit-A

View

The medals dogs so proudly wear,
Cats have proved they, too, may share!
—lda M. Forrest

Odd - Facts - in - Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

A Tiny Telegraph Operator

When you are in the woods, some night,

And all is still and dark,
You’ll hear a tiny tapping on
A tree trunk, if you hark.

The very small white-footed mouse
Goes “tick, tick,” on the trees;
His toenails are his telegraph,
To talk with, if you please!

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cmfzzz‘z'izs S (1/5/—

To see what is right and not to do it is want of courage.

But Confucius wasn’t referring to the humane movement when
he made that statement. The pioneers in animal protection fought
against almost overwhelming public opinion to get their ideas ac-
cepted. That took courage.

Today, the Massachusetts S.P.C.A., one of those pioneers, is a
respected institution, known throughout the Commonwealth for
its work for animals. Its Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, with
a branch in Springﬁeld, has administered to almost a million ani-
mals since its founding in 1915.

With branches in every part of the State, its ofﬁcers investigate
cases of cruelty and distress, and inspect Stockyards, rOdeos, auc-
tions and any other place where animals are congregated.

A separate organization, but operated under the same manage-
ment, the American Humane Education Society employs repre-
sentatives in various parts of the country, distributes literature,
aids teachers in humane instruction, conducts an annual poster
and photo contest, and circulates slides and motion pictures. Its
Jack London Club, formed as a protest against performances of
cruelly trained animals, and Bands of Mercy (junior humane
groups), have attracted a membership of over seven million chil-
dren, drawn from every part of the country.

Both of these Societies are ﬁnanced solely by memberships, gifts
and bequests. No aid whatsoever is received from City, State, or
Community Fund.

Won’t you help to carry on-this work? No matter how small,
your gift will be gratefully acknowledged and carefully expended.

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
American Humane Education Society
1 80 Longwood Avenue Boston 1 5, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

lessons in Kindness
ﬂMmal/M 7m“

Jusf published is our new I2-page book-
Ief. containing acfual projects. bibliog-
raphies. and maferial charfs for the
teaching of Humane Educafion.

Wifh proiecfs for grades from kinder-
garfen through the sixth year. this book-
lef will be of inesfimable value. both in
schools and for the use of animal protec-
tion societies.

Five cents each $3.50 per hundred

 

 

 

 

 

 

I944 Bound Volumes

While they last we have a limited supply
of bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals.
each bOok containing the twelve issues for
I944.

From pasf experience. we know that
many people like to keep a permanent
file for ready reference for fhe many in-
formative arficles on nafure and animal '
care. ‘

These books. containing 240 pages and
approximafely 200 sfriking examples of
animal photography. make splendid giffs.
especially to school and public libraries.
Children find fhe .magazine helpful in
their school work and bofh children and
adulfs enioy reading the many stories
abouf animals.

Price ............ $ I .50

American Humane Educafion Sociefy
I80 Longwood Ave.I Bosfon l5. Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Use TIP-0N8 for Identiﬁcation. At-
tractive and useful in many ways;
printed with your name and ad-
dress on high-grade gummed paper.
They are neatly packed in three
handy dispenser boxes of 100 each.
300 white or assorted pastels for
$1.00. “Flick Your Thumb—Out
They Come.” No C. O. D.’s.
Mail Order: Filled Postpaid $1.00

The Paul Revere Shop
1182 Massachusetts Avenue
Lexington 73, Mesa.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KINDNES‘S BLOTTER

Appropriate for distribution during
Be Kind to Animals Week

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred

American Humane Education Soc.
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Exercises

for the use of teachers on
“Humane Day”

An eight-page leaﬂet containing
poems, stories and exercises to aid
elementary teachers to celebrate
the Day.

Plan now to set aside one day dur-
ing Kindness Week, April 15-21, in
the observance of kindness to. ani-
meal-s.

$1.50 per hundred—3 cents each

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dedicated To All Cats: THE GOOD . . . of which there are many;
THE BAD . . . (there must be a few) ; and THE INDIFFERENT . . .

and how indifferent a cat can be!

Biograp/ay in Black by Paul B. Potter

Here is a book that will tug at the heartstrings of anyone who has ever been
blessed with the conﬁdence and companionship of a cat. Though the names
and places and episodes may be different, you will recognize that this story is
in essence the spiritual biography of the friend that is enshrined in your own
heart.

$1.50 postlmz'd from
MARSHALL JONES COMPANY Publishers

Francestown or order from your bookseller New Hampshire

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

funeral 52mm

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

One day. during Kindness Week. a group of veterans from Cushing General Hos-

pital made a tour of our building. Shown enthusiastically greeting a few of the con-

valescing patients in our own Hospital are. left to right. Ptc. Hershel R. Wyrick. Pvt.
Thomas Valenti. Pvt. Oscar Chartier. Pvt. Robley Moulton.

mouth; and Fred T. Vickers, prosecuting
officer for Essex County over WESX,
Salem. In addition spot announcements
by Miss Mildred Carlson, Director of the
Home Forum Program, WBZ, and the
announcer on Station WBRK, Pittsﬁeld,
were made each day throughout the
Week.

School Exercises

As in former years,ithe Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. published an eight-page
pamphlet of “Humane Exercises” for
the use of teachers. An edition of 10,000
pamphlets was printed, of which more
than 6,000 copies were circulated outside
of Boston, and 1,600 more called for by
superintendents of the Boston schools.

A vast amount of humane literature
and other supplies were sent by the
American Humane Education Society on
requests from all sections of the country.

Humane Poster Contest

It has been felt that the best way to
prevent cruelty to animals is by teaching
kindness. Our state-wide annual poster
contest, in a most effective manner, en-
courages this spirit. This year we re-
ceived a record number of 6,329 posters
from 179 cities and towns throughout
the state. Participating in the contest
were children from 475 schools. This
number, in itself, scarcely signiﬁes the
far-reaching extent of the contest. Ac-
tually many thousands of posters are
made, after which a few are chosen from
each grade to be sent for judging.

Prizes of gold and silver pins, and
subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals were

116

given in liberal numbers and displays of
prize-winning posters were arranged in
the stores of Jordan Marsh Company,
William Filene’s Sons and R. H. Stearns.

‘ “Out of the Heart”

The Society’s new ﬁlm was shown in
such widely separated localities as Herki-
mer, N. Y., Canajoharie, N. Y.,. Fort
Plain, N. Y., Elmira, N. Y., Grand
Rapids, Mich., and in Massachusetts it
had showings in Winchester, Milton, our
own auditorium during our Open House
celebrations and at the Boston Public
Library.

Humane Sunday
This latter showing was in conjunction
with our yearly feature, an illustrated

lecture by that great naturalist and
writer, Thornton W. Burgess. Mr. Bur-
gess talked before a thronged auditorium
and both his pictures and our own ﬁlm
were enthusiastically received.

Rowley Day

Burlingham Schurr, Director of the
Museum of Natural History and Art, at
Holyoke, Massachusetts, is one of our
Society’s most interested and devoted
friends. A lover of nature in all its
varied forms, the world of animal life
could have few warmer, saner, more in-
telligent champions than he. Last year,
he set apart one day in Kindness Week,
as Rowley Day, and this year, on Thurs-
day, April 19, special services were held
t-o celebrate the Day.

Mr. Schurr writes: “A feature of the
program yesterday was participated in
by 174 boys and girls. I know you will
be delighted in reading the letters they
wrote you, expressing in their own way
just how they feel about ‘R-owley Day’
and Kindness Week. Under separate
cover, by special delivery and accompany-
ing this letter I am sending these letters
to you and I trust they will give to you
all the pleasure these young people had
in writing them.”

These letters were written by'children
of the Holy‘oke schools, the ages running
from four to eighteen. The general
tenor-was of gratitude for the founding
of Be Kind to Animals Week, with con-
gratulations to Dr. Rowley and expres-
sions of high regard for him and love for
all the world of beasts and birds.

A number of persons interested in
helping to promote work tending to
awaken in children greater love for ani-
mal life took part in the program. Cura-
tor Burlingham Schurr opened the “Row-
ley Day” celebration by introducing Rob-
ert H. Russell who read a special message
sent to the museum by Dr. Rowley. It
was as follows: “Recognizing the honor
that Mr. Schurr has conferred upon me

(Continued on Page 118)

 

A few of the I74 children at the Holyoke Museum: in the rear. several prominent resi-
dents who assisted Naturalist Schurr in the "Rowley Day" activities.

“mama—WWW ..

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

«~mm-.,. . ,. » , .. .—...-__ ..-,..,........—.. . ..- m-..

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lessons in Kindness
14/”de 7eac/teu

Just published is our new l2-page book-
let, containing actual projects, bibliog-
raphies, and material charts for the
teaching of Humane Education.

With projects for grades from kinder-
garten through the sixth year, it will be
of inestimable value to teachers.

Five cents each $3.50 per hundred

 

 

 

 

 

 

Button, Button----?

Yes, buttons are here again!

Do you remember the attractive cel-
luloid buttons we used to stock—those
with the picture of a horse. dog, cat and
bird in full color?

They are once again available in three
styles —— those bearing the inscriptions,
Band at Mercy, Humane SocietyI or
S. P. C. A. In addition to these, we can
also turnish Band of Mercy buttons con-
sisting of a white star on a dark blue back-
ground with gold border and lettering.

Price — two cents each.

 

Send your order now to:

 

 

 

 

American Humane Education Society
|80 Longwood Ave.I Boston I5, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In a search for "story-telling pic-
tures," we are announcing our annual

photographic contest to end June 30,
I946.

Cash prizes amounting to $95 and
ten additional prizes 01‘ subscriptions
to OUR DUMB ANIMALS are ot-
tered for clear, outstanding photo-
graphs ot wild or domestic animals

and birds.

The contest is open to all' either
professional or amateur. but entries
will be accepted only from those who
have taken the photographs.

PRIZES
First Prize ......... $25.00
Second Prize . . . . . . I5.00
Third Prize . . . . . . . . 5.00

Ten $3.00 prizes
Ten $2.00 prizes

Write to Contest Editor, l80 Long-
wood Ave., Boston I5, Mass., for
further details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

POSTER CONTEST

Once again the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. will conduct a Humane
Poster Contest, open to pupils in ele-
mentary schools in Massachusetts in-
cluding grade tour through high
schooL

Prizes will consist of attractive gold
and silver pins and medals and sub-
scriptions to OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

Announcements, containing valu-
able intormation and contest rules.
may be procured by writing the
Society.

Do not attempt to enter the con-
test before reading the rules.

 

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

 

 

 

 

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OR THE DIASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
T O O U R F R I E N D S Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 2 00
' ’ 0 75
In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is “Massachu- Chlldrens $
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March,
I868) Society to; the Prlevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country, and that it has no connec- Since 1832
tio ith a ct er simi ar Societ .
n W ”y . y . . . . J. 5. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Any bequests especially intended tor the beneﬁt ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, should, '
nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor funeral gﬁthltﬁ
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital," as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the .
f _ — Istant
' property ot that Society and is conducted by it. Local Suburban D
( FORM OF BEQUEST
‘ I give to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or, it other
L property, describe the property). THIS SPACE
iii The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston I5, Mass. Intormation and advice will be CONTRIBUTED
II given gladly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Lessons in Kindness
ﬂMwud/aa 7cm!»

Just published is our new I2-page book-
let. containing actual projects. bibliog-
raphies. and material charts tor the
teaching of Humane Education.

With projects for grades from kinder-
garten through the sixth year. this book-
let will be of inestimable value. both in
schools and tor the use of animal protec-
tion societies.
Five cents each

 

 

 

 

$3.50 per hundred

 

 

 

I944 Bound Volumes

While they last we have a limited supply
of bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals.
each book containing the twelve issues for
I944.

From past experience. we know that
many people like to keep a permanent
tile for ready reference to the many in-
formative articles on nature and animal
care.

These books. containing 240 pages and
approximately 200 striking examples of
animal photography. make splendid gitts.
especially to school and public libraries.
Children find the magazine helpful in
their school work and both children and
adults enioy reading the many stories
about animals.

Price ............ $ | .50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Use TIP-ONS for Identiﬁcation. At-
tractive and useful in many ways;
printed with your name and ad-
dress on high-grade gummed paper.
They are neatly packed in three
handy dispenser boxes of 100 each.
300 White or assorted pastels for
$1.00. “Flick Your Thumb—Out
They Come.” No C. 0. D.’s.
Mail Order: Filled Postpaid $ 1.00

The Paul Revere Shop
I782 Massachusetts Avenue
Lexington 73, Moss.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLOTT'ER

Appropriate for distribution during
Be Kind to Animals Week

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred

American Humane Education Soc.
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

.American Humane Education Society
l80 Longwood Ave.. Boston l5. Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

BALBONI’S
NORWOOD and BOSTON
AUTO EXPRESS

Norwood, Mass.
Telephone, NORwood 0116

 

 

 

 

 

Compliments of .

SEXTON CAN COMPANY, INC.

Telephone, EVErett 2500

31 CROSS STREET EVERETT, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

funeral 52min:

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

LONDON HARNESS COMPANY

Leather Goods of Quality

English Riding Goods and Stable Supplies —— Dog Furnishings
60 FRANKLIN STREET BOSTON

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

‘ Meet
Mister
Slowpoke

By GAR’ETH MUNRO

I
A TWO-TO ED SLOTH
O

' MAGINE! An animal whose senses of sight, hearing and

smell are so poor that it could not recognize its own baby
hanging to a tree a few feet from it. An animal who gives off
no odor or scent or recognizes that of his enemies. An animal
so slow that if it were to travel the clock around, the distance
covered would be no more than two miles and, by the time he
has ﬁnished eating his breakfast, he has to begin his dinner
to be through before his supper hour.

Impossible! Oh, no. This animal is the Sloth. It is found in
the forests of Central America and the tropical parts of South
America.

The Sloth varies in size from that of an ordinary house cat
to that of a small bear.

It spends very little time on the ground and, as it lives on
fruit, leaves and young shoot-s, it spends most of its time in the
trees—swinging from one branch to another with its long
forearms.

It is very slow moving and helpless on the ground, as its feet
are down side up; that is, the pads are on the upper part of his
foot and he has to walk on his long claws. This shaped foot is
much better for hanging by on the trees, for the Sloth can catch
a branch and hang, feet up, and sleep. Indeed, it is almost
impossible to shake him from his holding place. Hunters, trying
to catch a Sloth, have had to cut down the branch to secure him.

Although the Sloth is so poorly equipped with nature’s usual
gifts, he is, nevertheless, protected.

One protection lies in his coarse, long hair. This is covered
with algae, which imparts a greenish color not unlike the sur-
rounding trees and foliage.

Another protection is its voice, a plaintive wailing cry, unlike
the call of an animal, which always seems to come from some
place other than the one from which it issues. Thus, neither
man nor beast can locate the animal by its call.

ToDon. . .

Perchance sometime upon a golden street
Somewhere within a vast infinity,
A sheer delighted bark will welcome me
And then my dog and I once more shall meet.
A tail will wag and trustful eyes will greet;
A smooth black form will bound in ecstacy
And frisk and caper in a madcap glee

September 1945

 

Three Lions Photo

Then it holds so fast to the limb where it takes hold," even
the eagle has a hard time to tear it off. And, as it moves so
slowly, it makes no noise which would lead to its discovery.

Its greatest enemies would be the climbing jaguar or the
great boa. But, the Sloth usually hangs so far out on the limb
of a tree that these animals are too heavy to follow it.

And about its hearing, even a gun ﬁred close to its ear fails
to disturb it. The only cry that worries a mother Sloth is the
thin wailing of her baby. She shufﬂes off to ﬁnd it, but often
passes within a few feet without being able to locate it.

The baby Sloth is an odd looking little fellow. It never plays
like other baby animals. It is helpless and trustful. A baby
Sloth may be taken from its mother and it accepts the change
with good grace.

It is truly a little roly-poly, scarcely able to walk a step,
tumbling and rolling, even catching one of its own limbs and
holding it as if it were the branch of a tree.

The Sloth is a nocturnal animal, producing but one young at
birth. There are two families of this creature, one with two
toes on the fore-foot and three on the hind-foot, the other
with three toes on each foot.

By BLAINE C. BIGL‘ER

And then lie down expectant at my feet.
And then I will forsake the heavenly throng;
The loud hosannahs with their surge and swell;
The harp’s sweet music and the seraph’s song,
To take a hike—for once he loved it well.
And we shall ramble—free, alive and strong—
Through fields of amaranth and asphodel.

167

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMA LORE

BABY
GOR

WILL LIVE //V CAPT/W77
ONLY WHEN WE Y

    
  
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

ILLAS

 
  
 

395%3/’ /’

Tﬁﬁf' /
7

M/

' /
f.’ n
' ’vr
..ﬂ
.,
.l,.
I ;.;I f,
77.»
H.

  

. I {‘23
ARE GIVEN ‘12‘ I ”/ "
= . NW .-
COMPA N/ONSﬂ/P . 33

74 ND A FFE C T/ON
FROM 5 OM E ONE

THEY HAVE LEARNED
TO LOVE AND TRUST.

 

_—_
'48?‘ S A / N / "
r
000 \/ (:)/—//E/ o
A,
o¥5‘
0”.
oooooooooooo
.coooooooooooaooooo
ooooooooooooooooooooo
.o.o.o.0.o.o a o o o 50.5. o o o o

000 2%Qi’

000000

 

Our Rhyming Friends

By JOSEPH BUCHANAN

IRDS and animals have always played featured roles in the
nursery rhymes and jingles that continue to delight young
children through one generation after another.

We can meet a varied gathering of feathered and four-
legged friends in these rhymes, jingles and tales of our youth-
ful yesterdays. Among them are “four and twenty black-birds”
and the sheep that caused all the trouble for sleepy-headed
Little Boy Blue. ’

We are reminded of the “three blind mice” and the inquisi-
tive mouse that spent its time running up and down the hall
clock to the tune of “hickory, dickory, dock.” We, also, recall
that “this little pig went to market” in the days before ration-
ing; and that Little Miss Muffet had her troubles with the
spider that sat down beside her.

For rhyming companions they had a few of our feline
friends—“Puss in Boots” and “puss in the corner” and “pussy
in the well.” Nor can we soon forget the adventures of Goldi—
locks and the three bears, or Little Red Riding Hood and the
“big bad wolf.”

We can sympathize with Mother Hubbard’s dog and the

empty cupboard, and brighten up at the sound of cheery
“little robin redbreast” with his eternal song of spring. And
someone should have warned the ﬂy that was invited to “come
into my parlor” by the scheming spider.
. The athletic cow that “jumped over the moon” must share
its popularity with the fable of the tortoise and the hare, as
well as the wolf and the sour grapes. No less popular, of
course, 1s Bruce’s spider—a legend that has been told and
retold so often that it has actually found a place in some
hlstory books. Mary’s little lamb probably ﬁgures in the most
popular of all nursery rhymes. It has a worldwide reputa-
tion among children and adults, alike, and has been translated
into more languages than many a volume of classic literature
of more serious proportions.

Several verses of “Mary’s Little Lamb,” by the way, were the
ﬁrst words to be spoken into the ﬁrst phonograph and played
back as a recording at its ﬁrst public demonstration. Few
nursery rhymes or j ingles can match that historic achievement!

146

Parrot versus Bugle

By ALBERT M. VITALE

HE mystery aboard one of our destroyers in the Paciﬁc

Ocean has been solved. For wee-ks, the shipmates of “Bob”
Westley were puzzled as to why Bob was always up mornings
and almost dressed before the morning call came awakening
the rest of the sailors. Every morning, lately, Bob was beating
them all above decks.

The boys searched sailor Bob’s duffel bag and belongings in
an attempt to discover how he managed to be up each morning
ahead of them. They found no alarm clock or other means of
alarm. They overlooked one thing, though, and that was
sailor Bob’s pet parrot, “Snooks,” who slept at the head of
Bob’s hammock.

After having a great deal of fun with the boys, Bob let
them in on the secret. The parrot was his silent alarm clock.

Snooks would awaken unerringly every morning about ten
minutes before call time. He would then climb down from his
perch and nip the sailor lightly on the ear just enough to
arouse him. Bob would then get up and start dressing and have
a good head start on the rest of the fellows. For months, the
bird has never failed to have Bob up and ready. The parrot
doesn’t like battles, though. The minute the guns begin to
go off, he dives down the companionway, ﬁnds Bob’s hammock
and crawls beneath the blankets until the ﬁghting is over.
The sailor purchased the parrot from an Australian boy some
months ago. The parrot is probably showing his appreciation
by making himself useful to his new master.

“The only trouble with having Snooks for an alarm clock,”
says Bob, “is that he can’t distinguish between mornings when
I’m supposed to get up, and mornings when I’m permitted, after
the night watch, to go on sleeping. He just simply wakes me
up every morning.”

 

 

It is unlawful. in Iowal for any person to keep a horse in the rooms
of an apartment house.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; ;
‘ 2
-‘ :r z
/ , . 1,5 I
o// / C 11”).
/ 4/ é.
\‘ ////// / 3‘ ‘ ‘ﬁ.
3/) E
u 3 Stem

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WORCESTER

Harry C. Smith, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated).............-3.5'.. 166'-
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED 1;» . ‘
On investigations only . . . . . 4,771

Abattoirs and Istockyards and

railroad!“ yards .......... 3,633
Auctions ' ................. 552
Total .................. 8,956
33AN1MAL RELIEF WORK
Us? Small animals (placed in
homes) ................ 5
(humanely put to sleep) . . 59
Horses (taken from work) . . 7
4. Prosecutions 15 Convictions . . l3
Mileage .................. 13,600

HOLYOKE

This Branch continues its work, as in the
past, arranging with a leading veterinarian
in Holyoke to call for and care for sick, in-
jured and unwanted animals of that city.

Ofﬁcers of the Holyoke Branch are: Aaron
M. Bagg, President; Brooks White, Treas-

urer.

CHIEF OFFICER’S REPORT

After reading the foregoing statistical
tabulations of the work of the Society’s
Humane Ofﬁcers for the past year, it
seems only necessary to point out that
in most instances the ﬁgures represent
a substantial increase over our work in
the previous period. It is evident, also,
from these reports that every section of
the Commonwealth is receiving the
watchful attention of our full—time rep-
resentatives. When necessary to aug—
ment the work of our regular staff, the
Society can call on a force of local agents
whose services can be used to advantage,
especially in rural sections. We feel
that, despite the necessity for rigid
economy in the use of gasoline in the
making of inspections and investiga-
tions, our representatives have covered
their various territories thoroughly.

Women’s Auxiliaries

Our grateful and hearty appreciation
is extended to our Women’s Auxiliaries.
These outstanding groups of women
have continued their important work of
augmenting the efforts of various
branches.

Connected with our Springﬁeld Hos-
pital is the Springﬁeld Auxiliary, which
has continued to place our institution
before the public. Its ofﬁcers are: Mrs.
Robert R. Miller, President; Mrs. Harold
S. Treworgy, First Vice-President; Mrs.
Harold G.~ Duckworth, Second Vice-
President; Mrs. Lawrence Davis, Re-
cording Secretary; Mrs. Harvey R. Pres—
ton, Corresponding Secretary; Mrs. Fred
B. Korbel, Treasurer. Mrs. Charlena B.
Kibbe is Secretary of Public Relations.

The Winchester Auxiliary also con—
tinues its excellent work under the
leadership of Mrs. Richard S. Taylor,
President; Mrs. William M. Beggs,

54L

Treasurer; Arthur H. Bryer, local agent.
1m Northampton, our friends have

carried on during the past year under
the-“direction ofV-Professor P. R. Lieder,

President; Mrs. Arthur S. Warner,
Treasurer. ,

The Women’s Work Committee of
Greater Boston, led by Mrs. George D.
CO’lpas, Chairman, has worked untiringly
in providing gauze sponges and operat-
ing drapes for the Hospital. Without
this service we should have to purchase
much expensive but very necessary
equipment. We deeply appreciate the

Committee’s work.

REPORT OF WORK COMMITTEE
From June 1943 to February 1945

Inclusive:

3,169 Gauze Bandages
528 Gauze Sponges
54 Pan Covers
9 Denim Pillows (Two Sizes)
7 Hospital Sheets
47 Instrument Squares
30 Sterilizing Squares
26 Drapes
6 Operating Hoods
6 “B” Bands
. Considerable mending.

GRACE E. COLPAS, Chairman

@

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION

OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
FOR 1945

Chairman of the Board
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

President
ERIC H. HANSEN

Vice-President
CHARLES G. BANCROFT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

Honorable Leverett Saltonstall, U. S. Sen-
ator

His Excellency Maurice J. Tobin, Governor
of Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Adams, Edward 8., Fall River

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Blaisdell, Albert E., Haverhill

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Southern Pines, N. C.

Cheever, Mrs. G. J ., Springﬁeld

Coleman, Sydney H., Yonkers, N. Y.

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Downey, Walter F., Boston

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City
Friend, Mrs. Victor A., Melrose
Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg
Gould, Arthur L., Boston

Kemp, E. F., Somerville

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids, Mich.

McAfee, Mildred H., Pres. Wellesley College
Murphy, Rev. W. J ., Pres. Boston College
Orcutt, William Dana, Boston

Oxnam, Bishop G. Bromley, New York
Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Ravenscroft, Mrs. M. D., Santa Barbara

Calif.
Schrafft, W. E., Winchester -
Schurr, Burlingham, Holyoke, Mass.
Sears, Miss E. R., Boston
Shearer, Miss Mary E., Baltimore, Md.
Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston
Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester
Woolley, Mary E., Westport, N. Y.
Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Treasurer’s Assistant: JOSEPH MOONEY

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee

ERIC H. HANSEN, ('ex-oﬂicio)
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
CHARLES G. BRANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
EDWARD G. FISCHER
JOHN R. MACOMBER
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice—President and
Chairman, Finance Com., United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

Charles E. Spencer, Jr., Pres, First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the MassachuSetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, Chairman of the Board
Eric H. Hansen, President

William Dana Orcutt
Charles G. Bancrolft'

John R. Forgie

William E. Putnam

John R. Macomber

Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn
Walter M. Kendall
Stanwood K. Bolton

Hon. Charming H. Cox
Hon. Percival P. Baxter
George F. Booth
Thornton W. Burgess
George H. Godbeer
Edward G. Fischer
Charles E. Spencer, Jr.
Victor A. Friend

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.

Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham

W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Mrs. Sigmund Leve, Chestnut Hill

Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, Fitchburg

Charles Rowland Johns, London, England

Mrs. Dudley P. Sanford, New York, N. Y.

Miss Edith Ward, London, England

Mrs. M. Ida Young, Longmeadow, Mass.

Hon. Bernard L. Sullivan, Chelsea, Mass.

Edwin H. Nichols, Fitchburg, Mass.

Miss Constance L. Abbott, Andover, Mass.

Miss Mildred Carlson, Boston, Mass.

Miss Theodora Jones, Newton Highlands,
Mass.

Miss Gracie Fields, England

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 




Instinct of a. Dog
By RALPH UNDERHILL

Y whatever name it may be called,

the intuitive ability of dogs is hard
to comprehend. I once thought that it
might be accidental. Observing this
mystifying action of man’s best friend,
again and again, has convinced me that
dogs have an unusual nature.

When I was awaiting my induction into
the Army, our collie, “Bama,” began act-
ing very strangely. While I was doing
different tasks in arranging for my fam-
ily’s future,'I noticed the silent dog-sit-
ting and looking wistfully at me, as if ‘
she could plainly foresee my departure for
a long time. It was the saddest expres—
sion I ever saw in a dog’s eyes.

Her actions aroused within my mind
a dread to leave the old‘ faithful dog.
Other members of the family,especially
our 14-year-old son, for whom she had
formerly shown preference, could not
attract her to stay away from me. Previ-
, ously, when I drove off in the car, she
,1 had never tried to enter it, but she began
trying to get into the auto every time
I entered it. Bama whined pitifully when
left out. As I went near the house or
across the ﬁelds and into the forests, she
was always there with me. Formerly,
Bama had run ahead or out into the
‘1 thickets of bushes and briers, but she
.1 always stayed near me.

1 On my last morning at home, Bama
l7 sat in the pathway and watched. After I
, spoke softly, ordering the worrying old
H dog to go back, she sat and watched me
|
l

 

 

 

as far as she could see.

 

Beloved Dog Dies

, ARRY,” thirteen-year-old Irish Set-
ter, belonging to Percival P. Baxter,
former Governor of Maine and Director
of our two Societies, is dead. But we
know that his memory will ever remain
in his master’s heart.

,A direct descendant of the ﬁrst of his
breed, acquired by the Governor in 1887,
Garry was the seventeenth in line and in
him, for his master, dwelt all the
memories of those much love-d pets that
had gone before. So great, indeed, was
Mr. Baxter’s regard for his dogs, that,
when one of Garry’s forebears died in
1923, his master, then Governor of his
State, caused the ﬂag over the State
_ House to be ﬂown at half mast.

. ' '1 On Mackworth Island, near Portland,
i. , -. > » Governor Baxter maintains an interest-
ing dog cemetery.

However, it mus-t not be thought that
Governor Baxter’s only interest is in
dogs. He is a humanitarian by nature
with an inherent love of all animals. He,
personally, acquired 113,000 acres of
Maine’s most picturesque land around

' Mount Katahdin and donated it to his
FORMER GOVERNOR PERCIVAL P. BAXTER AND "GARRY." State for a wildlife sanctuary.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




—Mrs. Henry Bedinger

D
L
O
R
U
O
H
F.
N
O

ouRDuMB

 

 




 

 

 

 

nimals
in the
ummer

@

LEFT TO SHIFT FOR HIMSELF
O

OES hot weather give you that ex-
hausted feeling? Does it slow you
down? Well, whether it does or not, it
is deﬁnitely a difﬁcult period in the lives
of pets and work animals. The follow-
ing advice will help you to help them:

_ Pets and Vacations

Many families, during the ensuing
months, will make their annual exodus
to seashore and mountainside. With them
will go the family pet, a dog or a cat, or
sometimes both. As is too often the case,
however, some pets will be left behind
to fend for themSelves. There will be
other eases where pets will be acquired
at the summer home and abandoned at
the end of the season.

Under either of these circumstances,
cruelty will result. We ask all pet own-
ers to make proper provision for their
animals. If pets must be left at home,
see that they will be properly cared for
by friends or in boarding kennels. If
the newly adopted ones cannot be brought
back to the city at the end of the vaca-
tion period, arrange with the nearest hu—
mane society or veterinarian for humane
disposal.

Vacation time brings us scores of com-
plaints about the abandonment of pets.
Stories of this thoughtless cruelty tell of
animals suffering from hunger, thirst
and exposure. A few simple precautions
will prevent such unnecessary suﬁering.

Hot Weather Advice

Horses, in particular, should receive
special attention during hot weather.
More and more of these animals are com—
ing back into general use in proportion
to the scarcity of gasoline and tires. In
this respect, horses should never be
forced to carry too heavy loads; gener-
ous amounts of cool water should be sup-
plied and frequent rest periods made part
of the daily routine.

Thoughtless cruelty is also inﬂicted on
many dogs which are left by their owners

June 191,5

in parked cars. These animals, virtually
imprisoned—often in the broiling sun,
may suffer intensely in a temperature
that may exceed 100 degrees. An owner
should take his pet with him or, if that
is impossible, park his car in the shade
and open the windows at least two inches
on opposite sides to insure proper ven-
tilation.

Then, too, there is the question of the
doghouse. Last winter, it was no doubt
placed in the sun for more warmth, but
in hot weather it may become a place of
torture. Move it into the shade and be
sure there is good ventilation. If a wind-
break was used in the winter, make cer-
tain that it is removed. If the dog is
in the habit of sleeping on a mat, it
should be discarded in the summer and
oilcloth, hard cushion or cedar pillow
used, instead. Any blankets used should
be laundered frequently and the house,
itself, kept scrupulously clean as a pre-
caution against an epidemic of ﬂeas.

Dogs, at times, are not too cautious
about their own health—always ready to
romp and play to the point of exhaustion.
A considerate owner will not force his
pet to exercise too vigorously.

 

Photo by Georgia Engelhard

Plenty of fresh, cool water should al-
ways be available for your dog or cat.
Renew it frequently and keep the dish
in a shaded spot. If your dog is tied
outdoors, be sure he can reach the shade.

Victory Gardens and Animals

Another problem which presents itself
in connection with animals during warm
weather is that which relates to back-
yard victory gardens. It is true, of
course, that rabbits, dogs and cats may
ﬁnd their way int-o the garden and dam-
age the young plants. Don’t blame them;
they are only following their natural in-
stincts. Rather, blame yourself for not
protecting your garden.

A simple fence of chicken wire, or any
other material you can obtain, will keep
them out. Above all, we urge everyone
not to start a poison campaign, which
seldom destroys the creatures bothering
the garden. If you must trap, use only a
humane, alive and unhurt trap, but don’t
attempt it unless you know how to set it.

Reasonable intelligence, good and
sound planning and supervision will make
the animal problem a minor one.

—W. A. Swallow

109

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Rowley Day”

OR the past eighteen years, The Mu-

seum of Natural History and Art, at
Holyoke, has carried out programs in ob-
servance of Be Kind to Animals Week.
Mr. Burlingham Schurr, naturalist, di-
rector and curator of the Museum, has in-
stituted an original idea which he has
used as a part of the celebration. It is
“Rowley Day,” an event to be observed
on Thursday of Kindness Week with a
program dedicated to the occasion.

This Day he espouses as a tribute to
our own Dr. Rowley who, some thirty
years ago, was instrumental in the found-
ing of this Week, now celebrated through-
out the nation.

Mr. Schurr plans this year to observe
the day by the awarding of prizes to
boys and girls who show the most aware—
ness of the necessity for kindness,
through questions and answers, a pet
show and story-telling contest.

We are fully appreciative of Mr.
Schurr’s deep interest in sponsoring such
a celebration and join with him in the
hope that “Rowley Day” may, in time,
be celebrate-d as part of Kindness Week
throughout the nation.

a
Calendar of Dogs
E received a number of letters from
readers of our magazine who had
failed to receive calendars ordered in re-
sponse to advertising appearing in our
December and January issues.

We feel sure that all who entered these
orders have, by this time, been reim—
bursed by The Paul Revere Shop. It was
most unfortunate that the entire edition
was sold out and that, because of the
paper shortage, additional supplies could
not be procured.

The Paul Revere Shop went to great
lengths to explain the situation and sat-
isfy the customers and we would like our
readers to know that we repose our en-
tire trust in the integrity of the Shop’s
management. We are conﬁdent that
everyone will understand the wartime
shortages which caused so many to be
disappoint-ed.

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In search of "story-telling" pic-
tures. we announce our annual photo-
graphic contest to end June 30.
I945.

A ﬁrst prize of $25 and thirty-two
additional awards are offered for
clear. outstanding photographs of
wild or domestic animals and birds.

Have you a picture that tells a
story? ThenI enter it in our contest.
Anyone may compete.

Be sure to send for complete con-
test ruIes. however. before sending
your picture.

 

 

 

 

 

 

52

 

Corporal William N. Freeman. Jr.

Former Employee Honored

E have received word that Corporal

William N. Freeman, Jr., former
employee, now connected with the Medi-
cal Corps, was recently presented the
Silver St-ar, third highest award made
by the United States Army, “for gal-
lantry in action against the enemy in
Holland.”

An extract from the citation accom-
panying the award states: “On 24 Sep-
tember, 1944, Technician Fifth Grade
Freeman, during a heavy enemy artil—
lery bombardment, left the comparative
safety of his fox-hole to get medical
supplies for the ministration of the
wound-ed. Returning with the medical
supplies under intense enemy ﬁre, Tech-
nician Fifth Grade Freeman rendered
aid to the wounded without regard for
his own safety. Technician Fifth Grade
Freeman’s courage and high regard for
his comrades reﬂect great credit upon
himself and the Military Service.”

Prior to entering military service,
Corporal Freeman served as X-ray tech-
nician at the Angell Animal Hospital.

To us, Corporal Freeman’s particular
brand of heroism is outstanding. It was
not that of an active combatant, risking
his life in the heat of battle to save a
comrade. Rather, it was the considered
action of a soldier who put the comfort
and safety of the wounded above his per-
sonal security, risking his own life to
bring back medical supplies, that those
wounded might be shielded from suffer-
ing and given every chance of recovery.

&
Any Old Papers?

HE Angell Memorial Hospital is once

again in urgent need of old news-
papers and will appreciate small or larg
gifts of dis-carded papers. “

OUR DUMB

Easter Cruelty

WE can only say as we have said be—
fore that it is a paradox that the
Easter season should be chosen as a.
time for cruelty—~cruelty brought about
by the sale of tiny chicks and bunnies
as pets for children. Thus, the time of
year when all Christianity should turn
to thoughts of kindness and compassion
is also the period when thoughtless par-
ents and tradesmen join in a business
often resulting in torture and death.

Every year, at this time, we ask deal-
ers not to sell baby chicks, ducklings or
bunnies as pets; every year we urge par-
ents to refrain from buying these liv—
ing creatures for their children to fondle
and then discard. The suffering of these
tiny creatures, handled by inexperienced
clerks in retail stores, must be untold.
They are subject to food and tempera-
tures ill—suited to their need. Almost in-
variably the purchasers do not know how
to handle or care for them.

Our Government has again asked that
a greater number of fowl be raised for
the production of eggs and meat. Stores
which have never before handled chicks
are dealing in them now, but it should
be pointed out to these establishments
that the chicks should not be sold in lots
of less than twelve unless good evidence
is given that the purchase is for legiti-
mate purposes—the raising of poultry.
The use of chicks for other than the pro-
duction of food would be harmful to our
war effort and conservation of necessary
food.

We suggest to parents that the chil-
dren’s ultimate good will be served far
better by putting the money that might
be spent for chicks or bunnies into de-
fense stamp-s. Help your government
and your children at the same time!

So, for both humanitarian and conser-
vation reasons, we earnestly ask that
commercial interests and parents cooper-

ate in putting a stop to the trafﬁc in
Easter toys. '

 

 

POSTER CONTEST

Once again the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. will conduct a Humane
Poster Contest. open to pupils in Mas-
sachusetts elementary schools includ-
ing grade four through high school.

Prizes will consist of attractive gold
and silver pins and subscriptions to
OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

Closing date of the contest has
been changed to April 7.

Do not attempt to enter the con-
test before reading the rules. Write
the Society for your copy.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS

 




