 

THE D

 

 

 

 

n will

l

     
  

lll

j .

OR LISTEN-

Wm?

lllv

 

 

l:
'dl‘ﬂllll

\
J
31 .

“ll

 

Distemper '

What is distemper?

A highly infectious disease affecting dogs
and cats (called infectious enteritis in cats).
Caused (by a ﬁlterable virus, the disease can
spread through an entire community. Prog-
ress is so rapid that within a few hours an
animal becomes thin and weak and may die
Within 48 hours. The mortality rate is ex-
tremely high, particularly in young animals,
although great strides have been made
during the last few years in prevention and
and cure.

What are the symptoms?

There are three common types of dis-
temper. The disease may occur showing
symptoms of all three types, or only one of
them.

1. Catarrhal type—the most common.
Symptoms are discharge from nose and eyes,
coughing, vomiting, usually accompanied by
a high temperature and postules on the
inner side of the thigh and abdomen. Often
the lungs become affected and catarrhal
pneumonia may develop.

2. Gastric type—Symptoms are loss of
appetite, vomiting, diarrhea and fever.

3. Nervous type — Symptom is a ﬁt rapid-
ly followed by twitching of various muscles.
May later develop into paralysis.

During the incubation period of from 4
to 14+ days the disease may be mistaken for
a slight running cold.

What treatment is recommended?

Isolate dog or cat immediately and get
veterinary help. Encourage the appetite with

beef broth, eggs beaten in milk, thick nutri-
tious soups and small bits of chopped beef
or mutton. Keep the animal warm and dry,
sponging off soiled parts of the body as
often as necessary, using alcohol or witch
hazel. Change the bedding when necessary.
Sponge the eyes with a mild solution of
boric acid and keep the nose clean by in-
serting a small amount of vaseline in the
nostrils. If diarrhea is present, give doses
of milk of bismuth. Your doctor may rec-
ommend penicillin or sulfa drugs. Since the
disease can be carried by the hands, cloth-
ing, or shoes, carefully disinfect clothing
after administering to your pet. Keep away
from other animals to prevent spreading
the disease.

How can I prevent distemper
in my pet?

Since animals affected with rickets, skin
diseases, worms or other weakening condi-
tions are extremely susceptible, it stands to
reason that an essentially healthy one has a
better chance. Plenty of wholesome food,
exercise and proper sleeping quarters all
tend'to build up resistance. Keep the animal
away from infected dogs or cats and their
droppings. It is possible for an animal to
contract the disease merely by visiting a
spot where distemper has been.

What about vaccination?

The value of inoculation for prevention
of distemper is well established. It is ad-
visable to consult a veterinarian as soon as
possible after acquiring a dog or cat to
have him decide when the preventive vaccine
should be given.

Temporary injections are usually recom-
mended for a young animal followed by
permanent injections when the animal is
older.

The ASPCA Hospital and Clinic is now
giving permanent distemper vaccine. Al-
though the 3-injection type for dogs, spaced
about 2 weeks apart, is recommended, the
single injection is also available. Two injec-
tions are necessary for cats.

 




 

George Sixta

Index on

Back Cover

 




 

 

ASPCA Scores Again.

(Continued from Page 13)

seen,” commented Mr. Amundsen. “Dozens
of ducklings with broken or twisted legs,
maimed, burned, half-eaten by rats or doomed
to starvation.”

Our two officials sought the cooperation of
the Long Island Duck Growers Marketing
Cooperative. The organization requested all
growers to smash eggs they assumed to be
unfertile or to let them stand in cold water
to destroy possible life before disposal. Such
a simple procedure, taking only minutes,
would prevent unnecessary cruelty, as well
as an unsanitary menace to the community.

Cooperation of the farmers was pledged,
but when the duck-hatching season began
in the spring of 1953 complaints again
poured in. Special Agents Walter Hillsinger
and Eugene Berlinghoff were dispatched to
the dumps to destroy the unhatched eggs
and watch for offenders. Together with Mr.
Amundsen they collected as many as 30 or
40 live ducklings at a time and humanely
destroyed scores of others that were crippled
or burned. Our thanks go to these men who
spent many extra hours beyond their call
of duty in stamping out this mass cruelty
and suffering.

“The peeping of the newborn ducks was
an eerie sound,” our Agents reported. “Car-
casses of ducks and feathers were found in
rat holes, or trapped under tin cans, bottles
and rubbish. There was no food or water.”

It was not until July 28, after several
weeks of patient observation, that Special
Agent Hillsinger actually caught a farmer in
the act of dumping the live ducklings, as
well as the three barrels of unhatched eggs.

A summons was served on the offender,
and the ducklings kept as evidence. When
this case came up several weeks later, the
attorney for the defense suggested there be
passed a town ordinance making it a Viola-
tion to dispose of eggs at public dumps.

This we agreed to because such a law
would best satisfy our purpose, which is to
prevent rather than prosecute cruelty.

20

Local authorities, shocked at the conditions
we uncovered, acted quickly. On September
16 the township of Brookhaven enacted a
local law which calls for a maximum penalty
of $50 or 30 days in jail for dumping un-
hatched eggs of any kind in dumps under
town jurisdiction. The new law also contains
a clause which prohibits the throwing of car-
casses of any kind in the dumps without
burial.

Warning signs explaining provisions of the
law have been posted by the ASPCA in all
dumps in the area, and we are continuing
our vigil to see that the new statute is obeyed.

We wish to thank the considerate people
who brought these deplorableconditions to
our attention.

The Society looks on this as a major
achievement and an outstanding example of
the basic objective of any humane organi-
zation—the prevention of cruelty to animals.

. N

Calling All Juniors

(Continued from Page 11)

Horse Show Committee: Mrs. Robert Ar-
mand Schmid, Mrs. Marion T. Shotter,
Mrs. George Hayman, Gordon Wright, and
Richard C. Kettles, Jr.

Typical of exhibitor’s comments regard-
ing the junior class is this one from the
Arapahoe Riding Club:

“The ASPCA class was a tremendous
success and caused a great deal of comment,
particularly the improvement in the wording.
This is the ﬁrst time the class has ever

been held in Colorado.” '

N

Society Man

Watch for “Society Man,” a ﬁlm short
depicting a day in the life of an ASPCA
agent, produced by Paramount Pictures
Corp., to be -released on December 16 for
showing in neighborhood theatres through-
out the country.

 

, _. __._.%_l ,~n_ 4--

 

 

 




LETTERS (Continued from Page 14)

F I have saved this money for something
I really wanted. Even though my father
signed the check I’m giving the money. I
am giving it in memory of Shaddy, a black
English cocker spaniel, which I had to leave
in Germany because of his health.

W. H.

New York, N. Y.

Pet Adoption Service
F The Welch Corgie we adopted has been

a ﬁne playmate for our three children and

. a source of pleasure to us.

We have found no difﬁculty caring for
him in an apartment, and think if there

‘ were more publicity regarding the pets you

have for adoption many ﬁne homes would
be available.

W. .S.

New York, N. Y.

Five television programs each week fea-
ture ASPCA animals available for adoption:

Nancy Craig —— WIZ-TV, Wednesday,
2:30 p.m.

Morey Amsterdam — W NBT , Tuesday,

9 a.m.

Merry Mailman —— WOR-TV, Thursday,
6 p.m.

Food for Thought — W ABD, Friday, 4 p.m.

We Love Dogs — WABC-TV, Wednesday,
8:30 p.m.

Numerous radio spots, newspaper and
magazine articles also helped us ﬁnd homes

for 8,077 pets last year. —— Ed.

Penance
F Please ﬁnd enclosed my check for $1,000

which is my penance for hitting a kitten

when driving on the road this morning. I

need hardly add that it was'an accident.
G. C. H.

Weston, Conn.

Music to Our Ears

F .We took our cat to your Society the
other day. They did a good job of operating
on his ear. Furthermore there was no charge
when we took him to have the ear dressed.
We left a donation but did not feel we had
to do so.

G. E.

New York, N. Y.

F We are immensely interested in the large
scope of your efforts, and should like to take
time to tell you of our appreciation of your
Queens ofﬁce and especially of Mr. Robert
B. Ferris, your District Manager.

Over the years we have had many occa-
sions to call upon Mr. Ferris for his advice
and help, and have always found a most
efﬁcient organization setup and a kind word.

JAMAICA CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE
Jamaica, N. Y.

Ambulance Service

F On two occasions during the past year
I’ve had reason to call the ASPCA——once
for an injured starling and this morning for
a stray kitten. Both times I was greatly
impressed with the prompt arrival of your
ambulance.

E. M. C.

New York, N. Y.

F Yesterday my cat was caught on the
ﬁrescape and I called the ASPCA. Your
ambulance didn’t come for 12 hours.

A. S.

New York, N. Y.

ASPCA gets more than 150,000 requests
to pick up or rescue animals during the
course of a year. At times calls come in
so rapidly we can’t respond to them all as
promptly as we would like. However, our
apologies for this unusually long wait—Ed.

Address letters to: Editor. ANIMAL PROTECTION. 30 East 60th Street, New York 22

23

 




 

Christmas

goes

 

HRISTMAS is the season when spectacle
replaces hauteur in even the most con-
servative shops on the avenue.

The weary shopper is fascinated by bright
color baubles enshrined in tinsel and gold.
Window displays of Christmas pageantry
become more elaborate year by year.

Whether you prefer religious themes or
jolly fur-coated Santa Clauses, chances are
the setting was designed by Cecilia Staples.
Just 12 years ago this blonde vivacious
young artist pioneered the three dimensional
trend in window displays.

“I started by drawing ﬁgures that got
rounder and rounder, until they virtually
jumped out of the drawing board,” Miss
Staples recalls.

Today her unique displays have virtually
jumped all over the country -— “into 800 or
more department stores from New York to

the West Coast.

Top: Rivets begins to take shape
Bottom: He makes his debut

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

 




ASPCA SCﬂRES

S the mercury climbed in the 90’s one day
last July, an ASPCA, Special Agent sat in
his car overlooking an egg-shell littered dump near
Center Moriches on Long Island. He watched and
waited. The heat of the sun combined with the
heat of the dump ﬁres to produce a sickening 0d0fo
as garbage rotted and rats crawled through the
debris.

Minutes later a truck drove up and the driver
unloaded three barrels of duck eggs. As the eggs
were dumped several live, peeping ducks tumbled
out of the barrels. Others were in varying stages of
hatching. In a short time 13 baby ducklings were
rescued by our Agent.

At last, here was the evidence the ASPCA had

 

 

 

 

 

been seeking [or more than a year——eye witness
evidence of the shocking practice of some Long
Island duck growers who were leaving newly-
hatched ducklings to be burned alive or gnawed to
death by rats in the town dumps.

The story starts in the spring of 1952, when
residents of the Moriches Bay area registered com-
plaints with the ASPCA. The Eastport and Center
Moriches dumping lots were reportedly alive with
tiny helpless ducklings. Investigations at four such
dumps in the area by General Manager Warren W.
MCSpadden and Assistant General Manager Arthur
L- Amundsen unearthed countless charred and
semi-devoured bodies of the downy victims.

“This was by far the cruelest thing I’ve ever

(Continued on Page 20)

 




 

 

Statue to Honor Ducks
GERMANY—— A statue of a duck will be

erected in the city park of Freiburg in
memory of a flock of birds as heroic as the
geese of Rome.

The agitated quacking of the ducks gave
a few minutes’ warning of a surprise Allied
air raid Nov. 27, 1944, just as centuries
earlier Roman geese tipped off a sudden
enemy attack.

Elephants Never Forget
CEYLON—British Navy men stationed

on the island selected a site for a jungle
station which included a water hole long
used by elephants.

The first night two elephants broke
through a concrete wall to reach the water
hole. Engineers repaired the break, rein-
forced the wall with steel rails 30 feet high,
and added steel submarine nets. All went
down before elephan'tine thirst.

Navy men built a water tank for the ele-
phants outside the enclosure. But habit is
too strong, and the water hole remains the
elephants’ favorite drinking spot.

Cat Flies Faster Than Sound

CHICAGO A cat with six toes on each
paw, mascot of the 62d Fighter Interceptor
Squad at O’Hare Field, has broken the
sound barrier.

Alley Cat Zero had its own crash helmet
and rode atop the instrument panel when
Maj. Richard Garrett, the 62d’s command-
ing oﬂicer, broke the sound barrier at 700
miles an hour in an F-86D jet over Lake
Michigan. The cat flattened itself out limply

but otherwise showed no reaction.

16

The Better To See You With
TENNESSEE—An owl got himself a

pair of spectacles, plucking them right off
Thei Taylor’s nose. Mr. Taylor walking in

his garden, was jolted by a stiff wallop on
the back of his head.

“Next thing I saw,” he said, “was a little
old screech owl ﬂying off with my glasses
in his bill. Haven’t seen that owl or my
glasses since.”

Biblical Dog Bred in Israel

TEL-AVIV —— The Saluki, the oldest
known kind of tamed dog with which the
Egyptian Pharoahs used to hunt, is now
being bred in Israel.

The experiment with the progenitor of
the modern greyhound was initiated by Dr.
Gershon Steiner, formerly veterinary in-
structor at a Czechoslovakia University.
According to Dr. Steiner, the Saluki is
identical with the dog repeatedly mentioned

in the Bible.

Baboons Kidnap Baby Ape

PHILADELPHIA —— From the ﬁles of the
Philadelphia Zoo: The case of the kidnap-ed
baby monkey.

The tiny anthropoid walked out through
the bars of his cage and wandered over to
one occupied by a male and female baboon.

The female baboon, with no offspring of
her own, whisked the tiny monkey inside-
She fed it, mothering it tenderly. The male
baboon began acting like a protective father.

Observing such domestic bliss, ofﬁcials
decided to take no action. Case closed.

 

 

Italian Duck Shells Out

ITALY—~A duck here lays ﬁve eggs a
day, so fast that it can’t put shells on all of
them. Every day it’s the same rapid-ﬁre
production —— ﬁrst two perfect eggs and then
three that have no shells.

(Cats Caught In Wage Freeze

LONDON—Allegations were made in
Britain’s Parliament that while everybody
else’s wages have gone up, cats in post
ofﬁces have not had an increase in pay
since 1873 and that London cats have been
getting more money than cats in the prov-
inces.

The Assistant Postmaster General made
the following reply:

“Post ofﬁce cats are fat, sleek, and con-
tented. They have an excellent maternity
service, maternity beneﬁts in some cases,
and equal pay for females, an advantage
not enjoyed by any other branch of the
civil service.”

The House of Commons vetoed the wage
increase.

Nobody Wants a Dead Whale
SAN FRANCISCO —— A weighty problem

~about three decaying tons of it—was
wash-ed into the laps of San Francisco
authorities when a dead whale was ﬁrst
Sighted in the surf off the city’s Ocean
Beach by 12-year-old Norman Linoreaux.
Norman called police who agreed that
something should be done. But “It’s not in
our district,” the desk sergeant stated.
Next, the SPCA: “You can’t be cruel to

a dead whale.”

Then, the Coast Guard: “That’s out of
our jurisdiction. It’s on the tidelands— and
didn’t the administration promise to give
the tidelands back to the states?” "

The Stat-e Department of Fish and Game:
“We’re interested only in live ﬁsh and
game.” '

The ”City Health Department: “What
problem? Maybe you’ve got the wrong
number.”

“Well,” said one patrolman. “It might
be up to Norman. You know—ﬁnder’s
keepers.”

Eggs From Batteries

LONDON —Brito-ns are demanding free-
dom for an estimated 40,000,000 laying
hens imprisoned by a modern production
plan~ known as “the battery system.” Hens
are automatically fed in 2-foot square wire-
mesh cages, which are artiﬁcially lighted
18 hours at a stretch, to prolong the work-
ing day.

Letters insisting that the system be abol-
ished are pouring into newspapers, and the
Royal SPCA said it hopes to have Parlia-
ment enact a measure which will restore to
poultry the “natural liberty” of scratching
and pecking in the barnyard.

Reverse English

ENGLAND—A stag hound shot and
seriously injured two hunters after one
marksman had killed a deer with one shot
from a double-“barreled shotgun. He laid the
weapon on the ground and the stag hound,
frisking about, stepped on the trigger which
ﬁred the second barrel. Fragments of buck-
shot hit each of the hunters.

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

We’re hoping Santa’s reindeer will
deliver our year’s supply of drugs
and equipment to be used by our
Hospital between now and next
Christmas. He can . . . if you lighten
the load by contributing the cost

of one of his packages.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

«(ﬂ/2:
Rx

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SURGERY SUPPLY CABINET $489 AUXILIARY TABLE $144

° ' lbow

Six-ioot-high stainless steel cabinet needed To OkeeP mstuments at the. slurgeotn SI e's

in the new operating room. Glass doors during an operation. Stain ess seeldl
will enable the surgeon to spot Sutures needed because ordinary metal wou soon
. . ~ - am.

and other supplies quickly in emergenCIes. rust In the humidity of the surgery ro

ospital nee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Index

Editorial . . . . .
Christmas Goes 3-D . _. . .
Adoption Service Clinic Opens

The Doctor Listens . . . . .

My Two-Day Flyer . .

Our Hospital Needs .

Calling All Juniors . . 10
ASPCA Scores Again 12
Letters . . . . . 14
The Living Desert . . 15
Animal Antics . . . 16
Calendar of Events . 18
Women at Work . l9

ASPCA Covers
New York . . . . Inside Back Cover

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty toiAnimals‘

Lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

‘ Founded and Incorporated 1866
Vol. 7, N0. 3
‘ Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Winter 1953

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES TRafalgar 6-7700

 

HUGH E". 'PAINE, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, JR., Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
SYDNEY H. COLEMAN
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
SAMUEL R. MILBANK
JOSEPH B. MURRAY

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
WILLIAM ROCKEEELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFE

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER

 

 

COVER PICTURE

“Speaking for Rivets, as I usually do,
let me say that perky little individual
is pretty proud to have been chosen
as mascot Of the ASPCA—and now
—as a member of the organization—-
sends his love to you all.”

GEORGE SIXTA
Elmhurst, Illinois

Ed. Note: Rivets’ capers are featured
in daily nation-wide cartoon strips.
Turn to pages 2 and 19 for more
adventures of this fun-loving terrier.

 

 

 

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
GERTRUDE E. JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees
THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER & CRAWLEY, Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)
MARY PRISCILLA KEYES, Director of Education

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y. ‘
JUNE ELIOT, Director

PLaza 5-1650

MANHATTAN SHELTER .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.

(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

TRiangle 5-9580

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER . LUleW 3-2880
3960 Park Ave. (173rd St.), Bronx, N. Y. 57, N. Y.
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. 1.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpubliC 9-4041

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
FRANK A. HAYNES, Shelter Manager

Glbraltar 7—0122

 

 

 

 




 

Christmas begins in March at the Staples-
Smith factory in Brooklyn. By September
Miss Staples and her 100 helpers are knee-
deep in pa-pier-maché reindeer and pixies.
Almost hidden by dozens of beardless Santa
Clause-s, one helper sticks on the white
cellophane whiskers. Another paints the red
noses and frost-bitten cheeks. A sculptor
molds a life-size shepherd cradling a lamb.
King Melchior is left to dry in a special
walk-in oven. Half a dozen women decorate
Christmas balls with beads, sequins and
gold paper. In one corner angels are
equipped with gauze wings.

Designs start at Miss Staples’ drawing
board in her sixth ﬂoor studio, where she
prepares an average of one thousand sketches
in the course of a year. The sketches come
to life as artists and craftsmen interpret her
designs in 3-D ﬁgures of papier-maché,
wood, wire, latex, glass, plastic, and even
popcorn.

This year the plant has manufactured
such extremes in Christmas displays as a
pageant of Christmas celebrations in 12 dif-
ferent countries for a Dayton, Ohio store to
a group of sophisticated nursery rhyme
characters at play in the windows of a
Toronto store.

Commenting on a nativity scene ordered
by a Manhattan ﬁshery, Miss Staples notes
that religious and legendary themes are be-
coming increasingly popular. This year one
of her favorites illustrates the old Christmas
legend that at midnight on Christmas Eve
animals are given the power of speech. An
ardent animal lover, Miss Staples enjoys the
company of a poodle, a mynah bird, and
tropical ﬁsh in her pink-shuttered home on
East 53rd Street.

For ASPCA’s Christmas stocking Miss
Staples has executed a life-size papier-maché
likeness of our mascot Rivets. The basic
chicken-wire framework took three hours of
twisting, cutting, welding, sawing and screw-
ing. It required 10 different tools, as well
as the experienced hand molding of Mark
O’Rourke. The 28-inch-high skeleton re-

ceived four layers of pages from the Man-

Cecilia Staples at work

hattan telephone directory mixed with paste.
Baked until thoroughly dry, our wire-haired
terrier was sanded for a smooth ﬁnish. Then
he was paint-sprayed three times. The deli-
cate hand painting followed, after which he
was wired for sound to an attached record
player. Finally, like all good New York
dogs, Rivets had a license tag fastened. to
his collar.

Cecilia Staple-s7 fairyland business started
one afternoon while she was still studying

art at the Pratt Institute in New York. She,

cut classes to sell a batch of her pictures in
a Greenwich Village outdoor gallery. Suc-
cess brought the idea of doing backgrounds
for window displays. This caught on so fast
sketches sprawled out of her apartment and
into the hallway. The ﬁrm moved ﬁve times
in ﬁve years before winding up at 166
Smith Street, Brooklyn, a six-floor building
that is large enough—temporarily.

Christmas is long since over for Staples-
Smith workers, but the memory lingers on.
“It seems as though we made thousands of
reindeer,” said one helper. “There were
reindeer dancing, reindeer families, reindeer
in cute dresses, and just reindeer.”

Now the Brooklyn studio is knee-deep in
rabbits and rabbits and rabbits, for with
Christmas out of the way, Easter eggs are
alreadly rolling off the assembly line.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
     
  
   
 
    
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    




 

    
   
       
    
 

    

My two-day

in Wall Street

by JOSEPH C. SCHLESINGER

  

Joseph C. Schlesinger’s two-day pursuit of a rufous-necked
hornbill, the queer-looking oriental bird with a yen for
skyscrapers, made international front-page news recently. Here
is Agent Schlesinger’s own account of the daring chase

through New York’s busy ﬁnancial district.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

CCPICK UP strange bird on window sill,
15th floor, 37 Wall Street.”

It started like any other call on my tWo-
way radio, but that Was only the beginning.
For two days I raced up and down sky-
scraper elevators, leaned out of windows 28
floors above the street, crawled out on
ledges and swung my net.

I had a hunch this was going to be
different when I drove up to 37 Wall in the
ASPCA’S emergency ambulance. Crowds
lined the sidewalks and overﬂowed into
the streets. When a policeman announced,
“They’re all waiting for you,” I felt like an
actor who had forgotten his lines.

Up 15 floors in a law ofﬁce I got my ﬁrst
good look at the bird on a sill—that was
all I got, a look. For 15 minutes I inched
up on him from behind a desk. But as l
lowered my net, he ducked and sailed away. ;

 

"The most prominent thing about
Rufus was his huge beak."

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Poster Contest

Juniors, be sure to get your contest poster
in before the deadline on March 1. Remem-
ber, your poster must show how you take
care of your pet at home or at play.

_ The grand prize is the beautiful sterling
silver Sc-hleifman Memorial Trophy donated
by Arthur Schleifman in memory of his
father. There will be 12 other prizes for the
best three posters in each of the following
groups:

Group 1 —ages 6, 7, 8

Group 11 ——ages 9, 10, 11
Group HI——ages 12, 13, 141
Group lV——ages 15, 16, 17

The ﬁrst winner in each group will re-
ceive a gift certiﬁcate in the amount of $15,
the second $10 and the third $5. Those re-
ceiving certiﬁcates may select their own
presents in these amounts at F. A. O.
Schwarz, one of the world’s largest toy and
hobby stores.

The trophy for ﬁrst prize will. be pre-
sented at the ASPCA annual meeting in
May. Winning posters will be displayed in
a window of F. A. O. Schwarz, 7415 Fifth

Avenue, after Easter.

Judges for the contest are George Sixta,
cartoonist creator of Rivets, Jeannette W.
Cross, dog show judge and expert on ani-
mal care, Albert Staehle, dog artist best

10

known for his cocker spaniel Butch, and
Louis Reynal, industrial designer and mem-

ber of the ASPCA’s Board of Managers.

For further details, call the Education
Department.

Of Plays and Puppets

Classes in puppetry and play acting are
a new feature of the winter junior program
being conducted by Fred Stark, one of our
education instructors. Scout and cam-p fire
groups will writ-e, produce and create pup-
pets for their own plays.

The ﬁrst group to join the classes was
Girl Scout Troop 2-317, which called its play
“A Friend In Need.” At the ﬁrst meeting
Mr. Stark told the class a little of the his-
tory of puppetry. Then the group decided
on a theme for the play—be kind to ani-
mals. Puppets were started at the second
meeting, and by the third they were painted
and costumed. The fourth meeting was a
dress rehearsal, and at the last meeting the
play was presented to a full audience in the
Education Department Classroom. The pro-
duction included programs, music and light-
ing. The troop now plans to present a show
before other community groups.

Mr. Stark, who conducts these puppet
classes by appointment only, has had a wide
background in drama and puppetry. Before
joining the Education Department staff he
directed a summer stock group at the Shirt

 

 

 




LETTERS

 

 

 

 

Comments on
Animal Protection’s New Format

F Good looking an interesting.
Miss (E. M.
New York, N. Y.

F One of the ﬁnest humane magazines in
the country.

A. A.

Valley Stream, L. I.

F The summer issue of Animal Protection
is a masterpiece.

J. C. M.

Boston, Mass.

F Delightful. Handsomest magazine in the
entire human-e ﬁeld.

W. C.

Kew Gardens, L. 1.

Race Track Fires

F It pleases me to know that something is
being done to prevent race track ﬁres . . .
Miss J. H.
Brooklyn, N. Y.

F To read of the “dawn of a new era” in
relation to the ﬁres at the race tracks is just
tops to me. Maintaining separate sleeping
quarters for the jockies is a good idea.
Miss B. J.
New York, N. Y.

Bats

F . . . in footnote one, page 25, third line,
(Summer 1953 issue) it states, “also many
varieties of birds including bats, black birds,
canaries . . .7’ You and l as well as others
realize that a bat is not a bird!
FAIRFIELD OSBORN
President, New York
Zoological Society

Thanks.’ Our birds and bees editor has
been told the facts of bat life.~—— Ed.

14.

Calf Auction

F The poem “Calf Auction” (Summer is-
sue, 1953) is wonderful, although a tiny bit
exaggerated. I have seen the same thing
happen in Pennsylvania where calves were
mistreated — pulled off the trucks, and
pushed through a tiny door not over three
feet high.

G. F. P.

Flushing, N. Y.

Cruelty to Poultry

F . . , the barbarous custom, among shippers
of poultry of stufﬁng the crates so full that
trucks arrive with many of the birds suffo-
cated to death.

Mrs. W. V. B.

New York, N. Y.

All poultry coming into New York must
clear through the New York City Live Poul-
try Terminal under the supervision of in-
spectors of the Department of Markets.
Number, weight, size and age of fowl that
may be contained in crates is speciﬁed. Any
violations of the regulations are corrected
before fowl is re-loaded for transportation
to retail markets. Fowl have a tendency to
crowd toward the outer sides of the crates,
often leaving the interiors empty, but rarely
do the animals suﬂocate. ASPCA agents
check the terminal and vehicles regularly
and also visit retail live poultry markets to
check on the state of fowl after arrival—Ed.

Juniors Heard From

F I am a boy, thirteen years of age, and
the proud owner of one beautiful three-year-
old black and brown female cocker spaniel.
For the sake of less fortunate dogs, I should
like to contribute some means of helping
your organization. (Enclosed $2.)

P. S.

New York, N. Y.

(Continued on Page 23)

 

 

 




 

BIC-VALENDAR
or ' _
EVEN T 5., ,.

DECEMBER 5, 6
Horse Show

Secor Farms Horse Show for the Bene-
ﬁt of the ASPCA will be sponsored by
Gordon Wright at his Secor Farms Riding
Club, Hillair Circle, White Plains. The rec-
ognized show will feature hunting classes,
as well as the ASPCA Horsemanship Event
and an F.E.l. class. An obedience training
demonstration by dogs will be an added
attraction. Admission $1.00. During inter-
mission buﬁet lunch will be available on
Saturday and supper on Sunday at nominal
cost.

A cocktail party and dinner-dance for ex-
hibitors and guests will be held Saturday
night at the Apawamis Club, Rye, N. Y.

DECEMBER 11
Sponsor’s Tea

To honor Mrs. Sherman R. Hoyt, Chairman
of the Animal Kindom Ball, at the home of
Mrs. Richard A. Johnson.

DECEMBER 12
Meeting of Junior “A” Club Members.

Education Department classroom. 2 PM.

JANUARY 28

Animal Kingdom Ball

Grand Ballroom, Hotel Pierre

ASPCA Adoption Service Clinic will beneﬁt
from proceeds of this 4th annual supper
dance. Against a zoo background, guests

will dance to the music of Oscar Belson and
his orchestra.

MARCH 1

Deadline for junior poster entries in the
Schleifman Memorial Trophy contest. Sub-
ject of the posters to be “How I Care for
My Pet at Home or at Play.”

18

 

Our Many Thanks . . .

to Stretch Plohn for donating an
instrument cabinet for operating room 1.

. . to Mr. Eugene Leone for a shadowless
otoscope that will help in examination of
eyes, nose and ears.

. . . to Mrs. Mary B. Beekman for a med-
ical supply cabinet for operating room 2,
given in memory of Kink-A—Jou.

. . . to Mr. and Mrs. James Burton for new
3/4-ton air conditioner for the Hospital.

to other generous donors who ear-
marked gifts for important hospital equip-

ment.

' ‘1

v AvAvAv '

 

AAAA

 

 

Where possible, plaques will be placed on gifts of
a permanent nature.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Henry Bergh Descendant
Dedicates Animal Mural

A sculptured mural. on the ASPCA headquarters
building was recently dedicated by Henry Bergh,
great-grandnephew of the foUnder.

In unveiling the animal group Mr. Bergh said,
“It is my belief that nothing could illustrate more
appropriately Henry Bergh’s attitude toward the
animal kingdom than the humility expressed by man
in the mural sculpture just unveiled.”

 

The work of art was designed by Hunt Diederich
and planned for the opening of the building in
1950. Mr. Diederich died before its completion

and the commission was transferred to John R.

Terken.

The bronze relief, 12 feet high and 13 feet wide,
is described by Mr. Terken as “an allergorical scene
of. ageless animals symbolizing their trust in man.”

,4 gamma.» gag: gaggedtc'aa

tie lteplina n Mural

We have reproduced the. bronze allegorical group
on our building on a tile. Suitable for hot plate trivetI
wall plaque. table decoration! In time for Christmas
only giving or order one for yourself.
$2 25 Available in sepia or celadon green

' figures on a white background.
postpaid Size 6" x 6". Boxed for mailing.

Mail orders promptly filled.

 

 

 

 

: ASPCA Public Relations Dept.

30 East 60th Street
I New York22, N. Y.
I
l Please send me .............. tiles at $2.25 each.
I I enclose my check for $ ........................ .
I [j sepia [3 green
: Name ..........................................................................................
I Address ...................................................................................
I City ................................................ Zone ........ State .................

21

 

 




The specially-equipped white emergency ambulance,
donated by our volunteer Women’s Division, and placed in
service in Manhattan last March, has proven so successful
that we have added two more to our ﬂeet — one in Brook-
lyn, the other in Queens.

Both are equipped with ﬁrst aid cabinets, portable spot-
lights, amber signal ﬂashers, and two-way short-wave radios
to speed up service. The Brooklyn ambulance also has a
trailer coupling device so that the Society’s horse trailer
can be hooked on the rear when horses must be given
emergency treatment.

 

REMEMBER THE ASPCA IN YOUR WILL
FORM OF BEQUEST

I give and bequeath unto "The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals." a corporation existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of New YOrk. having its principal office at 44] East
92nd Street. New York. N. Y.: a

the sum of. dollars.

or

all of my right. title and interest in and to ____________________________________ (description of
property) together with the buildings and improvements thereon.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“The Greatest Good For
The Greatest Number”

An Editorial

0T so LONG AGO the ASPCA received

from a contributor an advertisement
clipped from a paper in a small town in a
neighboring state. It reads as follows:

WANTED —— CATS, CATS, CATS.
Wanted up to February 20. Eighty
per week. 5 lb. $1.00 to $1.25. Six
lb. and over $1.50.

Needless to say, all of us know that these
cats were being solicited for use in labora-
tories. Our correspondent, as well as several
of her neighbors, had suddenly lost :her
valuable and beloved pet cat. This is not
surprising, for no small city could possibly
supply such a large number weekly without
making serious inroads on the owned pet
population of the community. ’

This is not an isolated case. It is repeated
regularly in one form or another in those
parts of the country where animals are
needed for laboratories. As long as dog-
napping and cat-thieving continue no li-
censed dog or other pet is safe. And both
will continue as long as scientist-s and doc-
tors cannot get animals legitimately, be-
cause, while restrictions may differ, experi-
mentation is protected by law and supported
by public opinion in most sections of the
country.

The ASPCA believes that animals used
by science, perhaps even more than some
others, should be protected. Therefore, we
have sought and have been granted the
right of inspection by laboratories which
requisition animals from us under the pro-
visions of the law.

We feel this is a positive approach which
has both extended and strengthened our
anti-cruelty program: That we are realis-
tically practicing what we preach —— the
greatest good for the greatest number of
animals.

Some humane organizations, on the con-
trary, have chosen to close their doors
because they refuse to operate under the

requirements of laws which call for the

surrender of certain animals for experimen-
tal purposes. In some cases public pounds
have had to take over, unsupervised by hu-
mane workers.

To us this seems like running out on the
animals when they need us most. There is
no need to enumerate the evils of the public
pound. One of the primary reasons for the
existence of humane organizations is to
supplant badly-run pounds.

Therefore, any reverse trend toward pub-
lic pounds appalls those of us who have
worked for years for their replacement by
humane societies.

The ASPCA appeals to those societies to
keep their door-s open even though they
mUst operate under a law not to their liking.
We appeal to those who have closed their
doors to re-open them. We urge new com-
munities to establish humane organizations
so superior to pound-s that eventually the
latter will be abolished altogether. Let us
move forward together, always concentrating
on the main object of our existence—to
counteract the inhumane treatment of all
animals, whether they be domestic animals,
wild animals, circus animals or laboratory
animals.

Undoubtedly, were Henry Berg’h alive
today he would have fought for animals
under the Metcalf—Hatch Ilaw. He would
have found every possible way to make the
law of the land work for his purpose—to
prevent cruelty to animals. We must, too.

President

 




 

I

 

ADOPTION SERVICE

CLINIC OPENS '

 
    

“I’m going to call him Skippy,” Bob told
the ASPCA kennelman as he left the shelter
with his new adopted puppy in tow.

A week later the 11-year-old boy was
back at the shelter with an ailing Skippy
cradled in his arms. “He just stopped eat-
ing,” Bob tearfully told the kennelman. “I
want to keep him but my mother says we
can’t afford to pay much for doctors.”

Thus Skippy became the Adoption Serv-
ice Clinic’s ﬁrst patient when the doors were
opened last fall. The little puppy was exam-
ined and sent home with instructions for a

new diet. The fee was $1.00.

4.

Skippy responded quickly to the change
of menu, and Bob’s learning more about
how to take care of his pet every day.

During the past six years the number of
animals adopted from the ASPCA has in-
creased 700 per-cent. Along with this in-
crease came the problem of keeping every
animal in the best of health while in our
care. Despite sanitary conditions maintained,
and the examination made before the animal

(Continued on Page 22)

 

 

 




 

About the size of a small turkey he had a
wing spread of three feet. His back and
wings were dull gray, his neck rusty-colored
and his tail white. The most prominent thing
about him was his huge up-curved beak.
Various people assured me it was a condor,
a young bald eagle, and a vulture.

His next port of call was 40 Wall, where
I crawled out on a ledge three feet wide,
29 floors above the street. I came close, but
again his tail just brushed my net.

Looking down, I saw so many people on
the sidewalk, I thought, “If I slip I can’t
hit the ground. The crowd will break my
fall.”

From building to building I chased the
bird, which we later found out was a rufous-
necked hornbill on the loose from a nearby
pet shop.

In several buildings I had to be cleared

"Another wild rufous chose on the 28th floor of the
Chase National Bank Building. 18 Pine Street"

    
   

by guards, a handicap Rufus didn’t have to
cope with. So, by the time I got where
Rufus was, he wasn’t.

Tips kept pouring in over my ambulance
radio, plus advice from onlookers, taking
me up and down elevators, followed by a
supporting cast of 20 photographers and
even more reporters. Several. times so many
reporters squeezed into the elevators I was
left out.

From the crowds in the street it looked
as if all Wall Street had stopped work to
watch. Traffic was stalled for blocks.

By this time everyone was carrying a net.
A photographer asked me why I was so
anxious to catch the bird. I told him, “If
someone gets it before I do, the bird will
probably be injured.” I wanted to make
sure it was caught unharmed.

(Continued on Page 22)

7

New York Herald Tribune photo by Bob Noble

  

?
l:

E
z
:
l-Z
r.

    




 

 

 

Sleeve Theatre, Lindenhurst, L. 1., and con-
ducted a children’s theatre at the Washing-
ton Square Methodist Church.

Other New Junior Projects

Our \Education Department is rapidly
becoming New York’s information and ac-
tivity center for youngsters interested in
animals. For example, here are just a few of
the projects juniors and group members are
working on this season. The juniors them-
selves are writing leaﬂets on animal care
for distribution in schools and clubs. A
Brownie troop is making a patchwork quilt
for animals. Several Girl Scouts are selling
their own hand-sewn velvet d-og collars, pro-
ceeds to go to the ASPCA. Trips to the
Museum of Natural History are planned.
The Department’s extensive animal library
is a popular meeting spot for youngsters
working on merit badges, gathering material
for school compositions, or just interested
in’reading about animals.

Puppets in a Girl Scout production
taking a curtain call

Junior Horsemanship Trophy

Glenna Lee Maduro, 17-year-old rider
from Darien, Conn., won the Alfred B.
Maclay Trophy in competition with 71 other
young people before 11,000 at the National
Horse Show in Madison Square Garden on
November 8. This was her ﬁrst major vic-
tory in ﬁve years of junior competition at

the Garden.

Glenna beat out Billie Eadie, of Scarsdale,
in the ASPCA Junior Horsemanship Class,

the latter getting reserve.

A reserve herself last year, Glenna has
been riding eight years. A member of the
Ox Ridge Hunt Club, she was instructed by
Gordon Wright. Competitors were required
to ride over eight jumps and be judged on
performance.

Glenna was awarded a replica of the
Alfred B. Maclay Trophy on which were
engraved the names of the ASPCA junior
class winners at local shows during the year.
President Hugh E. Paine made the pres-
entation.

The ASPCA Horsemanship Class was
held at 105 recognized horse shows during
1953, breaking all previous records since
the event was ﬁrst offered 20 years ago. The
increased competition for the Maclay Trophy
is attributed to a wider publicity during the
past year, as well as to a clariﬁcation of
the rules. Credit goes to members of the

(Continued on Page 20)

ASPCA Education Department
41111 East 92nd Street
New York 28, N. Y.

1 want to be an ASPCA Junior Member. 1
am under 18 years old. Enclosed is $1.00
for my dues.

Name _____________________________________________________________
Address ______________________________________________________________

City--. __________________________ Zone __________ State__._,..-_.,.

11

 

 

 




 

 

i’

A desert bobcat rests atop a
giant saguaro cactus pillar.

27/15 1? mm 96.9ng

HE MYSTERIOUS LIFE and allure of the

great western wastelands is projected in
Walt Disney’s current full-length Techni-
color feature “The Living Desert.” Natural-
ist-photographers have recorded the fantas-
tic courtships, grotesque behavior and weird
survival struggles of desert birds, beasts,
reptiles and insects. As in previous ﬁlms in
the Disney “True Life Adventure Series,”
the creatures are observed in their natural
free habitats, unaware that they are being
photographed. We salute a ﬁlm which cap-
tures the spirit and drama of nature without
recourse to guns or traps.

     
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    

The ring-tailed cat is one
shyest desert creatures.

 

Strange comrades ot the wastelands, the
desert tortoise and the rountail ground squirrel.




 

'9 Q 1‘; .l‘lml v
‘11.

women a work

      

 

Fashion Show

The Women’s Division held its “Dogs and

Dolls” fashion show-luncheon on October 14 '

in the recently redecorated Peacock Alley
of the Waldorf-Astoria. Guests brought
rummage which was sold later at the
Corner Shop, 974 Lexington Avenue, the
proceeds going to our Pet Adoption Service.

Smart streetwear from the Arnold Con-
stable salons was paraded on the runway,
all coats and suits designed by Dan Mill-
stein. Not only did winter garments appear,
but there was a dog show led by Rivets, the
Society’s mascot. Among the dogs taking
part in the fashion parade were Mr. and
Mrs. James Burton’s Becky, Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Armand Schmid’s Hiccup, Mr. and
Mrs. Victor Hammer’s Buttons and Bows

and ASPCA’s famous black poodle Sibelius.

 

Mrs. Frank R. Oastler (foreground) and guests
attended the "Dogs and Dolls" benefit for
our Pet Adoption Service.

Of the four homeless shelter dogs pre-
sented, three were adopted on the spot. A
picture of the fourth, appearing in the
World-Telegram and Sun elicited 50-some
requests for the sad-eyed, long-cared white
PUPPY-

Among those giving luncheon parties
were Mrs. Frank R. Oastler, Mrs. Hugh E.
Paine, Mrs. James McCutcheon, Mrs.
George Ramsey, Mrs. Howeth T. Ford,
Mrs. Leon Goodall Sherburne, Mrs. Robert
Boucher, Mrs. Richard A. Johnson, Mrs.
Robert W. Dowling, Mrs. Joseph Lorenz,
Mrs. Arthur L. Crowder, Mrs. Kenneth H.
Sheldon, Mrs. Allen L. Patterson, Mrs.
Jeremiah Maguire, Mrs. Ethel L. Nathan-
son, Mrs. William Greene, Mrs. Robert Lee
Henry, Mrs. Otto Mullebrink and Miss Mary

Howes.

We

Mrs. Victor Hammer (known to radio and
TV fans as lreene Wicker) at the. luncheon
with her young grandson Michael Shelby.

 

19

  

  
   
   

  




   

Adoption Service Clinic Opens
(Continued from Page 4)

  
  
  
   
    
  
    
 
 
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

leaves the Shelter, it is always possible for
distemper or some other infection to de-
velop after the animal has left our custody.
It’s always possible, too, for a dog or cat
adopted from us to have tick-s or fleas in
spite of careful examination at the time of
adoption. Too, most pets, especially young
ones, need medical attention when they are
ﬁrst taken into a new home and should be
examined by a veterinarian soon after
adoption.

Some owners, however, can afford to pay
little for medical treatment. The ASPCA
Adoption Service Clinic has been planned
for them.

Like Skippy, all animals adopted from
ASPCA are entitled to return to the clinic
as many times as necessary for 30 days
aft-er the adoption. This period was chosen
because almost any disease an animal may
have been harboring will develop within a
month’s time. Although the average Hospital
case costs the ASPCA $5.06, only $1.00 is
charged, plus drugs— and these at reduced
rates. It is hoped that your contribution
will help defray the difference.

A Clinic patient is examined

One of the primary concerns of a humane

society is to ﬁnd suitable homes for the
homeless animals left in its care. More than
8,000 animals left our shelters bound for
good homes last year. Partly as a result of
our new leaflet encouraging adoptions, this
year’s total promises to top that ﬁgure.

Please help us keep these animals not
only in good homes, but in good health by
enclosing a gift for the Adoption Service
Clinic in the envelope with Rivets’ picture
on it.

no

My Two-Day Flyer
(Continued from Page 7)

In one building a meeting involving mil-
lions of dollars was broken up in 30 sec-
onds because it was the only room with a
window leading to the bird. But Rufus.
moved faster than the Board of Directors.

At 8:25 pm. I called off the chase on
account of darkness. Last heard from, Rufus
was sighted nearing the Hudson River, ﬁve
blocks away.

Quarter of nine next morning I found
him sitting on the end of a vane on the roof
of the weather bureau, 30 ﬂoors up. I was
determined as I stood on the ladder leading
to the vane. Thistime I’d get him! But
once again it proved to be another wild
rufous chase.

Same routine at 18 West Street, 29 Broad-
way and again at 42 Broadway. He even
ignored my bribe of chopped meat and
cantaloupe, recommended by a bird expert.

The joker came when Rufus walked into
a pigeon coop of his own accord late in the
afternoon, putting an end to a frenzied
A.W.O.L.

The escapade should make good listening
for Rufus’ grandchildren at the St. Louis
Zoo. It did for radio and television audi-
ences throughout the country, and good
reading in newspapers and magazines all
over the world.

Funny thing, though. The most dangerous
case I ever had was trapping a 15-foot boa
constrictor in a dark cellar. It didn’t make
a line of copy!

 

 




*MANHATTAN

TRalalgar 6-7700
*Headquarters —
Warren W. McSpadden
Hospital — Thomas A. Fegan
Shelter — Francis Melvin

Public Relations—June Eliot

PLaza 5-1 650

BRONX

LUdlow 3-2880
N. Michael Bromley

QUEENS .
REpublic 9-4041
Robert B. Ferris
BROOKLYN

TRiangle 5-9580
Charles R. Wadsley

STATEN

Glbraltar 7-0122
Frank A. Haynes

MANHATTAN
441 East 92nd St.
Bus—York Ave. to 9lst

St.

86th St.
96th St.

} to York Ave.

IRT ltransler at 96th
INDlSt. for bus

Public Relations
30 East 60th Street

ISLAND

 

BROOKLYN
233 Butler St.

BMT—Coney Island
trains to Paciﬁc St. or
Atlantic Ave.

IRT—to Nevins St.

IND—GG local to Ber-
gen St.

LIRR — Flatbush Ave.
Term.

Bus—3rd Ave. to Butler
St.

 

BRONX
3960 Park Ave.

3rd Ave. El—to 174th
St.

IRT—change at 149th
St. lor 3rd Ave. El
Bus—Webster Ave. to

l73rd St.

Tremont Ave. to Wash-
ington Ave.

E. l70th St. Crosstown
to Washington Ave.

 

QUEENS
94-27 - 158th St.

IND—E and F trains to

Parsons Blvd.
lIRR—to Main Station
All Jamaica Buses

 

STATEN ISLAND
4 Willow Ave.

Bus—#2 to Pier 20
Tottenville line — to

Clilton R.R. Station

 




