 

 

Nov. 1939

Famous Lions That Never
Roar
HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

HE most famous lions are not in the

zoo. Neither are they roaming as lords
of the jungle the wilds of Africa. Rather
are they molded in marble or bronze and
are challenging millions of people on some
of the busiest streets of the world. Or, if
not guarding buildings in heroic splendor,
they are symbolic monarchs of triumph
adorning monuments of national fame.

For the lion with his expressive head
and beauty of form, has for centuries been
used by artists and sculptors of all lands
as the beast best ﬁtted to represent cour-
age, strength, deﬁance, sovereignty and
power. Hence the British lion, whose ﬂaunt-
ing ﬁgure we see everywhere throughout
the empire. Even in the very center of
London, at Trafalgar Square, we ﬁnd
Landseer’s four grand bronze lions ﬂank-
ing the granite column that uplifts the
mighty statue of Admiral Nelson whose
Battle of Trafalgar, in 1805, destroyed the
French navy and made England the master
of the seas. Four colossal lions seeming to
repeat to the jostling throng that surge
around them Nelson’s stirring words to be
seen engraved on the monument, “England
expects every man to do his duty.”

Again in the very center of the wide
ﬁeld of Waterloo, the British lion tops the
huge Heroes’ Mound which two hundred
feet in height marks the world’s historic
battle—ﬁeld.

In Greece, the ﬁgure of the lion was used
as the guardian of springs and doorways,
one of the most famous examples being the
Lion Gate at the entrance to the Acropolis
of Mycenae. Here we ﬁnd resting upon the
high gateposts a great lintel above which
is a triangular space occupied by a slab on
which is carved in relief, a column, on each
side of which is the ﬁgure of a lion, his
forefeet resting on the base of the column
and his hind feet on the ground——an old
gateway, going back to 1180 B. C. and
signiﬁcant of the respect the early Greeks
held for the king of beasts.

The lion was also used as an early sym-
bol of Christianity, Christ himself being
referred to as the Lion of Judah. Particu-
larly did it come to be identiﬁed with Mark,
the apostle. So we are not surprised to
ﬁnd in Venice, the ancient city whose pa-
tron saint is St. Mark, the famous bronze
winged lion surmounting one of the two
stately columns that rise from the Piazetta
looking out upon the sea.

Another famous lion that was once the
pride of Ethiopia has since its conquest by
Italy been transferred to Rome, where the
Italians pause to give it reverence because
it has now become the symbol of their
latest triumph.

The most beautiful of the famous lions
is, I think most travelers agree, the lion of
Lucerne, which, hewn out of solid rock by
the Danish sculptor, Thorwaldsen, looks at
a distance as if he were sleeping in his
forest den. But on nearer approach, we
ﬁnd that the sculptor has portrayed him as
transﬁxed by a spear while defending the
lilies of France. This unusual monument is
dedicated to the bravery of the 175 Swiss
Guards who in 1792, met death while guard-
ing the French Tuileries. Reads the simple

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

inscription, “ T o
the Fidelity and
Courage of t h e

Helvetians.”

Also in our own
country, we have
our modern lions
used as decorative
a n d s y m b o l i c
beasts before our
modern buildings.
Impressive remind-
ers o f n o b l e
strength, we ﬁnd
t h e m everywhere
and n o n e more
prominent than the
giant pair at the
entrance 0 f t h e
New York Public
Library on bus-
tling F i f t h Av-
enue. Calmly in-
different they seem
to be looking out
on America’s most
noted mart, as if
about to say in Isa-
iah’s words, some
day “the lion shall
eat straw like the
ox and a little child

THORWALDSEN’S LION OF LUCERNE
“The most beautiful of the famous lions”

Page 167

 

 

 

 

shall lead them.”

The Amazing Platypus

EWEN K. PATTERSON

ANY people overseas are skeptical
M regarding the existence of an amphib—
ious fur-bearing animal, which has a duck-
like bill, webbed feet, lays eggs, and hiber—
nates in a burrow.” That is the ofﬁcial
reason given by the Australian Postal De—
partment for the issue of a new Australian
postage stamp bearing a picture of one of
the world’s strangest animals—the. AuS«
tralian platypus. Probably no other stamp
has ever been issued anywhere in the world
for the purpose of convincing doubtful
persons that a certain animal does exist.

The only animal of its kind in existence,
the platypus measures about two feet in
length and weighs approximately 41 pounds.
It is by no means a beautiful animal; its
soft fur is of a darkish—brown color, while
its duck—billed head is of quaint appear-
ance. The bill itself is very soft, and of
rubbery texture. The creature has small,
beady eyes, and tiny ears that are really
only folds in the skin.

The animal spends much of its time in
creeks and rivers, and is a good swimmer
and diver. It has very wide webbing on the
fore-paws or feet, which are chieﬂy used in
swimming, while the tail serves as a rudder
and is also an aid to diving.

The creature can also move quickly on
land, raising its body on its thick, stumpy
limbs when in a hurry. The fore-paws are
also furnished with claws for burrowing.

The animal sleeps and nests in burrows
excavated on sloping river or creek banks.
The burrows are often 20 feet or more long,
ending in a circular chamber lined with
leaves, grass and twigs.

The platypus feds chieﬂy on worms, tad—
poles and insect larvae. It has no teeth, but
has grinding ridges along the jaws by which
it breaks up its food.

____

There is no danger from the bite of a
platypus. It can exert only a very slight
pressure with its soft bill. The male, how—
ever, has two spurs inside the heels of the
hind feet. These are very sharp and are
connected to poison glands. The spurs are
hollow and when they strike a victim the
poison is discharged into the wounds in—
ﬂicted. Although the poison is not fatal to
human beings, it causes severe swelling and
intense pain for a time.

This wonder animal is noted for its
extremely keen and auditory sense, while
it also has a peculiar voice. When disturbed
it utters a low growling sound similar to
that made by a broody hen.

The platypus is found in fairly large
numbers in the streams of Eastern Aus—
tralia. At one time the strange animal was
hunted for its pelt, which was used to make
rugs. Today, however, it is closely pro—
tected by law, and is in no danger of dying
out.

Only once has the platypus been seen
alive in a country outside Australia. In
1922, after a journey of 10,000 miles that
had been fatal to four others, a platypus
reached the New York Zoological Gardens.
It lived there for forty-nine days.

Origin of Work for Children

It was at a meeting of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, held
in 1882 in Liverpool, England, to consider
establishing a Dog Home that, upon learn-
ing that the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals founded by Henry
Bergh in New York had been instrumental
in organizing the ﬁrst Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Children, the found-
ing of an English Society for the Preven—
tion of Cruelty to Children was under-
taken—the work then spreading through-
out the Empire. Children’s societies evi-
dently owe much to lovers of animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

3629751939 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page 11,3

 

 

My Blue Maltese

JEANETTE NOURLAND

I have a grand old Thomas-cat,
With eyes of saffron-yellow;
A vest of white, a coat of blue—
A simply gorgeous fellow.
He leaps upon my yielding lap,
An uninvited guest,
Prepared to make himself at home,—
A much beloved pest.

The Story of “Bwillie”

E. H. DONLEVY

HE speck in the road, outlined by the oncoming head—
lights, looked like a stone, or a child’s shoe. But the
car drew to the side, and stopped. Ralph Nash got out, curious.

“Why—this is—l” Not a stone at all, nor a shoe! But a
small gray creature, a baby'squirrel, and alive.

The young man tucked it into his sweater, then drove
along home to Nashua, N. H. Against him, he could feel the
little squirrel still breathing. And once in the comfortable
kitchen at home, it was fed with warm milk from an eye
dropper.

The Nash family of ﬁve boys and a daughter rallied to the
side; of this minute little gray guest in their household. They
fed it, and watched it grow more conﬁdent. Then the eye
dropper was put aside infavor of a deep saucer.

Stout pieces of wood for gnawing, nuts for hiding behind
portieres, calcium for teeth, and popcorn for celebrating occa-
sions, these became the’ gray squirrel’s birthright. He de-

. manded them.

Ralph called him “Bwillie.” No one thought he’d stay long,
that he’d.:remain a pe,t.,_ He had a small cage in the kitchen,
where he could retire to‘peace at night. But he much preferred
the living room where‘there -, were guests, and noise, and the
radio with music. He liked people moving about, and would
leap at someone, cling to his back for a “pick-a-back” ride.
Oh, he was enjoying himself.

By day, Bwillie had all the prerogatives of a real, outdoor
squirrel. He could go out, roam the woods near the house,
the trees, visiting neighboring yards for friends and nuts. He
could race along wires and fences. He could chatter and scold
the dogs. But promptly at four o’clock, just as though he could

read time, Bwillie would head for “home.” He would chatter.

insistently at the back door. He would demand to be let in.
He would scuttle around for his supper. Then he was ready to
assume charge of the household. ‘

The Nashes have had goats, pigeons, cats and dogs, chick-
ens, and an assortment of) pets, but Bwillie is the ﬁrst to take
complete charge of their household, the ﬁrst to store nuts in
Mrs. Nash’s sewing basket, and the ﬁrst to snuggle down the
front of Jerry’s sweater while he experiments with cake batter
and a cook book.

Answers to “How Many “G” Birds?” puzzle last month:
Gander, Gannet, Goatsucker, Goose, Goshawk, Gosling, Grackle,
Grebe, Grosbeak, Grouse, Guillemot, Gull.

 

 

 

 

 

g?

Goslings —-Sweet, but Odd Little Fellows

BERNARD L. KOBEL

HIS little farm girl has her apron ﬁlled with baby gos-

lings. For cuteness, there is nothing that surpasses these
baby geese but, on the other hand, there are few things that
are as hard to raise or as “dumb” as these darling little crea-
tures. They can swim well, but if they are in the rain, they
will drown. The reason for this is that they will put their little
bills up in the air and the driving rain will beat into their
nostrils and choke them to death. Buttermilk with plenty of
pepper is the usual diet of goslings for the ﬁrst weeks of life.

If I can stop one heart from breaking,

I shall not live in vain;

If I can ease one life the aching,

Or cool one pain,

Or help one fainting robin

Unto his nest again,

I shall not live in vain. EMILY DICKINSON

 

 

 

 




'(i
by,” .

Mar. 1989

 

 

DUIIIB

ANIZLIALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bobby’s Trap

MARY WILDER PEASE

I made a snare of steel and wood
And hid it near the garden wall.
There’s furry folk that love the place,
Dad says, “There’s food enough for all.”

These furry folk have padded paws
And coats like balls of thistledown.
It was a cruel thing I made
And left beneath the grasses brown.

I’m lying safe within my bed

With covers tucked in for the night,
But Oh! I cannot sleep because

I’m thinking of a squirrel’s plight.

I hear sad noises in the wind,
Perhaps a rabbit’s cry of pain.

Tomorrow I will break that trap
And never build a snare again.

Big Brother

GENEVIEVE V. HUNT

RUFUS” is tall and powerful, with the proud, aloof manner
of a German shepherd. But his lovely, soft brown eyes
are windows of his gentle, kindly nature.

The intelligent actions of this dog are rather humorous at
times, since he has taken it upon himself to act as “big
brother” to our three young cats. He is very fond of them and
allows them many privileges, such as romping over him when
he is resting on.the lawn, or cuddling up to him when they are
cold. But Rufus believes that a cat’s place is in the home and
whenever one of them leaves the yard, he is right there to
bring it back. If barking and rushing at the feline fails to
produce the desired results, he picks it up with his mouth and
carries it around to the back porch before putting it down.

Recently, a friend gave the children a pet rabbit, and Rufus
immediately began watching over it, too. Every morning, as
soon as I let him out, he goes to see his new charge, then
takes a short walk around the neighborhood.

One day, however, he came running back to the house, bark—
ing excitedly. Thinking that perhaps he was hungry, I took
some food out to him, but he refused to touch it and ran back
to the pen. Realizing then that something was wrong, I fol—
lowed him and found the rabbit, more dead than alive. with its
head caught in the wire on the side of the pen. With wagging
tail, Rufus stood there watching until I had freed the poor
little creature. Then, apparently satisﬁed that it was saved,
he turned and trotted away.

Prayer for a Child

“Dear Father, hear and bless

Thy beasts and singing birds;
And guard with tenderness

Small things that have no words.”

 

 

A LESSON IN SPELLING

Goats That Play Games

JAMES REECE

 

 

 

N the prairies of western Texas there are thousands of

pure white young goats. We had been told by ranchers
that the kids really played games, very similar to those of
children, and after watching them we found it to be true.

One game was a sort of “follow the leader,” in which they
balanced on rocks or hummocks, . and hopped from one to
another. Even down a cliff-side—leaps that would surely have
killed any child, big or little, that tried them. Finally, all
would return, that is, all in that particular ﬂock of maybe 200
or so, to the starting point, and a new leader having been
chosen, the performance would begin all over again. Some—
times two or more ﬂocks would join together, and what a wild
time they had!

But the funniest part was when a big automobile was parked
near a ﬂock of them and the passengers went into the woods.
In. less than ﬁve minutes the kids were sliding down its fend-
ers, then “following the leader” again over the hood, under the
car, then over its top, all, seemingly, with but little effort. The
driver had carelessly left a door open and when he got back to
the car, several kids were asleep in the seats. Others that had
become tired were peacefully resting on the top of the car.
The remainder were playing “ring—around-rosy” or a similar
game, circling the car in opposite directions. Yes, these west-
ern Texas kids do originate games and play them gleefully.

A wonderful provision for the cat family is their
long whiskers, which help them to feel their way at
night. These are attached to very delicate nerves, and
must never be handled roughly as such handling would
cause pain. By the use of these whiskers the cat can
tell whether she can pass through any opening.

Answers to “Two Dozen Hidden Animals” puzzle last month:
1. Unicorn, cat, beaver. 2. Caribou, rabbit, horse. 3. Pig,
goat, bear. 4. Cow, steer, dog. 5. Ferret, mole, hare. 6. Lamb,
seal, bison. 7. Tapir, marten, rat. 8. Game], kitten, pony.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




_ .1! .-n- ‘ '

[\

Aug. 1939

Our Bird Bath

THOMAS R. BRADY

A bathing pool for feathered friends
We sank in sandy loam

Beneath an apple tree that bends
To form a leafy dome.

When summer hours grow burning hot
This haven, sweet and cool,

Invites the birds to seek the spot
And bathe within the pool.

How merrily they chirp and sing

And duck their heads and bills!

How happily they dust their wings
In near—by sandy hills!

We love to watch them sport about
Like children ﬁlled with mirth;
We love to hear their songs, devout,

Pour blessings on the earth.

Monument for a Moth

BENJAMIN LEE

ONUMENTS are usually erected for

people who have accomplished some-
thing of great importance in their life-
time. However, a monument or memorial
has been built in honor of a moth. It has
been erected in Australia as a result of
the moths’ help in saving the land from a
type of cactus.

Years ago this plant was imported into
the country and raised in the homes much
the same as we see some of our ﬂowers
grown in porch or window boxes and even
in ﬂower-pots. It was also used for a bor—
der around yards and soon it had spread
to such an extent that it was no longer a
welcome guest of the household.

It spread so rapidly and to such a tre—
mendous distance that it had taken over
the lands that were commonly used for
grazing and farming. Acre after acre had
to be given up to the attack of the invad-
ing plant pest. Nothing seemed able to
stop the rapid growth of this cactus until
scientists offered to lend a most welcome
hand.

They started a battle against the cactus
with a moth that was taken from South
America. In a short time the section in-
vaded by the moth was showing a decided
improvement, so far as the cactus was con—
cerned. It looked like an impossible task
for the little moth to conquer, for the
plants had already covered over ﬁfty mil—
lion acres of land. However, the moths
seem to be taking the upper hand wherever
they have spread.

Between ten and ﬁfteen million acres of
farm land have been returned to the people
so far and the battle is not nearly over.
The people of Australia are certainly
watching an interesting battle between two
of nature’s greatest forces.

They were so delighted at the results
shown by the moths that it was decided
that the lowly little insect should have its
due recognition. For its great aid a monu-
ment was built to its honor even before its
work is done. This is undoubtedly one of
the strangest memorials that was ever
erected in that country or any other part
of the civilized world.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 119

 

A KUDU FEARLESSLY COMES FOR HIS DAILY TIDBIT

Even wild animals respond quickly to kindness and gentleness as soon as they
realize that they have nothing to fear from Man. This young kudu, one of the most
graceful species of African antelopes, has become so accustomed to the daily stopping
of the train at a wayside station in South Africa that it walks fearlessly up onto the
platform, past Kaﬂir boys and white railway employes, and daintily nibbles any tidbit
that is offered by a friendly passenger. Notice the beautiful markings on its sleek coat,
and the delicacy of the tiny feet that can ﬂy so swiftly when danger threatens.

 

Bat Caves of the Southwest

M . E . M E L V I N

N the oldest underground abode of man

or beast on this continent lives the queer-
est thing that ﬂies—the bat. Some 15,000,—
000 years ago, geysers and mud volcanoes
bored their way through the earth, leaving
enormous underground caverns. In some of
these bats have lived for centuries.

In the Southwest there are three well-
known caverns of this kind. One is at
Carlsbad, New Mexico, a part of the fa-
mous caverns which visitors seldom see, an-
other is in the bad lands of Northwest
Oklahoma, known as Alabaster Cave, and
the third is in Southwest Oklahoma, a few
miles from the city of Mangum. As ideal
homes for bats they are all alike. A de—
scription of one ﬁts all three.

Many and varied estimates have been
made as to the number of bats that inhabit
these caves. A United States Biological
Survey estimated the number of Carlsbad
at three millions. Many visitors to the other
caves assert that there are as many in each
of the other two as at Carlsbad.

The habit of the bat is to hibernate in
cool weather. It begins its nightly ﬂight
from the middle of May until the ﬁrst of
June, and goes in for the winter with the
ﬁrst cool weather, about October 15.

On a mild afternoon in early June visi-
tors go out to the cave to witness the ﬂight
of the bats. They wait near by until almost
sundown. Presently some one notices a
single bat coming out and cruising around,
then returning. It is the “pilot bat.”
Directly the party hears a whirring sound
far back in the cavern, which grows in vol-
ume. The sound comes from uncounted
thousands of bats releasing their hold on
the cavern ceiling to join in the milling
around within the cavern before the ﬂight
begins.

With a speed like that of a bullet they
come out and ascend several hundred feet,
following a few leaders. It looks like a
black, dense smoke coming out of the cave.
They continue to come, until it is too dark
to see them. The mouth of the cave is only
about twenty-ﬁve feet by ﬁfteen, yet not a
bat seems ever to strike its neighbor or get
in another’s way.

At early dawn they will be seen coming
back from every quarter of the compass,
dropping with unerring accuracy into the
small opening that is the doorway to their
underground home. Their ﬂight during the
night has covered a radius of at least 100
miles from the cave.

The bat’s ﬂight is for food alone. It
feeds on night-ﬂying insects, and will con-
sume in one night half its weight. in insects
that are injurious to crops and forests.

Most people do not think very highly of
bats. In legend the bat has always been
associated with witchcraft and sorcery. A
sort of instinctive antipathy in the human
race has been built up against one of the
most useful creatures we have.

The bat is a mammal. It lays no egg and
builds no nest. The mother gives birth to
one, and occasionally two. The little ones
hang to the mother’s wing membrane for
two or three months, until able to ﬂy. Occa-
sionally the little ones will hitch-hike for a
ride with mother in search of food.

Those who have noticed the apparently
crazy antics of bats in the early twilight,
darting, suddenly changing their course,
have puzzled over this habit. It is s1mple.
The ear of the bat is the most sens1t1ve
hearing device in nature. It can detect the
hum of a tiny insect in the air which no
human ear could detect. The ear is also
aided by the highly sensitive wing mem-
brane. One never ﬁnds a bat in collis10n
with wires or limbs of trees, yet they plum-
met about them with amazing speed.

Yes, the bat is one of our queerest crea-
tures, much maligned, but highly useful.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

May, 1939
The Bluebird

F. H. TALBOT

This morn at waking time
A bluebird sang to me;

I listened as he sang
Upon a budding tree.

He flashed in morning haze
To other scenes, apart.

The magic of him stays,
His song within my heart.

Air Caruso

MARIE E. KOLZ

MAGINE a bird whistling a tune! Not

only whistling the tune but doing it
beautifully and accurately, note for note!

The mockingbird, outstanding songbird
of the United States, can whistle a tune
that is not very long or complicated, and
how he loves to do it! He often fools people
with his whistling too. Naturally, when one
hears a familiar tune being Whistled he
thinks some person is near and may watch
the brush or trees from whence the beau-
tiful sound comes, expecting momentarily
to see someone emerge.

If no one appears in sight, the watcher
may become curious about the whistling
that continues to ﬂood the air, ﬁrst from
one place, then from another. When the
person approaches the trees where the
mockingbird is, the whistling may stop.
However, if one is careful not to make any
noise he may be fortunate enough to catch
a glimpse of the mockingbird perched on
some branch or ﬂying through the air, still
Whistling merrily.

The mockingbird can keep people guess-
ing, for he not only imitates whistling but
also the songs of other birds and many
different kinds of sounds.

One may hear what sounds exactly like
a rooster crowing from a branch near the
top of a tall tree and wonder how a chicken
could have gotten way up there. Upon in-
vestigation it will be found that a mocking—
bird is doing the crowing, and apparently
enjoying it. Perhaps he likes a joke as well
as people do.

There is the postman’s whistle! Or is it?
No postman is in sight but if one looks
carefully at the hedge across the road he
may see the black, white, and gray mimic
there, a mockingbird.

That sounds like Dad’s squeaky wheel-
barrow but if one runs out to meet him he
may not be there. How can one account for
that familiar squeak? The mockingbird
may be having a lot of fun at someone’s
expense for there he is ﬂying from, limb to
limb of a tree while he makes the sound
like the squeak of a wheelbarrow—a per-
fect imitation.

The mockingbird may start singing while
perched on the limb of a tree, then start off
to investigate some tasty-looking berry on
a bush, or something else that interests
him—and continue his song all the while.

The talented singer, the mockingbird
deserves being considered an air Caruso,
for he sings with apparent ease, his song
bursting forth in the very joy of living.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

OUR DUllIB ANIMALS
Late Nest Builders

ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

HAT a busy time spring is for our

birds! How they ﬂy hither and yon ‘

gathering materials, weaving them into a
bed for the nestlings, then spending every
minute ﬁlling hungry mouths with food!
But there are two of our daintiest birds
that spend the springtime as we all some-
times think we’d like to spend it, just

 

 

CEDAR WAXWINGS

ﬂitting about under blue skies and revel-
ing in the ﬂowers and sunshine.

These two exquisite little creatures are
the goldﬁnch, commonly known as wild
canary, and the cedar waxwing.

Very different are the two. We are
better acquainted with the goldﬁnch as he
ﬂits about in his undulant ﬂight, singing
on the wing as well as when he alights. He
is a beautiful sight as he sways on a slen-
der ﬂower—stem. I saw four of them last
summer on my yellow coreopsis and won-
dered if they knew how well their color
matched the ﬂowers and if that is why they
preferred the coreopsis to the pink and red
and white things near by. Their black cap
and wings and tail against the bright yellow
of the rest of their plumage make a gor-
geous color combination.

Not until August does the goldﬁnch settle
down to nest building. Then he and his mate
collect grass and shreds of bark to weave
into a nest which is lined with thistledown.
Even then the song of the male does not
cease, for the female does the building while
he furnishes a musical accompaniment to
the work.

The waxwings are not so familiar as the
goldﬁnches. They travel in ﬂocks and eat
berries, cherries, worms and insects. They
descend upon a spot and stay till the food
supply is exhausted, then off they go to a
new feeding-ground. But lucky is the day
when you see them alight in a tree, prefer-
ably a cedar. After a good meal they will

, . A“... um»; mmw‘

Page ’71

seek such a resting-place, arrange them-
selves in a row on a branch, as polite and
prim as though they were listening to a
lecture. Then you can see their rich brown
plumage, so perfectly well-groomed, the
black band around the head, and the red
waxen tips of their wings. You will hear
no song for they are almost silent.

Not till late summer do they break up
their companies and go off in pairs to build
their nests in orchards or places where the
food they like abounds. Though they seem
the best-groomed of all our birds, they are
content with a nest quite in contrast with
the dainty little featherbed of the goldﬁnch,
for they build with what is handy in the
way of twigs and grass and odds and ends
of string and feathers.

Why do these two late nest builders wait
so long to raise their broods? Some natural—
ists have surmised that the goldﬁnch waits
for the thistledown to make the softest of
linings for the nest. They may be right, but
it seems more likely that both the goldﬁnch
and the waxwing wait till the food they
like best is abundant.

Not far from my home is a cornﬁeld.
Each year when the corn is in. tassel, a
number of goldﬁnches come and peek at the
tassels for the pollen grains. It is inter-
esting to watch the young birds, when they
are old enough to ﬂy, settle on top of a
swaying cornstalk and utter a plaintive
little “be—be,” as they wait to be fed.

“Don’t rush,” say both the waxwing and
the goldﬁnch. “When the proper time comes
to bring up a family, Nature will have an

abundant store for us to choose from.”
J [l

Shy but Curious

WILLIS MEHANNA

One of our interesting and self-reliant,
though not very common, midwest birds is
the vesper sparrow, called by some the
hedge sparrow. His colors are chestnut on
head and neck, breast and sides streaked
with dark and large chestnut spots on
wings. The tail shows some white when the
bird is ﬂying. This bird is a good singer
and sings mostly in the quiet of the even-
ing. It lives pretty much among low bushes
and brush piles, especially brush that has
been piled in sloughs. These brush piles in
sloughs often afford it quite a protection
since it is similar to them in color. Some-
times ﬂocks of them take refuge in these
piles.

While it is rather shy of man I have
seen the vesper sparrow wait along the
rows of corn when I was plowing, and as I
came along turning over the soil it would
grab up the worms before they could get
away. It and the big blackbird both know
how to work a man in helping them get
their food. It nests in low bushes and on
the ground, usually laying four grayish
eggs with brown spots on them. It some—
times lingers in the thick bushes and brush
piles until quite late in the fall but ﬁnally
goes south to winter.

The chameleon possesses swivel eyes
which whirl in their sockets independently
of each other. One of them may be looking
upward while the other gazes at the
ground; or one could be watching happen-
ings in front, while the other keeps a per-
fect check-up on the rear.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Jane, 1939

 

 

 

 

 

An Invitation
VIRGINIA CUNNINGHAM

The children of the morning over hills and meadows play
And the birds with happy voices greet the coming of the day.
FU'Sl, the Tobin’s merry chirrap, then the redbird’s whistled

cheer,
And the warble of the house wren are the songs we wake to
hear.
Oh, tfhe woods are full of singers and their songs are glad and
ree;
Won’t (UQO'ZL come and go a-birding in the morning-time with
me.

A Remarkable Bird

N South America there is a remarkable bird called the

golden—crested trumpeter. This bird is like a crane in its
general appearance. It is also known as the agami or the
yakamik.

The body of this bird is about the same size as a pheasant,
but 1t has very long legs so that it can run very fast, though
1t ﬂies very poorly.

The people of South America train this bird so that it
becomes as docile as. a dog; and it seems also to be almost as
intelligent as any domestic animal of which we know. Indeed
1t is said that these curious birds will take care of large ﬂocks
of sheep, leading them to pasture early in the morning and

caring for them all day unaided. If any stray animals approach
the ﬂock, the golden-crested trumpeter will attack them with
beak and wings, and usually succeeds in driving them away,
for this bird is said to be much stronger than most dogs.

Children’s Verse Contest

The contest, sponsored by the American Humane Education
S0c1ety, for the best unpublished verse of four lines relating
to kindness to animals, sent in by children under 12 years of
age, closed June 1. Announcement of the awards, and publica-
t10n on this page of the three verses winning cash prizes, will
appear in the July issue of Our Dumb Animals.

 

DON’T FORGET TO FEED YOUR PETS REGULARLY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 95

 

 

\‘)l’4
. J
“1: '- “

\ .~

\ka
>1, ~
I»

\ -

\\
\
xx:

 

 

 

 

“Laddie” Likes to Hold the Reins

L ADDIE,” a minister’s dog, proved that he was his broth-
er’s keeper when “Baldy,” a riding pony also owned by
the pastor, broke loose from his stable moorings and began a
cross-country trek back to his former home, ﬁfteen miles away.
Laddie, who is a stay-at—home dog, broke training rules and
stuck closer than a leech to his charge all night, and when the
pair was found next morning, he was tugging at Baldy’s
bridle, as though pleading “Baldy, oh Baldy, come home with
me now, the clock in the steeple . . .” The picture shows the
pose the horse and dog were in when the rescue party caught
up with them.

Hidden Animals and Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

In each of the following sentences is hidden both a bird
and an animal. See if you can ﬁnd them all.

1. My Uncle Murdoch is rich, but likes meals that are simple
and wholesome, and forests with rushing streams rather
than cities.

2. His wants were few when he came last summer to stay
with us.

3. Most rich people prefer retinues of servants to look after
their wants.

4. His dog is smart in some ways, but a crab bit him three
times before he learned to leave it alone.

5. Perhaps I should say the crab nipped him, but a bite, also,
on your nose can be a rather painful thing.

6. Put that top hoe below the other right where that nob is
on the wall.

7. Will Arkansas be a very good place for your holidays this
year?

8. Now let us pack and we will go at the ﬁrst opportunity as
the ﬂood recedes.

9. They will soon span the river with a bridge, and over the
canyon there will be one also.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

. ‘_4ﬂ_:1_4 44 “,4: . 1

\~_____.4_4 ”A141 1 . . -

 

Dec. 1989

 
 

T‘..._;. w' . ..,.w—_w£Z-.-.A:E.:{u£o_'_ athei‘A

 

 

   

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

0h, Christmas is a happy time,
For loved and sheltered pets;
But how about those friendless folk,
A merry world forgets?
The shivering bird, the wandering squirrel,
And every sort of stray——
Let’s place them on our Yuletide list,
For gifts this Christmas Day!

Pink Toes and White Snow

CONRAD O. PETERSON

PAUSED to watch the woodcutters, as they sawed a huge

white maple into short lengths for stove wood. A large
chunk of wood dropped from the saw. “Mice,” grunted one of
the men as he pointed. Stepping closer I noticed that the tree
was slightly hollow, and this hollow was ﬁlled with brown
and green particles. Their winter storehouse! Tree buds,
small nuts, weed seeds, etc. In fact, everything they could
garner! But where were the mice? We soon found them!

Five brown and gray scampering mites of the wild! All had
pink toes! And the snow two feet deep, and the temperature
ﬁfteen below zero! The woodcutters continued sawing so the
mice had to leave their. home. A ﬂurry, and they disappeared
in the snow! An icy touch for small bare feet!

The mice would freeze to death I thought, as I walked
homeward through the forest. But nature must protect her
children! Here and there throughout the brush, I noticed
numerous small tracks! Mice! They practically lived in the
snow! No doubt burrowing into old logs and clusters of weeds
and brush. Living on whatever Mother Nature gave them.
Storing up for the future. Living in constant danger!

I was cold in my heavy boots and woollen clothes! They,
with their bare pink toes, managed to live in an icy land.

Burros Must Drink

FRED CORNELIUS

BURRO can go a long time without water if he is living
Aon green grass and weeds. But if he eats nothing but
grain and dry hay he becomes thirsty in a few hours and will
suffer terribly if not given a drink.

I once knew an old Mexican man who owned a burro. He
hitched the burro to a small wagon and did hauling for the
people of the city. This was hard work, but the old man was
kind to his animal and never loaded the wagon too heavily,
nor did he ever try to make the burro go fast.

When the burro became thirsty he would stop, and then the
old man would take a bucket from his wagon, go to the nearest
house, get the bucket full of water, and set it before the
burro. After the animal had drunk the old man would put the
bucket back in the wagon, climb into the seat, and cluck to
the burro, which would start moving slowly down the street.

merry (Ehristmaz En All

 

CHRISTMAS IN THE COUNTRY

Page 191

 

In Snowdrift Land

HENRY H. GRAHAM

The trees that once were bright and gay,
And full of leafy shade,

Are sleeping this December day
Down in the sylva-n glade.

The chipmunks that delighted you
By eating from your hand,

Are sleeping the long winter through
Far out in snowdrift land.

You fear your woodland friends are dead
Because they can’t be seen,

But they have only gone to bed——
Hidden by Winter’s screen.

 

 

 




:fzii'f‘v711'rewlj ‘7"“j‘5‘fﬁ '- 53“!" ﬁrm-r arr-5"?

The American Ofﬁcers of Both Societies The Massachusetts Society

S DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President FOR THE

i o iet G RI . .

Humane Educat on c y UY CHARDSON, Secretary Preventionof Cruelty toAnImals
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY 85 STOREY

    
   

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH, Y
KINDNESS, JUSTICE.)

AND MERCY T0 .'
'. EVERY LIVING
- CREATURE.

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

Operated by the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

    
      
    

170-184 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by CEO. T. ANGELL in 1868

Ofﬁcial organ of all our Societies

 

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-Pres. and Treas., United Shoe Machinery Corp.

PHILIP STOCKTON. Chairman, Executive Committee, First National Bank of Boston

Receiving no aid from city, state or community fund, the Societies are supported by
gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual,$1.;
Children’s $0.75.

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. is
especially throughout the countr
than in the cities,

greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
. y districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even
particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

.The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931, and a Clinic at Attleboro, in Octo-

ber, 1938. Altogether we have treated 626,203 animals, 178,436 in the two Hospitals and
447,767 in the three Dispensaries.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1939
My Dog Is Dead

HE following editorial appeared re-

cently in The Boston Traveler. The
author, Mr. Toye, has long been a friend of
our Society and of the wide world of animal
life. We reproduce the editorial here be-
cause we know it will appeal to the vast
multitudes who have passed through the
same bitter experience.

“I’m a maudlin fool, of course.

“I cried when my dog died.

“I had little to do to cry over a dog when
there are children dying. But I do cry
when children die. Even my dog used to
whimper his sympathy when one of our
own children was ill. Our children cried
when “Ginger” was ill. I guess we all cried
when Ginger did not breathe any more.
We none of us cried audibly—just moistly.
It was really our hearts that cried.

“Ginger had a lot to do with making a
man of me. He was a stray that came into
the ofﬁce nearly twelve years ago. I took
him home and he grew up with the children.
How they romped together! He was happy
and courageous and clean and, in short, a
gallant gentleman.

“I studied him and he studied me. He
would come over and just rest his chin on
my knee—and look up. He wasn’t asking
for anything. He was merely indorsing our
mutual friendship and respect. As I
watched Ginger, I saw that he put his heart
into whatever thing he might be doing.
And when he fought Ginger never objected
to the odds against him. His vocabulary
knew no whine.

“Ginger was much more civilized than I.
He knew how to relax. I tried to learn from
him. Therein I failed, although by example
he taught me better how to be a bit more of
an all-round gentleman.

“To the very last Ginger kept to his code.
In pain, he remembered. Torn by hemor-
rhage, he sounded no complaint. We were
with him. That was all he ever asked of
life, or of death—to be with us, whatever
our fortune.

“I know I’m a maudlin fool. I wish I
were as sure I am one part the gallant
gentleman my dog was. Human beings are
supposed to be superior to the beast.”

A Determined Puppy
MARIE E. KOLZ

PLAYFUL puppy in. a garden of the

rarest ﬂowers! It could not be toler—
ated on account of the destruction that
would be certain to result.

So thought Luther Burbank, the noted
plant genius, as he watched uneasily the
playful antics of a little brown and white
fox terrier that had come into his yard and
was romping happily at his feet.

Burbank had no idea where the puppy
had come from but he felt that he must get
rid of it as soon as possible. The kind man
did not want to send the helpless dog away
hungry so took it into the house and fed it
before placing it outside his gate. He hoped
the puppy would. then go home but instead
she found an opening in the fence and
squeezed through and ran back joyfully to
the worried man.

Burbank again put the puppy outside the
gate but it was of no use for she hurried

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

back to him. Her playfulness
and apparent trust in him
quickly won a place in the
famous man’s heart for the
little dog and he decided to
give her a trial and to keep
her if possible.

Thus started one of the ﬁn-
est and most devoted friend—
ship between man and dog
that has ever been recorded.
Burbank gave his little pet a
name of endearment, “Bonita.”
From the day Bonita came
into his life, Burbank was a
happier man for she became
his constant companion, cher—
ished, trusted, and loved al—
ways.

Bonita would follow Bur-
bank around at his work and
seemed to love his beautiful
plants as much as he did.
Never did she injure even one,
and her master trusted her
wherever he worked in his
gardens, nothing being too
rare or marvelous a creation
for Bonita to come near. Man
and dog were together day
after day in beautiful and
trusting companionship.

GOLDEN-VOICED DEANNA DUR
HER BELOVED PET, “TIPPY”

 

 

    

BIN AND

 

Bonita perhaps met more
noted people than any other dog in the
world ever did. Whenever anyone called to
see her famous master, Bonita was there by
his side to greet them. Among those visitors
were some crowned heads and members of
the nobility from different foreign countries
as well as countless famous people of our
own United States. Thomas Edison held
the little fox terrier on his lap and was
proud to do so although he was the great
Edison to whom we owe a debt of gratitude
for our electric lights.

Many happy years passed by for Burbank
and his faithful pet, but sad days came
when the kind man became seriously ill.
Bonita stayed by his bed constantly and for
three days before her loved master’s death
she would not eat. His trembling hand gave
her a ﬁnal pat one day, a touch that re-
called many happy ones of the past.

Joy went from Bonita’s life when her
master’s body was taken away, but when it
was returned to the home to lie in state she
crept into the room and found a place be-
neath the casket where she kept her last
vigil among the banked—up ﬂowers that both
she and her master had loved so well.

Bonita lived several years after the death
of Burbank and gave her affection and trust
to Mrs. Elizabeth Waters Burbank, her
master’s widow. When Bonita died she was
buried in the Experimental Garden where
she had gone joyfully many times with her
loved master.

Burbank, the noted horticultural genius,
had taken into his heart the little dog that
came so strangely into his life, determined
to stay there. And Bonita, that little fox
terrier, repaid the kind man through a
faithfulness and a devotion that even death
could not efface.

The new bound volume of “Our Dumb
Animals,” for 1938, is now ready. Price
$1.00, postpaid to any address.

Deanna Durbin and “Tippy”
HELEN DOSS

OUR years ago a twelve—year-old girl

in ankle socks and pig-tails walked
into a Los Angeles pet shop. “I want a
dog,” she announced, clutching her precious
two dollars and a bag of peanuts.

“Any particular kind?” the shopkeeper
smiled.

The little girl’s eyes roamed over the
rows of cages. “Could I just k1nd of look
around awhile?”

A telephone buzzed, and the man dis-
appeared behind a stack of bird cages. “Go
ahead,” he called. “I’ll be right back.”

Around the room the little girl walked,
offering peanuts to poodles and pekes,
dachshunds and Dobermans, collies and
chows. But they all refused her offerings.
Finally she reached a silky black pup that
didn’t look quite like a spaniel—or yet like
a shepherd. But he gobbled up the peanut
with relish and his brown eyes pleaded for
more.

It didn’t take the little girl long to make
up her mind. “This is the dog I want!” she
called gleefully to the approaching shop-
keeper.

As the man later showed his happy cus-
tomer to the door, he never dreamed that
this youngster holding so tightly to her new-
found friend would soon be a great smgmg
star, adored by the world. For she was
Deanna Durbin, the girl whose golden voice
thrills all who hear her over the radio or
on the screen. '

Yet, in spite of all the fame and fortune
the last few years have brought her, Deanna
remains the simple, unspoiled girl of the
pet shop. Ask her what is her greatest
interest in life, and she will say, “Why,
‘Tippy’ is my greatest interest in life!”

 

 

 

 

 




(I;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Mar.1939 .
53hr {tenth of ﬂung

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, special Band of Mercy literature and a gilt
badge for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ Eight hundred and seventy—nine new Bands
i of Mercy were organized during January.
1 , Of these, 221 were in Massachusetts, 212 in
1 Georgia, 146 in Rhode Island, 83 in Florida,
i 80 in Illinois, 66 in South Carolina, 36 in
. E Vrginia, 18 in Texas, ten in Pennsylvania,
f three in Tennessee, and one each in Maine,
u E Nebraska, New York and North Carolina.
H E
ii : Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
E E ized by Parent American Society, 237,632.
1‘
E E . .
‘E E Mr. Matta Carries On
The December report of Mr. N. B. Matta,
president of the Oriental Humane Educa-
E , ' , , . - tion Society with headquarters in Lebanon,
E; E SCENE IN ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL—DOG ON PLATE mentlogs many commumcatlons fro-“item?
E E HOLDER USED IN TAKING X—RAYS OF THE CHEST ers telling of the good work of then pupi s
E E With regard to kindness to animals. The
ﬁeld lecturer organized 13 Bands of Mercy
E ‘ in Transjordan and three in Lebanon, with
The Dark Man 0 M - - -
WMEMORIALMM - f ”0 arr; “hit.
H , ,
HOSPITAL KADRA MAYSI
1% 1 dogs, two mules, two horses and one ass.
E, ‘ and DiSPensary for Animals The Dark Man of Mayo Nine cats and four dogs were cared for,
‘ 184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100 Can never see the sky— while tWO COWS, ﬁve dogs and one horse
, Veterinarians The gray sky of Connacht were restored to their owners.
H H. F. DAILEY, . . ., Ch‘ St - - . .
‘t R. H. SCHNEIDIi'RN,‘ 2.51.0333. ci‘iif With the Wild geese drwmg by'
i E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M. '
1 $.13. ShillgilzquFOIl‘l‘Ev 11:11:..1) He cannot see the Twelve Bens O u 1' D u m b A I1 1 m a l S
C: L: BLAKELT, v.M.i) Above the mi§ts of dawn; Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
E HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent But, he talks wzth long—dead heroes the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
E And he knows the leprechaun 335331.524? Imaging: CS‘EEZZI Sigedt' Lbii§$°o°odé
l - - . :
E Springﬁeld Branch Avenue. Address all communications to Boston.
j Telephone 4-7355 The tawny fowes lead him TERMS
E 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass. To ﬁnd their secret place, One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
f Veterinarians The wild swan. feed their eygnets mi“? (:13 b , t' d, t th m
A. R' EVANS' V'M'D° H' 1" SMEAD’ D°V'M' Rafa/re h’LS Sightless face. téitle; Eh: Sgntsigrstguingiibeiiliip iiiecgitlfer (ffooucre {:23
0018 ms.
Men say the Little People RATES OF MEMBERSHIP 1N
HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY Are, always, at his side; THE 3MERICAN HUMANE EDUCATIONCSiCIETY
Yet, he cannot see Lough Corrib R THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. . .
I l d' ' ° . A t' L'f ° 1000
110 u mg Springfield Brandi And the fens where plover hzde. giggiiate‘ Eire $123 38 giiévciaiénﬂzﬁuad igg
' - ' ' 'f 20 00
Hosmtal Dmpensa” He cannot see the turf pools us ammg 1 eChildren’s t3}?
Cases entered 884 Cases 2,413 Or the frost upon the whin; A.Ch§ii{ﬁligiugfhe'irre:§$:§fs iris? iiﬁgolii Akggdig:
Dogs 666 Dogs 2,058 But, the Dark Man of Mayo Boston-
gatg 207 Cats 332 Can see your heart within. Loﬁggagso‘rirﬁs shouldeet addressed to the Editor, 180
III S 6 Birds 17 0 venue, OS on.
Horses 5 Rabbits 2
IIorse 1
Monkey 1 TO OUR FRIENDS
Squirrel 1 “ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that th - ' ' ‘ ' l
. Mink 1 The (IJVIassachusetts Society for the Prevention of érszltlgroi‘ztziilitdfaﬁf’fthafciiliedltli:
Operations 876 23:01:11; c1:C°:P°rat:d IEMaf‘Ch, 1868) Society fonthe Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
H0 '1: 1 . . un ry, an t at it has no connection With any other similar Society.
sp1 a cases Since opening Mar. A b - .
, ny equest especially intended for th b ﬁ f , ' '
1 1915 ..... 7 . e ene t o the Angell Memorial Animal
. , ................. 168,226 Hospital should, nevertheless be m (I t th M .
DIS ensar . .- i a e 0 e assachusetts Somety for the Preven-
p y cases ------------- 418,762 hon 0‘ Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital ” as
Total ._____586 988: Lieiflospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is condiicted
The Month in the Springfield Branch FORM OF BEQUEST
Cases entered in HOSpital 16 I give to The Massachusetts Societ f h ‘ '
.......... 0 . y or t e Prevention of Cruelt t A l ,,
Cases entered in DiSpensar 490 to the American Humane Education Society), the Sum of . . . . y o nima s (or
O . ' . y """" ‘-‘ dollars (or if other ro ert d 'b h ' ' . ° °°°°° ' ' ° ' ° ’ ' 3'
pei ations ........................ 168 ’ P p y, escnr e t e property). .-'«

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page’72
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by

e Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nrue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MAY, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose. manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Hurricane and the Mass-l

achusetts S. P. C. A.

T is rather late to mention it, but we

think our readers ought to know that our
state agents here in Massachusetts, after
the hurricane, did a large amount of ﬁne
service in the way of helping particularly
the poorer class of farmers who suffered
from the effects of that unexpected storm.
In many cases hay and grain were pro-
vided for animals whose shelters and what
hay and grain they had, had been destroyed,
and everything possible was done to furnish
at least temporary protection from the
weather. Even food was provided for some
of the sufferers whose small cottages were
partially destroyed and who found them-
selves practically destitute.

This was certainly a humane service for
the organization to render.

Destroying Humanely

Year by year unnumbered thousands of
injured, diseased, unwanted small animals
have to be put to sleep. From The Animals’
Friend, publication of The National Council
for Animals’ Welfare, London, we take the
following:

“These researches have shown that elec-
trocution may be either humane or ex-
tremely cruel according to the current-
strength or amperage, and it must be
remembered that, with any given electro-
cution apparatus, the amperage will vary
from animal to animal according to the
state of the coat and other conditions
affecting contact resistance. If the amper-
age is sufﬁciently high, death is caused by
stoppage of the circulation as a result of
ventricular ﬁbrillation; in this case we may
probably assume that death was humanely
caused. If, on the other hand, the amper-
age falls below the required minimum, the
animal is merely thrown into a State of
cramp or tetanization, in which it can
neither move nor scream, and it dies
eventually from suffocation. The only way
to tell whether the electrocution apparatus
1s killing by the one mode or the other is
to.have an ammeter in circuit with the
an1ma1,7a_nd to note whether the ammeter
readings exceed ,the prescribed minimum.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Was It Fair P

HE annual appeal for funds to be

given on the President’s birthday for
those now suffering or to suffer from that
dread disease of infantile paralysis natu-
rally met with a generous response. But
how is this money used? Not more ignorant
than the majority of people, we had taken
it for granted that many now suffering
from the disease would immediately and
directly beneﬁt. We were surprised, there-

fore, to read that before the Third Session .

of the hearing on House Bill 3890 in J anu-
ary, 1938, Dr. Joseph S. Wall, professor of
diseases of children at Georgetown Uni-
versity Medical School, was quoted as
follows:

“—Not one penny of that fund (the
fund contributed on the President’s
birthday for infantile paralysis) will
go to buying a crutch for a crippled
child. Not one dollar of it will go to
President Roosevelt’s pet foundation in
Georgia. The majority of the dollars
in the fund will go for the purchase of
monkeys in order that we may carry
out proper animal research.”

To be sure that Dr. Wall was correctly
quoted, we have a letter from the Dean of
Georgetown University in which he says:
“Dr. Wall assures me that this statement
was absolutely true at the time. at which it

was made. He also declares that he has .

not known of the allocation of subsequent
funds derived from the nation—wide celebra-
tion of the President’s birthday.” Dr. Wall,
however, the Dean writes, “would like to
clarify the statement to the effect that his
‘we’ implied those medical scientists who
were engaged in research on the various
problems connected with infantile paraly-
sis. He had no intention of implying that
he would receive any beneﬁt from this fund

because he is engaged in work outside this
ﬁeld.”

Now, without entering at all into any
discussion of the question of experimenta-
tion on animals, we can’t help wondering
whether the grounds on which the plea for
the funds was made were wholly fair.
There must have been thousands of people
who contributed who supposed that at least
the greater part of the money would be
used, as we have said, for the immediate
and direct beneﬁt of those now suffering.

The Goldfish Idiocy

So far as we know, every sensible per-
son ﬁnds it diﬂ‘icult to understand how
college students can think it smart or in
any way creditable to their sanity to
swallow live goldﬁsh. Wherever this ex-
hibition of idiocy started, it seems to have
become quite popular among a certain class
of students who are apparently seeking an
education in supposedly civilized days.

We do not believe that the ﬁsh really
know anything like actual suffering. Doc-
tors seem to agree that they die almost
Immediately upon entering the stomach.
There is no law by which we could secure
a conviction in a court of justice, for to
prove a violation of an anti-cruelty law in

a case like that would be practically im-
possible.

May, 1939

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
By His Excellency
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL
GOVERNOR
A PROCLAMATION
1939

This year the twenty-ﬁfth annual BE
KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK will be ob-
served throughout the nation, from April
seventeenth to April twenty-second, with

Humane Sunday on April twenty-third.
While Massachusetts has always been a

' leader in organized activities for the pro-

tection of animals, it is timely to note that
just ﬁfty years ago George T. Angell, here
in Boston, started the American Humane
Education Society, the ﬁrst of its kind in
the world, which has been a powerful inﬂu-
ence in character training through teaching
kindness to animals, especially in the public

' schools. It is indeed ﬁtting that in the home

state of this national organization and of
numerous societies for the protection of
animals, the Governor, following the cus-
tom of the past twenty years, should take
ofﬁcial action, and therefore I, Leverett
Saltonstall, Governor of Massachusetts, do
hereby proclaim the week beginning April
seventeenth as

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

and designate Sunday, April twenty—third,
as Humane Sunday, and call upon all citi-
zens of this Commonwealth to consider the
claims upon us for justice and compassion
in the treatment of the beasts of farm and
ﬁeld and forest and the birds of the air.
Long ago Hiram Powers said that “The
greatest need of America is more education
of the heart.” That need exists today and
can be met, in part, by a ready response to
the appeals on radio, in the press, in school
and in church, that will be made during
Be Kind to Animals Week in behalf of those
who cannot speak for themselves. It is
especially desirable to have a Humane Day
in the schools, and I ask that the teachers
of Massachusetts, particularly in the ele-
mentary grades, hold suitable exercises
during or near the designated dates.

GIVEN, at the Executive Chamber in Bos-
ton, this twenty-ﬁrst day of March, in
the year of our Lord one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the one hundred and sixty-third.

(Signed) LEVERETT SALTONSTALL
By His Excellency the Governor

FREDERIC W. COOK,
Secretary of the Commonwealth

GOD SAVE THE COMMONWEALTH OF
MASSACHUSETTS

The Reverend James Granger, vicar of
Shiplake, Oxfordshire, England, is said to
have preached the ﬁrst sermon against
cruelty to animals in 1772. His sermon,
strongly condemning ill-treatment of the
lower races, raised such a storm of indig-
nation that he was severely reproved by the
bishop, denounced as a mad man by his
congregation and told that he was prosti-
tuting the pulpit by introducing such a
topic in it.

 

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96

Memory’s Niche
MINA M. TITUS

In memory’s niche I’ve stored away
A host of lovely things;

The lilting notes from feathered throats,
The flash of bluebirds’ wings.

A squirrel frisking on the wall
Of moss-grown stone or rail,

The tang of frost on bare, brown ﬁelds,
A glimpse of deer or quail.

A wedge of wild geese ’gainst the sky,
The thud of nut on leaves,

The colors of the autumn woods,
The web a spider weaves.

The chirp of cricket, frogs in spring,
And fire-flies at night

That dance above a dew-drenched field
Where mist is hanging white.

A pollen-laden bumblebee,
Wide mouths above a nest,

The drip of rain, the gleam of sun,
And bright clouds in the west.

The tracks of furred and feathered folks
0n freshly-fallen snow——

All these and millions, millions more
My treasured memories show.

The Hunter Who Could Not
Kill

H E walked in a secret valley in the full
of the moon. Only the beaver watched
from his cabin of. sticks.

On a woody slope near by, in the beauti-
ful place under the pine trees, a deer softly
browsed.

He walked through deep woods; through
dark and silent forests, where the pale
moon shone on remembered loveliness;
where the streams bubble with a soft mur-
mur over rounded and colored stones.

He walked in the twilight made by the
towering trees, there in the valley of the
moon. These woods were haunted by no
predacious beasts. Only the lovely elves
were there, and the antlered herds.

In the green waters of the lake swam the
indolent trout. Salmon hurled themselves
over the waterfalls.

There was peace in the soft woods. There
was the everlasting quiet of the high hills
where the green lakes lie. But the big

trees rustled when the west wind blew.

Lost Lake shimmered in the hollow of
lonely hills. NO one ever came there from
one year’s end to the next; but the prowling
bear knew those sweet waters. When the
sun stood over the hills, the sleek otter
swam and gamboled. The otter was ecstatic;
he warmed his lovely fur in the rays of the
sun. He was happy, but he did not know
he was happy; he only knew he was alive.

The hunter put away his gun. Each
animal, each tree, he thought, is in its
place; each is like a note of music. If I kill
without cause, I destroy a note; I make
discord. I will never kill again.

The great need of animals in hot weath-
er is plenty of fresh water.

the “lion do s” will deriv 1 the world'
I‘Oﬁt in t . g-n th - .e pheatsure anal All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

p 12101 g e OI‘lg'ln, IS_ ory an title the sender to membership in either of our tWO

development of these colorful canines. The

table. of contents, which includes forty-four

chapters, must be accepted as being most
thorough and

including the leading present-day Pekes t t ALBERT
and many of the outstanding individuals of Cheeks 21d Other payments may be sen 0 I
the past, here and abroad

\\

 

 

 
   

a

OUR DUMB ANIMALS June,]939

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY About the Stamps

HE most valuable stamps that could
A PRACTICAL CAT BOOK, Ida M' H be sent us are those going back before
Mellen.

1880. If any such should be found amongst
Those who have become familiar with our readers who would care to send them,
Miss Mellen’s work and writings, and her will they kindly leave them onthe envelopes
scientiﬁc training and StUleS, should ea- as that seems to increase their value. The
gerly welcome her latest bOOk on the cat. ordinary domestic and foreign stamps
Besides being one Of the foremost authori- should not be cut or trimmed, but torn
ties on aquatic life, She now ranks Wlth the from the corner with part of the envelope.
best informed concerning our domestic

 

 

- - u - We are very grateful to all the people
:ghgirhi” sometimes called, the ﬁreSIde who have been remembering us.
“My opportunities to study. cats,” she .
modestly states, “have been limited to a A 8011: Of BlI'Cl ClOWIl
period of twenty-four years. One would
need to have uninterrupted studies for at WILLIS MEHANNA
least a century to discover all there is to . .
know.” In color the green heron is greenish black
After correcting eighteen popular mis- above with sides of head chestnut and neck

conceptions about the cat, the author claims chestnut with white streak down front to
that all domestic cats are of one genus and lower breast. Breast and stomach dusky

one specieS; that, fundamentally, one breed and still with all these colors the bird has a
is no more intelligent. than another. All dark greenish appearance even at a short
breeds found in the United States are com-

- ~ . ° . h l 1 head and
pletely covered, and their care from kitten- géifni: hIats aafunoiilg if; 113:2;ch when ﬂy-
hood to maturity and age discussed in full. . ‘ y p f
A chapter on feeding contains a table of mg, as though the Wings were too strong 01"
proper foods for ready reference. Another the weight 0f the bOdY- It IS mostly W1ng§:
highly important section concerns diseases legs, neck and plumes. The green heron IS

and parasites and their treatment in the a summer visitor and builds its nest of
light of latest discoveries and methods. sticks and boughs in the low, thick branches
There is a selected bibliography of about

of trees on the creek bank. The e s are

E5 Etlefs, ini‘iging a Hat Of twelilre best cat usually four in number and blue. Sing a
00 S or c i ren, an a com ete cross- - - - -

index which will enable the retiner to ﬁnd wading blrd Its fOOd.IS mostly small ﬁSIh’
instantly any needed information on the crawﬁshes and the insect life.common(317
cat. Many excellent and unusual photo- found in creeks. Its only note is a soun
graphs grace this superior book. In fact between a croak and a quack, uttered when
there is no more distinctive and outstand- the bird is startled 01' frightened. It 15
ing work on the cat now available. a useful and harmless bird and is seldom

230 pp. $2.50, Charles Scribner’s Sons, molested-
New York.

 

 

THENPIEJIHNGESE, Anna Katherine O u T D urn b Animals
1C Gas.

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by

~ - . , t e Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
.The rapidly grOWIHg DOPUlarity Of thlS Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
oriental breed is Still further enhanced by Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-

the presentation Of this authoritative VOl- enue. Address all communications to Boston.
ume whose author is a breeder, exhibitor TERMS

and judge. Many besides the fanciers Of One dollar per year. Postage free to any part Of

Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

. exhaustive, covering all OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
phases and subjects relating to the Peking- Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10.00
ese breed. gssociate Life 50 00 Associate Annual :33

. . . ustaining Life 20 00 Annua
The book also contains 185 Illustrations, Children’s $0.75

A. POLL RD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
. Boston.

. . . Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
141 pp. $2., Judy Publishing 00., Chicago. Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind th
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.
Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,’ ’ as

the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted
by it.

FORM OF REQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

(or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 120

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

AUGUST, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

It Is Still There

E wonder how many remember that

there was erected nineteen years
ago, in the Massachusetts State House at
Boston, a bronze tablet, forty by sixty
inches in size, bearing the following in-
scription:

“This tablet is erected to the mem-
ory of the horses, dogs, and other ani—
mals whose faithful service, whose
sufferings and whose death were part
of the price paid in the great World
War, 1914-1919, waged in behalf of the
liberties of mankind.”

The tablet was accepted on behalf of the
State by Governor Calvin Coolidge. At its
dedication Dr. Rowley said:

“So far as it is possible to learn, never
before has a state or nation by act of its
legislative body granted place within its
capitol for a memorial to perpetuate the
memory of those lowlier fellow-creatures
whose faithful service, whose suffering and
death were a part of the price paid in
defense of its liberties.”

A correspondent writes, after visiting a
Ringling Show, that in the center ring
there was a great cage ﬁlled with perform-
ing lions and tigers, that all seemed young
and cowed. Only one named “King” had
not been thoroughly broken, and he was
prodded and urged and shot at but would
not obey until a hot iron was brought in,
which so thoroughly terriﬁed him he yielded
instantly to perform his trick. The cor-
respondent also says that ﬁre and ﬂaming
torches were much in evidence in the lion
acts.

There are mysteries that shadow us in
the presence of death which neither science
nor religion has ever solved. To bury out
of sight such a friend as a dog whose affec-
tion, whose ﬁdelity, whose forgiveness have
been yours for long years of companion-
ship awakens questions that ﬁnd no answer.
And yet there are those of us who trust——

“That nothing walks with aimless feet;
That not one life shall be destroyed,
Or cast as rubbish to the void,

When God hath made the pile complete.”

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Preventing the Growth of
Horns

We have always advocated preventing
the growth of horns on calves by the use
of caustic potash; that is, where one wishes
hornless cattle, or to prevent the possibility
of someone’s later dehorning them. Moisten
the spot on the calf’s head where the be-
ginning of the horn is felt, and then rub
lightly, till red, with the caustic potash,
not breaking the skin. We have often done
this, and never observed anything like suf-
fering on the calf’s part except a slight
shaking of the head for a very few min-
utes. It should be done before the calf is
two weeks old, the younger the better.
The following in this connection is worth
knowing: The pain from the use of caustic
potash yields quickly to the application of
water, a fact by no means known even by
all veterinarians. We fancy that generally
the spot is rubbed too hard with the potash.

Pennsylvania and its Hunters

In the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin of
a recent issue, we are told that a $312,000
fund was set aside by the Legislature to
provide more sport for game hunters of
Pennsylvania. The Commission expects to
buy, so we are told, some 50,000 cotton-
tails, 9,000 ringneck pheasants, 6,000 Hun-
garian partridges, 3,500 bob-white quail,
and raccoons. Evidently $25,000 has been
appropriated for trapping and transferring
rabbits and pheasants from propagating
areas to places where they may be trapped
or shot by the hunters.

The Dog Star

Five thousand years before the Christian
era, the Egyptian peasant, as he watched
each year for the happening of the great
miracle, the rising of the Nile, noticed that
its gracious waters began to trickle over
his parched land just at the time that a
certain glorious star appeared above the
horizon. And so inevitably did the rising
of the Nile follow upon the rising of the
star that, to the peasant, the star’s faith-
fulness could only be compared to the faith-
fulness of his dog, and thus Sirius came to
be called the Dog Star.

The Scottish S. P. C. A.

In reporting the Annual Prize Essay
Competition for 1939, the secretary of the
Scottish Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals says that 30,060 essays
were written in 510 schools. The subject of
the essay was, “How are animals better
treated today than 100 years ago, and
why?” To awaken enough interest in 30,000
pupils to lead them to write an essay upon
such a question as the one just referred to
is a ﬁne tribute to the Scottish Society’s
enthusiastic humane education work.

Who are some of our most generous con-
tributors? Friends who are among those
also doing most for unfortunate children.
Kindness is not a water-tight compartment
virtue.

Aug. 1939

For the Benefit of Our
Society

It is a Book, the Title of Which is
“They Know Not”

Dr. George Sanford Foster, a well-
known New Hampshire surgeon, has writ-
ten a story with the above title. Anxious
to do something to further the interest of
the cause we represent, Dr. Foster’s plan
has been that a generous percentage of the
price of the book as it is sold should come
to The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Written by a New Englander, the scene
of the tragic story he tells is laid in New
England. It is not, though a novel, a work
of ﬁction. It is, rather, a book built upon
facts personally known to the author, the
life of its characters followed for years
with a deep, personal interest in their
career—a career fraught with unchanging
love and ﬁdelity. A young husband charged
with murder, a crime he did not commit,
forces the loyal wife to a sacriﬁce which,
though involving a profound question of
morals, ﬁnally wins the victory for which
love has made the sacriﬁce.

Of the book it has been said, “Here is
a philosophy of living that creates some-
thing new out of accepted human values
and which raises the otherwise common-
place events to epic heights.”

The price of the book is $2.50. The So-
ciety will be glad to send it, postpaid, to
those who may be interested in the story
and who, by their purchases, may therefore
contribute to the interest of the organiza-
tion.

A Noted State Trooper

In an editorial in a northern New York
State paper, the story is told of the death
of Captain Broadﬁeld who was commander
of Troop “B” of the State Constabulary.
He is spoken of as “a man with a broad
conception of his public responsibilities and
a magnetic personality. He was big
enough to dispense with formality, disci-
pline and rigid rules, and never too busy to
see anyone, particularly the humble peti-
tioner for aid or protection.”

We have just received a letter from a
resident of Malone, New York, Captain
Broadﬁeld’s home, telling us of the invalu-
able service he and his troopers always
rendered to the cause of animal protection.
His loss in this respect it will be hard to
replace.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has always
found our State troopers here most willing
to co-operate with it in its work.

We read in the July issue of The Dogs’
Bulletin that thousands of dogs in Eng-
land have been destroyed at the request of
owners, fearing what might happen to
them in case of a war. Under the evacua-
tion scheme, the authorities have made no
provision for dogs, and state that the dogs
must not be taken with owners who are to
be transferred to places of safety. No sat-
isfactory gas mask, apparently, has been
found for the unfortunate dog in case of
an outbreak of hostilities.




 

:1}
'C‘
in

    

,i

 

m‘ 1.94.“;

I;
a;

‘\ a:

!

 

,A)!’
i
f

   

um." ,_

 

       

   

~.,v~_

   

J"

      

r ,0‘

     

 

2W».-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagelll OUR DUMB ANIMAL

Lost Puppy

ELEANOR ALLETTA CHAFFEE

cat.

ing that we shoot and wound pheasants,
grouse, and other “game” with impunity)
our behavior is nothing short of eccentric.
Consider the following:
Trying to free two pigeons he had un-
wittingly trapped, a man aged sixty-four

I don’t know what there is in Heaven for
him.
But if he waited at the gate, one paw

Hugged to his breast, his eyes ﬁlled to the
brim

S Sept. 1939.

water to clutch from destruction a dog or

Executing Your Own Will

AN ANNUITY PLAN

But when it comes to birds (remember—

You give to either of our two Societies
any sum of money, and it will be used for
the humane objects for which

the Society
is chartered.

With hope and love, perhaps a little awe,
I know They understood.

He wasn’t neat.

His coat was often thick with burrs, and
mud

Encased like rubbers all four crusted feet.
He admitted with apologetic thud
Of friendly tail, no gentleman would care
To be seen thus. He hated to be cleaned.
It hurt his pride to be so wet and bare.

Perhaps celestial ﬁelds are thoroughly
gleaned

Of weeds, and in green pastures he may
scratch

lVith one ear listening for a lifting latch!

The Inconsistent English
CHRIS SEWELL

E English are undoubtedly an in—

W consistent people, and never more so

than as regards our treatment of animals.

We think nothing of hounding a beauti-
ful stag to its piteous death, chasing a
timid hare, or torturing fox cubs; yet, on
occasion, we take meticulous pains (indeed
we often risk life itself) to succor some
other of God’s creatures.

Listen to this:

“A kitten chased up a tree by a dog in
Twickenham Park, where it remained all
night, was rescued by the Fire Brigade!”

While the beam of a portable searchlight
cut the midnight darkness, to keep the
drowning victim (a cat) in View, a fully—
manned lifeboat was launched from the
deck of H. M. S. Deﬁance in Devonport
Harbor to speed to the rescue.

Puss was saved!

A hospital nurse climbed down the face
of a highly dangerous cliff, and pushed up
to safety a sheep which had stuck on a
ridge. She might have been killed at any
given moment.

These few examples are copied at ran-
dom from recent daily newspapers, and it
is no exaggeration to assert that scarcely
a week passes in which someone does not

scale the giddy heights of a tree, rush into
a burning house, dash almost (sometimes
quite) under the wheels of an oncoming
motor car, or plunge fully clothed into

\

for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a
inscribed with donor’s name.
permanent endewment of free stalls and

kennels will be given upon application to
the Treasurer.

fell twenty feet into the Bell Tower on
Coventry Cathedral spire. He died.

A couple of wagtails built their nest
between the springs and the ﬂoor of a coal
wagon, parked for the week-end. On Mon—
day the wagon resumed work, and the
birds’ nest with it, the wagtails building
whenever it stopped. Five ﬂuffy chicks
were reared, and, knowing my countrymen,
I dare to say that if anyone had interfered
with those chicks, he would have answered
for it to the driver of the wagon!

At Speke Airport skylarks nested in a
patch of grass in the center of the tarmac,
where big Continental air liners land and
take off. Pilots and airport ofﬁcers took
great care not to disturb the birds.

The same thing happened on an im-
portant football ﬁeld. The nest was “railed
off,” and strictly respected.

And only the other day a pair of auda—
cious sparrows arranged their home in an
iron galleon ornamenting one of the posts
outside Buckingham Palace—in full view

of Royalty. Anxious pains are being taken
that the family shall be reared in safety!

Can you (in the parlance of your most
expressive land) “beat it?”

The late Ambassador Walter Hines
Page was formerly editor of the World’s
Work and, like all editors, was obliged to
refuse a great many stories. A lady once
wrote him: “Sir: You sent back last week
a story of mine. I know that you did not
read the story, for as a test I had pasted
together pages 18, 19, and 20, and the
story came back with those pages still
pasted; and so I know you are a fraud and
reject stories before reading them.”

Mr. Page wrote back: “Madame: At
breakfast when I open an egg I don’t have
to eat the whole egg to discover it is bad.”

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars

suitable marker
Terms of

 

In making your will, kindly bear in mi
“The Massachusetts S
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society
in the country, and that it has no co
Any bequest especially intended for the

tion of Cruelty to Animals

ihe Hospital is not incorporated but is the
y it.

to the American Humane Ed
dollars (or,

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

. nd that the corporate title of our Society is
ociety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the

nnection with any other similar Society.

Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massach

“for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the

. ucation Society), the sum of
if other property, describe the property).

for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

 

beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal S

usetts Society for the Preven-

A

 

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or

 

 

 

the Massachusetts Society for the P
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

Active Life

..................... A-
Boston.

The Society will pay you semi-annually
during your lifetime a fixed income on the
sum given, depending upon your age at the
time of the gift.

In other words, you receive an assured
income during your lifetime, and thereafter
your gift will be used solely for the charitable
purpose for which you made it.

ADVANTAGES
It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,

No waste of your estate by a

will-contest.

CONVENIENCES

An income guaranteed to you during life
by a ﬁnancially sound corporation, the work
of which dates from the year 1868.

Your gift will not be subject to market
fluctuations, or to the necessity of reinvest-
ment at stated or unexpected periods.

Your money, given while you live, can
never be diverted to any other purpose.

The wide ﬁnancial experience and high
standing of the trustees, John R. Macomber,
Chairman of the Board, First Boston Cor-
poration; Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President
and Treasurer of United Shoe Machinery Cor-
poration; and Philip Stockton, Chairman of
Executive Committee, First National Bank of
Boston, to whom are entrusted the care
and management of our invested funds, are
a guaranty of the security of such an invest-
ment. Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The Societies solicit correspondence upon

this subject and will be glad to furnish all
further details.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
revention of
Norwood,

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two

ocieties.
RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
$100 00 Active Annual $10 00

ssociate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180

Longwood Avenue, Boston.

  

    
     
     

 

 

 

 




 

 

  
   
    

  

 

Pageﬁl
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention 0
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub—
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope ’W’lth
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Canine Hysteria

ANINE hysteria, according to one

theory, is due to “acute avitaminosis,”
says a writer in an exchange. Treatment in
accordance with this assumption has yielded
good results. The diet of the affected dog is
changed to include suﬁicient vitamin B,
which is found in red meat, yeast, whole
wheat, egg yolk, and some other foods
which are less suitable for dogs. Whole rice
is good, but difﬁcult to obtain. White bread
is not good for dogs.

Highly-strung animals will beneﬁt from
an occasional addition to the diet of a vita-
min B concentrate. This is obtainable in
several proprietary forms, including certain
preparations of live yeast.

Attacks of canine hysteria can be tem-
porarily controlled by sedative medicines,
but in most cases only careful attention to
the diet can remove the tendency to a re-
currence of the trouble.

The Origin of the Bulldog

A writer in The Animal World tells us
that “the bulldog has its origin in the
barbarous custom of bull-baiting, which
can be traced in England as far back as
1209. In this year of Grace, the Earl of
Warren, Lord Stamford, stood on the walls
of his castle Stamford, Lincolnshire, watch-
ing with amusement the ﬁghting of two
bulls in his castle grounds. The noise
attracted some butcher’s dogs which, dis-
regarding the superior size and strength of
the two bulls, started chasing them right
through the streets of the town.

“The Earl, highly amused, was so pleased
with the courage of the dogs that he im-
mediately presented the meadow where the
ﬁght had taken place as a common to the
butchers of the town, on condition that they
should ﬁnd a mad bull once a year, six
weeks before Christmas, in order to pre—
serve that amusing sport forever.

“Bull—baiting thus became the national
sport. Czar Nicholas 1, when still Czare—
vitch was taken to a bull-ﬁght when he
visited England. That disgusting sport
was not made illegal by Act of Parliament
until 1835.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

From an English Garden

HIS wheel was once a part of a bicycle.

Attached to it are halves of coconuts
which attract the birds, who seem to enjoy
not only the coconuts but the acrobatics
which they have to resort to in order to
obtain even a somewhat hurried bite as it
revolves back and forth. What you see is
just a glimpse of the beautiful estate——
Harpsden Court at Henley-on—Thames.

If It Were His Last

That greatly-loved writer, 0. 0. Mc-
Intyre, wrote once, “Had I one more day
to live, and the courage to carry on without
whimpering, there are many of whom I
should like to ask forgiveness for inten-
tional and unintentional hurts.

“On my last day I should like to clasp
the hand of every person who has helped
me over the rough spots. In the hurry of
everyday life there is a rude casualness in
our attitude toward genuine friendship.

“I should like to recall the many little
acts of selﬁshness toward those so near and
dear to me. I should like to blot out useless
falsehoods that brought only misery.

“What a priceless sense of peace, as the
shadows fall, to be conscious of having tried
to give the world as much happiness as it
has given me! To feel I had never taken
the slightest advantage of friend or foe
and that my life had been an open book
that all might read.

“Such idealistic thoughts perhaps sound
mawkish to those in the full bloom of excel-
lent health, yet given one day to live I am
certain they are the sort that come to us all.

“Indeed, on the ﬁnal day I think my
greatest regret would be that I had fallen
so far short of being the kind of son my
mother wished me to be.” i

The twenty-ﬁfth annual Be Kind to An-
imals Week will be observed from April 17
to April 22, with Humane Sunday, April 23.

   

  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
    
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

Feb. 1939
Do You Know?

HAT far down almost at the very point

of British India, more than 1,000 miles
south of Bombay and something like 1,500
miles away from the famous city of Cal-
cutta, is a city called Trivandrum, and that
there is there a ﬂourishing Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals which
issues a remarkably full report of its many
activities? Among these are the distribu-
tion of literature and educational posters,
essay competitions in schools. The service
of its agents on highways giving warnings
to those ill—treating animals and guarding
against overloading and overdriving of bull~
carts and against the use of cruel devices
like whips and pointed goads; in many
cases their agents stop animals to see that
they have rest and water and that too
heavy loads are lightened. This Society is
certainly a bright beacon light in a land
where for untold millions of animals dark-
ness so widely prevails.

Near the Cedars of Lebanon

Our young representative in Syria, Mr.
N. B. Matta, writes that during the month
of November, seventeen animal-owners were
brought to court charged with ill-treatment
of their animals—that the mayors of sev-
eral cities and towns in the Howran District
(Syria) supervised the condition of animals
in the homes of their owners endeavoring
to ﬁnd out whether the animals at these
homes were properly taken care of. He
further says he has published in Beirut
papers a few articles on animal welfare.
Eight dogs, six cats, three geese and two
horses were looked after, having been
rescued from cruel treatment. Three dogs,
three cats, two horses and one ass were
humanely put to sleep; four dogs, three
horses, two cows and one donkey restored
to their owners.

Organizing of Bands of Mercy, he says,
has started now that the schools have
opened again. Mr. Matta’s work covers
sections of Syria, Lebanon, Palestine and
Transjordan, his headquarters being at
Merjayoun, Lebanon.

Leide and His Frogs

There is a monument in Philadelphia
erected to Professor Joseph Leide, the most
distinguished naturalist probably ever con-
nected with the University of Pennsylvania.
It is related of him that once, having col-
lected a half dozen frogs for the purpose
of studying their habits under certain con—
ditions, he shut them up in a box for a little
while until he could give the time necessary
for his desired observations. Forgetting all
about his captives, he left his home on some
important errand. When he was six miles
away he suddenly remembered them, and,
lest they should suffocate because of his
neglect, he walked back the whole distance
to place them in comfortable quarters.
This was told us by one familiar with the
circumstances. It seems this regard for all
sentient life was characteristic of‘ the man.

It is not too late to order your Humane
Calendar for 1939. See advertisement.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 168

Our'Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

Setting Up Horses’ Tails and
Clipping Dogs’ Ears

T a dog show recently held a few miles
A from Boston, our ofﬁcers found a num-
ber of dogs with ears clipped, and, demand-
ing certiﬁcates that the ears had been clip-
ped by some reputable state veterinarian on
the ground that it had been a matter of
necessity, they found false certiﬁcates sent
in by someone reputed to be a veterinarian.
Of course, this caused the immediate with—
drawal of the dogs from competition for
the prizes.

Also, this autumn at the Eastern States
Exposition held in Springﬁeld, two horses
with set—up tails were found which had
been set up after our law went into effect
forbidding such a practice. The horses were
withdrawn from the competition.

The law states that whoever shows a
horse whose tail has ever been cut or
docked shall be punished unless he furnish
show-manager (or other ofﬁcial) an afﬁ~
davit by him (the owner) in a form
approved by the Director of the Division of
Animal Industry (Department of Conser-
vation) that horse was cut prior to Sep-
tember 1, 1934.

The time ought to come when it will be
understood that the two laws controlling
these operations upon dogs and horses are
enforced in Massachusetts.

Bunk

The steamship ofﬁce clerk was being
pestered by the questions of a fussy cus-
tomer. A long line was waiting to have
business done, so the clerk decided to teach
the fussy one a lesson:

“Upper or lower berth?” he asked.

“What’s the difference?” said the cus-
tomer.

“Well, the difference is ﬁve dollars. The
lower berth is higher than the upper one.
The higher price is for the lower. We sell
the upper, lower than the lower. Some
people like the lower. Some people like the
lower upper, it’s lower, of course, on
account of its being higher. When you
occupy an upper you have to get up to go
to bed and you have to get down to get up.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Stillman Memorial

NE of the most impressive meetings
Gever held by the American Humane
Association was that in connection with the
dedication of the Association’s new head-
quarters as a memorial to Dr. William O.
Stillman, on Wednesday afternoon, Septem-
ber 13, during the annual convention at
Albany, N. Y. The beautiful new audi-
torium was ﬁlled with delegates and friends
of Dr. Stillman. The chairman was Col-
onel William Gorham Rice of Albany whose
home for many years had been the house
now converted to the uses of the Humane
Association. Here he and Mrs. Rice had
entertained the most prominent citizens of
Albany and many of the nation’s distin—
guished men and women. The gracious
hospitality of this home was referred to by
nearly every speaker.

After prayer by Rt. Rev. G. Ashton Old-
ham of All Saints Cathedral, Albany, brief
addresses in eulogy of Dr. Stillman, long
president of the American Humane As—
sociation, were made by these eminent

speakers: U. S. Senator Peter G. Gerry, of'

Rhode Island; Governor Herbert H. Leh-
man of New York; Mayor John Boyd
Thacher, 2nd, of Albany; President Fran-
cis H. Rowley of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., Boston; Florence N. Maher, former
secretary to Dr. Stillman; President James
F. Ronin of the Albany Chamber of Com-
merce; and President Sydney H. Coleman
of the American Humane Association. Dr.
Rowley spoke as follows:

N o memorial fashioned by human hands
can escape Time’s slowly defacing ﬁngers.
There is a memorial, however, which Time
cannot destroy. At the dedication of the
Bunker Hill Monument, Daniel Webster
spoke of marble as doomed to crumble, and
brass as sure to tarnish. The years bear
witness to his words. But he who leaves a
record of his life written upon the tablets
of the human soul leaves a memorial that
will endure forever. And in his Epitaph
on Shakespeare, Milton says of him:

. “Great heir of fame . . .
Hast built thyself a livelong monument,”

And

“That kings for such a tomb would have
wished to die.”

In the realm of life which has to do with
man’s relation to the creatures below him,
and to neglected, friendless or orphaned
children whose cry pleads for a protecting
and sheltering hand, Dr. Stillman is truly
worthy of such a memorial as we have
come to dedicate. But his real memorial
will be found on the more imperishable
records that are kept in the hearts and
minds of those whom his life so blest, and
still will bless, and the story of which has
gone on into the memory of God.

What a list of noble souls we recall today
whose names have given luster to the cause
we represent! Plutarch, Porphyry, Seneca,
St. Francis, Hildrop, Primatt, Bentham,
Richard Martin, Henry Bergh, Caroline
Earl White, George Thorndike Angel],
Elbridge T. Gerry, and multitudes of other
brave, unselﬁsh men and women who for
little children and defenseless animals have
sacriﬁced and toiled, but unknown, have
died unhonored and unsung. To this list of

Nov. .1939

noble dead we have come today, by this
dedicatory service, to add the name of
William O. Stillman. How could we do
him greater honor?

Our Work among the Lepers
Of the Philippines

H ERE is something rare and ﬁne. There
has been created in the Philippines the
Commonwealth Chapter of the American
Band of Mercy, a branch of our American
Humane Education Society. Responsible
for this is Mr. Irving Hart, national repre-
sentative of all leper colonies of the Camp
Fire Girls, Inc. Upon his own initiative
Mr. Hart undertook this work and has
secured a large membership, among the
list many of the most prominent people of
Manila, doctors, lawyers, clergymen, busi-
nessmen, newspapermen have gladly co-
operated with him since he has long been
working for the betterment of the children
of the leper colonies on the island of Luzon.
The Band now numbers over four hundred.
“For years,” Mr. Lester F. Scott, national
executive of the Camp Fire Girls, Inc., New
York City, writes us, “Mr. Hart has been
organizing groups of Boy Scouts and Camp
Fire Girls among boys and girls in the
leper colonies throughout the Philippines.
He is certainly a splendid fellow.”

That he commands the conﬁdence of his
fellow citizens we are sure from the Sun-
day service programs of the churches at
which he has been asked to speak, telling
of his work. On Sunday morning, July 2,
Mr. Hart spoke at the Presbyterian Church
which was attractively decorated by the
Boy Scouts and the Camp Fire Girls. It is
difﬁcult for most of us to understand that
such a subject as the one upon which Mr.
Hart often speaks is possible, but here it
is: “The Sunny Side of Leprosy.” This
new idea of the Band of Mercy, with its
leadership which has so much to do with
the formation of character, has brought
much to the boys and girls of the leper
colonies that has brightened their lives and
helped them.

Their Family Tree

The next time you see Mr. Rooster and
Mrs. Hen, don’t forget that they can trace
their lineage much farther back than you
can yours. They are the descendants of
the Red Jungle Fowl. When you think of
the vast ﬂocks of poultry and the crates

and baskets of eggs that have been con-‘

sumed by the people of the earth since the
momentous timewhen the ﬁrst descendants
of the Red Jungle Fowl and his mate began
to work for man, we believe you will take
off your hat to even the common rooster
and his mate when you see them. ’

Here’s another item of news which we
take from that very interesting magazine,
National Nature News. It tells us that the
Federal Government in this country oper—
ates a hundred and eight hatcheries, that
over eight billion ﬁsh and ﬁsh eggs are dis—
tributed annually from these hatcheries,
which propagate forty-six different Species
of ﬁsh. Many state and private hatcheries
are also in existence which distribute ﬁsh
to state waters.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 192

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

ANIMALS OF AMERICAN HISTORY,
Paul Bransom.

 

Here is a picture book of about ﬁfty
wild animals which will delight the heart
of any youngster interested in his native
fauna. Paul Bransom’s large full—page
drawings are accompanied by appropriate
text written by Helen Dean Fish. Together
they portray the beauty and interest of
these creatures of our forests, swamps,
mountains and plains. Ownership of tnis
book will mean a closer acquaintance with
the bear, woodchuck, opossum, moose, bison,
wolf, eagle, and many other denizens of our
American wilds. The illustrations occupy
every other page throughout the ﬁfty
which comprise the contents.

50 pp. $2. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
New York.

HOLIDAY HOPES, Clarence Hawkes.

Because this author has written so many
books about animals and has consistently
advocated the need of humane education,
we are glad to give this brief notice of his
latest volume of poems although but one
of them relates especially to the animal
world—“The Flight of the Fowl.” The book
opens with a sheaf of Christmas verse,
especially appropriate for this season.
There are also included the seven Thanks-
giving poems which Mr. Hawkes has writ-
ten in as many consecutive years for the
United Press. “A Hymn of Peace,” “Easter
Joy,” “A Song of Life,” “Love is Lovely,”
are some of the other titles, indicating the
lofty sentiments which this blind singer
incorporates in his verse. The volume is
worthy to take its place with the ﬁfty-odd
books which this indefatigable writer has
already given to his public.

95 pp. $1.25. The Christopher Publish-
ing House, Boston.

 

 

“Washington Selects the Site of the
Nation’s Capitol”

That is the title of the colored (Osborne)
picture on the new

HUMANE CALENDAR FOR 1940

It shows General Washington, his aide and
attendants, all mounted on beautiful horses.

The leaves of the pad contain an entirely
new selection of memory gems and suitable
quotations. Order now. Special prices for
Societies wishing their own imprint.

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve
for $1.80, postpaid.
AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Dec. 1939

Zlaumane literature for «Christmas @ifts

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, With
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set ............................. $1.00
Humane Calendar for 1940 ............. each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%; x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ........ 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow. . .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and4' .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........... Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ......... cloth, 45 cts.

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

'Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 3O cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................ .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club ? ...... $0.30 per 100
b oreWord from "Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. ,... ......................... .50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley.. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. .....................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.

he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each;ten for 25c.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each ; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ...................
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50

‘6 ll

.50 6‘ 6‘

t‘ (I

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty.. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three _
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

6‘ (I

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy . .. .50 “ “

(I ll

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

Q Very merry @bristmas
(Eu QII «Bur Beaters

 

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that It 1.5 the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society-

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that SOCiEtY and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (01'
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of . . . . . - - - - . - - . . - - ' ° ° ' '
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property)-

 

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood AV-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

 

M ay, 1939

In/y

r

VIII“ ;;_ ~

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman Of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone(Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.--MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—

COUNTEss CARDELLI, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the M‘ass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary —MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 15,501
Cases investigated ............. . . 356
Animals examined ............... 2,931
Animals placed in homes ......... 187
Lost animals restored to owners. . 71
Number of prosecutions .......... 3
Number of convictions ............ 2
Horses taken from work ........... 19
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 41

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,482

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 50,419
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 92

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

PROSECUTING OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

 

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

H. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER. D.V.M.

G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 730
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,688
Operations ....................... 745
At Springfield Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 151
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 554
Operations ...................... 199
Totals
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 169,801
Dispensary cases ................ 423,044
Total .............. 592,845

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty—five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment upon application.

Robert L. Dyson

HE Worcester Sunday Telegram of

March 19 last contains a very appreci-
ative article, with portrait, of Robert L.
Dyson, for 39 years a district ofﬁcer Of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Mr. Dyson holds
the record, in point of years Of service, of
any employee of the Society. Here are two
paragraphs from the review of his career,
which occupied several columns in the
Telegram:

“He has for 39 years kept a watchful
eye over all the county for any violation Of
the public trust. The mere fact that Mr.
Dyson was on the job and apt to turn up
anywhere in Central Massachusetts, Often
at the most unexpected moment, was in
itself a restraining inﬂuence which even
today is appreciated.

“While not alone responsible for the
marked improvement registered during the
last few decades in the care and treatment
of our once much abused and neglected
friends, the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals is certainly justiﬁed in
taking an important share Of the credit.
SO is the veteran and kindly but ever
vigilant Mr. Dyson.”

Police Dogs

A dog of any breed is a police dog when
trained for police work. The German shep-
herd, now used for police work, is commonly
known as the police dog in spite of the fact
that the Labrador retriever has been proved
by the only tests ever conducted on a prac-
tical and extensive basis tO be the best breed
for police work. For some reason black
German shepherds are commonly referred
to improperly as Belgian shepherds. There
is, however, a Belgian sheep dog which is
rarely seen in this country. It may be black,
but not necessarily so, and either long-
haired or short—haired.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PRICE 10 CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

E
N
A
M
N
T
S
A
E
N
w
O
D
s,
E
N
H
S
N
U
S
E
H
T
E
L
H
w
Y
A
H
G
N
K
A
M

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTYITO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

SOCIETY ~

 

 

            

)7/%// p.

/
% .guﬂy/x

M

. ./ .//..I
/ 4,,
W

/, .//
(MAW/W/

../
,
,

,
,,
«WM/ﬁx

x,

3,, z? ¢

1/ /I.
I /

#4,.
/, 5 .
2%», (ﬂ/rme/WW W0

 

 

 




Aug. 1939

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A. ~MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.————MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. 5. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary —MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary ——MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres. ; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 18,841
Cases investigated ............. 546
Animals examined ............. 3,917
Animals placed in homes ....... 264
Lost animals restored to owners. . 52
Number of prosecutions ......... 3
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work ....... . 13
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,881
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 46,163
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 17

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

enemas

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 700
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,079
Operations ...................... 738
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 182
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 579
Operations ...................... 181
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 172,539
Dispensary Cases .............. 430,580
Total .............. 603,119

Cockfighting

The Old so-called sport of cockﬁghting is
arousing at present no little interest on the
other side of the water, and reports of its
prevalence in some states of the Union here
would seem to indicate that it is far from
having been stamped out in this country.
Rarely in Massachusetts in recent years
have we learned of one being held, and
even in those cases we have been fortunate
enough to obtain sufﬁcient information to
make it possible to break up the whole
affair and bring no small part Of those
present into court.

We have just learned of a most success-
ful raid made by the ofﬁcers of the Wom-
en’s Pennsylvania Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. On June 11th
they caught 68 offenders, 58 live game-
cocks, 10 dead cocks, 12 pairs of steel gaffs,
scales, coops, etc. Sixty-two of the offenders
paid $10 ﬁnes, which were paid over to
the prosecuting society.

Prizes for Humane Traps

Prizes totalling more than six hundred
dollars have been awarded inventors and
trappers in the humane trap contest spon-
sored annually by The American Humane
Association, Albany, N. Y.

“For twelve years, through these con-
tests, we have been making a world-wide
search for devices that will trap animals
with a minimum Of suffering,” declared: W.
E. Sanderson, the Association’s Wild Life
Director. “Years of research have brought
us nearer our goal in enlightening the
world concerning true conservation and the
justice due our wild life.” A thirteenth
contest will shortly be announced.

Page 121

Seasonable Suggestions

By the Veterinary Staff at the Angell Memo-
rial Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts SO-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

0 not fail to have fresh, cool drinking
water habitually available.

Do not overfeed your dog and cat at
anytime, particularly in hot weather. A
little warm milk in the morning is sufﬁ-
cient for both. In the late afternoon, a ro-
tation of beef, fresh ﬁsh and liver for the
cat, and some beef and occasionally liver
for the dog, all fed raw, are best. Avoid
all starchy foods, cereals, breads and in-
digestible foods like smoked or pickled
meats, pork and ﬁbrous vegetables, as car-
rots, beets and string beans. Spinach, let-
tuce and tomato are the best vegetables.

Do not expose your pets to the sun’s
rays unnecessarily, nor allow needless ex-
ertion. If it is seen that the horse ceases
to sweat and is sluggish when at work, stop
at once, unharness in a shady and airy
place, and bathe the legs and head with
cool water and permit frequent small sips
of drinking water.

DO not tie a dog to his kennel if avoid-
able. If he must be conﬁned, have the end
of the leash secured, trolley fashion, to a
long wire where he can have the run of at
least twenty to thirty feet, with access to
a shady and airy spot.

Do not muzzle a dog unless absolutely
necessary. The wearing of such a device
tends to make most dogs cross and snap-
pish. Do not tease nor molest your dog at
any time, particularly when he is hot.

Do not think your dog has rabies be-
cause he froths at the mouth and is sud-
denly seized by an outburst of frenzy. He
is very probably having a so-called running
or fright ﬁt. The dog with rabies makes
no such frightful demonstration of violence.
Conﬁne him to a cool, darkened and quiet
place and consult your veterinarian at
once. If you must rely on your own re-
sources, give the animal, when quieted
down, an emetic like Syrup of Ipecac in
doses ranging from a teaspoonful to a
tablespoonful, depending on the Size of
the dog, every ﬁfteen minutes until vom-
iting occurs, and apply cold applications to
the head. Then keep the animal on a beef
broth diet for a few days before resuming
the normal food ration on a gliding scale.

Your dog needs an occasional bath and
enjoys a swim in hot weather. Do not neg-
lect these necessities and privileges. Have
his heavy winter coat shorn. The venti-
lation of the skin provided by the clipping
will more than compensate for the insu-
lating qualities of the coat and if the ani-
mal develops the common summer skin
complaints, they will readily be detected
and more easily treated.

Provide free ventilation of the quarters
occupied by such animals and pets as re-
quire conﬁnement, as rabbits, birds and
the like. Many a horse has been prepared
for a sun-stroke by being housed in a
stuffy, humid stable between working
hours.

Goldﬁsh aquariums and birds’ cages
should not be exposed to excessive sun
rays. Goldﬁshes may succumb if the
water becomes excessivley hot, and birds
like the fresh air, but suffer from too much
sun.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

OCTOBER 1939 PRICE 10 CENTS

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY F R THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTYSTO ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~

/ /////’/ _/
//

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Nov. 1939

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman Of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (COmplaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN ‘ HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A. —MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.-—MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.
Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—

COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday. 7

Winchester Branch Auxiliary —MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas. Second Thursday.

MONTHLY. REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 15,758
Cases investigated ............. 331
Animals examined ............. 4,808
Animals placed in homes ....... 241
Lost animals restored to owners. . 55
Number of prosecutions ......... 6
Number of convictions .......... 6
Horses taken from work ........ 1]
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 32
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,492
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 59,204
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 13

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H

939.51.”?

. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 864
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,088
Operations ................... '. . . 671

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 146
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 599
Operations ...................... 164
Totals

Hospital cases Since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 175,542
Dispensary Cases ............... 438,843
Total .............. 614,385

Letter from a Dog
MARSHALL and ELSPETH BRAGDON

To the S. P. C. A.
Bliss Street, Springﬁeld:—

Here’s our dollar . . . the dollar dne

To the S. P. C. A. and we do mean you——
And a hearty bark from our foolish setter
Who in spite of herself is getting better;
She’ll yelp to the high and windy heavens
Her gratitude to Dr. Evans,

And give up her daily bowl of feed

If it were wanted by Dr. Smead;

And, with due regard to dog propriety
She sends her thanks to the whole Society!

P. S.
She says, “Remember me most corderly
To the exceedingly kind and helpful orderly,
And also the girl at the desk whose voice
Is what makes a scared little dog rejoice!”

Northampton Branch

At a meeting of the Northampton Branch
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., held Sep—
tember 19, Mrs. Eleanor P. Howes reported
that Since January, 1939, 243 dogs and 121
cats have been received at the animal
Shelter at the Happy Hunting Kennels. AS
many as 18 cats and Six or seven- dogs have
been brought to the Shelter in a Single day.
Homes have been found for many of these
animals, some of Whom developed into very
valuable pets. Attention was called to the
valuable co-operation of the police depart-
ment in rescuing animals, and to the fact
that the district S. P. C. A. ofﬁcer comes
to the Shelter once a week to remove un-
wanted animals to Springﬁeld.

Page 169

Annual Bazaar

HE annual Bazaar of the Women’s

Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. will be held at the Society’s Head-
quarters, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Wednesday, November 8, from 10 a.m. to
5 pm. when the institution will be open to
the public. All interested in the welfare of
animals are cordially invited to be present.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president
of the Auxiliary, is general chairman,
with Mrs. George A. Ramlose, chairman of
hostesses. Luncheon will be served at 12 :30
under the direction Of Mrs. Arthur W.
Hurlburt. Mrs. Charles E. Staniek will be
in charge Of the bridge from 2 to 4 pm.

Chairmen of the various tables are as.
follows: Food, Mrs. Herbert E. Prescott;
household, Mrs. George Colton Moore;-
“grandma’s attic,” Mrs. Edwin R. Will;
candy, Mrs. Edward K. Bennett; literature,
Miss Catherine Walker, assisted by Miss
Katharine Piper. There will also be ﬂower
and “opportunity” tables. The “fan” will
be in charge of Mrs. John A. Dykeman and
Miss Marieanne Morrill. Mr. Machon H.
Kelpik will have a display of East Indian
prints. Prophecy will be under the direc-
tion of Mrs. Frank E. Towne.

Contributions of funds or articles for
sale will be greatly appreciated and may
be sent to Mrs. Willard Bliss, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

Attention iS called to the change of time
of the monthly meetings of the Women’s
Auxiliary which, in the future, will be held
on the ﬁrst Friday of the month instead of
the ﬁrst Tuesday.

Must American Fondouk in
Fez be Closed Temporarily?

The latest news from Fez tells us that
Superintendent Delon of the Fondouk has
been called to service, which leaves all the
work there, at the moment, Without a head.
Mr. Williams, the honorary secretary, has
had to telegraph Delon as follows:

“See Maitre Dumas” (a lawyer in Fez
and warm friend of the Fondouk), “have
him Offer the Fondouk and personnel to
the authorities, then pay salaries until au—
thorities take possession. If authorities re-
fuse, pay salaries and close the Fondouk.”

All friends of the Fondouk, and those
particularly who have so generously con-
tributed toward its work, will learn of this
with sincere regret. The Fondouk has been
doing a Splendid work. It has won the con-
ﬁdence of the Ofﬁcials of the city Of Fez,
of the Pacha, and has helped beyond our
expectations in awakening a wider humane
sentiment. It has relieved any amount of
suffering and it has prevented a great deal
of suffering. But war is war, and our only
hope iS that it will soon be possible to
reopen that ﬁne institution.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Treasurer.

 

 

 

 




 

ANUARY |939

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

OCIETY ~ ' - '

 

 

 

- .i I W-.. ﬂuvr‘, - ......” _S, .6.

van—

;.“w-‘ ... ......

 

I
9
‘

LI

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1939

Wm: \: x _
\ ~ EM” .
w . :

\ ., u
\\ ' '2

5*

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
FIrst National Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulance) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND

HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex

FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters Maintained by
Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First, Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres. ; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,993
Cases investigated ........... . . . . 341
Animals examined ............... 4,016
Animals placed in homes ......... 211
Lost animals restored to owners. . 54
Number of prosecutions .......... 4
Number of convictions ............ 3
Horses taken from work ........... 4
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 79

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,334
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 46,391
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 24

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
H. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
Including Springfield Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 918 Cases 2,555
Dogs 679 Dogs 2,176
Cats 230 Cats 336
Birds 5 Birds 27
Horses 3 Horses 6
Rabbit 1 Guinea pigs 5
Monkeys 2
Chipmunk 1
Goat 1
Rabbit 1

Operations 991

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 167,342

Dispensary cases ............... 416,349
Total .............. 583,691

The Month in the Springfield Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 160
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 476
Operations ....................... 189

The “Horscs’ Christmas”

HRISTMAS dinners were supplied for

horses by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Using a large horse—drawn truck a hundred
individual dinners were carried into the
market and stable sections of the city and
distributed. Other feed was made available
to deserving drivers.

Humane Ofﬁcers of the Society in Spring-
ﬁeld, Pittsﬁeld, Worcester, Wenham, Attle-
boro and Hyannis also provided free
dinners.

The “Horses’ Christmas,” has been ob-
served annually by the S. P. C. A. for
twenty years. It has struck a responsive
chord in the hearts of many who are glad
to contribute something towards its con-
tinuance, even in spite of hard times and
adverse conditions brought about by in-
creased motor trafﬁc. It originated here
and, as an object lesson, appealing to the
eyes and hearts of the thousands that wit-
ness it and have an actual part in it, it is
both a popular Christmas observance and
a public demonstration of humanity to an-
imals.

Victor Hugo once wrote, “What is the
highest faculty of the soul? Is it genius?
No, it is goodness, kindness. When there
is nothing under the left breast there can
be nothing perfect in the head. Genius is a
great heart.”

Page 25

Our Branch Auxiliaries
II. Springfield

N January 27, 1933, twenty—ﬁve prom-

inent matrons and club women of
Springﬁeld and Holyoke met at the Hospi-
tal of the Springﬁeld Branch, Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., Bliss Street, and organ-
ized the Women’s Auxiliary of the Spring-
ﬁeld Branch. After addresses by Mrs.

 

   

MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE

President, Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary
to Mass. S. P. C. A.

Edith Washburn Clarke of the main Aux-
iliary in Boston and the prosecuting oﬂicer
of the Springﬁeld Branch, ofﬁcers were
elected to serve the new Auxiliary. Mrs.
Donald C. Kibbe of 74 Warren Terrace,
Longmeadow, was chosen as the ﬁrst presi-
dent and she has been re—elected to that
Ofﬁce every year since.

The Springﬁeld Auxiliary, which at—
tracted to its membership the outstanding
society leaders in that city and near—by
communities, was a marked success from
the start. Due to the initiative and organ-
izing ability of Mrs. Kibbe, the rapid
growth in members was marked by a con-
structive program of meetings with dis-
tinguished Speakers, many unique features
of social entertainment, and wide press
publicity. The publication of a club book
of recipes, of which hundreds of copies were
sold to swell the treasury, the holding of an
annual “June Day” on prominent estates,
which became one of the chief events of the
social calendar of Springﬁeld, the stressing
of humane education in the schools of the
city—these are but a few of the many high
lights in the six prosperous years of this
Auxiliary’s existence.

With a remarkable record of attract—
ing prominent and enthusiastic workers to
the cause, the Auxiliary has raised its
standing in Springﬁeld until it is believed
to be second to none of its kind in impor—
tance and inﬂuence in the country.

Both Washington and Lincoln were great
lovers of animals and always kind to them.

 

 

 

 




 
 

 

 

SOCIETY N

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

 

 

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK,

APRIL 17-23

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’74

 
  

GLORY TQ
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
l EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

     
 
 
   

7
1%
m
2';

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Luis Pareja.Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia , .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representatives
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MARCH, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 618
Number of addresses made, 325
Number of persons in audiences, 71,396

The Seeing-Eye Dogs

Morristown’s famous Seeing-Eye reports
that during the past year 105 dogs were
turned over to blind persons: that at least
125 dogs will be training within the next
year, 96 blind persons having already been
accepted as eligible students. In order to
obtain instructors for their staff, the Seeing-
Eye board of trustees approached colleges
and universities last spring, explaining the
possibilities of the Seeing-Eye as a career.
In response, 150 applications were received
for the position of apprentice instructors.
The institution now has an active member-
ship of 12,284. —Dogd0m

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An Editorial from the
“Boston Traveler”

ELOW is the ﬁne tribute paid to Super-

intendent Fallon, of the Boston Police
Department, by the editor of the Boston
Traveler. If all the police superintendents
of the country would take this stand they
would win the hearty gratitude of the entire
public.

Steadfast foe of hit-run drivers is Supt.
Fallon of the Boston police department,
yet he has time to give attention to the
plight of animals hit by automobile drivers.

Supt. Fallon has ordered prosecution of
drivers who fail to slow down when
approaching animals crossing streets.

Many animals are killed through no
fault of the driver. The least any driver
should do is stop, try to aid the animal,
and report the incident to a police station.

Annual Humane Meeting

The annual convention of the American
Humane Association will be held this year
in its home city, Albany, N. Y., from Sep-
tember 11 to 15. During this period the new
headquarters of the Association, at 135
Washington Avenue, will be formally dedi-
cated. As Albany is within easy reach of
many humane societies it is expected that
there will be a record-breaking attendance.
The Association has held its convention
only once before in Albany, in 1902.

Brookgreen Conference

The sixth annual Brookgreen Welfare
Conference, sponsored by Seymour Carroll,
ﬁeld worker of the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, was held March 7 at Brook-
green School, Brookgreen, S. C. The primal
purpose is to help others to be able to help
themselves. Addresses on vocational train-
ing were given by specialists at the morn--
ing session. Other periods were devoted to
talks on humane and Christian education.
At noon President Benjamin R. Hubert of
Georgia State Agricultural and Mechanical
College, Savannah, gave the principal ad—
dress, “Believe in the South.” Humane
literature and bulletins from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture were distributed gen-
erously. During the day medical and
dental clinics were held under the direction
of competent surgeons, dentists and nurses.
Several hundred people received physical
examinations and treatments.

Sydney’s New Home for
Dogs

During Be Kind to Animals Week the
new King Edward Home for stray dogs
was opened in Sydney, Australia. This
institution brings into prominence the in-
tensive work entailed in dealing with the
problem of the unwanted animal population
of that city of more than a million and a
quarter of humans. Nearly 20,000 dogs and
approximately as many cats pass through
the Home each year. Many other animals
and birds are also dealt with, such as
wallabies, sheep, goats and the like, as well
as various wild and domesticated birds.
This is all very interesting and educational.
The “Week” is steadily girdling the world.

May, 1939

American F ondouk, Fez

Report for February—28 Days

Daily average large animals 58.3
Forage for same $26.97
Put to sleep 12 1.16
Transportation 1.41
Daily average dogs 4.7
Forage for same 1.98
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 55.63
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 11.92
Motor ambulance upkeep 27.56
Motor bicycles upkeep 0.96
Sundries 76.56
Actual operating expenses $304.15

Entries: 5 horses, 12 mules, 70 donkeys.

Exits: 4 horses, 7 mules, 52 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 94 horses, 65 mules, 57 don-
keys, 4 dogs.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 546 cases investi-
gated, 5,114 animals seen, 558 animals treated, 58
animals hospitalized by us from above, 97 Arab bits
and pack-saddles (infected) destroyed.

MARCH 3. Yesterday morning I received the visit
of Dr. Laban, head of the Services de l’Hygiene of
Fes, who was not very happy to hear what I told
him about the native fondouks’ indescribably ﬁlthy
condition, as it is his work to keep an eye on the
condition of the native fondouks and stables in the
Medina and Fez Jedid. I invited him to make an
inspection with me in the Medina, and we went at
once and inspected, with two inspectors, about 40
native fondouks. Dr. Laban ordered three fondouks
to be closed, about 10 will be repaired and paved and
all native fondouks will be white-washed regularly.

As most of these fondouks belong to the Service
des Habous, Dr. Laban told me he will send my letter
to Mr. Lemaire, head of Service des Habous at Rabat,
asking him to have all fondouks repaired as soon as

possible.
G. DELON, Superintendent

Hudson County S. P. C. A.

NE of the most active organizations in

the east is the Hudson County District
S. P. C. A., of Jersey City, N. J., of which
Miss J. D. J accard is the eﬂicient president.
Her report for last year shows that 18,193
animals, of which 9,666 were cats and 8,452
dogs, were received at the shelter. More
than a thousand dogs were placed in good
homes. Complaints of cruelty, involving
29,586 animals, were received from various
sections of the county and investigated.
During the year 2,034 members were en-
rolled in the Junior Department, making
the total membership 25,303. This is a re-
markable record and is credited to the
hearty co-Operation of the school teachers
of the county.

A Humane Governor

A gracious and worthy tribute was paid
to Frank Fitzgerald, late Governor of
Michigan, by the International Humane
Education Foundation which plans to erect
a bronze plaque in the State Capitol, me-
morializing the late Governor’s action to
defeat a bill legalizing docking horses’ tails
for show purposes. Truman T. Pierson,
president of the Foundation said:

“In the death of the Governor, the hu-
mane cause lost a friend. In desperation,
we sought the executive. He told us of his
delicate position in not wanting to tell the
senate its business. ‘But,’ he said, ‘your
cause is just. I cannot conceive of such a
measure passing. Horses are noble crea-
tures. Let’s spare them all the pain we
can.’ ”

The Foundation also ordered the names
of Gov. Fitzgerald and the fourteen sena-
tors who voted against the tail-docking bill
inscribed on its rolls of honorary member-
ship.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE SHOP IN THE WOODS

Off the beaten path
North Conway, N. H.

A beautiful shop in a beautiful
setting

 

 

 

 

  

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET NO. 652 .

NEMA

WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE lARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS N DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N-58_G'
«PARKE, DAVIS & co., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

    
  

   
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

    

tching and burning Of pimples,
rashes, eczema, relieved by $1.-nee We

[lllllllﬂ

 p|MpLEs

  

SOAPand

 

OINTMENI I

 

 

'FOR ONLY ONE DOLLAR

Po'stpaid to any “part of the world, “OUR
DUMB ANIMALS,” bound volume for 1938,
with 192 pp. and_150 illustrations.

180 LONGWOOD CAVE. BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
ﬁlmmakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Humane Calendar for 1939 ............ each, 20 cts.

two for 35 cts. ; six for $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set ............................. $1.00
Be Kind tO Animals Blotters, 6% x 33/3 $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment Of Sores, etc. . $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, NO. 5 ...... .50 :: ..
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30

The Bell Of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. 50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by. Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. .
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.3and4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ "
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. :12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 50
HOW the Birds Help the Farmer ...... 50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds ........... I50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
.5

Surplus Cats ......................... 0

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
DO Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Irv-,MOllie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 5O “ “

I Knew She was a Lady ............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . 1.00

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1. 00 “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, NO. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways Of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, NO. 7, Farm
Animals ............................ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother Of Jerry” .30 per 100

Films; pFakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 .............................. $0. 50 per 100
D0 Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley” Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools
pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp. ., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp, 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to K1ndness,Luc1a F.
gGilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

rades ............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00

Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each, six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,
play .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ............................ 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What tO Teach and

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” ...v 1. 00 “ “
A Festival Of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need Of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band Of Mercy, Humane SO-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.

Songs Of Happy Life (56 pages, words

onyl ) .............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band Of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50
HOW tO Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band Of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Low rates for summer rentals Of the Films

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts 3. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital, two reels
Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Address SECRETARY, 180 LongWOOd Avenue, Boston

illustrating LongfellOW’s poem,

and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
   
   
 

 
 
  

  
 

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE o '

AND MERCY TO 5
EVERY LIVING

‘7
4
m
2';

    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................ Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... exico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Pre-ss Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JUNE, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 593
Number of addresses made, 188
Number of persons in audiences, 55,368

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to.our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Education~
a Review

HEN George T. Angell, little more

than a year after he had organized
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., arrived in
England and talked with the secretary of
the great Royal S. P. C. A. of London, he
told him that “In some respects we had
accomplished more in Massachusetts, in our
ﬁrst year, than the Royal Society had in
about ﬁfty, because we believed, through
and through, in the power of humane edu-
cation, and in spending our money instead
of hoarding it.”

On this visit Mr. Angell presented a
plan to form a Ladies’ Humane Education
Society which, after much work and re-
peated interviews by him with prominent
English women, including the Baroness
Burdett-Coutts, was organized later as the
Ladies’ Humane Educational Committee,
which sent its appeal to 75,000 teachers
and caused some 600 prizes to be distrib-
uted annually by the Royal S. P. C. A. to
pupils in English schools for compositions
on kindness to animals. About 100 of these
prizes were given by the Society in 1870 to
pupils in London schools, and that was,
says Mr. Angell, so far as he knew, “the
ﬁrst instance in the world in which a prize
was ever given, in any school, for a compo-
sition on kindness to animals.”

Mr. Angell, who had become a veritable
pioneer missionary in the humane cause,
traveled up and down throughout the
country, as far south as Florida and as far
west as Minneapolis, proclaiming the gos-
pel of kindness to animals, organizing local
societies for the protection of animals, and,
later, introducing the Band of Mercy idea.
But he realized that all this work was
really outside and beyond that of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., which was then
his only incorporated organization. He felt
the need of something different, something
not limited to state boundaries, something
that should deal not with prosecutions and
the enforcement of laws, however neces-
sary, but some sort of organization that
should be national in its scope, that should
deal with theories and principles, that, in
short, should be so set up as to reach
practically everybody, everywhere. And so,
with a master stroke, in March, 1889, ﬁfty
years ago, he perfected the organization
of, and secured from the Massachusetts
Legislature the incorporation of, the
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SO-
CIETY, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.
At once the newly formed Society took over
from the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. the
Band of Mercy, as that juvenile organiza-
tion, which was started in 1882, had already

reached out into many states beyond
Massachusetts and even into some foreign
countries.

The American Humane Education Society
began publishing literature on a large
scale. In 20 years no less than 800,000
copies of “Black Beauty,” by Anna Sewell,
were printed and distributed, often at cost
or less. Numerous prize contests were
announced. As the result of one of them
the Society had the honor of introducing
the story, “Beautiful Joe,” by Marshall
Saunders, of which more than a million
copies have been sold. The Society today,
with its' list of more than 100 titles from a

Aug. 1939

card to a bound book, probably publishes
more humane literature than any other
organization in the world.

Some idea of what is being done in the
great ﬁeld of humane education may be
realized when we learn that today, through
the efforts of its twelve ﬁeld workers, from
Maine to California, the American Humane
Education Society of Boston, alone, is giv-
ing each year some 3,500 addresses, before
audiences totaling more than half a million
persons; is organizing Bands of Mercy in
the public schools at the rate of 700 a
month; and, each week of the year, is en-
rolling an average of 750 members in the
Jack London Club—the organized protest
against cruelty to animals in connection
with stage and screen performances.

Attitude Toward Animals
Guide to Character

HENRY H. GRAHAM

HOW me a boy who brings home hun«

gry, homeless, undernourished dogs and
cats to be cared for and kindly treated and
I will show you a boy of the right kind—a
lad who has a ﬁne start in life. Show me
a boy or girl or man or woman, for that
matter, who mistreats an animal or ignores
one in distress and I will show you a person
I am sure I would not care to know inti-
mately. Such people classify themselves, for
the right type of person likes birds and ani-
mals and treats them well.

The ﬁrst thing that my young nephew,
aged 14, does when he comes into the house
is to pick up one or the other of our two cats
and pet him. If neither feline happens to
be around he hunts for the animals. If
either cat is in the house when my nephew
arrives the creature bounds toward the
sound of his voice, climbs into his lap and
proceeds to go to sleep. Animals know their
true friends when they see or hear them
and quickly respond to marks of affection.

Whenever I hear a person say, “I don’t
care for animals; they’re all a big nuisance
to me” I instinctively shrink from him.
Something important was left out of his
make—up. Of that I am sure.

Not long ago a salesman called at our
house. He had‘ a splendid line of merchan-
dise to offer and I would probably have
bought some of it except for his attitude
toward the larger of our two cats. “Dizzy,”
as we call the feline, had parked himself
at the edge of the screen door, outside,
waiting for someone to open the door and
let him inside. Hearing footsteps on the
porch I peeked through the window at the
salesman’s approach, saw him place his foot
under Dizzy and transport him a bit rough-
ly several feet away. He did not hurt the
eat, but how much better it would have
been had he picked the animal up with his
hands and gently deposited him out of the
way? But evidently such thoughtfulness
and consideration was too much trouble.

That incident gave me an insight into
the man’s character, indicating a dislike for
animals or at least a disinterest in them. I
did not care to patronize such an individual
and thus he lost a sale that might otherwise
have been his.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

 

Main Oﬂice

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

 

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Keep Your Dogs l
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No 652

. WOR M

CAPSU LES - .,
EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMSIN boos
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N—58-K
PARKE, DAVIS 8: CO., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

‘

     
  

   
 
     
    

 
    

      

g

 

 

 

 

‘

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bones

,5? Don’t cover coarsened, reddened skin
00,, "5.122,," ; With cosmetics. Give it the gentle, effec-
Sb Bureau ,L - . . . .

Kmémazlw‘ t1ve medication it needs With wonderful

urrtunA

      

   

 

 

¥

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
Ginhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ........

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc.

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5

The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog

50 cts.
.. $0.60 per 100
...... .50 “ “

6‘ “

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 1 0

The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat ~ A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.3and4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... Cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and‘ the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Ca.t¥Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... 50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
I Knew She Was a Lady ............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of J erry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. . . . . ......................... $0.50 per 100

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “

Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley.. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 p . .....................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. ddy .......... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each;ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ............................ 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75
Humane Education, What to Teach and

each, 10 cts.

each, 10 cts.
each, 25 cts.

(K “

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty. . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “

eed of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ...............
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

$1.00 per 100

(K “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J Eddy 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

‘
¥

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films i
for Rent or Sale——

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem
and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital,

two reels
Both available in 16 and 35 mm.

Address
SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

l:

 

 

 

“THEY KNOW NOT”

An impressive novel with a New England set-
ting, by DR. GEORGE SANFORD FOSTER,
a well-known surgeon. From every sale the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will derive a sub-
stantial proﬁt. Price, $2.50 per copy, postpaid
to any address. Use this form in ordering:

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

Please send ...... copies of “They Know

Not” to
Name ......................................
Address ....................................
Check or money order for $ ........ enclosed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




. . '._- ,. .i_ ".-. ,.'1‘*.._1.-, d
..- . -...... 1. .. _.:-...:._.-1..L.u. L:.-.—l.-»|\L¢b—\A.—z.nlAural-uh”: a , .

      
 
     

Keep Your Dogs

1' e e .
FROM WO‘RMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 65

  

 

WORM CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES, DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms D
Address Desk N -58-A Animal Industry ept.
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Amazingmndmedicationhelps
soothe and whiten hands.
Superior to lotions, creams!

  
  

 

“Good Housekeeping
°°°a Bureau
~00 (MI-4

iiiiiiii

SOAP AND OINTME NT

 

 

“IN THE LAND O’ BOBBIE BURNS”

That is the title of the colored (Osborne)
picture on the new

HUMANE CALENDAR FOR 1939

It shows a ﬂock of sheep and a typical
Scotch shepherd dog on a mountain road.

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve
for $1.80, postpaid.

AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.l. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
mnoettakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume $1.00

Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches,_wrth
attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n 1. 00
the set .............................

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%; x 33/8 $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1. 00 and 50 cts
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . $0. 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ..... .50

The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 :: ::
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1. 50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider . Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider. Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1.00 per100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ......................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr. H

Rudolph H. Schneider . ......... .00 “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and4 50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ ‘:
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ ‘
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, “

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp.. .' ....... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... S cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ;12 for

25 cts. ............. $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets Nos. 1 and2 .50 “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ..... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .......... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats ......................... 50

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady .............. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .00
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1. 00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts.,

Films,p Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 .............................. $0. 50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals -—- Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “

Humane Education

Humane Edurcation, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, D1. 1* ranc1s H. Rowley Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1. 00
Care _ and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp. ., paper covers, man)r

illus. ................. 15 cents each; seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

Grades ............................. each, 10 cts.

{3
“Be Kind to Animals" pennants .........
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Edd dy cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B~K—T-—A—C‘ub. play 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind. play. 5c’rs. each; six for 25c_
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’

play 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends Of Fur and Feather, play .....

3 cts. each, ° ten for 25c.

Humane Exercises . ..... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need Dr.

Rowley, short radio address. 2 cts. each;.75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it . .....
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Earlv Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals,

each, 25 cts.

a short radio

address ............... 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
The Coming Education ...... .30 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer”. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
small 5 cts.
35 cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant .....
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ......................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card .....
How to Form Bands of MerCy ........ .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Write for terms for rental and sale of the Films—

“ N BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Boston,
scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and of some of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

Two reels, 30 minutes.

Descriptive, illustrated circular of this film free upon application

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title. The text of the poem will be sent free upon application

State whether 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required.

Address, Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 170

     

GLORY TQ
/ GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH, all“
,KmDNESS, JUSTICE a '
AND MERCY TO "
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
 
  
 

 
  
   
   
 
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES C. BANcROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... MGXiCO
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griﬁ’ith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 257
Number of addresses made, 175
Number of persons in audiences, 23,468

For Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Education at the
Albany Convention

HURSDAY evening, September 14,

was devoted entirely to Humane Edu-
cation at the recent annual meeting of the
American Humane Association in Albany,
and proved to be one of the most interest-
ing sessions of the entire convention. In
addition to the many delegates a number
of children of third-grade age made up
the audience which listened to a unique
presentation, entitled “Nifter McGregor,”
by Miss Virginia Sedgwick, director of
humane education of the Anti-Cruelty So-
ciety, Chicago. In a charming manner
Miss Sedgwick told the story of a puppy’s
career, with many amusing anecdotes and
frequent bits of advice on the proper care
and handling of such pets, and illustrated
by drawings shown on the screen. Herbert
A. Steinke, director of art in the public
schools of Albany, was next introduced to
discuss “Humane Education through Art.”
This was a very helpful talk from a most
enthusiastic teacher who realizes the im—
portance of the humane point of View in.
judging posters submitted in our annual
contests.

During the evening Mrs. Jennie R.
Toomim of Chicago Spoke brieﬂy of her
work, under the auspices of the Ameri—
can Humane Education Society, in the
schools of Chicago, in which the Illinois Hu-
mane Society generously co-operates. Guy
Richardson, secretary, called attention to
this being the ﬁftieth anniversary of the
American Humane Education Society of
Boston and brieﬂy referred to the work of
its dozen ﬁeld representatives from Maine
to California. Richard C. Craven, ﬁeld
secretary of the American Humane Asso-
ciation, who was presiding over this sec-
tion of the meeting, added words of con-
gratulation to the Humane Education So—
ciety and lauded the efforts of its various
workers in states which he has Visited.

Good News from Fez

Our readers, interested in the Fondouk
in Fez, Morocco, will be glad to see the
following from Mr. Delon, Superintendent
of the Fondouk:

“I am pleased to tell you that, after the
Visit Dr. Bouguereau and I made to the
Commissaire du Gouvernement, presenting
him three animals badly injured with hot
irons and making a complaint against
native blacksmiths, who so badly use hot
irons for treating (?) lame animals—and
I suppose also a little owing to our circular
in three languages which has been dis-
tributed to all the Arab authorities—the
Prevost of Merchants (Mohtasseb) has for-
bidden treatment of animals in such a way.
He told us that he would send to the
Pacha for ﬁne or prison owners of animals
who would be presented by us or by Police
Dept.”

This custom of burning horses and mules
with red-hot irons for lameness and many
other troubles has been almost universal in
that part of the Orient.

Here is Superintendent Delon’s report of
the number of outpatients at the Fondouk
during the month of August: 61 horses, 33
mules; 56 donkeys; 2 dogs. Total: 152.

N0v.1939

Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall

' NE of the best known women in New
Hampshire, Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall,
of Nashua, died September 28 at the age
of 81. For ﬁfty years she had been prom-
inent in humane work. She was the ﬁrst
woman in the state to be appointed deputy
sheriff, holding that post from 1906 to 1908,
when she brought many cases of cruelty
to animals into court. As president of the
New Hampshire Women’s Humane Society,
and later as vice-president of the Humane
Society, her influence was felt throughout
the Granite State, where she was the per-
sonal friend of state and national officials.
Locally, she was always ready to receive
telephone calls for the relief not only of
suffering animals but also of needy chil-
dren and aged persons. She was an active
director of the Protestant Orphanage in
Nashua, and through her efforts was estab-
lished the Proctor Cemetery for Animals,
in that city, now containing 150 graves
of pets. Her interests were nation-wide, in-
cluding frequent attendance at the national
conventions. Her marked interest in hu-
mane education led to her election as a
director of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, in 1918, where she served until
her death, often making the trip from
Nashua to Boston to attend the meetings.
The largely attended funeral was held
in the Unitarian Church, of which she had
been an active member, on September 30.
In its issue for that day, the Nashua Tele-
graph, for which Mrs. Kendall had served
as a local reporter, carried a leading edi-
torial, “A Remarkable Woman,” in which
her many Virtues and her great service to
the community were recounted: “Her main
life work was devoted to Humane Society
activities. In this ﬁeld she was the perfect
crusader.”

Mrs. Kendall is survived by four broth-
ers and one sister besides her son, Walter
M. Kendall, Esq., of Attleboro (a director
and former treasurer of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A.), and an adopted son, George
Angell Kendall, of Cape Neddick, Maine.
Appropriate resolutions and expressions of
sympathy for her family were passed by
the directors of the American Humane
Education Society at their October meeting.

You Might Help

One of our very faithful workers in
Texas, the Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, who
has been for many years doing a large
work among the colored school children of
that state, meeting many teachers and
other groups of inﬂuential leaders, is won-
dering if there is not someone among our
readers who would be glad to furnish a
moving—picture apparatus for his use.
There is no doubt that this would be of
very great value to him. The cost of such
a device would be in the neighborhood of
$250.

If any reader would like to help in this
we should be glad to receive his gift. If a
sufﬁcient amount is not raised, the money
would be returned.

It is incumbent upon women, who com-
pose half the human race, to form with
ferocious energy a coalition against war.

H. LA FONTAINE (Nobel Peace Prize)

 




 

u U. S,Trade Mark, Registered k

ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.
.1-

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though. graced with polished manners and, ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

AND MERCY TO
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29. 1917, at the Post Office at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of Oct

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Vhﬂ.72

Multitudes over a great part of the world
will say, with the beginning of 1939, to
those they meet, “A Happy New Year.”
That this may be a Happy New Year to
millions of our human fellows the world
over, no matter what their creed or color
or land may be, we heartily wish; and we
are sure that all our readers and millions
of others will join with us in the prayer
that the black shadows of persecution, want
and war will lie far less deeply over the
homes and hearts of men when the. year
closes than when it began.

One of the most attractive humane jour-
nals published is the Blue Cross, the oﬁic1al
organ of the Shanghai Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, a copy of
which we regularly receive. One cannot
help wondering how it has been possible for
this Society to survive amid all the horrors
of the long-drawn-out war.

The Horse and Mule Association of
America reports that the disease about
which much was said in recent months and
called, in common parlance, “sleeping
sickness,” has been stopped and an effective
control has been found. It further says
that no more animals need be lost from
this disease. Further information with re-
gard to it may be obtained from Dr. H.W.
Schoening, Chief in Pathology, Unlted
States Department of Agriculture. At least
Dr. Schoening discussed this matter fully
at the annual meeting of the Horse and
Mule Association, held in Chicago.

The Royal S. P. C. A. of London reports
that during the critical days when war
seemed so near at hand, it received thou-
sands of inquiries from people anxious to
know what to do for the safety and comfort
of their animals. A special staff had to be
organized to deal with the great mass of
correspondence and telegrams and inter-
views to which attention had to be given.
Ten thousand copies of the Society’s
pamphlet, “Animals and Air Raids,” were
distributed, and the British Broadcasting
Corporation co-oper-ated with the Seciety.

January,1939

We Happened to Meet——

And What Happened Continues to Happen

E were introduced. This is what he
said:

“Oh, you’re the animal man, aren’t you—

interested in animals? Well, that’s a good
job. Animals ought to have someone to
befriend and to protect them from cruelty.”
“Yes, I am interested in animals but
very much more interested in children.”
“Why, I didn’t suppose that a society for
animals had anything to do with children.”
“My dear sir, the chief aim of both our
Societies, the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
the American Humane Education Society,
particularly that of the American Humane
Education Society which is purely educa-
tional in character and international as
well as national, is to reach the children
in the schools of our own and other states
of the UniOn and even in other lands. It is
true that the ﬁrst of these two Societies,
founded by George T. Angell in 1868, was
designed above all to protect animals in
Massachusetts from cruelty, but later,
when in 1889 he founded the American

Humane Education Society, they both co-

operated in this work of Humane Educa-
tion. Through the efforts of these two

Societies, nearly ﬁve million children have
been organized into what are known the
world over as Bands of Mercy. Each year

our employed representatives in several
states of the Union come face to face, in
schools, colleges and other gatherings, with

nearly 200,000 children, to say nothing of

meeting superintendents, principals, teach-
ers and others who are no longer children.”

“But I don’t understand your object in
what you call this educational work. I
would have supposed it would be simply to
get children to be kind to animals.”

“No. That is, unfortunately, what the
majority of people believe, and why they
rather deem such societies as ours hardly
worthy of a real man’s time and serious
thought. Of course, we deem it of great
importance that there should be cultivated

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Mass.

lVo.l

in the hearts and minds of children those
principles of justice, fair play and kind-
ness that would lead them to recognize the
rights of all animals for fair and just
treatment; but far more important than
that is what we have recognized as the in-
ﬂuence upon the character of the child, of
developing in him the spirit of kindness
and good will, justice and compassion.
These are virtues which, like mercy, bless
both him who gives and him, who takes.
It is always easy to interest a child in an
animal. Once that interest awakens, once
he begins to feel that the creatures below
him can suffer pain as well as he, and
have a right to life, to their own forms of
happiness and pleasure and to such treat-
ment as he would like if he and the horse
or the dog or the bird or other fellow-
creature had to change places—once he
realizes this, something ﬂowers in the
heart and mind of that child that leads
him to treat his human fellow with justice
and fair play, that sets his face against
cruelty in the ,many forms it takes be-
getting selﬁshness, intolerance, prejudice
against others because of race or religion
or color or social standing, hatred, andlack
of sympathy with sorrow and suﬂ’ering
wherever found in his human world or in
the world of life below him, and that horror
men call war. ,

“Few, even of our readers, realize, I
think, how far-reaching is the inﬂuence of
our two Societies. Through their magazine,
which goes into nearly every civilized coun-
try, and through their literature in dif-
ferent languages and through their afﬁlia-
tion with the great Parent-Teacher Associ-
ation, numbering more than one and a half
million, and through personal correspond-
ence, they touch the lives of more than a.
million men, women and children every
year.”

The Horses’ Christmas was Observed by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. throughout
the various communities of the Common-
wealth in which our agents are located and
wherever opportunity was found for making
some horse’s Christmas a better one.

 




 

 

 

 

 

GLORY TQ
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

‘z KINDNESS, JUSTICE
"Q AND MERCY TO
“ EVERY LIVING

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
.see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation ‘

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ ’..Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

.8. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representatives

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR DECEMBER, 1938

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 918
Number of addresses made, 276

Number of persons in audiences, 37,485

For Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

017Ii IlUini
Of One Blood

NE of the most celebrated Jews who
©ever lived, the world still knows him
as Paul the Apostle to the Gentiles, once
said that we are all of one blood. This man
was born a Roman citizen. His travels
took him through Asia Minor and Greece
and even into Rome. It is possible that he
also visited Spain. Isn’t it rather interest-
ing to ﬁnd his words conﬁrmed by the
leading scholars of today who have devoted
their lives to the study of the race question,
and who tell us

(1) It is not legitimate to argue
from differences in physical character-
istics to differences in mental char-
acteristics.

(2) Physical and mental character-
istics of races are not permanent, nor
are they modiﬁable only through long
ages. On the contrary, they are capable
of being profoundly modiﬁed in a few
generations by changes in education,
public sentiment and environment gen-
erally.

, (3) The status of a race at any par—
ticular time offers no index as to its
innate or inherited capacities.

To talk of any race or any man as abso—
lutely of pure blood is about as great a
folly as to say that the waters of the
Mississippi which ﬁnally reach the sea are
nothing but the pure water of the ﬁrst
spring from which the river had its
source. Through that journey from the
spring to the sea a thousand different
streamlets have joined it on its way.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for November— 30 Days

Daily average large animals 50.1
Forage for same $ 4.86
Put to sleep 48 6.14
Transportation 5.98
Daily average dogs 5
Forage for same 2.02
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 53.15
Superintendent’s salary 66.44
Veterinaries’ salaries 11.95
Motor ambulance upkeep 4.66
Motor bicycles upkeep 4.56
Sundries 33.41
Actual operating expenses $193.17

Entries: 15 horses, 20 mules, 82 donkeys.

Exits: 8 horses, 11 mules, 47 donkeys_

Outpatients treated: 111 horses, 63 mules, 106 don—
keys, 3 dogs, 7 animals transported in ambulance.
Sent by Police Dept., 9 animals.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 642 cases investi-
gated, 9,362 animals seen, 1,138 animals treated, 92
animals hospitalized by us from above, 12 Arab bits
and pack-saddles (infected) destroyed.

One Day’s Work in November

THURSDAY, 3rd: 7 a.m. Usual work. 8.30 a.m. to
10.30 a.m. Souk e1 Khemis, Casbat ben Debbab and
Fes J edid-Mellah inspections, Sent in one horse and
one donkey to be put to sleep. Put to sleep one mule
at Casbat ben Debbab. Sent one donkey to Hospital.
On returning to Fondouk saw a mule near Bab J iaf
fallen on the way and in such a bad condition that
it was unable to rise. Put it to sleep on the spot
with consent of owner, a native countryman. 11 a.m.
visit of Dr. Bouguereau. Men white-washing ward
for contagious cases. 11.30 a.m. visit of Dr. Morgan,
Missionary in Fez, and Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Caneday,
American Missionaries in Tangier. 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
cleaning forage room and making account of barley.
3.30 p.m. to 340 p.m. Bou Jeloud-Talaa inspections.
4.30 p.m. visit of Mrs. Cecil M. Porch and Louie
Vassia-Piccone, of Monte Carlo, friends of Mr. Wil-
liams. They wrote in our visitors’ book: “We are so
pleased that the Fondouk is doing such wonderful
work after having taken interest in it from Monte
Carlo and knowing Mr. Williams personally.” (Mrs.
Porch has arranged an Annual Subscription of
Frs. 500.) Animals in Hospital: 53.

G. DELON, Superintendent

xlhllﬂlzlLél

Ebb.1939

In My Garden

VELA EDWARDS

The Grecian Urns are missing,
The walks are only fair,

But trees and berry bushes
Are simply everywhere!

And if you’re feeling downcast
You’re always sure to see

Some squirrels out to charm you
With acrobatic glee.

There are no formal fountains,
But bird baths hide away

Among old-fashioned flowers,—
So gaudy, but so gay!

And if you need uplifting,
Why then, just come along.

My garden’s rich in bird life
And, therefore, rich in song.

It’s almost like a wildwood,—
There’s nothing much to show,
But here is all that high heart
Should look upon and know;
The gate shuts out all weary,
Small goals that hurry man.
So come into my garden
And glimpse God’s loving plan.

Sending Stamps

HE response to our request for used

stamps has been so generous and kindly
that we are now obliged to ask only for
foreign stamps, or in denominations of 10c.
and over. Stamps printed on an envelope,
such as are bought at the post oﬂice, are
of no value.

Mr. Burgess to Lecture

As part of its observance of Humane
Sunday (April 23, 1939) and Be Kind to
Animals Week (April 17-22) the Massa—
chusetts S. P. C. A. has arranged with the
popular nature writer, Mr. Thornton W.
Burgess, to present his lecture, “Friendly
Folks Along the Trails,” in the lecture
room of the Boston Public Library, Copley
Square, on Sunday, April 23, at 3:30 P. M.
Both lantern slides and ﬁlms will be used
to illustrate the subject. Entrance to the
hall is from Boylston Street. Doors open
at 2 P. M. Free to all. Those who heard
Mr. Burgess in similar lectures in previous
years, know what a treat awaits them.

Mrs. Albert Leffingwell

Word has just come to us from Mr.
Thomas A. Lefﬁngwell of Aurora, New
York, of the passing of his mother, Mrs.
Elizabeth F. Lefﬁngwell, on December 21
last. Many of our readers will recall her
late husband, Dr. Albert Leﬂingwell, prom-
inent humanitarian and expert writer on
vivisection from an ethical point of view.
For many years Mrs. Lefﬁngwell was a
valued subscriber to Our Dumb Animals,
sending it to a number of children. She was
ever interested in her husband’s work
whereby the true facts of cruel vivisections
were given to the public fearlessly and with
the authority of a medical man of high
standing in his profession. Two sons sur-
vive, Thomas A. Leﬂingwell of Aurora and
Albert Lefﬁngwell of White Plains, N. Y.

 




 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

Paradox, the Cat

RUTH STEWART SCHENLEY

“I,” said the cat, “was a god in Egypt, then,

Thousands of years ago.

It now appears that mice and men

Have brought me low.

Be not deceived, the life that idols lead—-

Ambrosia and silk

And sacriﬁce—is wearying. I much prefer
to feed

0n love and milk.

“I count my crowns and thrones well lost.
You stroke my fur.

It’s nicer nowadays to be petted and bossed,
For gods can’t purr.

It was no sorry trade—godhead for bliss.
I’ll not repent,

Lying before your ﬁre like this

I am content.”

The Empire-Building Cat
LUCILE ANDERSON

T was past bedtime but the New Eng-

land school teacher could not sleep. He
kept thinking of the conversation he had
taken part in that evening. It was at the
dinner table that someone had laughingly
suggested that he should put his Yankee
mind to work on the problem of inventing

an easy way to separate cotton ﬁber from
the seed.

As Schoolmaster Whitney was about to
give up the problem he heard a commotion
in the yard. He leaned out the window to
see what was causing the disturbance.
There he ,saw a crate of chickens. The
front of the crate was made of slats to
allow the air to circulate freely. Through
these slats a hungry cat was reaching for
a supper of chicken meat. But every time
she reached in back came her paws with
nothing but feathers hanging from her
claws.

Like a ﬂash Whitney decided that he
might solve the problem of separating the
cotton ﬁbre from the seeds. He, the school-
master, had found his problem solved by
a cat! He would simply pull the ﬁbers
through openings too small to allow the
seeds to pass.

The next morning Eli Whitney went
down to the plantation blacksmith shop and
set to work. As he neared success he gave
up teaching to devote all his time to his
invention. He wrote to his father that “It
makes the labor ﬁfty times less without
throwing any class of people out of
business.”

He made many further improvements in
the machine, but failed to become rich be-
cause people copied his work without paying
him for it. However his engine built the
cotton empire of the South. It made the
Southeners averse to freeing their slaves.
It increased the number of manufacturing
towns in England and in New England.
Thousands were given work manufactur-
ing the tools needed to cultivate the cotton
and to spin the ﬁbers into thread.

Whitney called his invention the cotton
engine. Cotton pickers shortened the name
to gin so that today we have in every
Southern town not a cotton engine but a
cotton gin.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Bring-Em-BaCk-Alive-Hibiscus”

From a broadcast by THORNTON W. BURGESS, over Station WSPR,
Springﬁeld, Mass., February 21, 1939

HILE most cats are natural born

hunters, some are better hunters

than others. Recently I read in a
newspaper an account of the exploits of the
master hunter among all cats. It was a
good story but it strained my credulity.
So I checked up on it and I found that it
was all true, every word of it. What is
more I now have seen a recent photograph
of the cat, “Bring-’Em—Back-Alive-Hibis-
cus,”0therwise known as “Mickey,” cham-
pion rabbit hunter of Fishers Island. When
you have heard the story I think you will
agree with me that that is altogether too
modest, and that champion Rabbit Catcher
of the World is not too much to claim.

Bring-’Em-Back-Alive is a handsome
yellow-and-white, sixteen-and-a-half-pound
tomcat with a passion for collecting rabbits,
wild cottontail rabbits, and bringing them
home alive and unhurt. It is estimated that
in the last two years he has brought home
and liberated not less than 150 rabbits of
all ages and sizes from small bunnies just
beginning to run around to full—grown
cottontails. This estimate is based on a
careful count and record kept from June
20 to December 31 last year. Inthat period
seventy-three rabbits were brought in. So
the estimate for the two full years is really
conservative. One night last summer he
brought in eight. That is tops so far.

Mickey is the pet of two boys, James and
Richard Baker, who are among the all-
year residents on Fishers Island off New
London. Three summers ago they had an-
other pet, a big brown rabbit. Mickey and
the rabbit became pals. They played to-
gether on the lawn for hours at a time.
When they grew tired they would lie down

side by side and doze. Often Mickey’s head
would rest on the rabbit’s ﬂank. At the end
of the summer the rabbit died. Mickey was
disconsolate. For a time he roamed about
the house apparently looking for his lost
pal. It was a little later that he began to
bring home live rabbits. Like all cats he
does most of his hunting at night. The win-
dow of the boys’ room on the second ﬂoor
is left open and by way of this Mickey goes
and comes. Getting his captives up to that
dormer window is a feat in itself. Carry-
ing the rabbit by the scruff of the neck or
the loose hide of the back, Mickey climbs a
trumpet vine to the roof on an ell. “This,”
Mr. Baker writes me, “has a long slightly
sloping roof over which he travels, then
up the valley and down to the dormer.”

Once inside he takes the rabbit down to
the living room. If Mr. Baker has not re-
tired Mickey lays the rabbit at his feet and
walks away, or if Mr. Baker holds out his
hand the rabbit is given to him. If no one
is about Mickey turns his captive loose. If
the family is abed he occasionally takes one
up to Mr. Baker’s bedroom. When the latter
gets up in the morning he can always tell
if Mickey has had a successful hunt in the
night for the cat runs to him and excitedly
leads the way to where the rabbit is. The
rabbits are taken to remote parts of the
island and liberated. They are never hurt
in any way. It is the neighbors who have
dubbed Mickey “Bring-’Em-Back-Alive-Hi-
biscus.” Well, folks, that cat is my idea of a
real sportsman. He loves to hunt, gets all
the fun of matching his skill against the
wits of those he hunts, knows the ﬁnal
thrill of success, and doesn’t ﬁnd it neces-
sary to kill.

 

MILFORD (MASS) CAT ADOPTS SQUIRRELS

While walking through the woods near his home, Charles Guidali of Milford,
Mass., came across a nest of squirrels that had been abandoned by their mother. He
brought the squirrels home and they were immediately adopted by the family cat.
The photograph, taken by John Sheahan, shows the cat and her new family.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

as. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

to. 1- ”‘0‘:

u 111.1314... .10762/
. (”HIM (S)

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

    

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH, ,
Kmouass,".lusrncs
AND Msacv 'r‘o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
    
     
   

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for maillng at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act'of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

July, 1939

No. 7

 

Destruction of animal life on modern
highways by heedlessly driven motor cars
is an evil that challenges the attention of
strong public sentiment.

Refuse of oil-burning steamers, pumped
on the sea, destroys each year tens of
thousands of birds, together with the eggs
and young of important food ﬁshes and
the forms of life that ﬁsh eat. The remedy
is to force responsibility upon the shipping
interests.

The Dundalk Herald of Dundalk, On-
tario, publishes a protest against what it
speaks of as the “mass slaughter of 2,750
snowbirds to add to the Royal feast at
Quebec.” “The breasts of these birds,” it
continues, “provide a morsel of food only
as large as the nail of the thumb, and it
seems needless to destroy all this useful
bird life when there are so many other
delicacies ﬁt ‘to set before the King.’ ”

We believe it is right in its assertion
that the King and Queen, who are fond of
animals, would not have approved of such
a sacriﬁce of bird life had they known of it.

The general public will be greatly sur-
prised to know that Sidney Franklin, the
man so interested in bullﬁghting, broad-
cast recently over Station WMCA, a talk
advocating that bu’llﬁghting should be in-
troduced into the United States and also
stating that bulls were being shipped to
the World’s Fair where a mock bullﬁght
without weapons was to be staged.

The President of The American Humane
Association assures us on the authority of
the president of the Fair, that no mock
bullﬁghting will be held with live animals
on the Fair grounds. We join with the
Association in urging that many letters be
written to Hon. Grover Whalen, President
of the New York World’s Fair, protesting
against any such exhibition which would be
so generally disapproved by the majority
of American people.

In the name of science, many a thing is
lawful that would put the ordinary man in
jail.

Sailing Under False Colors

HE rodeo, which purports to be a

reproduction of common scenes on
many of our western ranches, is anything
but what it advertises itself to be. In an
article in the New York Times, A. E.
DeRicques of Denver, writes:

“The rodeo, or wild west show, to many
familiar with the cattle business, is exceed—
ingly objectionable and certainly foreign to
any range cattle or ranch experience in
western America. An experience of thirty-
ﬁve years in the far western range cattle
business possibly qualiﬁes me to comment
on this subject. Our outﬁts count 782
broken saddle horses used in the handling
of cattle in many western states on ranges
and Indian reservations, doing round—up
and other work. Out of the entire lot I
doubt very much if twenty head buck or
have any idea of bucking or acting badly
unless pestered by some young fool of a
cow-puncher who, freshly back from a
rodeo show, is full of new stunts and wants
to be thought tough and trygphis big spurs.
. . The affection of a real cowhand for
his saddle horse is one of the ﬁne things
that exist, but is seldom shown unless you
try to give some of his string to another
rider. In the range cattle business there is
no occasion for the brutal bulldogger or
wild steer rider of the show.”

A G-Dog

The Kind Deeds Messenger, published by
the Latham Foundation for the Promotion
of Humane Education, recently awarded a
medal to a remarkable dog. Here are the
facts as given to us:

“Jerry, beautiful police dog, belonging to
Morris Horowitz of Los Angeles, made a
sensation last December by his spectacular
pursuit of two bandits, who robbed the
drug store of his master and riﬂed the cash
register of ninety dollars. Overtaking the
one in possession of the money, Jerry threw
him to the ground, stood on his chest, while
with vocal threats and the eloquence of
gleaming teeth he held the terriﬁed crim-
inal spellbound until the police arrived and
completed the recovery of the money.”

From the Hon. Percival
P. Baxter

The former Governor of Maine, known
throughout the entire country for his love
of animals and his interest in their wel-
fare, writes us the following:

“You will be glad to hear that the cruelty
and neglect incident to the maintenance of
our roadside zoos now has almost been done
away with. Some of us for several years
have been seeking to abolish these zoos,
for they have been a blot on the fair name
of Maine. We have succeded in obtaining
the passage of a law that imposes a tax of
ﬁfty dollars on such zoos, and places them
under the control of our Commissioner of
Inland Fish and Game, Mr. George J.
Stobie, an able, kindhearted ofﬁcial who is
devoted to the protection of our wild life.
The ﬁfty dollars tax has driven out of busi-
ness all but two of these objectionable
places, and soon there may be but one left.
Mr. Stobie will see to it that that one is
properly managed. I earnestly hope that
the remaining one will not long survive.
I am sure that your readers will be en-
couraged by this news.”

That trained animals are to be featured
at the New York World’s Fair, prompts
Mr. Albert Payson Terhune, widely known
contributor of dog articles to the daily
press, to enter his protest against them.
He has said that he has proof that many
animal acts involve terror and torture and
so refuses to be an observer at such shows.
His example is likely to be followed by
many others who have conﬁdence in what
he writes.

“Thank God every morning when you
get up that you have something to do that
day which must be done, whether you like
it or not. Being forced to work, and forced
to do your best will breed in you temper-
ance and self-control, diligence and strength
of will, cheerfulness and content, and a
hundred virtues which the idle never know.”

CHARLES KINGSLEY

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1939
The Cats of Havana

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

MONG the memories of a happy week

spent recently in Havana, I count my
acquaintance with a little stray cat. One
day after a big morning of sightseeing in
the busy streets of this historic city, I
paused for a few moments to rest. Fortu-
nately there is always an inviting bench
and a shaded nook at hand to beguile the
weary traveler, for Havana, like many old
world cities, contains numerous little
squares and parks where the people may
come to sit leisurely and watch the rest of
the world go by.

I was not sitting long when I espied a
small gray cat, just the common ordinary
kind, eyeing me with interest. “Here,
kittie, kittie,” I called. Just then the
thought came to me that this was a Cuban
cat that understood no English. I was mis-
taken, however, for Kittie bounded over to
me, and let me rub her head. She brushed
against my feet and jumped upon my lap,
and we soon became great friends. My little
knowledge of Spanish came to me, but
Kittie did not seem to mind what language
I used in speakingto her. She was jusﬁ as
pleased when I called “pretty kittie,” as
“gata bonita.”

I felt rested after my visit with the
friendly little creature, and somehow did
not feel so strange in the big city where
I could not readily understand nor take
part in the lovely foreign tongue that fell
upon my ears everywhere. If I knew no
person, I at least had a friend in this lively
cat that linked me to my new surroundings.

I ﬁnd a liking for animals, especially cats
and dogs, is of great assistance to the
traveler. He will never be lonesome when
he can stop and talk to the many beauti-
ful pets he will meet in the course of his
journey. Cats are the same the world over,
and to meet one far from home seems like
greeting an old friend. For the moment
one is carried back to familiar scenes.
Many acquaintances and lasting friend-
ships are made through the medium of
animals. Owners delight in having people
admire their pets, and if language is a
barrier, there is always a friendly smile
bestowed upon the tourist.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

RAPT IN MEDITATION

 

I saw many cats in Havana, in shops,
public markets, hotels, and other places, all
of whom helped me pass a few carefree
moments as I stroked their soft fur. Often
at such encounters I was carried away from
the bustle about me into a contemplation of
the mystery of life, that the far-seeing
gaze of a serene cat always evokes in me.

Occasionally when I was so fortunate as
to pass a home where the lovely ornamental
grilled street door was open, allowing one
to see the cool patio inside with all its
beautiful tropical shrubs and plants, I
usually noticed a cat sitting and dreaming
in a quiet corner. Very likely every house—
hold has a cat dreaming in the patio. It
is an appropriate place, surely, for it is
quiet and secluded there.

Other times when I passed a cat calmly
sunning herself in a shop window, or lei-
surely performing her toileti in view of the
world, I smiled when the picture of the
tourist with guide book in hand, madly
rushing about, trying to see a big city in
a day or two, came to mind. Oh, for the
sense of a cat, who takes her ease while
mortals rush hither and thither!

I think a cat in Cuba has a lovely time,
for Cubans take life calmly, too. A daily
siesta is part of their program, and they
spend long hours in the evening, idly talk-

 

A PERSIAN BEAUTY

ing, walking about without hurry, or sitting
and leisurely drinking tiny cups of black
sweet-tasting coffee.

Of all the cats I met in the beautiful isle
of Cuba, none appealed to me more than
the little gray cat I met the ﬁrst day, for
it gave me a welcome, and handed me, so to
speak, the keys of the city.

A Plea for the Cat

Editor, Our Dumb Animals,

I have long been of the opinion that we
may all begin in our own back yard, liter-
ally as well as ﬁguratively, to right the
wrongs under which this old world is
groaning. '

Although I have never been accused of
a quasi kinship to the feline race, I have
great admiration and sympathy for the
much-abused cat, especially the unfortun—
ate alley cat that battles for existence with
the world and beats it. All too often he
bears the marks of man’s inhumanity to
cats, but he does not retaliate. It is not in
his scheme of things to ﬁght man, but he
usually holds his fellow cat even. He
patiently takes what he cannot help, seem-
ingly considering that it is just a part of
the game of life.

I have had two cats die in Spite of
good care—one a most beautiful, majestic
Persian that we had picked up as a tiny
half—starved waif, the other just an alley
cat that came to us, and who insisted on
helping to make his living by hunting
gophers. He lived on, year after year
dodging the dangers that beset a cat while
attending to his own business and proving
himself a blessing to the neighborhood.
Once a man passing by, (yes, it can hap-
pen here in this supposedly enlightened
country) hurled a stone at him as he sat
quietly watching a gopher hole.

I would love to hear from any reader
who, like myself, would like to see these
courageous little animals better treated by
the world in general.

GLEN CORA BATES
1203 S. Euclid Ave., Ontario, Calif.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

umb

01. ANGE

u, S,Trade Mark, Registered
LL ‘N 1868.AND FOR FORT-Y‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
. ——COWPER

£11?)

GLORY TO
GOD,
Peace on EARTH,

AND Mencv 'r'o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second—class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass, under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailmg at speCIal rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

October, 1939

No. 10

 

If you, as a teacher, or as one inter-
ested in small animal pet shows, happen
to read these lines, please read also the
article upon the subject and the rules for
their management in another column of
this issue.

After repeated assurances'by the ofﬁcials
of the World’s Fair that nothing savoring
of the degrading exhibition of a bull-ﬁght
would be permitted during the Fair’s exist-
ence, these same officials have gone back
on their promise. See the article in an—
other column which tells the story.

All honor to Canada for what she has
done to preserve the elk from extermina—
tion! Reckless slaughter nearly wiped
them out as it did the buffalo. It is esti-
mated that while no ﬁgures can be given
as to the number that roam through Can-
ada’s vast national parks, there are within
fenced areas, doubtless, close to four thou-
sand. How many would be left in a few
years if the average hunter were let loose
to do his will?

There was once in this country no speciﬁc
law forbidding the docking of horses’ tails.
Now, though it is still done secretly and
under cover, it is illegal in nearly every
state in the Union. The shame of “setting
up” the tails of saddle horses, now illegal
in at least three states, will eventually be-
come illegal in all the states. The cruelty
and the shame of it are against the intelli-
gence and humanity of. an enlightened
people.

How many of our readers know that
there is a patron saint of dogs? The saint
is St. Roch. According to an English
paper, on a recent day something like a
hundred dogs were brought to the Church
of St. Thomas More to be blest by the
priest. Some dogs, the report says, trav-
eled hundreds of miles to be present on
that occasion. The priest, Father Whelan,
told the reporter, “I had no idea it was
going to be so popular and I am getting
just a little bit alarmed about it!”

Bull-fighting and the
World’s Fair

N spite of the assurance of the ofﬁcials

of the World’s Fair that there should be
no exhibit of anything savoring of the bull-
ﬁght during the Fair’s existence, a confer-
ence was held recently with the ofﬁcials of
the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, the Pennsylvania So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani—

mals, the Connecticut Humane Society and

the Animal Rescue League of Boston, at
which the man, Sidney Franklin, who has
been so determined to stage what might be
called a “bull-ﬁght” at the New York
World’s Fair, gave an exhibition of what
he has so long been clamoring for. The
officials of the Societies present, while stat-
ing that they were “unalterably opposed to
the introduction of bull-ﬁghting in .this
country, saw nothing in the performance
which involved actual cruelty or which was
contrary to law.”

Of course, if there was no violation of
any humane law, it would be impossible for
any humane organization to threaten prose—
cution if the exhibition took place. It is a
pity that the authorities of the World’s
Fair went back on their undeniable assur-
ance that nothing savoring a thing of this
sort would be allowed. It will take, we fear,
too much explaining to assure the humane
public that the World’s Fair authorities
were not charged with violating their
agreement. While this so-called bull-ﬁght
may be conducted according to the rehears—
al given and may involve no violation of
law, it will be looked upon the world over
as the permitting of an entering wedge in
the United States of that archaic, cruel,
barbaric thing known as a bull-ﬁght.

Since writing the above, we are pleased
to learn that while the so-called bull-ﬁght
was put on for a few performances, it
proved to be so tame that after three days
it was withdrawn entirely through lack of
patronage.

The Church and the Animal

F course we are using the word “ani-
mal” now as including only the world
of life below us. Why has it taken so many
centuries since the beginning of the Christ—
ian Era for what are known distinctively
as “humane societies” to receive the recog—
nition they have today? Why has the
Church done so little to inculcate the spirit
of justice and compassion toward all senti-
ent sub-human life? Why so seldom is our
obligation to this vast realm, which has
suffered such injustice and cruelty at the
hands of man, ever referred to in the
Christian pulpit? Indeed, outside of the
sayings of the Founder of Christianity, the
New Testament has scarcely anything to
say which would seem to show any special
interest in the unnumbered millions of
creatures that have played and still play
so large a part in the history of mankind.
We believe the answer to be that such
supreme interest was taken for centuries
in saving the human soul from everlasting
punishment that the claims of the animal
seemed scarcely worthy of attention. While
the teachings of Jesus breathe everywhere
the spirit of inﬁnite kindness and mercy,
His early followers naturally thought of
that spirit as going out, above all, to their
human fellows. Many centuries had to pass
before the thought of God as revealed in
Jesus grew wide enough and human enough
to lead men to think of God, not as an
arbitrary Sovereign, choosing here and
there a few favored mortals for everlasting
bliss and dooming all others to unending
torture, but, rather, forever on the side of
all the creatures to whom He had given
being. This is true if He marks even a
sparrow’s fall. If men are to say “Our
Father,” their vision of Him must widen,
not only as it relates to the race of men
but also as it relates to all living things,
both man and beast, with the capacity to
suffer pain.
With this truer and larger thought of
God that came with the Man of Nazareth,
and which it has taken so long for man to

 

 

 

 

 




“#—

 

 

Nov. 1939

Annual Humane Meeting

NUSUALLY large attendance marked

the sessions of the sixty-third annual
meeting of the American Humane Associa-
tion, at Hotel Ten Eyck, Albany, N. Y.,
September 11 to 15. On Monday and
Tuesday, both forenoon and afternoon, ad-
dresses were presented on various phases of
the work of the children’s societies. At the
dinner meeting, Monday, the principal
speaker was Sanford Bates, executive di-
rector of the Boys’ Clubs of America, whose
inspiring address was not devoid of ani-
mal anecdotes. .

Wednesday forenoon was given up to
papers on various phases of animal protec-
tion. On Thursday morning “Humane Work
in Cuba” was described by Mrs. Jeanne Z.
Vda. de Pesant, director of the Bando de
Piedad de Cuba, Havana. Its history was
traced to the early beginnings and remark-
able activities of the late Mrs. Jeannette
Ryder. Under the title “Those Movies!”
Eric H. Hansen, general manager of the
American Humane Association, told of his
visit to Hollywood and presented graphic-
ally the plight of animals in the movies
today, telling of present efforts to control
the situation and outlining plans for future
action.

Dogs had their “day” Thursday after-
noon, when several specialists appeared on
the program, including Arthur Roland,
“Common-sense City Dog Control.” Mor-
gan Dennis, “The Artist and His Dogs”;
Charles W. Friedrichs, secretary of the San
Francisco S. P. C. A., “Animal Pit Con-
tests,” in which hetold how the new law
preventing cock-ﬁghting in California was
passed; and Richard Meany of the Bide-a-
Wee Home for Animals, New York, “Identi-
ﬁcation of Dogs by Nose Printing,” illus-
trated by lantern slides of various nose
prints.

On Friday forenoon a paper, “The Gath-
ering of Evidence,” by L. Willard Walker,
chief ofﬁcer of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A., was followed by a discussion as to the
value of photographs as court evidence;
methods of handling horse accidents, with
or without an ambulance, were given by
James E. Smith, chief agent of the West-
ern Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., Pittsburgh;
and Robert Coles of the American S. P.
C. A., New York City, described with char—
acteristic humor his methods of rescuing
stray cats and gave actual demonstra-
tions of them. The ﬁnal session, Friday
afternoon, opened with a round table dis-
cussion of several practical problems in
animal work, and closed with a talk on
“Bruised Meat,” by H. R. Smith, general
manager of the National Livestock Loss
Prevention Board, Chicago. There was an
elaborate bruised meat exhibit in charge
of Miss M. L. Wyman of Boston, secretary
of the Eastern States Livestock Loss Pre-
vention Association.

At the dinner for the animal section,
Wednesday evening, Thornton W. Burgess
of Springﬁeld, Mass., was the principal
speaker. He gave vivid accounts of some
of his experiences with animals, wild and
domestic, using lantern-slide illustrations.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety of Boston had a large display of
literature and posters in a room opposite
the auditorium, while the American Hu-

OUR DUMB

 

A BEAUTIFUL CAT IS A LASTING JOY

ANIMALS

1.1:: , ,:;~:,-,--._:_.-_._._._-_..._~.v,,

Page 1’71

wife took it upon her bed
~—whereupon Smoky
promptly got down. The
next morning we found
her in the basement, still
further crestfallen and
wholly unwilling to eat.
Entirely absent were all
her usual greetings and
evidences of happiness.
Smoky was heart-broken.
But she never once mo-
lested the little one.

I remarked that we
would have to be particu-
larly careful if we let
Smoky out. It was a good
thing I had that thought.
In the afternoon my wife
let her out for some exer—
cise, but not until I had
gone to the street, near
the cat’s usual exit from
the yard.

Just to see if my sus-
picion was correct, I hid
across the street. Smoky
sat on the porch a few
minutes, and seemed to
be thinking the situation
over. Then she slowly
walked out to the street—-
and started her doubtful
future. Where she would
have gone no one knows,
but she was abdicating;

 

mane Association held its annual display in
the spacious rooms of its new building at
135 Washington Avenue, where were held
the dedication exercises and also the hu-
mane education meeting, both described in
separate articles in this issue.

Jealousy in Cats
LESTER BANKS

SUSPECT that my wife and I are known

as particularly fond of cats; for twice
during the last few weeks kittens have
been left in the alley near our basement
door.

In the ﬁrst case I found a good home
for the little fellow without much trouble;
but the other baby, only about ﬁve weeks
old, was a female, and though I went to
all- the neighbors’ houses within two blocks,
no one would accept it. Strange, too, for
it was a beautiful blue with white mark-
ings, and fully half Persian.

With a cat of our own and a “half inter-
est” in two living near by, we didn’t really
want another, but ﬁnally decided to keep it.
Since losing our beloved black-and-white
“Boots,” we’ve felt that responsibility for
one pet at a time is about all we can carry.

Our cat, “Smoky,” resented the stranger’s
presence. She will play with most any cat
in the yard, but as soon as she saw that
the kitten was to be adopted, she would
have nothing to do with it. Ordinarily, in
the house she had always carried her great
fan-like tail over her back (almost touching
her head with it), but the tail went down,
and she moped about with a sad expression
in her big eyes. Even my wife could not
pet her into purring, and she ate virtually
nothing.

The ﬁrst night the kitten cried, and my

I’m as sure of that as I
ever was of anything.

I walked after her, calling her name. She
stopped, but as I started to pick her up
she slapped at me (for the ﬁrst time), and
proceeded. I followed, called again, and
this time took her up.

My wife had the kitten shut up in the
basement. Smoky searched, and when she
didn’t ﬁnd the “nuisance,” began to cheer
up a bit. We kept them apart in that way
until, by phone, we next day located a
home for the kitten. .

The incident conﬁrmed my contention
that cats have individuality just as do dogs
and horses. Many times we’ve had more
than one cat, and usually each seemed
more contented for the other’s presence.
But with Smoky it was radically different.
She has never known any but her present
home, has never been much petted by any-
one but my wife and me. We never allow
other persons to feed our pets. Smoky is,
thus, a one-place cat, a one—family pet, and
will never submit to a division of her home
and her mistress’s love. She isn’t at all ill-
tempered, but sensitive; and, believe me,
most well-bred cats are.

A Coyote Howls

MARJORIE HUNT PETTIT

A rogue he well may be—
A picaroon,
In gaunt relief
Against the prairie moon.
But when he lifts his muzzle
To the sky,
The night is flagellated
By his cry;
The dismal notes
Re-eeho and rebound,
Like northern lights
Translated into sound.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PageJ;
£‘If 1”

(With apologies to Rudyard Kipling)

“If you can sense the One in all creation,
And see the God in every brother’s face.
Without respect of creed, or race, or na-
tion;
If you can feel at home in every place;
If you can love your country with devotion,
And yet love all the other countries, too;
If you have freed yourself from class emo-
tion, _
And understand the other’s p0int of
view;
If you can sense in every beast a brother,
And see God blossoming in every flower;
If by no thought or deed you hurt another,
And ﬁll with noble deeds the fleeting

hour;
If all your thoughts, and words, and acts
are holy, . .
And everything from highest motive
done.

And all your work is based on service only,
' ° 9’
You’re very near to the Divine, my son.

K. BROWNING, M.A., in Cruel Sports

Filling Station Bears
BERT SACKETT

H, mamma, look at the funny bear.

Let’s stop here.” The “funny bear” 1s
an example of what has become a gen-
eral practice. Filling station operators .on
main highways have found that a roads1de
“zoo,” usually featuring a black bear, 1s an
easy and cheap way of advert1s1ng their
business.

It’s easy because the bear does the work,
and cheap because the tourists feed him.
Black bears are natural clowns and usually
gentle and lovable, so there is little danger
of one causing any trouble for his owner.
Children and grown-ups ﬁnd it hard to pass
a station where a bear is .on display and, of
course, they always want to feed their furry
friend. That means more proﬁt for the
proprietor. Bears can and do eat almost
anything they can swallow, but a dlet of
candy, popcorn and soda water does not
furnish proper nourishment.

Filling station bears are nearly always
cubs which have been stolen from their
mothers. The common way of conﬁning
them is by means of a collar and chain.
Many times the collar is not enlarged as
the Cub grows and causes great discomfort
to the unhappy animal. Occasionally a cage
large enough for some exercise is provided
but this is exceptional, most bears must be
content with a cage which not only is but
little larger than the bear but which makes
no provision for shelter from the weather
and sun. Sanitary conditions are far from
satisfactory and the bears are forced to
live amidst a litter of evil smelling rubbish.
Roadside torture yards would be a better
title for many of the filling station zoos.

There are many kind-hearted people who
would not tolerate any abuse of a dog, cat
or horse, who unthinkingly contribute to
the misery of animals exposed for advertis-
ing purposes. There is a quick and easy
way to end the “ﬁlling station bear” racket,
and that is to refuse to trade at places
that make use of such methods of attracting
business.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

THE OKAPI LIVES IN BELGIAN

 

(-1-. \\ -..s$.x\ M""

Jan. 1939

Seattle Turns
Down Rodeo

CORA LINDAAS

N the face of bitter

criticism from a num—
ber of quarters, an ap—
plication was considered
by the Seattle City
Council last May to
allow the holding of a
seven-day rodeo or
“stampede” at the Civic
Stadium for the beneﬁt
of the Seattle Police
Department drill team.
The police department
was to be the co-sponsor
of the show with the
Cramer Land & Live-
stock Company, of Big
Timber, Montana.

The Cramer Land &
Livestock Company was
represented by Leo
Cramer. Cramer runs
such shows throughout

CONGO
the country and pro-

 

A Living Fossil

MRS. GERTRUDE H. PALMER

S there an animal somewhere in this

world of ours the same today as it was
ﬁfteen million years ago? If it is an animal,
it is living; if it lived millions of years ago,
it is a fossil. Yes, there is a fossil living in
the jungles of Belgian Congo—the okapi.

No one is able to explain why this animal
has not become extinct. Related to the
giraffe, perhaps the common characteristics
of that family account for its not being
killed off by nature, other animals, or man.

Okapis are gentle and shy, desiring seclu-
sion of the jungle, where it is difficult for
man or animal to move without attracting
attention. The fever-breeding jungles of
the Belgian Congo have for centuries since
civilization began served as a protective
home for the okapi. Their coloring effective-
ly conceals them among the trees. They are
not ﬁghters, but want to live and let live,
whether it be man or beast. They never
meddle in others’ business. However, being
excellent parents, they will ﬁght to protect
their young, so in all probability during
these periods of time there has been only
slight infant mortality. The okapi goes
about slowly and calmly, so has not worn
itself out with nervous strain, and being a
vegetarian has escaped the ills of the carni-
vorous mammals.

The technical name for the okapi is
“Okapi johnstoni” after its discoverer, the
famous African explorer, Sir Harry John-
ston. The Pygmies called it “O-api” when
Johnston ﬁrst heard of it in 1883. It was
the only large type of mammal that re-
mained unknown until after 1900. It has
been proved during this century that it be-
longs to the extinct fossil giraffe that lived
during the middle period of the Age of
Mammals, known as the Miocene Period.

It is to be hoped that man, animal, and
nature will be as kind in the future as they
have been in the past to preserve for future
generations the okapi, a truly living fossil.

_ posed to bring three
hundred animals to Seattle in order to put
on a REAL Wild West “show.”

A member of the Council asked tall,
bronzed Leo Cramer, who has engaged in
the “sport” of abusing innocent and de-
fenseless animals practically all his life,
this question: “What is the difference be-
tween a wrestling match and a bucking con-
test?” He replied: “The real difference is
that a bucking contest is really a contest.”

He also told the Council that 1938 cow—
boys were a different lot than the cowhands
of the good old West. He said: “Forty per
cent of them are college graduates.” Inti-
mating that exhibitions of that sort are
now on a higher plane and those who take
part in them are proud of their work, proud
of their “contribution” to society.

During the discussion on the application
for the permit a Council member also fur-
nished a real gem, in sounding off with this:
“Rodeos are more reﬁned now.” Think of
it. Is it possible for a thing like that ever
to become reﬁned?

In the proposed permit the Council
pointed out that it “had been assured there
would be no brutality or mistreatment of
animals or other objectionable features.”
Just as though an assurance of that kind
had real meaning, real value, and had been
made with the idea of being lived up to.

The chief complaints against the so-called
“stampede” were launched by the King
County Humane Society and the Tailwag-
gers’ Club.

The Rev. Dr. Mark A. Matthews, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church, and an.
outstanding civic leader, joined in the op-
position to the rodeo and sent the City
Council a letter, in which he said: i

“To permit this cruel and inhuman sport
would be a step backward in the history of
Seattle. We have too many degrading pas—
times in the city at the present time; let us
not bring more. I most. earnestly ask you
to protect the interests of the children, and
the moral forces of this city.”

The permit was denied—thanks to an
aroused public opinion.

 

 




 

 

 

BASTIAN BROS. CO.

Advertising Specialties
in
Metal, Leather, and
Celluloid
Indoor Signs, Name Plates

Convention Badges. and

Emblems

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS 3
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

NEMA

WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N‘58'D
PARKE, DAVIS & co., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

    
  

   
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW HUMANE POSTER
FOR 1939

10c. each; 3 for 25c.; 8 for 50c.; 20 for $1.00

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

JANE DARLING—

How can I ever thank you enough for
suggesting Cuticura Soap and Ointment
for my blackheads and coarse pores.
These beauty-robbing faults don’t last
long once Cuticura gets to work. The
whole family uses it now. Always, Mary.
Soap 25¢. Ointment 25¢. FREE sample.
Write "Cuticura”, Dept. 42, Malden,Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Hubertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

Humane Literature and Band at MercySupplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22
and Humane Sunday, April 23, 1939

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Humane Calendar for 1939 ........... each, 20 cts.

two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals, Blotters, 6%; x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5

The Horse’s Prayer .. ........... .30 :: ::
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider. Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 10

The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.
Schneider .......................... .00 “ “

Important Advice on Feeding the Dog
and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.
Rudolph H. Schneider . .......... 1.

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry ................ .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ....................... .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................
Humane Education Leaﬂets. Nos. 1 and 2
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ........................ .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................

$2.00 per 100
.50 “ “

.50 ‘( 5‘
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady .............. .50 “ “

l About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp., special . .boards, 50 cts.

The Strike at Shane’s, clOth, 30 cts. ...... paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The. Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00. “ ,“

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ 4,“
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
pp. ......................... . . . $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised, ‘
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 ‘

Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free

Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character ‘
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. .................. 12 cents each ; ten for 951-0“

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1-”"
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ......................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......... each, 25 cts.
‘ e Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers selections for

(

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”

pay .. ...... ....3cts.each;tenfor25cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play .......
3 cts each ; ten for 25c.
Humane Sunday ........................... 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ................... .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... 50 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.‘
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. ddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 " “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30» “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Make applications at once for reservations for our two Humane Films for

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22
and Humane Sunday, April 23,1939

“THE BELL OF ATRI,” illustrating Longfellow’s poem, and ‘

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS,” showing work of the Mass. S. P. C. A. and its
Animal Hospital, two reels ‘

Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Rentals reduced. Address
SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Jan. 1939

Sir Henry Irving and
H13 Dogs
AMELIA WOFFORD

IR HENRY IRVING’S ﬁrst

pet dog was a rough—coated
terrier, named “Trin,” an abbrevi-
ation of Trinity. This name was
given him by his master in ap-
preciation of the address presented
to him by the students of Trinity
College, Dublin.

For two years Trin was Sir
Henry’s constant companion. When
he died a beautiful Skye terrier
took his place, “Charlie” by name.
As with Trin, Sir Henry kept this
dog by him always, at home, and
took him to the theater where he
was playing.

He brought Charlie to this coun-
try on his ﬁrst visit. And in his
letters to English friends he gave
him frequent mention.

“Charlie sends his love,” was
the postscript to one.

When Charlie died, Sir Henry
consoled himself with another pet,
but this did not mean he had for-
gotten Charlie.

“Charlie has been dead some
years, but we keep his memory
green,” he said in a letter to a
friend, who, not knowing of his
death, had inquired about him.

“Fussy,” Charlie’s successor,
was Sir Henry’s last pet, which he

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

EXCHANGING CONFIDENCES

 

Page 5

Rover
LAWRENCE A. AVERILL

When I’ve been scolded
And feel very bad,
My face is all teary
And panting and sad-—
Then a sniﬂy warm nose
Snuggles into my hand:
N ow isn’t it funny
How dogs understand?

When I am'happy
And ready to play,
Rover’s as ready
As I to be gay.
I should think sometimes
A dog would get blue,
Just as a boy does,
But dogs never do!

The Closed Car.

JEANETTE NOURLAND

VERYONE has heard of the
ECalifornia sunshine, but little
is said of the oppressive, furnace-
like heat that descends with the
real summer months of August
and September. In comparison
with the mild and faultless climate
of the rest of the year, these two
months are almost beyond endur-
ance.

Directly across the fence from
my kitchen door is a huge parking
lot, supposedly for the use of the

 

undoubtedly loved best of all. This

dog was a gift from Miss Ellen Terry, for
many years a leading member of the actor’s
company.

As with Charlie, wherever Sir Henry
went, Fussy must go too. And so, when the
great actor was to make a visit to this
country, Fussy must go with him. When
Sir Henry was about to embark at South-
ampton, Fussy was missing and could not
be found. At ﬁrst, in his distress, Sir
Henry refused to leave, but ﬁnally yielded
to the persuasions of his company to go.
But before he went aboard the steamer, he
sent telegrams in all directions, offering a
large reward for Fussy’s return—but with-
out results.

One night, some three weeks after
Fussy’s disappearance, the keeper of the
stage entrance of the Lyceum Theater,
London, where Sir Henry had played for
many successive seasons, heard a faint
whining at the door. When this persisted,
he opened the door and in came a piteous
object—Fussy, weak with fatigue and hun-
ger. Weak, but not too weak to give a
feeble wag of his tail at ﬁnding himself in
the old familiar surroundings.

Sir Henry’s housekeeper cared for him.

tenderly until the actor’s return.

What, one asked, guided the dog back to
London over the many long miles that sep-
arated him from Southampton, and through
the maze of London’s streets to the theater?

The passing years set their mark on
Fussy. When his master was playing at
the Royal Theater in Manchester, Fussy,
roaming about the building, fell through
an open trapdoor that his failing sight had
not perceived, and was killed.

The news was kept from Sir Henry until

the end of the play. Silently, he heard it.
Silently, with the lifeless form pressed close
to his breast, he left the building.

In answer to one of the many sympa-
thetic letters from friends, he wrote:—
“Many thanks for your sympathetic letter
about the dear old friend. He is much
missed. “Sincerely,

“HENRY IRVING”

Dogs in Accidents
C. A. SCHEINERT

In how many of the thousands of auto-
mobiles involved in accidents on our streets
and highways are there dogs? The list of
human dead and injured is known, but who
knows how many dogs have been left to
shift for themselves, to become outcasts,
wanderers in strange places? Worse, if pos-
sible, to become a victim in turn of a speed—
ing car as they search for master or
mistress—now gone in an ambulance. And
is it not possible that, if not actually in-
jured in a crash, they suffer from the
shock?

Those who observe, or are ﬁrst to arrive
at the scene of an accident, are quick to
summon police and ambulance, care for the
injured until aid arrives. But the pets that
may be in the car or cars are overlooked
by the ones giving aid, left to run friend-
less and forsaken.

The human victims get our every atten-
tion, and that is as it should be. But al-
most always there is opportunity to rescue
the pet, take it home and notify the police.
Friends of the injured ones will soon be
calling for the animal—and we have saved
a four-footed friend much suffering.

patrons of a large drug store——
but there are four saloons within a stone’s
throw.

Last Sunday morning, about ten o’clock,
I noticed a tiny boy and a dog sitting in the
front seat of a closed car. “Poor little fel-
lows,” I thought, ‘“I hope they don’t have
to stay there long in this terriﬁc heat.”

Ten minutes later, I looked again; they
were still there. The dog was panting, the
boy quietly talking to himself. I walked
around the fence with a glass of lemonade
for the boy and a bowl of water for the dog.
Both looked longingly at me, then the boy
said: “Daddy told me not to open the door
till they come back.” The glass in the door
was down about four inches; I passed the
water through for the dog ﬁrst, then the
lemonade for the boy. Both drank to the
last drop. It was all I could do.

I wondered what manner of people could
leave these little folks shut up in this un-
bearable heat. At eleven thirty, a man and
a woman appeared, walking unsteadily to
the car. The man carried a block of ice, the
woman had a bundle, not oranges for the
boy, nor a bone for the dog; obviously the
package contained bottles. The dog, w1th
tail slightly a-wag, jumped silently to the
back seat; the boy followed as silently. The
woman climbed into the car ﬁrst and began
putting down the windows, saying, “My, its
like an oven in here!” Then man, woman,
boy and dog drove slowly away.

Send to the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for a free
copy of the leaflet, “Road Accidents to
Dogs.” It gives valuable hints to motor-
ists and advice to dog owners.

 

 




 

Feb. 1939

Burros
E. MERRILL ROOT

I watched the little burros go

Up the white roads of M exico—
Esoteric, deft, and wise

With something subtle in their eyes.
I heard the music of their feet
Padding with a dainty beat.

On their backs,—immense and gay,—
Loomed the cargoes of the day:
Jars or baskets made to vie

With bronze-red sun and violet sky;
Or a huge brown Indian

Kicking heels around their span.

Yet no matter what their load,
Serene they ambled up the road:
They had found the better part—-

A wisdom of the ancient heart;

Each seemed to me to say: “Heigho!
“Our backs can carry Mexico!”

Spanish Legacy
RUTH JEAN CANFIELD

YOU’VE often heard the phrase “wild
horses couldn’t drag it out of him”—or
her, as the case may be.

Just what are wild horses?

“Mustangs,” cowboys will tell you, “and
they make mighty good saddle—horses, if
you can catch one,” they will add.

But if you should ask ofﬁcials in the
federal grazing division they will tell you,
and emphatically, “They’re range pests,
that’s what they are, especially when they
get too numerous.”

Many a cowboy has yearned to possess a
mustang for his own special saddle-horse.
These wild horses are but two-thirds the
size of the domestic horse, and are exceed-
ingly ﬂeet-footed. This ﬂeetness is not only
a handicap to the would-be catcher, but
coupled with the animal’s acute senses of
hearing and smelling, makes capture ex-
ceedingly difﬁcult.

Sometimes cowboys institute their own
private “round-ups.” Then they are much
pleased when they manage to catch several
mustangs, even though they are well aware
of the fact that the mere catching isn’t the
half of it. Breaking a mustang to the
saddle is a job all by itself.

In the rugged, isolated region in the
Arizona country between the Grand Canyon
and Utah border, the wild horses roam in
bands led by ﬁghting, vicious stallions. And
these animals are very wary—chary—of
the scent of man.

However, the graziers do not depend on
the usual cowboy method to stage a big
round-up. Instead they make elaborate
preparations. Huge corrals are built. Fifty
or more cowboys are “handpicked.” An
airplane is called into service.

When everything is in, readiness for the
round-up, the pilot ﬂies very low. The roar-
ing motor terriﬁes the wild horses. They
become panicky. And then the race is on.
The cowboys are on choice mounts, but
often they seem to be pursuing phantoms,
so ﬂeet are the frightened animals. Through
it all the motor roars deafeningly.

But the wild things put up a good ﬁght
for their liberty. Many are known to run

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 27'

 

“OSCAR” AND “GUSTAV”

 

for 15 to 20 miles at an almost incredible
speed. Sometimes they drop from sheer
exhaustion.

To corral a hundred of these bewildered,
frightened creatures is considered a fair
result for a couple of days of exceptionally
hard work. The corralled mustangs are
later put up at auction.

Such is the “Spanish legacy,” for the
mustang is descended from the horses im-
ported into America by the Spanish, Con-
quistadores. While bands of them may be
found in various parts of the west coast
States, they are particularly numerous in
the Southwest and in Mexico.

EDITOR’S NOTE: One can’t help wondering What

sufferings these unfortunate little horses endure while
being rounded up and saddle broken.

“Kitten”

CLEMENTINE ELKINS

NE cool spring evening we were aston-

ished to see a little kitten emerge from
under the stove of our summer cottage.
It walked with such dainty grace: so suave;
not hurried; not frightened; simply looking
the place over as to its desirability as a
place of residence.

We ordinarily live in a hotel, where cats
are taboo; but our hearts warmed to this
self-assured little creature with its indolent
but purposeful step, exploring the world,
intent on ﬁnding a home. .

We know and love cats, recognizing their
discriminating taste when choosing their
friends. This kitten seemed to change a va-
cation camp into a home.

To say that we felt honored that this
little representative of the most independ-
ent and digniﬁed of living creatures desired
to make its home with us, is putting it
mildly.

Knowing that cats make cool appraisal
and are self-absorbed, we even felt a bit

anxious as to the verdict. One tentatively

offered milk, which was accepted, not with
avidity, but most graciously, and partaken
of as a dainty gesture toward friendliness.
But still that leisurely, prowling tread till
each corner was explored and considered.

Here sat the family in conclave. Did we"
want the kitten? We did. Could we keep:
the kitten? Not if we returned to the hotel
in the autumn.

Then I piped up, “Well, I was consider—-
ing getting a little house, and in that;
case—”

I found a little house and this precious
tiny bit of felinity and I live in it and
like it.

Though cats have that self-sufﬁciency and:
lack of co-operation which does not promote-
mutual aid and support, still it is surpris-
ing what latent possibilities develop when
one makes a companion of one of them.

I talk to my kitten and it seems to under--
stand and responds in many tones and in-
ﬁections which are quite expressive. Where
ever I go, four little feet follow me :.
Whatever I do, two little eyes watch me;
and one little cat tries to understand the
why and wherefore of things.

When I am out at night it never fails to
meet me quite a distance away, with gay
cavortings, weaving circles about me,
punctuated by happy little leaps and.
bounds, not a meow to intimate a desire for
food, just sheer joy to have me home again.-
The fact is, I suspect it of strange diet in.
these nocturnal prowls. I often feel that
behind its Sphinx-like expression there is-
knowledge of many experiences gained by
employing its native craft and cunning.

One of the most amusing things Kitten
does is helping me with my gardening.
Each day I used to feel sure it would lose
a paw as it played in and out around my
hoe, but each time, by the margin of a split
second, its agility would win and it would
peer into the fresh soil for worms with
which to amuse itself. Its ready initiative
sometimes gets it into a bit of a predica-
ment, though its resourcefulness generally
gets it out again.

Such courage and such initiative as
Kitten often shows! Do we not gain as
much as we give in helping these little
friends on their upward path?

Please remember the Massachusetts .Soci-
ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
when making your will.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 100

Llfe
By one great heart the universe is stirred;
By Its strong pulse, stars climb the dark—
ening blue; .
It throbs- in each fresh sunset’s changing
hue, ‘
And thrills through the low sweet song of
every bird.

By It the plunging blood reds all men’s
veins;
Joy feels that heart against his rapturous
own
And on It, Sorrow breathes her deepest
groan;
It bounds through gladnesses and deepest
pains.

Passionless beating through all Time and
Space,
Relentless, calm, majestic on Its march,
Alike, though Nature shake heaven’s end-
less arch,
Or man’s heart break, because of some dead
face!

’Tis felt in sunshine greening the soft sod,
In children’s smiling as in mothers’ tears,
And, for strange comfort, through the

aching years,

Men’s hungry souls have called that great

Heart, God!
MARGARET DELAND

A Dog Adopts an Airport

GLADYS M. BELYEA

E’VE all heard of soldiers and sail-

ors and aviators who have adopted a
dog for a mascot. But’ “Mainliner,” a little
black and white dog of uncertain ancestry,
has taken over the position of manager of
passenger trafﬁc at the Salt Lake City Air-
port. Since the day last fall when she
walked into the Airport without advance
publicity or ballyhoo, she has met every one
of the ﬁfteen planes arriving daily, watch-
ing alertly as the passengers walk from the
planes to the waiting-room, and again when
they board for the balance of their trips.
She seems to be waiting to give them the
farewell greeting of the air service, “Happy
Landing.”

Perhaps because she takes her duties so
seriously, Mainliner holds aloof from all
attempts to pet her or to give her food;
that is, from all but those of one member of
the Airport ground crew. He alone has been
favored with her conﬁdence. He salvages
food from the leftovers of the passengers’
meals, and he would be glad to make her
living quarters of a more comfortable type,
if she would let him. Mainliner, however,
seems to abhor all pleasures of the ﬂesh,

and will sleep only on a pile of ropes on a
cement ﬂoor.

Visitors to the Airport have tried to feed
her with choice morsels—one woman even
brought her a steak—but Mainliner backs
away from all such overtures. People have
offered to adopt her, but it seems probable
that she would be unhappy away from the
sound of airplane motors. She has evident-
ly chosen her station and duty in life and
will let nothing interfere with it. Publicity
and photographers mean nothing to her——
I couldn’t get closer than twenty feet.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
Caterer to Wild Life

PAUL HIDEY

EARS will never. have a better friend
than old Spikehorn. For the last ten
years this genial old man has been feeding
and fondling bears in the refuge he has
provided for them in his woodland camp
near Harrison, Michigan. He fathers all
bears as if they were his own children, not
only while they are tiny cubs, but the
grown bears as well. In fact the bigger
and heavier they grow the fonder he seems
to become of them.
In a park of an acre or so of their own
native pine wilderness there are this year,

 

A MICHIGAN PIONEER

two cinnamon bears and eight big black
bears. To insure their staying at home,
Spikehorn has built a ten-foot wire mesh
fence topped with a wide band of sheet
metal. Nevertheless a bear often gets away
so each one is provided with a sheep’s bell
about his neck as an aid in ﬁnding him
again.

Not long ago the children in a small
country school nearby were thrown into a
panic at sight of a bear in their midst.
Then someone heard the tinkle of a sheep’s
bell, so peace reigned again for they all
knew it must be one of Spikehorn’s bears.
In this particular case the bear had crawled
out on the dead limb of a tree which had
broken with his weight, and in falling to
the ground had landed outside the fence.

All his bears have a ravenous appetite,
but that does not worry Spikehorn in the
least. He gives them very little meat,
instead he has arranged with local bakeries
to take all their stale baked goods. To
this he adds a porridge of which the bears
are very fond. His own recipe, based on
his long experience with bears’ likes and
dislikes, contains among other things bran,
corn—meal, honey and vegetables. Since the
small cubs cannot eat so heartily, they are
given milk, and it is fed them from nursing
bottles through rubber nipples. This cere-

July, 1939

mony has to be repeated at frequent
intervals. After each feeding the babies
cuddle down together and drop off to sleep.
Then when they awaken and start to ﬁght
among themselves Spikehorn knows they
are hungry again.

Of Rip van Winkle appearance, with
uncut hair, long white beard, and beetling
eyebrows, Spikehorn in his doe-skin clothes
presents a curious appearance. In reality
however, he is only Farmer Meyers, pioneer
resident of a neighboring county. He
claims to be a hundred but in the same
breath admits he is the greatest liar in
the country, so eighty-four is probably
nearer his age. He romps about fearlessly
with his wild pets but with an uncanny
sense the bears seem to respect the ad-
vanced age of their benefactor and cuff
with care.

The Worm Feast of Samoa
WESLEY A. GROUT

HE palolo swarms!” As the native cry

cuts through the early dawn mists and
echoes up and down the sandy beaches of
the Island of Samoa, hundreds of waiting
Samoans eagerly push out to sea with
specially constructed baskets.

It is always the same; a repetition of an
age—old custom that countless hundreds of
years have failed to stem. Every year,
exactly on the day preceding and also on
the day that the moon enters its last quar-
ter for both October and November, there
is grand feasting on the Island of Samoa,
for it is then that the palolo worms swarm.

The palolo worm is considered a prize
delicacy by the natives of Samoa. It is one
of the few creatures with the ability to
reckon time to the exact hour with never a
miscalculation. Every year, precisely at
the dawn of each of these four days, they
swarm up from their hiding places at the
bottom of the sea until the water seems to
be nearly solid with them.

This sudden rise to the surface is for the
express purpose of laying their eggs. And
their conduct in this procedure is without
parallel. The back part of their bodies
break way from the head and wriggle to
the surface of the sea, carrying with them
the eggs that are to be deposited when they
reach the top. While this back portion of
the body is ﬂoating on the top of the water,
the head part creeps back to its burrow
among the crevices and crannies of the
ocean’s ﬂoor, and begins the forming of
another body for the next year.

The egg masses of these worms ﬂoat on
the surface of the sea in many different
hues, coloring the water for many square
mlles in shades of red, brown, green and
indigo.

The palolo worms appear with the dawn
and their number is at its height soon after
sunrise. Two or three hours later they have
all vanished. The natives calculate their
appearance to a nicety and reap a rich
harvest. They put out to sea with special
baskets. The worms are scooped up into
these baskets and are hurried ashore and
rushed to all parts of the island, since
they must be eaten fresh. It is said that
even Europeans, living on the Island, learn
to appreciate them fully as much as do the
natives. For, in Samoa, there is no gift more
graceful than a basket of palolo worms.

 

 

 

d! iﬂw’t—

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 124

Camouflage

M. H. MORGAN

TRANGELY, wild creatures are not

only colored to conform to their sur-
roundings, but apparently are conscious of
it, being aware if they remain quite immo—
bile they will not be discovered. While not
responsible for their dress they do manifest
intelligence by taking proper advantage of
it. Men have been known to pick a ﬂower
close beside a tan—skinned fawn lying
quietly among the yellowed grasses, and
unless the terriﬁed little creature moved
its eyes, the man never saw it. Hunters in
Africa have beat the sulphur-colored herb—
age for lions when they may have been
hidden amongst its foliage close by quite
unsuspected.

Monkeys go to sleep clustered together in
groups beneath wide-spreading leaves, their
rounded brown bodies (heads concealed) re-
sembling a bunch of cocoanuts, in the
tropical dusk of the forest.

In the same locality also is the sloth, the
most defenseless creature known, but hang-
ing upside down from some branch, its
movements so slow as to be almost invisible,
spores of the long Spanish moss attach
themselves to its own long hair and grow,
partially covering it with this deceiving
blanket. On its side also is a brown spot
that looks not unlike the end of a broken
branch, and there you are. You might
watch it a long time before realizing it was
a live animal.

Desert animals in most cases are the
color of the sands, and seem to appreciate
that their surest defense is to remain per-
fectly still when approached by an enemy.

Creatures living in the northern latitudes
turn white when Winter comes, to conform
to its snows, the only exceptions to this sea-
sonal change being those animals possess-
ing other means of defense—speed, dis-
agreeable odor, etc.

In conformity to this subtlety, the wolves
of the Arctic are white; farther south, on
the Northern American plains, they are
gray; still farther south, among the cloaked
hills and sandy deserts, they are reddish
brown; and in the distant south they may
turn almost black, being concealed in the
dense, dark forests.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for May—31 Days

Daily average large animals 47.4
Forage for same $ 43.31
Put to sleep 11 1.26
Transportation 1.34
Daily average dogs 3
Forage for same 1.41
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 60.92
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 11.93
Motor ambulance upkeep 13.45
Motor bicycles upkeep 10.29
Sundries 37.00
Actual operating expenses $280.91

Entries: 9 horses, 8 mules, 49 donkeys.

Exits: 3 horses, 8 mules, ‘51 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 120 horses, 57 mules, 141 don-
keys, 2 dogs, 1 cat.

Other Fondouks Visited: 70, all nativei Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 160 cases investi-
gated, 3,230 animals seen, 312 animals treated, 22
animals hospitalized by us from above, 6 pack-saddles
(infected) destroyed, 37 Arab bits destroyed, 10
animals transported in motor ambulance, 9 animals
sent by Police Dept.

One Day’s Work

MONDAY, 22nd. 6.30 a.m. Usual work of treat-
ing animals. Sent Motor Ambulance to Ville Nou-
velle to transport a donkey in bad condition. 9 a.m.
to 11 a.m. Souk e1 Khemis, Casbat ben Debbab and
Fes Jedid Mellah inspections. Sent one horse sick
with mange to Pound, and one horse and one don-
key to Hospital. Destroyed one pack-saddle and one
Arab bit. 1.30 p.m. Fondouk. 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.
Bab Ftouh inspection. Transported one donkey in
motor ambulance, sent 4 donkeys to Hospital,
destroyed one Arab bit. Men cleaning whole grounds
and gardening. Animals in Hospital: 54.

G. DELON, Superintendent

Science tells that the parent salmon die
after the eggs are deposited and fertilized.
Their bodies do not decay, they are frozen
fast in winter’s ice, and in springtime are
the ﬁrst solid food eaten by young ﬁsh.

Dogs are the only domestic animal in
Greenland. It is estimated that there are
about six thousand of them. Most of them
are used for sledging.

Ants are said to resemble humans in
more ways than one: They are the only
creatures which have slaves, domestic ani-
mals, rubbish piles, and which make war
with military exactness. Moreover, ants

and men are the only organisms able to
adapt themselves to any climate, wet or
dry, hot or cold. The ant has the largest
brain, in proportion to its size, of any crea-
ture on earth.

Aug. 1939
Hands off the Butterflies

SUE F. TURNER

HERE is one place in the United

States, and it is probably the only
place in the world, Where a person may not
walk through a ﬂock of butterﬂies and’ dis-
turb them according to his disposition.
This place is a small city on the Monterey
Peninsula in California where an ordinance
was recently passed which says: “It shall
be unlawful . . . for any person to molest
or interfere in any way the peaceful occu-
pancy of the Monarch Butterﬂies on their
annual visit to the City of Paciﬁc Grove . . .
in whatever spot they may choose to stop
in . . .” g It is explained that if the Butter-
ﬂies, (always spelled with a capital,)
swarm over a person or over personal
property in such a way that they must be
removed, the Chief of Police should be
notiﬁed. “Any violation . . . shall be punish-
able by a ﬁne of not more than ﬁve hun-
dred dollars or by imprisonment in the
County Jail . . . for not more than six
months . . .”

From a study of the Butterﬂies in Paciﬁc
Grove, it seems that their migration is not
for the laying of eggs in the warm climate.
Eggs have been found on the milkweed,
but the young conﬁne themselves entirely
to this plant. Imagine the destruction of
such swarms, if the caterpillar were
hatched unharmed in that vicinity. It is
a mystery why they go to the pine trees,
for there are no blooms on them in the fall.
They are in semi-hibernation, the Butter-
ﬂies leaving their rests in groups to swarm
over the luxuriant ﬂowers in bloom all
through the Winter, sustaining themselves
with the honey.

The Monarch is a deep, rich orange color.
Through its wings are black veins, and
around the wings a black border. The
wings are covered by powdery scales that
break up the rays of light, giving the
Butterﬂy its brilliant coloring. The migra-
tion begins in the north, either Canada or
Northern United States. Their visit to the
Monterey Peninsula has been recorded since
1788, and, for the last known sixty years
they have arrived in Paciﬁc Grove in the
month of October and settled in the same
group of towering pines near the city.

They come, they rest, they look beauti-
ful, and destroy nothing. Therein lies the
secret of their being protected.

 

A TIGER SWALLOWTAIL

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148

see in its glory and its power, has come
also that wider humanity which some day,
this is our faith, will stay the hand of
strife and war and cruelty in all its multi-
tudinous forms. This must be, or else there
is no Eternal Goodness at the heart of the
Universe, and either all that has been or
is, or is to be, has no origin but blind and
mindless Chance or a Mocking Spirit of
Evil which laughs with malicious glee at
man’s hopes and fears and his age—long
faith that “Somehow good will be the ﬁnal
goal of all.”

The Elephant’s Relations

HELEN R. BISSELL

HAT would you think if your clos-

est relative, and your only one,
weighed four hundred thousand times less
than yourself? Such is the startling con-
trast between the eleven-foot elephant and
the hyrax or rock rabbit, its nearest
relative.

The hyrax looks like a rabbit but no one
can say that a rabbit looks like an ele-
phant. Still a close study of the skeletons
of these two creatures proves their kinship.
The elephant weighs several tons, the
hyrax only a few ounces. It is only about
the size of an elephant’s toe nail. Yet these
little brown natives of the rocks and trees
claim kin to the lordly elephant. At home
in their native land it is the rock haunting
hyrax that is. best known.

They resemble an elephant in still an-
other way. We all know that an elephant
is considered one of the most intelligent of
all animals so we ﬁnd the little hyrax in-
telligent also. The little ones race up bald,
high rock faces, and delight to sprawl in
the sun. They chase one another like
kittens.

Then at an unexpected sound they dis-
appear like lightning into their holes in the
cliff. Afterwards, with the curiosity of a
child, they mischievously peep out to dis-
cover the cause. There is always intelli-
gence in a little head that invents games.
Play means imagination.

Dr. Chalmers Mitchell tells some delight—
ful tales of his pet hyrax. How it would
scale the walls of his room and run along
the curtain rods; of the funny things it
liked in the way of diet; and how, becoming
accustomed to the telephone, it would rush
to it when it rang. For it knew it would
meet its master there.

It is also the only animal in the world
that makes hay while the sun shines. It
cuts the grass when it is green and lets
it cure in the sun. When the grass becomes
hay it stores it for the winter.

These rock rabbits are the coneys men-
tioned in the Bible and for some reason
the Hebrews were not allowed to eat their
ﬂesh. Some twenty species exist in Africa,
Arabia and Syria, the largest about the
size of a hare and the smallest no bigger
than a baby rabbit.

They are grouped scientiﬁcally with the
hoofed animals though they have no hoofs.
They have blunt clawed paws. The bony
formation, however, of these paws and the
wrist bones overlying them are like those
of the true hoofed beasts. So scientists
place these little furry creatures as the
nearest relatives of the elephant today.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

THIS FOX COMES REGULARLY T

 

b5 .. ...\ ,9.

 

Oct. 1939

     

BE FED BY GOLFERS ON THE

GOLF COURSE IN PRINCE ALBERT NATIONAL PARK, NORTHERN
SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA

 

The Gigantic Blue Whale

CARROL HOW

HE blue whale, or rorqual, inhabits a

whole world of waters with its millions
of ﬁshes of every size. He has nothing to
fear in such an extensive range for he is by
far the largest animal now or ever in exist-
ence. He has been captured eighty-ﬁve feet
long, and has the regular, though probably
exaggerated, fame of weighing a ton for
each foot of length.

The reasons why such a ﬁshy appearing
creature is an animal, are several and con-
vincing. He has a shiny skin and no scales.
He has ﬂippers instead of ﬁsh ﬁns. He has
nostrils on the top of his head and he
breathes real air instead of drawing it from
the salt-water through ﬁsh-gills.

The blood of the world’s largest animal
is warm instead of cold. Moreover, under
his glistening raincoat-skin, he has a pro-
vision for keeping himself warm in the
form of a heating-pad of blubber-fat per-
haps two feet thick.

Unless twins should happen her way,
Mother Blue Whale has one child at a time
and she nurses it. Then she belongs to the
mammal class and a mammal is an animal
and not a ﬁsh.

The blue whale is named because of his
shades of dark slaty blue, to which he is
entirely devoted. The only visible trimming
is a white-tipped ﬂipper beneath which all
other white hides.

Small cars about the size of a ﬁnger,
carry very slight noises to their speed-built
master. In spite of his great size, he is
easily alarmed, and is out of sight like a
shot at any strange sound.

Two curiously interesting characteristics
belong to the blue whale and all of his type.
The small eyes do not move, so the great
body must be turned about in the waters
for any change of vision.

But the strangest thing is that contrap-
tion of fringed whalebone that drops from
the roof of his mouth. He swims along,

jaws apart, collecting small ﬁsh. The water
entering with them, ﬂoats them behind his
strainer-pendulums and his sieve drops to
hold them in. When he is ready to enjoy his
ﬁsh tid-bit, he closes his jaws, forces the
water out of his mouth and the little ﬁsh
caught behind the whalebone strainer are
still there ready to go on down to nourish
the largest animal in the world.

Open Season for Pheasants

ANNA R. BAKER

A living rainbow thrown across my road,
A treasure trove by old-time pirates stowed
In the secret wood, a prairie signal flare—

These you have been to me. But laws
declare

You now mere game for hunters. You must
face

Quick piercing death. I beg you, ﬁnd a
place

Of safety in some tangled pile of brush.

Lie there without a move to break the hush.

0r hide your jewels underneath the leaves

That fell last month. Their mottled heap
deceives

The eye. Men come who call it sport to
kill.

No wooded valley and no quiet hill

Escapes their restless, threatening feet.

Hungry for blood they are and not for
meat.

They search for you. Their narrowed eyes
are strained

To ﬁnd you. Must I see your plumage
stained

And fading while I see your life recede?

But if you too have sporting blood and need

To capture courage in dire circumstance,

Or ﬁnd your destiny in the gambling
chance;

If quiet breathing seems a coward’s breath;

If you must rise to meet swift, shining
death

Upon the wing, faced sunward—then, fly
high!

Leave me a trail of glory in. the sky.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’72

OUR DUZVIB ANIMALS

 

A PROUD MOTHER AND HER EIGHT-MONTHS-OLD SON
These cocker spaniels are owned? by Ralph Harris, North Scituate, Massachusetts,

who took the photograph

Bad Man’s Dog

CLARENCE L. VOSE

 

M C DONALD was feared and hated by
man and beast. In the forested val-
ley in British Columbia where he lived and
trapped he was known as a dangerous, vio-
lent man. He was a bully to his scattered
neighbors, and the cruelty he displayed in
trapping even revolted other hardened
trappers. Men avoided him when he came
by, and women called their children in and
closed the doors.

But by far the most open haters of
McDonald were the dogs of the neighbor-
hood. Whether or not it was the scent of
trapped animals on his clothing, or that
they could sense his innate cruelty, dogs at
his approach would go into a savage frenzy.
From the smallest terrier to the largest
mastiﬂ‘ they growled and barked and had
to be called oﬂ’ from biting him. When the
dogs in the settlement began barking fero-
ciously, people would say, “McDonald, the
trapper, is coming.” And often they were
right.

McDonald hated dogs as much as they
hated him. And he was afraid of them.
Whenever he saw one coming toward him
he would aim his riﬂe at it until the owner
called it away. Many a pet came up miss-
ing when the owner was not there to
rescue it.

As the years passed old age came on to
the trapper, and he became mild under its
inﬂuence. No longer did he bully his neigh-
bors, but he tried to make friends with

 

 

them. Most of them could not forget his
past actions, however, and left him alone.
He was a lonely old man whose life was
unbrightened by friendship with man or
beast.

Then one day someone gave him a puppy.
It became the talk of the valley that Mc-
Donald had a dog. Some predicted that it
wouldn’t last, that the dog would fear and
hate him like dogs always did. Others said
that the trapper would someday have a
ﬁt of rage and shoot the animal.

But the old man lavished all his affection
on the puppy and the puppy returned it.
It grew to be a ﬁne, large dog of hound
extraction. Wherever McDonald went his
dog was sure to be with him, and whatever
the man had good to eat he was sure to
divide with his dog. They loved each other,
these two.

Whenever the old man met anyone he
would boast how clever his dog was, and
people seeing his eager old face would for—
get their distrust and gossip with him, the
thing for which his lonely old heart had
been craving. Even the neighborhood dogs
lost their fear and hatred of him. He had
learned to like them and they knew it.

Hard times came. McDonald had little
money and was too old to earn a living by
trapping. And he was far too proud to
take charity. Eventually people remem-
bered they hadn’t seen the old man for
some time, and some decided to look in on

Nov. 1939

him. They found him in pitiful shape, too
weak from starvation to walk. Then they
noticed that the dog was still plump. Mc-
Donald, the cruel and heartless, had gone
without food so his dog would not be
hungry.

The old man never recovered from his
ordeal. After his death he had one mourner
whose howls of grief could only be stilled
by a merciful bullet from a neighbor’s
riﬂe.

First Century Dog Tribute

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

©N E of the earliest of man’s tributes to
the dog was written some nineteen
hundred years ago.

Columella was the author. He was a
popular writer on agricultural matters and
domestic animals. A citizen of ﬁrst century
Rome, Columella wrote with sincerity and
understanding. One of his books was en-
tirely devoted to dogs.

His eulogy on the watch-dog is prob-
ably one of the ﬁrst of the kind ever writ—
ten. Certainly it still deserves to be ranked
among the best—after nineteen centuries
of literature on the subject.

“What man living,” asks Columella, “can
proclaim more distinctly and with so great
vociferation the approach of a beast or a
thief as he can do with his barking? What
servant is there, that loves his master
more, what keeper less liable to bribes and
corruption? What watchman can be found
more vigilant?

“In a word, who will be more steady in
avenging your injuries or in protecting you
from them? Wherefore, an husbandman
ought to purchase and maintain this ani—
mal even among the very ﬁrst things, be-
cause he keeps and guards both the manor
house and the fruits, and the family and
the cattle.”

Columella then goes on to explain the
three kinds of dogs associated with man-
kind.

“One kind is chosen to protect us against
the snares and insidiousness of men . . . a
second is chosen for repelling injuries of
men and wild beasts, and this kind watches
over the stables and ﬁelds at home, and the
cattle when they are feeding abroad.”

In deﬁning the third kind, he expressed
himself rather strongly against the farm-
ers of his day who were more interested in
“sport” than in the care of their farms:

“A third kind is provided for hunting
withal; and this not only gives no assist-
ance to the husbandman but it takes him
off his business and makes him lazy and
slothful; therefore we must speak of the
house dog and that of the shepherd, for
the hunting dog does not at all belong to
our profession.”

Columella may have lacked sympathy for
the hunter and the “sportsman,” but there
is no doubt that he displayed a sincere
understanding of our friend, the dog, that
has not been improved upon by all subse-
quent writers on the subject.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

July, 1989

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 101

Results of Prize Contest for Best Photographs

 

FIRST PRIZE—LIFE ONE BILL AFTER ANOTHER

HIRTY-TWO states and ﬁve Can-
adian provinces were represented by
contestants for the three cash prizes
and three additional honorary prizes, of-
fered by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. for
the best photographs of animals or birds.
The contest was announced, in connection
with the annual Be Kind to Animals Week,
in the March issue of Om" Dumb Animals,

and closed May 15. Two hundred and
eighty photographs were received, many of
them of unusual interest. The prize win-
ners are: First, $15, cash, Mrs. E. L.
McLeod, 11239 123rd Street, Edmonton,
Alberta; second, $10, cash, Lowell H. Milli-
gan, 1 Howatson Way, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts; third, $5, cash, Clarence Nichols,
Altaraz School, Great Barrington, Massa—

SECOND PRIZE—“DAN,” A PERFECT GENTLEMAN

chusetts. The fourth, ﬁfth and sixth, who
each receive a year’s subscription to Our
Dumb Animals are: Waldo Lee Johnston,
4923 Claxton Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri;
Bessie Watson, Yalesville, Connecticut; and
C. Kingsley Owens, 600 Highland Place,
Bellevue, Pennsylvania. The pictures win-
ning honorable mention will appear in a
later issue.

 

THIRD PRIZE —A PHEASANT CALLS

FOR HIS BREAKFAST

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1939

Gone or Disappearing

ROY TEMPLE HOUSE

HEN the writer of this note was a

child and ﬁrst learned the meaning
of the word “extinct,” it ﬁlled him with
anguished bewilderment. He had lost pet
animals and been sorely grieved at parting
with them. It was terrible to realize that
an individual kitten or bird was gone out
of the world and away from us forever.
And the idea that a whole race of animals,
all the mastodons or buffaloes in the world,
had ceased to be or would shortly cease to
be, so that the word and the thing were as
if they never had been, was more than pain-
ful to him; it was exasperating. It was
absurd, impossible, a ghastly paradox. If
races of animals could die out entirely, why
could the same thing not happen to the
race of men? It was so horrible that he
could scarcely endure the thought.

Paradox or not, animal species are dis—
appearing in our own lifetime, largely
through the cruel folly of men. The Afri-
can elephant, once the favorite game of so-
called “Sportsmen” from all over the world,
now scarcely known in the wild state, repre-
sented for the most part by a small herd
in a South African reserve, may stage a
pathetic, small come—back like that of the
buffalo in the United States. These gentle
beasts, sociable and docile, were hunted
for their marvelous tusks, which were some—
times twice as long as a man and weighed
200 pounds each or more.

The Alpine ibex, with their enormous
horns, their agility and their love for the
snow-covered highest peaks, were never
particularly valuable, although their ﬂesh
was eatable, their skins were useful, and
their blood was once‘considered to have
medical potency. It was presumably the
difﬁculty of getting at them that piqued
the hardy hunter. Except in protected pre-
serves, the ibex have been gone from Eu-
rope for generations, although they still
offer good “sport” in the Himalayas.

The story of the beaver is a particularly
sad one. His fur has always been highly
valued, as has the product castoreum,
which has various uses as medicine and
perfume. There have been practically no
beaver in the British Isles in seven or eight
hundred years, and one authority suggests
that if it had not been for the invention of
silk plush, the poor creatures would by
this time have been extinct over half the
civilized world.

The completest of modern disappearances
was that of the ludicrous and pitiful dodo
bird, which lived in certain islands east of
Africa till some time in the seventeenth
century. This big, almost naked, stupid
creature, which could not ﬂy and got over
the ground very slowly on its short, yellow
legs, succumbed very rapidly to the cruelty
of the European colonists. The poor dodo
had neither speed, strength nor cunning,
and the lords of creation blotted it out in
a generation or two.

The Australian emu, the largest bird of
historical times except the ostrich, was an
attractive and harmless being with many
curious habits, one of the most edifying
being that the male assumed without com-
plaint the task of incubating the eggs. The
chief value of the emu consisted in the oil
under the skin, quarts on each full-grown

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

bird. Some species of emu are known to
be completely extinct. In almost as melan—
choly case are the marvelous East Indian
birds of paradise, about whose strange per-
son and habits so many legends were once
current—that they had no feet,“ that they
slept while ﬂying, etc. These unfortunate
birds found—as the moralists assure us
that members of the human family dis—
cover—that beauty may be a misfortune.
Their plumage commanded so high a” price
in Europe that the natives have hunted to
death almost all of the lovely creatures.

Several of our common domestic animals,
which have fared better because they have
proved more useful to the tyrant alive than
dead, like the dog and the horse, have sure
vived the complete or partial disappearance
of relatives. The dog is said to be a mon4
grel of the Australian dingo, the Hima4
layan buansu, the wolf and the j ackal. Two
older cousins of the horse, the tarpan of
central Asia and the quagga of southern
Africa, are gone entirely. According to
Daniel-Rops, the former has not been known
since 1866, or the latter since 1877. The
enormous wild ox, the aurochs, which wan-
dered over northern Europe in the middle
ages, is now to be found, only rarely, in the
Caucasus country.

It is of course true that the humanitarian
trend of the age, which opposes war (too
often unsuccessfully), studies prison re-
form and ways and means of alleviating
human suffering, has also done something
toward making life easier for animals.
Many of the ablest scientists deplore vivi-
section, bullﬁghting is losing ground, bru-
tal amusements like cockﬁghting have be-
come illegal over a large part of the world;
and the comment on “Hunting” in a stand-
ard contemporary encyclopedia—“The true
sportsman . . . rarely kills game for any
other purpose than for eating, unless it is
a dangerous creature or a nuisance—,”
cautious and qualiﬁed as it is, represents
an enormous advance over the callousness
and sadism which were common some gen-
erations ago. Men are slowly growing more
thoughtful of each other and the other
forms of life. Very, very slowly.

Belongs to Every Section

WILLIS MEHANNA

The golden-winged woodpecker, some-
times erroneously called the yellowham-
mer, is a remarkable bird in that its fam-
ily lives at all times in almost every portion
of the United States and in many parts of
Canada. It nests from Canada to the
Southern states. The young of this bird
are very hardy and can withstand great
extremes of heat and cold. Because of the
ﬁrmness of its ﬂesh it should be very long
lived.

The golden-wing is eleven inches long,
brown above with black bars, and the rump
is white. The head is gray and yellow
while the face is drab with black in front.
There is an oval black patch on chest, the
wings and tail feathers are bright yellow
and the under surface is white, spotted
with black. It nests in holes bored in dead
trees and feeds itself and young on ants,
bugs and worms, often digging the latter
out of dead wood. Sometimes in winter it
will swipe a little grain from the corn-
shocks but not enough to hurt.

Page 125

 

“BOY” OF BELLEVUE, PA.

 

His Dog

MAUDE E. COLE

He does not understand them
When they say

His master will not come;
So, near the door,

He waits, alert and tense,
Day after day

And listens for loved steps
Along the floor.

He cannot measure time

By clock or sun,

But knows by call of hunger
It is long

Since he was free

To gnaw a bone or run,

As was his way

Before his world went wrong.

He lifts to those who pass

His questioning eyes,

And wearily responds

To kindly hands;

Though grateful for each touch,
None satisﬁes,

Nor takes the place of one

His heart demands.

 

 

 

HE Jack London Club, named for

the late author, is composed of
members who pay no dues but simply
pledge themselves to leave a theater
or any place where trained animals
are compelled to perform unnatural
acts. It is hoped all members before
purchasing tickets where performing
animals are ever exhibited, will ask if
any such features are on the pro-
gram, refusing to purchase tickets if
the answer is in the afﬁrmative. When
leaving any place because of any ani-
mal performance, always let the man-
agement know why you are leaving or
going out during that part of the per-
formance, or write a letter to the
management after returning to your
home. Send your name for enrolment
to Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

-——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1939

Old Age Pension for Horses

F. B. M. COLLIER

My bell doth more:
It cometh in to court and pleads the cause
0f creatures dumb and unknown to the laws.

—“The Bell of Am”

EARS ago about the streets of our
Vcountry town, the county judge drove
a beautiful carriage horse of light sorrel
with long, pale-colored tail and mane. To
my childish eyes this middle—aged aristo-
crat with his shiny—coated steed and low
phaeton presented a charming and fasci-
nating picture. Then one day, alas, another
bigger horse pranced before the phaeton,
and in troubled dismay I sought the
reason.

It was then carefully explained to me
that the sorrel had done his duty, and was
too old to trot about dragging vehicles and
loads.

“Was he sold?” I asked sorrowfully.

Why, no, he was pensioned off, put out
in a ﬁeld of good pasture to rest, or
be cared for in the best of stables by the
kindest of grooms. To further questions I
was told that’s what happened to all old
horses unable to work. You see my father
and the judge were both the Victorians at
whom we so often scoff. The only code they
knew or recognized was generous recogni—
tion of loyal service, whether of man, dog
or cat. No mercy organization was needed
to teach them gratitude to the dumb
creation.

In later years, when I ﬁrst heard of the
proﬁtable glue factory solution for disabled
horses, I was not only horriﬁed but nause-
ated. For by then I had learned that even
the classical poets delighted to lavish their
genius upon the high theme of recompense
for bird and beast. What student at high
school ever failed to be shocked by the
slaughter of the albatross in the “Ancient
Mariner,” to rejoice at the triumph of the
“Birds of Killingworth,” or at the victory
of the decrepit and abandoned horse who
won his pension by ringing the “Bell of
Atri.”

And, indeed, old age pensions as a deﬁn-
ite plan seem to date back to the early
days when the East provided us with the
curious legend concerning the beautiful
charger of King Herod of Jerusalem.

He whom we usually call the wicked
Herod owned a handsome mount called
“Salmi.” He was swift and powerful in
service, keen and obedient in battle, tire-
less and faithful in travel, proud and dash—
ing in military and royal procession. Then
age took his strength, and he could no
longer serve in desert charges, cavalry
maneuvers, or even riding exercises about
the city.

The shrewd and cunning king who
ordered the slaying of the Innocents would
not likely be generous to a mere horse. Nor
was he, for he turned the creature adrift,
and Salmi found himself as hopeless and
abandoned as Longfellow’s outcast whom
he thus describes:

“So the old steed was turned into the heat
Of the long, lonely, silent, shadeless street;
And wandered in suburban lanes forlorn,
Barked at by dogs, and torn by brier and

thorn.”

To ﬁnd food along the stony hills, and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

~33} ' I» - mi». 9».

BRINGING IN THE CATTLE

 

the hot, dry by-paths, or shelter where
mostly low thorn or high tufted palms
grew sparsely, would have meant endless
suffering to the forsaken beast. Fortun-
ately a kindly little girl called Ruth gave
him food regularly. Wandering by the
roadside one day, a dusty and eager group
of camel riders came along. Their air of
mystery and joy thrilled his bruised and
lonely heart. Salmi was so attracted that
he began to follow them as they pushed
down the Jerusalem highway towards Beth-
lehem. Sometimes he had to trot to keep
up, but the electric atmosphere emanating
from the Magi seemed to give energy to
the forsaken charger and he followed
steadily, whinnying contentedly as he went,
and seemingly oblivious to the ache of stiff
joints and the weakness of age.

But absorbed as the Wise Men were in
their quest, they soon saw him, welcomed
him to their company, and placed some
bales on his back, and took him along to
the manger in Bethlehem. The travelers
stopped beneath a huge star and hastened
into a cave with their costly gifts. Salmi
waited patiently outside. When the three
kings reappeared, ready to depart, they
attempted to include Salmi again in their
party. But the old charger refused to
leave. And at last, unable to coax him
away, they left money with the innkeeper
to pay for his food. So Salmi, anchored in
a home at last, wandered in and out of the
carpenter’s humble dwelling, and became
a great favorite with the Divine Child.

   

Page 149’
“Charley”—Faithful

Companion

ADA M. MORGAN

EORGE CATLIN, author and artist,

who started out in 1832 with the
determination to visit every tribe of Indians
on the North American Continent, gave
much credit for the ultimate fulﬁllment of
that desire, to many of the ﬁne horses he
rode.

“Charley” was one of the best of Catlin’s
mounts, and one which he wrote of with
great affection. “Showy,” “noble,” “strong,”
“affectionate,” were words applied to Char-
ley by his owner who made one journey of
ﬁve hundred miles through an almost track—
less wilderness with no other companion
save his horse.

Catlin arose from a sick-bed when he
began the long journey from Arkansas to
St. Louis. He was quite weak and there-
fore had to put great trust in the mount
that was to carry him through country
that might be both dangerous and difficult.

Day after day, for twenty-ﬁve days,
Catlin and Charley traveled over the
prairies together. At ﬁrst Charley’s master
was sometimes forced to dismount and rest
an hour or so until the strain of an ague
chill passed. Always he kept Charley close
beside him, allowing the patiently waiting
horse to graze until the journey could be
resumed.

At night Charley’s picket rope was al-
ways close to his master’s hand. Catlin
knew the great misfortune the loss of his
mount would mean under the circumstances,
and so he took no chance that a sudden
alarm might frighten Charley away.

One evening, however, before Charley and
his master became “settled” for the night,
the horse slipped his lasso over his head
and strolled quietly around camp grazing
wherever it pleased him. Catlin wasn’t at
all alarmed until he attempted to catch
Charley so he could be picketed for the
night. Leisurely, tantalizingly, the horse
evaded his master’s attempts to capture
him. At last, at dark, Catlin gave up and
went back to camp, leaving Charley peace-
fully grazing a half mile away.

Grieved at the desertion of his friend,
Catlin went to sleep fully convinced he
would be afoot for the continuance of the
long journey. But in the middle of the
night Charley came back to camp. His
master awoke suddenly, startled, to ﬁnd the
horse’s head hanging directly over him, and
his forefeet placed precisely at the edge of
the covers. Charley stood there, fast asleep.
Greatly relieved, Catlin went back to sleep.

The next morning Charley was some dis-
tance from camp. He refused to be caught.

Recalling the horse’s affectionate attitude
of the night, Catlin decided to try another
method on Charley. He broke camp, packed,
slung the saddle and bridle over his shoul-
der, picked up his gun and started briskly
away on the day’s journey.

All this he did without the slightest atten-
tion to Charley. Not until a quarter of a
mile was past did Catlin glance back to see
how Charley was reacting to the new situ—
ation. Charley was standing with tail and
head high, looking ﬁrst at the camp-site
and then toward his retreating master. He
was a picture of surprised indignation. And.

 

 

 

 

 




 

JVOU. 1939

Horse Sense
JANET F. WALLACE

HAT new horse,” said Dad, “is a
stupid creature. I’m afraid he will
never learn to stay with the herd.”

None of us really liked “Gyp.” Of course,
we were kind to him, but we were kind to
all of our horses. We loved them. But Gyp?
Well, Gyp was different. He sort of didn’t
belong.

Dad had purchased the horse from a
farmer ten miles away. Gyp had been born
and raised on the ranch from which Dad
had bought him, and he aimed to hold on to
his old home. Every time a corral or barn
gate was left open by mistake, every time
Gyp was left for one unguarded moment
not securely tied to a post, he’d dash away
to his old home at a brisk gallop.

And every time Gyp ran away it meant
the loss of half a day for a boy or girl and
a pony, not to mention the half day of rest
Gyp managed to sneak. We lived in the
foothills of the Rockies in eastern Montana
on a homestead, and it was in the busy
spring season.

At ﬁrst, we kept Gyp in the barn nights.
But the winter’s supply of hay was becom-
ing exhausted, so ﬁnally Dad decided to
“stake” the runaway out. He tied the
horse’s halter to a long rope, and fastened
it securely to an iron stake driven into the
ground. The rope was long enough so that
Gyp could graze at will on the deep, tender
prairie grass. Still, he’d tug and tug at
the rope and some nights he’d manage to
pull up the stake and go galloping across
the rolling hills.

Then, on one of his jaunts, Gyp lost his
halter, the rope and the stake. Dad bought
a new rope and another iron stake, but he
couldn’t afford a new halter. That night he
tied the rope around Gyp’s neck, being
careful to tie it so it wouldn’t choke the
animal.

In the dead of night there was a thun-
derous, “Knock, knock, KNOCK!” at the
cabin door.

“Who’s there?” yelled Dad, as he lit the
kerosene lamp. We all bounded out of bed
and trooped to the door behind him.

Dad unbolted the door and opened it.
There stood Gyp! He could hardly breathe,
his eyes were swollen almost shut. Some-
how, he had managed to wrap that rope
around his nose. Then he had jerked, a
mighty jerk, pulled up the stake and tight-
ened the rope.

Dad loosened the rope from around Gyp’s
nose in a hurry. The horse, we found, was
less hurt than frightened. Dad let him
loose and he stayed outside the cabin door
till morning.

Gyp had known enough not to run away
that night. He knew where to go. He’d
even pawed at the door to awaken us. We
felt guilty that we hadn’t liked him. Any-
way, who wouldn’t want to go back to their
own old home where they’d been born and
raised?

We were glad we’d been kind to him, or
he might not have come to us. Gyp never
went back to his old home again. That
experience cured him!

Please remember the American Humane

Education Society, Boston, in your will. .4

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 1’73

 

MOTHERLY ADMONITIONS RECEIVE UNDIVIDED ATTENTION

 

The Burro Built a Nation
DOROTHY L. PILLSBURY

Y Otomie Indian guide slackened

the speed of the rickety Fordcito,
and dodged a long—eared, sardonic burro,
spread out in the exact center of the Mexi-
can highway. “Lucky we didn’t hit him,
Senora. Plenty of trouble for us! The
burro, Senora, has built this country,
opened the mines, hauled the logs and the
stone for the villages, plowed the ground
for the beans and the pumpkins and car-
ried our chickens and pottery to market.
With the burro, we manage to exist, Se-
nora, without him, we ——we die.”

Every road and trail in Mexico feels the
pressure of delicate little hooves. Long
strings of burros, almost lost under stalks
of bananas, crates of mangos, sugar cane,
coops of chickens and stacks of hay, give
the quaint impression that the load is
walking off under its own power. Many a
cofﬁn I have seen roped to the little ani-
mal’s back, headed perilously toward a
mountain village and burying ground.
When it rains, the burro walks calmly in
the front door and joins the family. On
Saturday and Sunday he supports the
pulque drinkers home from the “cantina.”
On ﬁesta and market days he not only
transports the little pigs and chickens and
charcoal to be sold but the youngest
“ninos” and sometimes the mother, her-
self, elegant under a black cotton umbrella.
More often the man of the house rides, far
back on the soft rump of the little animal.
The senor’s long legs dangle almost to the
ground and he carries in front of him the
sharp-edged, yard-long knife, the “machete”
with which he cuts a path through the
jungle, kills snakes, chops the tops off of
cocoanuts and slays his enemies.

“Why,” asked the scandalized American
of the man riding cozily to town on his
burro while his wife and children trudged

on foot in the rear, “why don’t you let your-
wife ride?”

“But, Senor,” replied the puzzled Mexi-e,
can, “you can see. My wife—she does not-
have a burro.”

“Selim,” the Terrible

RALPH FENWICK

HIS little story came to me through a.

direct descendant of the hostler for--
the stables at Mount Vernon. This was
before George Washington became Presi-«
dent of the United States.

Mr. Washington was very fond of a-
snow-white riding horse by the name of'
“Selim.” No other mount was brought to.-
him unless by special command. But this
Selim had ideas and these were shown his
master as well as the hostler. Selim never-
allowed a switch or crop carried by his
rider and he took devious ways to so inform ..
him of this desire.

At one time Washington, with his step-
daughter, Nellie Custis, visited a relative‘
in Virginia, and on their return Washing-
ton had a switch from a pink rosebush
that he had greatly admired.

On mounting Selim he carried the switch.
with him. No sooner was he in the saddle-
than the horse began rearing and plunging.
Nellie Custis, on her horse near by, cried.
out to him, “It’s the switch, Father! It’s.
the switch!”

Washington laughed. “Certainly, certain-A
1y,” he admitted, and handed the offending
rose switch to the young girl. Selim was
now as tractable as a young lamb. The
story goes that Washington patted his sleek .
neck instead of scolding him for his be-
havior. It is also generally mentioned in
hostler stories that Mr. Washington was.
never known to mistreat one of his horses..
They seemed to take on some of the dig-r
nity of their master and to display this in...
their prancing gait and carriage of head.
and tail.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 6

Your Dog’s Game

L. E. EUBANKS

PEAKING generally, teasing games

are harmful to a sensitive dog; for
instance, pretending to take away bones,
biscuits or other treasure. The dog gets
excited over such games, and you may
think that he is enjoying himself. Actually,
he is suffering considerable anxiety, which
is bad for both his nerves and his temper.
Many dogs “played with” in this manner
develop viciousness and snappishness as the
years go by. And, usually, the masters
wonder why.

Worst of its type, perhaps, is the game
wherein one of the family, usually a child
of whom the dog is very fond, hides from
the animal, who is then sent to search. The
dog keeps hearing, “Oh, where is little
Jane; go and’ ﬁnd her!” The dog yelps and
runs frantically, smells here and there,
with tail stiﬂ“ and vibrating or wagging
excitedly. These symptoms of anxiety in-
crease in intensity until the child is found.
Watch closely and you can see the reaction
of weakness in the dog after the excitement
has subsided.

Maybe you have been the victim of an
anxiety game. And did you enjoy it? Ever
have someone hide your purse and let you
believe for a while that it had been stolen?
Such things have happened to me, and I’ll
wager they have to you. We may have to
smile, but really we’d like to slap someone’s
face.

The cruelest of all teasing games played
with a dog is the one in which one member
of the family pretends to be angry with
another. When the dog sees the situation
his barking provides great “fun.” He
snarls at ﬁrst one of the ﬁghters then the
other. He is suffering all the time; one
person whom he loves is being attacked by
another whom he loves equally. He does
not know what to do, but thinks he must do
something; which one shall he protect? Put
through this torture very often, any high-
strung dog will show bad results—in nerves
and temper.

Your dog’s games are almost as impor—
tant to his health as his food. A good plan
is to imagine yourself in his place, at
times—remembering that he cannot reason
as you can and cannot know the end of a
game from the beginning. Choose his games
and amusements from his point of view
rather than from your own. Dogs are far
more sensitive than. you may have thought.

A Massachusetts Law

Section 130, Chapter 485, of the Acts of
1922

“Whoever sells or furnishes to a minor
under the age of ﬁfteen any ﬁrearms, air—
gun or other dangerous weapon or ammuni-
tion therefor shall be punished by a ﬁne of
not less than ten and not more than ﬁfty
dollars, but instructors and teachers may
furnish military weapons to pupils for in-
struction and drill.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-

quest local editors to republish. Such copies
W1“ be made good by us upon application.

OUR DUMB

Parking Place for Dogs

ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

N Stockholm, the beautiful and progres~

sive capital of Sweden, pet dogs may be
taken along when their owners make shop-
ping trips, without becoming a nuisance or
causing any annoyance to anyone. The larg-
est, ﬁnest, and most modern department
store in the city, The Nordiska Kompaniet,
makes humanitarian provision for the com-
fort of canines brought by customers, in a
delightful way which might well be copied
by other business establishments.

While dogs are not permitted to enter
the store, they may be tethered in the
spacious vestibule of the main entrance of
the Nordiska Kompaniet and kept there in
safety while their owners are inside. There
is ample space to park a number of dogs,
side by side, by chains or leashes, so they
may sit down in comfort and move about
some. A doorman is stationed to watch over
the animals. Each dog is provided with an
individual pan of fresh drinking water,
placed within easy reach. It is most inter-
esting to see the dogs lined up in the great
sheltered vestibule, somewhat like at a
bench show, while they wait—patiently or
otherwise—for their owners’ return. Many
different breeds are usually represented, of
course. Some of the pets seem to enjoy
themselves immensely and gaze interestedly
at the throngs of shoppers passing in and
out, while others look rather doleful or
abused and evidently would rather be some—
where else. But the dogs are never molested
and the canine parking place is so arranged
that it in no way interferes with the con-
venience or free movement of the public.
And what a satisfaction it must be to the
owners to know that no harm can come to
their pets while they are busy shopping,
no matter how long they may be thus en-
gaged.

.......................................

 

ANIMALS

“FLASH,” DAUGHTER OF THE FAMOUS IRISH
SETTER CHAMPION, “MILSON O’BOY”

Jan. 1939

Humane Commentator
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

ABRIEL HEATTER, popular news
commentator of Radio Station WOR,
Newark, N. J ., often ﬁnds. time on his broad-
cast to include some little item about dogs
in general. One day, while discussing the
European situation abroad, he interrupted
his talk to answer the plea of a little girl
who had written him asking his aid in help-
ing her locate her little dog that was lost.
Many other radio people in Mr. Heatter’s
position would have just forgotten about the
little girl. But not Mr. Heatter. He de-
scribed the dog and gave the little girl’s
name and address in the hope that someone
listening in might know of its whereabouts.
Perhaps Mr. Heatter’s fondness for dogs
can be traced to his own Scottie, named
"Sandy.” On one occasion, due to the pres-
sure of business, Mr. Heatter was unable to
get home for several days. He mentioned
this on his program and added that his dog
Sandy always listened in to his broadcasts.
When he ﬁnished his broadcast that night
he spoke several kind words over the radio
to Sandy who, I am sure, was delighted to
hear the voice of his master. Just recently
when the eastern states suffered from the
effects of a heavy snow storm, Mr. Heatter
made a plea over the radio for everybody
to do their share in caring for any animals
that might have suffered from its effects.
He especially urged the people to feed the
birds that would probably suffer the most.
Let us hope that more radio speakers and
performers will ﬁnd the time to follow in
the footsteps of Mr. Heatter’s good work.

Again Mr. Burgess

Thornton W. Burgess, popular author
and naturalist, will present an illustrated
lecture, “Friendly Folk along the
Trails,” in the lecture hall of the
Boston Public Library, Copley
Square, on the afternoon of Hu-
mane Sunday, April 23, under the
auspices of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. This will be the third
successive time that Mr. Burgess
has appeared on this anniversary
for the Society. Those who have
heard him know what a treat is
in store for them. He will show
slides and moving pictures. Ad-
mission is free to all.

Please remember the M. S. P. C.
A. when making your will.

“Bonnie-Brae”

VIRGINIA A. AMOS

Days pass by, little “Bon”
With many thoughts of you,

When I need my little Bon
With a need that’s always new.

The need comes, little Bon,
Like a stab of sudden pain

Can’t you come back, little Bon,
Let us have you once again?

 

You are living, little Bon;
We are never far apart;

You are living, little Bon,
Deep, forever, in my heart.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126

@112 Z‘éanh nf merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

7 I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

’ The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF ‘ MERCY

Seven hundred and eighty—four new
Bands of Mercy were formed during June.
Of these, 508 were in Illinois, 184 in Rhode
Island, 46 in Massachusetts, 82 in Pennsyl-
vania, seven in Virginia, and one each in
Maine, Minnesota and Palestine.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 241,964.

A Hummingbird’s Rescue
BARBARA BERKLEY

T was on a cold winter noon that I ﬁrst

saw a hummingbird in ﬂight. School had
been dismissed for luncheon and I was on
my way home, when suddenly I noticed
something shining in the snow.

Stopping, I kneeled down and, to my sur-
prise, I saw a beautiful, but frightened
hummingbird. My ﬁrst thought was that it
had been injured and was unable to ﬂy. Its
half-closed eyes looked at me in fright and
turned to horror as I gently picked it up.

It was so tiny it lay in my hand with
plenty of room to spare. Its little heart
seemed ready to burst with speed as it
tried to move. Immediately I remembered
it was winter and the poor little creature
must be cold. I started homeward shielding
the bird from the cold the best way I could.

On my way home I had time to think of
the honor I had of holding a wild humming-
bird. Its beautiful colors I will not try to
describe, but people who have seen a ruby—
colored hummingbird in ﬂight know what
a privilege it is. Its little wings seemed
strange—so still compared with its custom-
ary fast movements. The little bird moved
occasionally as if to cry out, but sounds
failed to come. Its little claws fastened to

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

      

WHAT! NO PEANUTS?

 

my hand as it made an attempt to rise.
Immediately it fell and lay still.

Strange thoughts entered my head, such
as: What would I do with the little crea-
ture? If I keep it what and how would I
feed it? I could keep it in the canary cage,
but how would it ﬂy? If I brought it to a
person who keeps birds that come early in
the spring, he might not know what to do
either. Should I let it go? If I did, would
it freeze?

The house was now in sight and I had
made up my mind. I would take it home
and bring it back to school with me to my
teacher, who was a great bird lover. I was
sure she would know what to do and my
heart felt lighter. As I started up the
steps, the bird suddenly ﬂew from my hand
to a telephone wire. Watching it, I saw it
ﬂy over our house and southward.

Upon discussing it with my teacher, we
came to the conclusion that it had failed
to keep up with the birds it was migrating
with and was left behind. When I picked
it up the warmth of my hand caused it to
revive enough to ﬂy, and the walk home
gave it time to rest. I didn’t get a glimpse
of the bird after that, and I often wonder
what happened to the little hummingbird
that I once held in my hand.

 

“HURRY UP CHILDREN,”

SAYS MOTHER DUCK

Aug. 1939

Did Park Squirrels Migrate?

LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

One of my most unusual experiences was
during the time when gray squirrels were
reported as leaving the New England states
for new homes.

At that time I had a cottage at Cayuga
Lake and for several‘weeks a saucy chip-
munk was my only visitor.

One morning I was surprised to ﬁnd
some twenty gray squirrels on the side
porch and in the near-by trees. They
seemed glad to see me, none of them ran
away and all ate of the generous supply
of nuts, including peanuts, that I had
brought to the lake with me. Although
none came near enough to take the food
from my hand they did not hesitate to pick
up nuts from the porch ﬂoor at my feet.

Later I rowed up to the village for an
added supply of nuts, and when I came
back not a squirrel remained and I never
saw another one while I was at the cottage.

The only explanation I can make is that
these squirrels had formerly lived in a
park (perhaps in Boston) and that they
were in the habit of being fed. While
migrating they found it difﬁcult to get
food and this accounted for the apparent
joy with which they greeted my appear-
ance.

Brave Mother Squirrel

Marvelous “mother devotion” was dis-
played by a squirrel in our town recently,
when a large box elder came crashing
down. When workers had the tree ready
for the ﬁnal landing cut, this mother
squirrel showed her concern by chattering
repeated warnings. When the tree fell she
was the ﬁrst on the scene to save her
yOung. Mrs. Squirrel had a family of ﬁve
youngsters in the felled tree and she was
determined to protect them at any cost.

With one squirrel clinging to her neck
she carried it three blocks away to a
stately elm. Returning, she found that
others of her brood had been placed in a
near-by tree for safe keeping. Without
losing a moment she climbed into the tree
and in the same way carried away another
squirrel.

This performance was repeated until all
were transported to the new quarters
except one. The round trip measured six
blocks and included the crossing of three
streets.

The one remaining infant set up a squeal
that could be heard throughout the neigh-
borhood. This brought the mother scurry-
ing back, weary but determined.

She again went through the same per-
formance. When the last one had been
tucked into bed in his new home, the
mother lay down, contented and satisﬁed,
for a much needed rest.

ALICE B. PALMER

Animals know how to care for their
scratches and wounds. Bears plaster clay
on parts that need to heal, but beavers and
muskrats rub on gum from resinous trees
which will not wash off in the water.
Nature provides many remedies for her
creatures that we know little about.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

then Charley hurriedly inspected the .de-
serted camp and began a violent neighing
after his friend.

Catlin paid no attention. He strode reso—
lutely on. Then Charley could stand it no
longer. Fast and furious he ﬂed across the
prairie, pounded past his master, then
whirled to stop in front of him, trembling
and shaking. And when Catlin called him
by name and went up to him, Charley
stooped anxiously for the bridle and saddle,
and showed every sign of being happy and
contented that they were together again.

Many more adventures came to the two
as they traveled their long way together,
but never again did Charley take the chance
of having his joke turned on him. In fact,
his master later wrote that Charley and he
appeared to almost have a unity of inter—
est. At least they thoroughly agreed upon
the importance of mutual attachment and
affection, protection and responsibility.

Matthew Arnold and His Pets

AMELIA WOFFORD

F ORTUNATE were the dogs, the canary
bird, and the cat who had a home with
the Arnold family.

All were not contemporaries, but all ﬁg-
ured in poems by their master and in many
of his letters.

Of the dogs, “Rover” of the “good brown
head” was the ﬁrst pet. The next favorite
was “Geist,” the beloved dachshund of the
son who went to Australia, leaving him in
the care of the family. “The best of boys,”
“a dear little fellow,” his new master is
quoted, he soon established himself in their
hearts. They liked to watch him lying on
the smooth grassy lawn, “between the holly
and the beach,”

“Asleep, yet lending half an ear
To travellers on the Portsmouth road:”

And his scampers about the grounds of
their country home, his barking at the
thrushes in the garden, and his “patterings
upstairs to bed, his invariable resource
when he was bored or sorrowful,” had men-
tion in his master’s letters.

When he died, Matthew Arnold voiced the
family grief in a poem “Geist’s Grave,”
published in the Fortnightly. And his letter
to his son, telling of Geist’s death, repeated
the burden of the poem:

“Your dear, dear little boy . . . The daily
miss of him will wear off, but we shall never
forget him, and I am very glad to have
stamped him in our memories when he was
fresh in our minds. I like to think of all the
newspapers having his dear little name in
them, when the Christmas number of the
Fortnightly is advertised and I hope papers
will like the lines, and that will lead to his
being mentioned and talked about; which
seems to be a sort of continuation of him
in life, dear little fellow, though but a hol-
low and shallow one alas.”

Two dachshunds succeeded Geist:

“Max with the shining yellow coat
Pricking ears and dewlap throat,”

and “Kaiser” of humble birth and “collie
facef’

During a visit to Nuremberg, Matthew
Arnold was astonished and pleased to hap-
pen upon two dachshunds who were the
exact doubles of Max and Kaiser. To make

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  
  

   
  

DR. CLARENCE HAWKES AND

great Connecticut River ﬂood

 

the incident more striking they were to-
gether. Max’s double was of particular
interest, he having with his physical like-
ness his “slow and melancholy way.” At
their ﬁrst meeting his wistful eyes seemed
to say, so Matthew Arnold wrote to his
daughter: “I know you, but we must nOt
speak here.” At their second meeting, Mat-
thew Arnold saW again in the dark yellow
eyes that same weird look, but that time
they seemed to say: “We are in a dream
and must dream on.”

“Atossa,” the cat, was another notable
member of the household. At night she
slept on an armchair before the drawing-
room ﬁre. After breakfast, she made a
visit to her master, in his studio. If he was
reading or writing and did not notice her,
up on his lap she would leap, rub her head
and nose against his chin, and bite his pen.
The after part of the day she spent in her
master’s studio, sleeping on an armchair or
“sunk amid her furs,” eyeing with “soul re-
signed,” “Matthias,” the canary bird, in his
cage.

Matthew Arnold’s elegiac poem “Poor
Matthias” was, he said, “meed for daily
song of yore.”

Clarence Hawkes Honored

W ITH ﬁtting ceremony the town of
Goshen, Mass., recently dedicated a
bronze tablet in honor of Dr. Clarence
Hawkes, distinguished naturalist and auth-
or of many books, though totally blind since
the age of 13. The tablet bears the follow-
ing inscription:

“Dr. Clarence Hawkes, poet-naturalist-
lecturer. Born. in Goshen, Mass., December
16, 1869. Author of 50 published books. He
loves nature and little children.” A

The life of Dr. Hawkes has been one
of remarkable courage and outstanding
achievement in the face of great adversity.
He will be long remembered for his ex-

“NIGHT WATCH-
MAN,” HIS FAITHFUL DOBERMAN PINSCHER

This dog was marooned for three days at the time of the

Oct. 1939

cellent books on nature and
wild life. In responding to
this token of appreciation
from his many friends and
residents of his own birth-
place, Dr. Hawkes said: “As
long as I live I will remember
with pleasure and pride, your
hilltops and valleys, your for-
ests and meadows, your birds,
your brooks and your far-
ﬂung skyline. This and a
wealth of tender memories of
your people. Such is the heri-
tage from the town Where I
was born.

“Nine of the 13 years dur-
ing which I had my eyesight
were spent here in Goshen,
and many of your most beau-
tiful scenes in nature were
etched upon my memory at
that time. Without this wealth
of scenic beauty in my mind,
I could not have written the
many books I have produced.”
4. ., Elsewhere he says: “I have
written seven dog books and
ﬁve horse books just to make
people kind to dogs and horses,
and 30 nature books to teach
the gospel of love of birds and
a wild life.”

  

Interesting Eyes
LESTER BANKS

M OTHERS frequently tell their chil-
dren, “Your eyes are bigger than
your stomach,” when they foresee that the
young persons are taking more than they
can eat. In the case of the single-celled
amoeba the eyes are as big as the stomach,
for it is just about all stomach, and all
sensitive to light. On the other hand, the
jellyﬁsh has only a rudimentary response
to light in what has been termed “an eye-
spot.”

The eyes of an octopus are much like a
person’s, and so is the normal ﬁsh eye in
its mechanical perfection. In forms of life
lower than the turtle the eyes lack color.

The eyes of a starﬁsh are on its arms;
those of a snail on the ends of its horns.
The wasp and the bee have three eyes, in
a triangle, on top of the head. The eagle’s
eye is pear-shaped.

Snakes have a glassy stare because their
eyes are covered by a transparent cap that
cannot be moved, though the eyeball Within
the “window” is movable. One of the eyes
most sensitive to motion is that of the
rabbit.

In addition to the triangle of eyes, bees
and wasps have two compound eyes on the
side of the head. A spider has eight eyes
and a caterpillar six, set near its jaws.

The bird’s eye is most marvelously
adapted to changeable conditions; birds see
at long range or short distances equally
well, and no creature has quicker sight.
The eyes of ﬁsh, too, are so made that they
can see through either water or air. I have
heard it said that a ﬁsh is blind when
taken from its natural element, but that is
a mistake. The retina of the ﬁsh eye is
saucer-shaped; that of animal and bird like
a cup.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’71;

@112 43mm of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

e American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to'leiirery person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1:
dent who has been duly elected, spec1a1 Band of
Mercy ‘i’rerature and a gilt badge for the pre51dent.
See inside front cover for prices of llterature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and seventy-two new Bands
of MerCy were reported during September.
Of these, 212 were in Illinois, 30 in Geor-
gia, 11 in the Philippine Islands, eight in
Pennsylvania, seven in Virginia, two in
Maine, and one each in Minnesota and New
York.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 242,402.

Make Humane Scrapbook

The Band of Mercy of the Washburn
School, Duluth, Minnesota, reports: “We
are now making a scrapbook with animal
pictures, clippings, and original stories, etc.
This book is to be sent to the Superintend-
ent of Schools at Bowen, Illinois, to be
used in the schools. It has been reported
that some boys were cruelly whipping a
pony in that town, and we decided that
the humane scrapbook would do some good.”

Christmas Giving

Let us avoid giving books which illus—
trate cruelty, or which encourage hunting
or trapping, or which illustrate robbery or
wrong-doing, or glorify war. There are
many attractive and interesting books pub—
lished which tell of noble deeds of men and
women. There are also many good books
in regard to our animals friends which are
educational as well as entertaining. We
may select as gifts for children, with the
same thought in view, toys which tend to
instill in the youthful minds thoughts of
kindness and love for all living creatures.

 

“JANE” AND “JUAN,” BORN

 

THE SAME DAY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Quickening

MARION H. ADDINGTON

Some sights there are that ever
.My spirit quickens to:
With morning—glory faces
All freshly washed with dew,
And scarlet maples on a hill
With sunlight streaming through;

The crescent moon a—cradling
Her one white tiny star;

A hidden nest of grasses
Where baby rabbits are,

And lady birches by a pool
Seen silver from afar!

Box Tortoises

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

OR some years we have been “collect—

ing” box tortoises. I do not mean that
we keep them in captivity. When we ﬁnd
one walking on the highway, where it is
certain to get run over sooner or later, we
pick it up and bring it home, where it
ﬁnds a safe shelter in the garden or in the
woods. They repay us by eating insects
of all kinds.

Box tortoises are the most harmless of
creatures. When surprised by an enemy
they merely hiss and retire into their shells
until the danger is past. They live on
insects, grubs, caterpillars and green food.
Each has its individual markings, yellow
or orange on black, and it is interesting to
remember these patterns and watch to see
the same tortoises come back to the same
spot every year.

In early summer the females lay rather
elongated eggs, from which in due time
hatch the babies, which are about two
inches in diameter. The shell, which is soft
at ﬁrst, soon hardens, and off they go in
search of their ﬁrst meal. The mother
tortoise merely lays the eggs in a hole
which she has dug in the ground and then
lets Nature do the rest.

When cold weather approaches, the tor-
toises, young and old, dig deep into the
ground, and hibernate until spring. They
must go below the frost line in regions
where the winters are cold, for freezing
will kill them. For
this reason it is best
to leave them alone
after the ﬁrst of
September, so that
they can choose their
hibernating spot at
leisure.

If you have toma-
toes in your garden
you will need to tie
them up on a pole or
trellis, for tortoises
are very fond of those
vegetables, and will
eat great holes in the
juciest.

However, when we
balance a few toma-
toes against all the
insects which the tor-
toise also eats, we
agree that we can
well spare them.

Nov. 1939

 

On the Benson Animal Farm

THIS picture comes to us from Benson’s
Wild Animal Farm, Nashua, New
Hampshire. The little girl, Miss Johanne
Siegrist, who lives there and is having an
extraordinary opportunity to study animal
life, is ten years old. The colt, only six
weeks of age, is one of her great pets. In
addition she has a baby dwarf donkey from
Ceylon, a baby deer and a baby monkey
that has been brought up by bottle. They
have all left by this time to take part in
some moving-pictures in California. The
child comes from a long line of distin-
guished circus people who trace their an-
cestry back, on her mother’s side, to the
time of King James of England. Her future
will likely be as a circus rider, but her
devotion to animals and her love for them
will doubtless make her always their friend
and defender.

Words of Angelo Patri

If you own a cat or dog feed it and
shelter it from the winter weather. When
you put the cat out on a cold night remem—
ber she feels just as you would about it.
“Where am I to go? How am I to keep
warm?” No answer comes from the closed
door and the poor thing meows a few times
hoping you will relent and take her into
the warm house again. Finding you won’t,
she seeks some sheltered corner and tries
to keep from freezing. Surely if you own a
eat you can ﬁnd a bed for her. You
wouldn’t be so shabby in your treatment of
a friend as to turn him out of the home
you had offered him.

When you have a family of new kittens
and you can’t keep them try to ﬁnd homes
for them, and, failing that, destroy them in
infancy. Don’t let them grow up and then
throw them out on a roadside to starve or
be run over or torn apart by dogs. A sense
of responsibility to the creatures you have
sheltered and who depend upon you is the
feeling of a gentleman or a lady. As you
are strong you are merciful.

It seems these days as if some people
shirked these responsibilities. Cats and
dogs are thrown out of automobiles to
shift for themselves or die. Cats are cats
and dogs are dogs and both need the help
of their human friends, the children.

 




 

 

m b l k .
u,S.Trade Mark,Registered n 1

LL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

0.1- “CE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

  

The American Humane Education Society

    
 

GLORY T0
GOD,

PEACE on EARTH,
Kmonass. Jusncs
AND MERCY 'r‘o
EVERY lemo
- CREATURE.

The American Band of Mercy

   
 
 

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man

     
 
 

Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

    

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance tor maillng at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

 

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 72

If military and naval experts cannot
agree as to the present need for enormous
additional expenditures for armaments,
What is the average citizen to think?

Our present national military and naval
expenses, $1,250,000,000, mean a tax equiva-
lent to $9.59 for each man, woman and
child in the United States. What of the
future?

During these years when brutal war is
threatening the very existence of human~
ity, and hatred, suspicion, fear are spread-
ing like a plague among the nations, is the
great cause of animal welfare going to
suffer with every other good cause that
depends upon justice and good will? Men
and animals live together, prosper together,
suffer together.

From a Chicago newspaper comes a
clipping to the effect that a leading pack-
ing company was host to eight boys who
were taken through the abattoir. The re-
port says that the boys were shown through
the entire works by a guide. They saw the
animals slaughtered. At the conclusion of
the tour, a luncheon of ham and other
tasty meats was provided for them but
every member refused the food. The excuse
was “a growing weakness in the stomach.”

Word from Superintendent Delon, of the
American Fondouk in Fez, is most gratify-
ing and a remarkable evidence of the in—
ﬂuence of the Fondouk in that part of
Morocco.

Readers of Our Dumb Animals will re—
member that the use of hot irons on ani—
mals in the East has been most common
for generations, for lameness and other
troubles from which horses and mules have
suffered. Utterly useless as a remedy, cruel
almost beyond expression, it is still too
common; but here is the gratifying mes—
sage from Mr. Delon:

“Following the letter I have sent to the
Government Commissaire with the reports
of our two veterinarians, orders have been
given the Prevost des Marchands to forbid
completely the use of hot irons in the treat-
ment of animals as well as men.”

April, 1939
A Break for the Show-Horse

N DER this title, the widely-known

horse paper, The Spur, published in
February a long and deeply interesting
article in which every real lover of the
horse will rejoice. It seems to us The Spur
cannot be commended too highly for facing
the serious problem of the horse with the
set-up tail, in view of the opposition The
Spur must meet on the part of saddle-horse
breeders and owners who are guilty of per—
petuating that absurd and cruel practice in
the name of fashion.

Some of our readers may remember that
at the National Horse Show last November
in Madison Square Garden, Mrs. Fitch Gil-
bert offered a $2,000 prize for three-gaited
saddle—horses with natural tails—that is,
horses never subjected to the vicious op-
eration which produces the plumed or
waterfall tail. In the past the saddle—horse
with natural tail has had little chance in
the show ring, because he has been deprived
of winning blue ribbons against the horse
whose tail has been cruelly disﬁgured to
meet the demand of the show ring.

The article in The Spar opens with the
following words:

“The horse-show world seethes with the
old discussion of set-up tails. Let’s drag it
into the open for examination. Here are
the reactions of a noted horseman.”

That the tail set is a deliberate cruelty
is frankly stated. Over and over again
those guilty of this offense against nature
and humaneness make the statement that
the operation is relatively slight, causes
very little suffering, and means nothing of
torture or misery to the horse. If anyone
wants to know how false such a statement
is he should read, in The American Saddle
Horse, recently published at Louisville,
Kentucky, the directions for performing the
operation, by Mr. Earl Farshler. This ad-
vocate of the waterfall tail does not hesitate
to say that the “veterinarian performing
the operation should use some narcotic to
deaden the pain, then he should completely
sever the two lower muscles in the horse’s
tail close to where it comes out of the back.
He then should tie an antiseptic compress

No. 4

over the wound. About one hour later the
tie holding the compress. should be cut, but
the compress itself not removed until about
two hours later.”

=i< =l< >l<

He continues: “With a clean; wad of cot-
ton, carefully soak the wound to break up
the blood clots in each hole. Keep this up
until it bleeds all it will, then adjust the
tail. Here again, every precaution should
be taken. Every hair must be pulled out
from under and around the tail, and plenty
of clean, loose cotton used in the crupper.
This must be drawn tight enough to pre—
vent the leaders, which have been cut, from
knitting, but not tight enough to cause the
horse to cramp his tail or to ﬁght the
crupper. The side straps should be snug
but not too tight. The wound should be
swabbed out every morning and evening
after the operation until it will ﬁnally
bleed no more. However, the tail set should
always be readjusted twice daily.

“The crupper should always be loosened
at least two holes at night in order that
the horse can get his rest. It should be
raised again every morning but it should
never be made so tight that it causes the
horse to cramp his tail. The horse must
wear the crupper all through the show sea—
son in this way unless, for some special
reason, one decides to remove it for a single
day to allow the animal to rest better.
Remember that the horse cannot use his tail
to switch ﬂies and they trouble him terribly.
He should be kept in a stall in which there
are tail boards so that it is impossible for
him to rub his tail.”

The writer of the article to which we
have referred, without question, knows what
he is talking about or his article would not
have been accepted by The Spur. He says,
after reading some of the details of the
operation, that “the reaction to the descrip-
tion of how to perform the operation gives
me more than a reaction of horror, and
my feeling is not allayed when I realize
that one operation is not always sufﬁcient.
Some horses undergo the ordeal many
times, and there is at least one attested case
in which the cutting was done nineteen
different times.” He concludes by saying

 

 

 

 

 




Jan. 1939

Understanding Your Cat
L E S T E R B A N K S

F you’ve had much experience with peo-

ple of various dispositions, you have
observed that the most reliable persons and
the best friends are not always the most
demonstrative. It’s much the same with
animals; to condemn a cat, calling it un—
sociable, indifferent, ungrateful merely be-
cause it is less demonstrative than a dog
is decidedly unjust.

A dog barks and wags his tail to show
his happiness, a cat purrs and rubs against
your legs; the latter’s pleasure at being
with you is not less keen for being less
n01sy.

Yes, the cat expresses friendliness and
gratitude in many ways, if you are fond
of him. But he knows it if you are not——
and he’s not much given to a waste of affec—
tion. A cat is harder to win than a dog.
This is not because of comparative dumb—
ness, but comes from fear, implanted
through countless generations. No other
domestic animal has been so maligned and
abused as the cat. You have to overcome
that instinctive fear, the suspicion inherited
from a long line of ancestors who had very
real reason for fear.

A cat’s greatest pleasure, next to satis-
faction of his hunger, is to be a part of the
household. He wants to come and go as he
pleases, but home and regime mean more to
a cat than to any other of the lower crea—
tures. He is the greatest luxury lover, and
is not at all blind to your part in providing
him with comforts and special joys.

But don’t expect him to make a great
fuss about it. All he can do is purr, rub
your hand with his head, and look into your
eyes. That means his heart is yours, and
could you ask more?

Not all cats will lie in a person’s lap.
Unwillingness to do so doesn’t prove a cat
unaffectionate; the nicest cat we’ve ever
had preferred to lie at our feet. Another,
an exceedingly proud fellow, always liked
to lie on a chair just as near to my chair
as I could draw it. He’d even sit at the din-
ing table that way—and never put a paw
on the table!

Don’t misunderstand such conduct and
call the cat unresponsive. The same cat
that wouldn’t lie in our lap always struggled
when we tried to carry him. But put him
down and call him, and he’d follow any-

where. Reminds one of some horses, who
won’t be hitched but will wait reliably
unhitched.

But, while on this point, most cats resist
when taken into a person’s arms from sound
. slumber on a chair or the ﬂoor. The real
reason is that the cat’s ﬁrst thought on
awakening is to stretch, and grabbing him
up in that way gives him no chance to do
so. Wake him up ﬁrst, let him stretch and
yawn, then pick him up. Also, even the
gentlest cat may scratch his master when
snatched up without warning. We our-
selves do unexpected things when similarly
startled.

“Lay down, pup, lay down,” ordered the
man.
“You’ll have to say ‘lie down,’ mister,”
declared a boy. “That’s a Boston terrier.”
—Dog World

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

An Unusual Pose

Mr. E. S. MacLaughlin of Nantucket,
Mass., sends in this unsual picture of his
cat, “Tommy,” who was sixteen years old
last June. He has all his teeth, and is very
alert and playful. He poses very willingly,
and guests have taken pictures of him and
sent them all through the country.

He is all white with the exception of a
small black spot near his right ear, and his
tail which is coal black, giving the impres-
sion of a “dipped in the ink bottle” affair.

His favorite pastime is sleeping and
eating. He does the latter on an average of
ﬁfteen times a day, a little each time. He
drinks from the bird-bath always during
the summer.

Mail-Carrying Deer Shot

A pathetic story comes from Texas to the
effect that “Billy,” the nation’s only mail-
carrying deer, was found fatally shot in the
woods near his owner’s home, last Novem—
ber. The deer was about three-and-a-half
years old and had been found, a helpless
fawn, by Farmer Oscar Kohleffel who took
it home and raised it as a- pet. At six
months, Billy formed the habit of taking a
daily stroll with the family to the mail-
box, where it became attached to Mail-
Carrier J. T. Green. The postman, well
supplied with lemon stick candy, tried ty-
ing the mail around the deer’s neck and
found that the faithful animal took it home
safely. Billy was officially recognized by the
United States Postal ‘ Department as an
honorary substitute mail carrier and a
story was once published about him in the
Postal Guide.

Page ’7

Songs Must Cease
ORPHA MORROW MCMILLAN

I heard the bay of the running hounds,
And the mellowing sound of the horn;
The hunting coats went flying by,
And were lost in the ﬁelds of corn.
I heard them coming home at night;
Heard the rollicking songs of the men,
Now, who will feed the baby for,
For the mother will never again?

I saw a stone aimed at a bird,
Where a wren sang his song in a tree.
Brown feathers flew, then all was still,
And the soul of the singer went free.
A child lay ill, and day by day,
He had looked for return of the wren;
But songs must cease and cubs must starve,
For the passion of killing in men.

An Appreciative Contributor

The relations between editor and con-
tributor are often unusually pleasant, and
sometimes lasting friendships are formed
by the resulting correspondence. The fol-
lowing communication from a California
writer is, however, so unusual that we feel
we must share it with our readers:

“Editor: I wish to thank you for your
check for a poem about a white kitten.
Check reached me recently in another town.
It was rather a red—letter day for me as
that was my ﬁrst check for a poem. I have
written 700 poems, have published booklets
of poems, have had many used on radio, am
in ﬁve anthologies this year, and have seven
hymns in songbooks, but that was my ﬁrst
check from a magazine—thanks to the
white kitten which belonged to a little AuS-.
trian girl where I worked one season. Her
mother asked me to write it. By the way, I
must write and tell her. And thanks again
to you. It is encouragement.”

Advice to Dog Owners

Dr. Rudolph H. Schneider of the Angell
Animal Hospital offers the following timely
advice to dog owners:

Don’t think your dog has rabies because
he froths at the mouth and acts as if hav-
ing a convulsion. He may be only havrng
what we know as a ﬁt. The dog with rabies
makes no such frightful demonstration of
violence. Conﬁne him to a cool, darkened
and quiet place and consult your veteri-
narian. If you must rely on your own re-
sources, give the animal, when quleted
down, an emetic to empty the stomach. A
teaspoonful or two of syrup of ipecac every
ten minutes until vomiting occurs, or two
teaspoonfuls of table salt in a half-glass
of water, or a teaspoonful of powdered
mustard in a half-glass of water .w111
serve the purpose. Then keep the animal
on a beef broth diet for a few days.

The Scottish S. P. C. A. announces that
the subject of the prize essay competition
for 1939, open to school children, is: “How
Are Animals Better Treated Today than
One Hundred Years Ago, and Why?” The
subject is especially chosen on account of
the centenary of the Society in 1939. The
competition has, for over sixty years,
formed a prominent feature of the Somety’s

activities.

 




 

Oct. 1939

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

A BOY AND A DOG BELONG TOGETHER

 

Character Witness
M ARIE M EDO RA

Though man seems sunken deep in sin
And heaven far above us,

There must be good in humans yet
Since dogs still love as!

If You Want Both Dog
and Cat

L. E. EUBANKS

DOGS and cats are the most popular
pets. Many dog lovers detest cats, and
a large percentage of cat owners dislike
dogs. But I have been surprised, after some
inquiry, at the number of people who like
both dog and cat. Off hand, I can’t think
of more than a dozen acquaintances who
actually keep both, but I know a great many
others who would do so, but for the belief
that it is impossible or extremely difﬁcult
to establish compatability between these
animals.

If you start with both animals when ba-
bies, the thing is entirely simple. And usu—
ally you can bring a puppy into a household
where there is a mature cat. It depends, of
course, on the cat’s disposition, and speciﬁc-
ally on her attitude toward dogs. While it
is not the usual thing for Puss to be the
aggressor, occasionally she is; and if you
know your cat to be one of that kind, don’t
get a dog—not even a mature one. You
won’t be able to change that cat’s mind,
and you’ll have no end of trouble.

Rover is the aggressor, generally; and
unless you know your dog to be exception-
al in regard to cats, don’t get a cat. Take
this as a rule (with exceptions) : a mature
cat will tolerate a puppy, but a mature dog
is likely to injure, perhaps kill a kitten.

Generally, small dogs get along better
with cats—Pomeranians in particular,
according to my experience. On the other
hand, I have never known an Airedale that
could be trusted not to ﬁght a cat.

The ideal arrangement is for both to be
young. The kitten will mature faster, in
the matter of self-reliance, and it is better

that you let her be “boss.” She is less liable
to abuse leadership as they grow older. The
most harm she will ever do the puppy is to
slap him—unless he should sometime force
her to ﬁght for her life. In this one respect
at least, the dog is less dependable; so it
is better for him to sense her authority
from the ﬁrst and habitually bow to it.

If your cat is mature or nearly so when
you get the puppy, her adjustment to his
presence in the home will not much affect
her attitude toward other dogs. But if she
has known him from her babyhood and
loves him, then it’s up to you to give some
extra care to protecting her from strange
dogs. Her natural fear of them has been
much modiﬁed by her congenial association
with the one dog, and being a bit off guard
may cost her dearly.

Be careful that you don’t misunderstand
the cat. She won’t seem as smart and re-
sponsive as the dog. But if you assume that
she’s dumb, lacks sensibilities, etc., you
may lose that cat. Some day when you’re
giving Rover all the petting, Puss will
quietly walk away. No sensibilities? Her
heart is broken, that’s all!

Dogs in the World War

On December 20, 1915, the North German
Gazette ofﬁcially reported that there were
2,500 trained degs of war doing hospital
service in the German army, and that these
dogs made no distinction between friend
and foe when on their search for wounded
soldiers left on the ﬁeld. The Grand Duke
of Oldenburg described how the service had
been begun with eight dogs shortly after
the outbreak of the war and estimated that
up to date at least 8,000 wounded men had
been picked up on the battleﬁeld through
the aid of the war dogs. Afterwards it was
announced that convalescent soldiers at
Jena built a special hospital in which
wounded dogs were being treated.

A writer in 1916, who had been in the
trenches four different times, said: “War
dogs marching in battalions, thousands of
them, was the sight that most impressed
me among all the vastly terrible, sad and
thrilling spectacles that met my eyes in the
battle zones of France and Belgium.”

Page 151
Pet Shows

Suggestions for Their Management

HE Massachusetts Society for the Pre-

vention of Cruelty to Animals has
never encouraged what are commonly
known as pet shows given by children.

True as it may be that these exhibits
may quicken and foster the spirit of kind-
ness and justice for animals, as usually
held the animals are subject too often to
fear and discomfort from the strange sur-
roundings, improper handling, and uncom-
fortable quarters. Still, since more and
more these shows seem coming into favor
and we are being asked continually to act
as judges in awarding prizes, we have
issued the following rules which we shall
distribute widely here in Massachusetts,
particularly where school children are to
be the exhibitors:

Suggestions for Pet Shows

We feel that great care should be exer-
cised in explaining to each child the im—
portance of having all small pets in some
sort of container, such, for instance, as an
orange crate, or something larger, depend-
ing upon the size of the animal.

We suggest that such a receptacle be
covered on the front with chicken wire and
that the top also have some sort of cover—
ing, thus making it possible for the animal
to be seen and, at the same time, protected
from the heat of the sun.

All animals exhibited should be handled
as little as possible during the warm
weather.

A pan of water should be provided for
all dogs, and large dogs should have a
collar and leash so as to prevent their com—
ing in contact with other dogs.

It is advisable to have the animals on
hand shortly before the show begins and
taken home immediately afterward.

It is well to instruct the children regard-
ing the rules governing the judging at
these pet shows. For instance, breeding
does not count—rather, the best-cared—for
pet is given preference. We suggest the
following classes:

Class A .............. Best large dog
Class B .............. Best small dog
Class C .............. Best puppy
Class D .............. Best large cat
Class E .............. Best kitten
Class F .............. Best chicken
Class G .............. Best rabbit
Class H .............. Miscellaneous:

Best turtle

Best squirrel

Best goldﬁsh
Class I ............... Best dog in show
Class J ............... Best cat in show

Such creatures as horseshoe crabs, water
snakes, lizards, etc., should not be entered
in pet shows. ‘

Copies of the above text in leaﬂet form, are avail-

able, free, upon application to Secretary, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

A small tropical beetle about one and
one-half inches long, carries two small
light globes, one on each side of its throat,
that can be illuminated, the light lasting
about ﬁve minutes at a time. Natives keep
several of them in small wicker cages about
the house, and encourage them to light up
by tipping or shaking the cages.

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1989

 

  

u, l (11/;in
\l‘ ,1”. _ .»
area/ﬂ"

 

They Shall Feast

LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

I have a pocket full of nuts,
A sack of crumbled bread,

A piece of suet, ﬁne and white,—
So many to be fed.

I have a little bag of seeds
And half a shock of grain,

No hungry eyes shall look to me
And make their plea in vain.

The weather suddenly grows cold,
The papers warn of snow,

And that is why I take a walk
Down paths the pheasants know.

A squirrel chatters on a limb,
A rabbit whisks away,—

I’m glad I have enough for all,
And they shall feast today.

A Strange Discovery
HENRY H. GRAHAM

T OM FALCON, sheep herder, was busily engaged in hunt-
ing for strays in the summer range. Suddenly, as he
slowed up to cross a dry gulch he heard plaintive mewing
sounds from a point near by.

Some riders, in a hurry as Tom was, might have said to
themselves, “Nothing but a stray cat. I won’t bother to inves-
tigate.” But not Tom. Kind-hearted and devoted to every-
thing furred and feathered, he jumped off his horse and began
an investigation.

At ﬁrst he failed to locate the animal. But patience was
eventually rewarded, and a strange, heart-rending sight was
before him.

A big, gray house cat, doubtless belonging to some rancher
in the vicinity, was held fast in a steel trap by the tail. It was

whining dismally in pain, fright and rage and at ﬁrst did not

welcome Tom’s approach.

With deft ﬁngers Tom opened the hateful jaws, released
the tail and seized the injured feline before it could get away.
The cat appeared nearly scared to death.

The cat had evidently stepped on the pan of a trap set for
coyotes and had its tail caught before managing to jump to
safety. Tom took the animal home, nursed and fed it carefully
and ﬁnally turned it loose. But all creatures like kind treat-
ment and this big gray fellow would not leave. Tom adopted
it, naming it “Grayboy.”

Tom’s practice of lending a kindly hand to creatures in
distress would be a splendid one for everybody to cultivate.
Whenever a plaintive cry is heard it should be looked into, for
in most cases some animal or bird is in trouble and needs
help. The wild and domestic creatures merit all of the devo-
tion we can give them.

“Make me humble, make me kind;
Give me wisdom’s light of mind;
A generous hand, a gentle heart,
The power to do my useful part.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 175

 

  

 

   

J

’1.

_. .m
s,

\x
-.-
33;:
..
‘

a,
u ‘\

\
\
,
\

 

 

“Betty” Fawn

WM. R. FORDER

H N a large, sheltered enclosure at the home of Mrs. J acklin
at North Bay, Ontario, lives little orphaned “Betty” Fawn.
Betty Fawn’s mother was killed by a train when Betty was
but a few hours old. Mr. J acklin, a railway roadmaster, found
Betty beside the railway tracks. She was nearly dead from
lack of food. A shoe-box was procured and the tiny fawn was
placed in it and brought home to be cared for by Mrs. J acklin.

This kind lady, who dearly loves animals, gave the fawn the
best of care. It was she who named it Betty. Permission was
obtained from the government authorities to keep the animal
and a large wire enclosure was built.

Here, every four hours, Betty is fed milk from a nursing
bottle. Between times she gets water although, now, she is
beginning to eat grass. After being fed, Betty wags her tail
and tries to lick her mistress’s face in appreciation.

Betty has become the pride of the neighborhood and chil-
dren and adults ﬂock from far and near to see this “deer”
little animal.

Betty would soon be killed if let loose now as she could not
protect herself, but when she becomes old enough, Mrs.
J acklin says, they will probably turn her loose in the woods.

Answers to “How Many ‘0’ Birds” puzzle last month:
Catbird. chat, chewink, chickadee, chick, chicken, cock, cocka—
too, cockateel, cockerel, coot, courser, cowbird, crow, cuckoo,
curlew.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— two lines.

Pagel52
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to _Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston,~ Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor '
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

\

OCTOBER, 1939

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS. of all periodicals who receive this pub-

 

articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

What Will Our English
Friends Think of Us?

N article in an English humane publi-
Acation on dog-ﬁghting, we fear, is
liable to give a very wrong impression as
to the general attitude of the people of
the United States toward that cruel sport.
The article says:

“We learn from authoritative sources
that the laws are still being successfully
contravened in U. S. A. Contests have been
held in Brooklyn, N. Y., to entertain some
of the visitors to the World’s Fair. A
hundred spectators viewed a ﬁght there. A
dog-ﬁghting convention is to be held in
Oklahoma in October, at which notorious
dog-ﬁghting men from all over the States
will be present with their dogs. Some are
also expected from Canada and from
Mexico.” -

It would almost seem from this article
as if we were quite tolerant of such cruel
0 -far as our knowledge goes, any-
thing like a dog-ﬁght for public entertain-

country. There is no state, so far as we
know, in which there is not a law against
it. That it is a common thing in the major-
ity of our states, we have not the slightest
That the law against it
is Violated is as true as the law against
any other crime. We do hope that our
English friends willdnot think that we live
in a land where such disgraceful, so-called
“sports” have anything like common recog-
nition.

At last we ﬁnd that the ordinary can-
celed domestic one-, two- and three-cent
stamps are in such abundance that there is
practically no demand for them. For can-
celed domestic stamps above these common

on envelopes—not taken from the envelopes
but attached to them. In many an attic
or old receptacle in the house are doubt-
less valuable old letters
with their stamps are
covering.

llcation this month are invited to reprint any of the .

' which

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

JUSt Instinct?>

T is hard to convince anyone who has
llever had a dog that nothing but unthink-
ing instinct controls its life. The animal,
says a distinguished thinker,——a man who
must be held in very high regard as a
religious teacher also—lives only in the
present, has no interest save in itself, no
desires save those that mean food and com-
fort. It will for a brief period care for its
young, but forgets them quickly with no
lasting memory of them remaining. What
would seem like devotion to its master is
but the instinctive selﬁshness that wants
attention and satisfaction for its needs. Of
anything like a moral sense it knows
nothing.

Must we think what looks like affection,
devotion, ﬁdelity, is nothing but our imput-
ing to the dog qualities that he does not
possess but which he seems to us to possess
because he acts as sane and normal as
human beings act in similar circumstances?

No man knows just what goes on in the
mind of his fellow man, much less that
goes on in the mind of a dog. Just
how far he can think or reason, just what
he would say to us if he could talk our
language, at this we can only guess. But
that he does think, that he remembers, that
he does actually reason, that he knows
shame-for disobedience, that he has done
things in the way of rescue in guarding
and protecting both human beings and
property, that he has brains enough to be
taught to do things that seem quite incred-
ible, these things we know.

Well,
logians

,

or just where the human and the divine are
separated by an impassable barrier; or
who shall say that such impassable bar-

that have made the dog man’s nearest and
most unfailing four-footed friend.

J. G. Holland will long be remembered
for his poem entitled “To My Dog
Blanco.” Here are three of the stanzas of
that poem:

“I trust you as I trust the stars;
Nor cruel loss, nor scoﬂ', nor

Nor beggary, nor dungeon bars,
Can move you from my side.

* * >1:

Ah, Blanca! Did I worship God
As truly as you worship me,

Or follow where my Master trod,
With your humility——

pride,

Did I sit fondly at His feet,
As you, dear Blanca, sit at mine,
And watch Him with a love as sweet,
My life would grow divine.”

“I love solitude,” wrote Alexandre Du-
mas, “for solitude is necessary to anyone
who works much. However, I do not like
complete loneliness. What I love is that of
the garden of Eden, a solitude peopled with
animals.”

’night four shillings.” Well,

Oct. 1939
The Robin of the Filling

Station

HE following article from a Bangor,
TMaine, paper comes to us with a letter
from Governor Percival P. Baxter of Port-
land, about which he says, “This newspaper
account is in no way an exaggeration. I
myself. saw this little bird. It seems to
have no fear whatever of humans. When
you hold out your hand, while the bird is
on its perch in the ﬁlling station house, it
will step upon the outstretched ﬁnger and
seems to want to talk.”

Friendly Robin Makes Home in Filling Station

Lincoln, Aug. 15—A robin which ﬁnds
itself at home on a perch in the Lincoln
House ﬁlling station is drawing a good deal
of attention these days. The bird is not the
least bit afraid of anyone, chirping away
as if really trying to talk to people. The
bird was found a short time ago by Asa
Parker, an employee at the hotel, who dis-
covered it where it had fallen from a tree
and was unable to ﬂy. He took it and fed
it and it has since made its home in the
ﬁlling station. A perch has been made from
small branches and placed in the building
and the bird is right at home on'it.

When it desires, it ﬂies out of doors and
around the yard but does not go very far.
When it is hungry it will ﬂy to one of its
newly made friends and chirp until given
a worm. When automobiles drive into the
station it is not uncommon for the robin to
perch on the car where the attendant is at
work and chirp away not the least bit
afraid. At night the bird will be found on
his perch. When a person picks the robin
up it will perch on a ﬁnger and chirp away.

It is expected that when colder weather
comes the robin will join others and journey
to the South, but it would not be strange
if the bird is found back at the hotel next
spring.

Patriotic and Suggestive

Here is a letter to the secretary of the
R. S. P. C. A. in Australia: “I am an old
manand the authorities say I must go into
one of the Government homes. I have a
faithful dog and I cannot take him with me
to the home. Will you look after him, as
I cannot bear the idea of his being out-
cast or destroyed? I have only my pension
and I will send you regularly each fort-
that dog is
also at the Dogs’ Home in the “Faithful
Friends” Section.

The “Faithful Friends” Section! What
a splendid idea for someone to become im-
mortal, all for the sum of £100. To set
four kennels aside for the purpose of the
“Faithful Friends,” as described above.

A Freak of Nature

A Michigan paper, the Petoskey Evening
News, has a photograph of a young eagle,
found in a six-foot nest built on the ground.
Naturalists say it is the ﬁrst case of its
kind known. Such nests have always been
found in the top of tall trees. The'photo-
graph was taken by the Michigan Depart-
ment of Conservation.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’76

 

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARTY—

 

WILD ANIMALS, compiled by Frances E.
Clarke.

These twenty-ﬁve “great wild animal
stories of our day” have been carefully
chosen by Miss Frances E. Clarke whose
anthologies of great cat stories and of
great dog stories are already known to our
readers. The publishers think that the new
volume is the ﬁnest of the series. Certainly
it covers a wide range of animal subjects
from the skunk and the fox to the circus
lion and the elephant.

Many distinguished writers are repre-
sented, including William Beebe, James
Oliver Curwood, Laurence Housman, “Bill
Nye,” Grey Owl, and Dallas Lore Sharp.
Other contributors, with their subjects, are
William Henry Carr, the beaver; W. B.
Conger, the cougar; Courtney Ryley
Cooper, the circus lion; Jay Norwood Dar—
ling, who deals with the conservation of
wild life; Alan Devoe, the mole; Hal G.
Evarts, the koala; Kenneth Gilbert, the
skunk and the grizzly; Madelon Lulofs, the
giant ape; George Manning-Sanders, the
fox; Edison Marshall, the elephant; Laura
Spencer Porter, the monkey; Edward A.
Preble, who writes on our disappearing fur
bearers; Archibald Rutledge, who testiﬁes
to the courage of wild animals and birds;
Herbert Ravenel Sass, who gives intimate
glimpses of a possum and other animals;
F. W. Schmoe and Samuel Scoville, Jr.,
who write on the black bear; Myron M.
Stearns, the coyote; and Calvin W. Walker,
the raccoon.

Here is an array of animal lore and
story, the best to be found anywhere, that
will appeal strongly to all lovers of the
wild.

335 pp. $2.50. The Macmillan Company,
New York.

We have received from William Bacon
Evans of Moorestown, New Jersey, a copy
of “Chorus of Bird Voices, Sonnets, Battle-
dore, Unconventional Verse,” etc. It con—
sists of 95 pages, including three pages of
notes, and is bound in paper covers. Many
of these verses have appeared in The
Friend, Philadelphia. The price is 25 cents,
and copies may be obtained from the auth-
or, at the above address, or from Friends
Book Store, 302 Arch Street, Philadelphia.

Helps Hummingbird

An Associated Press dispatch from Rock-
port, Mass., published in the New York
Sun, tells of one hummingbird which is
going to ﬂy South in style for the winter.

Lewis F. Whitney, jewelry craftsman,
found the bird last week, starving and
helpless because its beak was stuck shut

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

with road tar. He nursed it back to health
and prepared to let it go to join the south-
ward migration of the birds.

Members of the Salem Audubon Society
cautioned him that the bird would not
make it because the ﬂowers upon which it
subsists are not blooming at this time of
year. So Mr. Whitney intends to take the
bird to New York, put it on a transport
plane and instruct the stewardess to turn
it loose over the, Carolinas.

Field-Mouse

G. CARDINAL LE GROS

Field—mouse in your burrow,
Underneath the furrow
And the sky,

Do you ever wonder,
When my foot like thunder
Passes by,

If the spirit beaming
In your heart is gleaming
In my own?—

If in joy and beauty,
Love and hope and duty,
We are one?

Know that in the True
I am always you,—
You are I,

Field-mouse in your burrow,
Underneath the furrow
And the sky.

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films
for Rent or Sale——

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem
and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts
3. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital,
two reels

Both available in 16 and 35 mm.

Address
SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by it.

 

\

TO OUR F RIEND-S

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals” ; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
In the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
l dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

Nov. 1939

Executing Your Own Will
AN ANNUITY PLAN

You give to either of our two Societies
any sum of money, and it will be used for
the humane objects for which the Society
is chartered.

The Society will pay you semi-annually
during your lifetime a fixed income on the
sum given, depending upon your age at the
time of the gift.

In other words, you receive an assured
income during your lifetime, and thereafter
your gift will be used solely for the charitable
purpose for which you made it.

ADVANTAGES
It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
No waste of your estate by a

will-contest.

CONVENIENCES

An income guaranteed to you during life
by a ﬁnancially sound corporation, the work
of which dates from the year 1868.

Your gift will not be subject to market
fluctuations, or to the necessity of reinvest-
ment at stated or unexpected periods.

Your money, given while you live, can
never be diverted to any other purpose.

The wide ﬁnancial experience and high
standing of the trustees, John R. Macomber,
Chairman of the Board, First Boston Cor-
poration; Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President
and Treasurer of United Shoe Machinery Cor-
poration; and Philip Stockton, Chairman of
Executive Committee, First National Bank of
Boston, to who-m are entrusted the care
and management of our invested funds, are
a guaranty of the security of such an invest-
ment. Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The Societies solicit correspondence upon
this subject and will be glad to furnish all
further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue
oston. ’

Manuscripts should be addressed to th E d'
Longwood Avenue, Boston, e ltor’ 180

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 76
“Billy,” an All-round Dog

EVA BRINKER

AST summer while visiting in the
beautiful Green Mountains of Ver-
mont, I made the acquaintance of “Billy.”

 

“BILLY,” A CANINE PARAGON

You might think by a glance at his picture
that Billy is just an unusually handsome
skye; but you would be far wrong,—Billy
is a half dozen different kinds of dog in
one.

To begin with, Billy is a shepherd dog,—
if not by blood, then by instinct. When the
neighbor’s sheep or cows got loose last
summer and into the ﬁelds of Billy’s owner,
it was only necessary to say, “Cows, Billy!”
and Billy would rush out and chase them
off. He was wise enough not to dash at
them at random; but he would run round
them in a semicircle, barking ﬁercely until
they had gone home through the break in
the fence. Then proud as a peacock, Billy
would return to the house for the praise he
never failed to get. Every one took time
out to tell him what a ﬁne dog he was. And
how he appreciated it!

Next, Billy is a watch dog. Every few
minutes during the afternoon, Billy would
trot down to the road, a distance of 200
feet, and bark furiously. If any one was
thinking of doing harm to this place, he
had better change his mind at once, said
Billy. After this general warning to the
world, he would return and sit down with
an important manner near my feet. Once
he even interrupted a game with his ball to
trot down to the road and give warning. I
called after him as he left, but he only
looked back without altering his course. In
a minute he came back, took the ball in his
mouth and begged me to resume the game.
My hostess tells me Billy always does this
when a woman is alone in the house. A
man, he seems to think, can take care of
himself.

Third, Billy is the ﬁnest playfellow any-
body could imagine. Always ready for a
game and with the keenest sense of fun I
have ever discovered in an animal. He
played several games but his favorite
seemed to be a tug of war with whoever he

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

could inveigle into taking one end of a rope.
He would lay the rope at your feet and
then look up at you with such a good
natured, rollicking, come-and-get-it air that
it was difﬁcult to refuse. In case he couldn’t
ﬁnd any one willing to play, he would play
with himself like a kitten, rolling over and
over and shaking the rope
in his jaws while he growled
in mock ﬁerceness.

Fourth, Billy is a re-
triever. He retrieves his
master’s s l i p p e r s every
evening and lays them at
his master’s feet.

Billy is a nurse in case
of sickness. He’ll forego
games and walks with the
healthy members of the
family to lie all day at the
foot of the bed of an ill
friend. Ordinarily on hear-
ing the words, “Good night,
Billy,” he’ll go to the cellar
door, knowing that this is
his dismissal for the night.
But when he is watching by
the bedside of a sick friend,
he’ll pretend he doesn’t hear
and will stay there all night
unless actually forced to
leave.

Last and best of all,
Billy is a friend, ready to
defend, to help, to do any-
thing for you that any human friend will
do, in so far as his dog nature can under-
stand.

In Memory
NELL GRIFFITH WILSON

Here lies a little dog at rest
Upon a hillside’s gentle slope,
A little dog who shared a part
Of tenderness and love and hope;

A little dog whose span of life

Upon this lovely earth was brief,
And yet whose happy being stirred

A lonely heart to love . . . and grief;

Who asked no more than just to know
A kindly hand and simple fare,

But whose adoring eyes bespoke
Devotion that was deep and rare;

Whose merry antics brought a smile,
And ringing bark would strive to say
The joy he knew in welcoming
His master at the close of day.

Here lies a little dog at rest,

So brief his life, and yet his part
In living was not small, for still

He holds a place in someone’s heart.

A Prayer

However humble the place I may hold
0n the lowly trails I have trod,

There’s a child who bases his faith on me;
There’s a dog who thinks I’m a god.

Lord, keep me worthy—Lord, keep me clean
And fearless and undeﬁled,

Lest I lose caste in the sight of a dog,
And the wide, clear eyes of a child!

C. T. DAVIS in The Family Circle

May, 1939

Pigs Have Sense

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

ROBABLY the most misunderstood

animal in the whole world is the pig.
As soon as his name is mentioned, someone
in any crowd begins to talk about “ﬁlthy
animals” and “nasty, dirty beasts.” It
would surprise some of those people to
know the truth; that the pig is, wherever
possible, a cleanly animal, that left to its
own devices it is the only animal that will
balance its own diet, and that it has real
intelligence.

If pigs are kept in a pig yard of the old-
fashioned type, about ten feet square and
seldom if ever cleaned out, they have no
choice but to be ﬁlthy. No animal could
keep clean under those circumstances,
especially if pails of garbage were dumped
into an inadequate trough in the pen sev—
eral times a day and the left-overs allowed
to decay.

There is a reason for everything a pig
does, which is more than we can say for a
great many human beings. When a pig
plows up a hole in the mud and wallows in
it, that is because it suffers greatly from
the heat, and knows that a mud bath is
cooling. When he squeals just before meal-
time it is because he knows that it is time
to remind his owner of the hour. A mother
pig makes a comfortable nest for her little
ones, using any material at hand, and
carrying it some distance in her mouth.

If you should give a pig ﬁve pounds a
day of each of a hundred different foods,
it would eat just enough of the right ele-
ments to balance its diet, instead of devour-
ing all the sweets or all the starches at
once. N 0 other animal that we know of will
do this.

A mother pig will ﬁght desperately to
defend her young. She has many different
sounds, from the gentle grunt with which
she calls her children to meals to the
startled WHOOF with which she warns
them of danger, and even to an angry snarl-
ing when she is about to attack an enemy.
Her squealing expresses hunger and impa-
tience, or pain.

In the Don Valley, made famous by
Ernest Thompson Seton, just outside To-
ronto, is the well—known Donalda Farms.
Here each pig has a separate tiled pen,
with a cement ﬂoor. It sleeps on a raised
platform, on a truss of clean straw. Run-
ning water constantly circulates through a
trough at one end of the pen. During the
day a radio plays soft music. These pigs
are not only spotlessly clean and absolutely
odorless, but they are contented and healthy.
When they go outside, it is to graze in
broad meadows of clover, amply shaded by
great trees.

If you want to understand pigs, get a
baby one and bring him up on a bottle. In
a few days’ time he will learn to follow you
wherever you go, and will amuse you by
his antics, for he is a clown at heart. After
such an experience you will never again
misunderstand his race.

Leaves are said to sleep at night, and
turn their edges to the moonlight so the
radiation which would otherwise chill them,
does not cause them to die. When the sun
rises, however, the ﬂat surface greets the
warmth.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

GREAT HORNED OWLS

 

F— Birds That Prey by Night

HE great horned or hoot owls, which are

permanent residents of Eastern North
America, bear an unsavory reputation,
especially among poultry and game keepers.
These formidable and rapacious birds have
been called “tigers of the bird world.”
Though digniﬁed and imposing in appear—
ance they are savage and untamable and
very destructive of both bird and animal
life. With their many bad habits, however,
they should not be regarded as wholly un-
worthy of respect. They are omnivorous
consumers of many noxious animals and
insects, including mice and rats. Their
principal prey is the troublesome rodents
that infest the ﬁelds. Let us give them their
just due and not be too hasty in charging
them with upsetting the balance of nature.

Begged for Human Aid

ERNIE C. MATTESON

LIVED for some years in the state of

Washington, where I “proved up” on
some government land. I had a log cabin,
ten miles from the nearest neighbor. In
winter, when snow covered the ground, I
would always scrape clean a patch near the
cabin and scatter wheat, and bread crumbs
for the various sorts of birds. Most vari-
eties would eat, then ﬂy away at once, but
the native pheasants did nothing of the sort.
They’d stay and scratch among the ﬁr and
spruce needles and alder leaves that I had
uncovered until they had found the last
grain or crumb.

There are scarcely any snakes in western
Washington, none except a few garter
snakes and an occasional blacksnake. Last
season, after warm weather came, I discov-
ered that a pheasant had built her nest
within a hundred feet of the cabin, almost
at the verge of a steep canyon. From the
drumming sound of many pheasants I de-
cided several had nested near by. But this
one particular bird had nested closer than
any others. The nest was on the ground,
surrounded by a low wall of sticks and
leaves. She was fairly tame and never

ﬂew away unless I came right up to the
nest, which I seldom did.

One day, while clearing underbrush near
by, I saw the old bird ﬂutter up from her
nest and ﬂy into a cedar tree. Then she
saw me and, without any hesitation, ﬂew
and lighted within two feet of me. She was
giving her cry of distress all this time,
“Pree, pree, pree.” She ﬂuttered back
toward the nest, turning her head continu-
ally to see if I were following. I followed
right behind her and when she got near the
nest again she ﬂew onto a cedar branch,
still giving her distress calls. I peeped into
the brush and the nest and saw a big black
snake just beginning to swallow a small,
downy ball of feathers, for the eggs had
begun to hatch.

I grabbed the reptile by the tail and
swung him into the narrow gulch, from
which Iknew he would not get back to the
nest. The old pheasant returned to the nest
very cautiously, “peeping” anxiously to her
little birds. Soon I could hear her con—
tented “Chitter, chitter, chitter.” A few
days later I saw her, with ten baby birds,
scratching in the leaves. It certainly was a
case of intelligence on the part of a wild
thing that needed human aid.

To a Baby Grebe

THEODORA BATES COGSWELL

Little living periscope,
Across a stirless lake
You came—just neck and head—that left
A lovely rippling wake.
Suddenly you dived—again
The silver pool grew still
Until you rose, ten yards away,
When you had caught your ﬁll.

Thus it was I saw you pass
Full three long years ago;

And oft and oft I’ve looked in vain
To. see more ripples flow.

The quiet lake reflects the sky—
I ts surface shows no track.

0 little grebe, now grown and wise,
Come—with your babies—back.

Feb. 1939

“As Black as a Crow”

ALETHA M. BONNER

HE crow is considered an undesirable

neighbor in most agricultural com-
munities, and the phrase “As black as a
crow” is not only applied to his dress, but
to his character, as well.

In reality, though, this bird of the sable
suit is not as black as he is painted. True,
farmers charge him with pulling up sprout-
ing corn, pecking holes in their melons and
other mischievous and destructive deeds,
but they lose sight of the bird’s service-
able work of following in the wake of the
plowman’s furrows, and picking out from
the fresh, upturned sod legions of worms,
ﬁeld mice, larvae and the like, which if not
destroyed would in time damage the grow-
ing crop.

One should not forget the millions of
ﬂies, spiders, caterpillars, grasshoppers and
grubs, not to overlook weed-seed, all of
which go to make up the bird’s menu. The
cawing fellow really might be given the
sobriquet of “G-man” (or “G-bird”), be-
cause of his untiring work of helping to
rid the ﬁeld, orchard, and garden world of
the ever-increasing insect menace.

It is a regrettable fact, however, that
this useful bird, who does his part in keep-
ing the insect—public—enemies under control,
has so many hands turned against him. No
county, state, or Federal law protects him,
and in certain communities a reward is
offered for his head.

Because of this unfriendly, human atti-
tude, the crow has ever been forced to
wage a battle for existence; but such is his
shrewdness his struggle for life has ever
proved successful. It is his sagacity that
once caused Henry Ward Beecher, of pul-
pit fame, to remark that “if men wore
feathers and wings, very few of them
would be clever enough to be crows!” An-
other oft—quoted statement of compliment-
ary trend deals with the swift and direct
ﬂight of the strong-winged bird, “As
straight as a crow ﬂies.”

Knowing no fear, the birds seek promi—
nent perches, preferring the upper branches
of a tree to the lower. Here in the tree-
tops they build their nest—a roughly con-
structed abode on the outside, where may
be found from four to six greenish-blue
eggs with markings of brown and, later,
the gawky offspring.

The young crows are very mischievous.
They are fond of gay colors, and if a bright
bit of glass, or a red button takes their
fancy, they in turn take the trinket, what-
ever it is, hiding it away in a tree nook,
or even burying it as a dog does a bone.
They are great mimics, and this fact doubt-
less gave rise to the old belief that if a
crow’s tongue is split, it will talk. Such a
cruel practice is entirely wrong and un-
successful. It should be discountenanced.

“The Rev. I. K. Baker has bagged a
rabbit each day without leaving his back
porch. Shot-gun in hand, he seats himself
in a comfortable chair after breakfast and
waits. Invariably, he says, a rabbit comes
within range.”—Associated Press despatch
from Winﬁeld, Penn.

This minister must have a busy parish!

J. H. H. in Unity

 

 




 

A DECEMBER 1939

DUMB k

 

Z
Z
>
t—ﬁ
m

 

 

 

: CHRISTMAS AT ANGELLV MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL, BOSTON

HE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
cf FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY

 

TO ANIMALS g THE AMERICAN
‘é‘g’ HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS Apr.1939

 

 

 

 

 

 

that he looks forward “with keenest antici-
pation to the day when we will see every
saddle-horse class in the country ﬁlled with
horses carrying natural tails. Then we may
have the satisfaction of knowing that not
one of those brilliant, sensitive satellites
of the show world will leave the ring to
ﬁnd waiting in its stall harness resembling
some device of the Spanish Inquisition.”

We were fortunate in Massachusetts to
secure the ﬁrst law making it illegal to
perform this act or to show a horse upon
which the operation was made after the law
went into effect. A somewhat similar law
exists in New York State, and the attitude
taken by this most reputable horse paper,
The Spur, seems to promise a reopening of
the subject which, Heaven grant, will ulti-
mately mean the end of this cruel, sense-
less, unnatural practice.

On this page we show tWo pictures—one
of a horse as Nature made him, and the
other of a horse subjected to the demands
of a cruel fashion.

A Square Deal for Animals
HARLAND E. FITCH

AVE COLVILLE’S life was dominated

by his love for horses. So far as any-
one knows that was the only love in his life.
With hard-earned money he put more, than
two thousand copies of that matchless
story, “Black Beauty,” into the public
schools, hoping to implant in the hearts of
the young a great love and kindness toward
animals.

Dave satisﬁed his boyhood dream by rais-
ing horses all his life and in his later years
he owned a large ranch and hundreds of
horses in Alberta. He could not bear to see
a horse suffer abuse of any kind and would
rather let his stock run wild on the range
and bring him no proﬁt than sell them to
anyone who would misuse them.

It is well nigh impossible to break range
horses without some rough handling but
Dave had spent his life thinking out ways
to accomplish that end without hurting
them. He had a complicated apparatus for
throwing a horse that would let him down
easy. He had springs on the ends of the
traces to take the jar off the shoulders. He
used patent adjustable collars, comfortable
bits and every new device that was de-
signed to make a horse’s labor easier.

 

 

LOOK HERE ON THIS PICTURE——

Branding was an evil he could not avoid,
but he used a simple iron that would make
the least burn.

He deplored the terriﬁc strain a fear-
crazed animal undergoes in trying to dis—
lodge his rider, and would not keep a hired
man who would make a horse buck or allow
him to do so if it could be prevented. Usu-
ally a wild horse is made to buck until he
is completely exhausted when he will soon
surrender, but Dave had a different sys-
tem. As soon as the mount began bucking
he would distract his attention and the ani-
mal would soon quiet down. It took more
time but in the end kindness won.

He had a big gentle horse he used to
break colts with. Every colt when a year
and a half old was hitched to a wagon with
“Old Prince” and driven half an hour,
Prince, of course, pulling the load. The
colt was then turned back on the range and
though he might not be handled again until
four years old he never quite forgot that
ﬁrst lesson and could be broken with less
violence.

Dave was always a light sleeper. On one
occasion he wakened at three o’clock and
glancing out of the window saw the sky
lighted up by a prairie ﬁre, and on a hill,
standing out in bold relief against the red
glare, was a mare with a young colt. In
front of them was a wire fence and behind
them a wall of ﬁre. His ranch was in grave
danger but he rescued the animals ﬁrst and
then back-ﬁred in time to save his buildings.

After suffering the ravages of pneumonia
one winter Dave was compelled to seek a
warmer climate. He sold his ranch and all
his horses save Old Prince, who had helped
him break seven hundred ambitious colts
and was now seventeen years old. Prince
must have a good home but no one should
have him for a price. He offered to give
him to someone who would agree not to
work him hard, but the settlers had too
much hard work to take him on such terms.
Finally he found a man who was naturally
so slow and easy—going that he never worked
his own stock strenuously and there Prince
found a home.

Dave located in ‘the heart of Old Mexico
and was soon gathering livestock about him
again when he suddenly disappeared, sup-
posedly at the hands of Mexican bandits.
His fate remains a mystery but many a
horse will know better treatment because
of the inﬂuence of the books he put in the
public schools.

 

 

AND ON THIS

The Single-footer
K A D R A M A Y S I

A singlefoot is the gayest gait
That ever a horse can do.

It is made for ways where dogwood sprays
Are white and violets blue;

It is meant for spring, with its rippling ring
0f hooves like a dancer’s shoe.

A trot is well for park parade
And a canter for road or row,

And pace and rack for the tanbark track
When the gaited classes show;

But, a single’s gay for a woodland way
Where the wild azaleas grow.

A gallop is sweet for the open ﬁeld
When dawn is cold with dew;

And rack and pace and trot have place—
But I learned, when I rode with you,

That a singlefoot is the gayest gait
That ever a horse can do!

Sanctuary for the Burro
C. .A. SCHEINERT

What would the old-time prospector have
done without his faithful burro? He went
where a horse could not travel, withstood
untold hardships, did his best always, and
had a big part in the upbuilding of the
West. On the Mexican border I have known
burros to sell for-as little as 25 cents,
“American.” A fair price on the desert
seems to be two dollars.

Although many are still working steadily
where automobiles and airplanes cannot
supplant them, the burro seems to have had
his “day.” As need for them ceased many
were turned loose, given their freedom in
the desert and mountains. Forming into
bands,.they reverted to the primitive, be-
came “wild.” In Arizona men have hunted
them down for their meat, wreaking such
havoc with the wild bands that the peOple
protested and the State legislature ﬁnally
passed a law forbidding this hunting, giv-
ing the burros the protection of the state.

The movement to give burros sanctuary
is spreading, and the California, Colorado,
New Mexico and Texas legislatures have
or have had recently similar bills under
consideration, giving protection to this
worthy pioneer and trusted comrade of the
old-timers. Hunters had better not mistake
a burro for a mule-deer!

 




 

 

 

 

Page 8

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRII..L, Assistant

 

JANUARY, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Annual Slaughter of
Deer '

HE Philadelphia Inquirer of Sunday,

December 4, contains a two-column
article of vigorous protest against the an-
nual slaughter of deer, under the heading
“Pennsylvania Red with Blood of Slaugh-
tered Does.” It seems this year it was un-
lawful in Pennsylvania to shoot at. buck
old enoughto grow a distinguishable spike,
but does and fawns could be shot without
limit. The State Game Commission said
that this was permitted to cut down the
female population in the deer herd. C. W.
Bickford, of Osceola Mills, in Clearﬁeld
County, wrote, saying:

“If the people as a whole knew the
conditions existing in our woods this
week they would, or should, I think,
rise up in wrath and arrest the game
commissioners for cruelty to animals.

“Within three miles from where this
is written are hundreds of young spike
deer lying with broken legs or wounded,
left to die of hunger during the com-
ing week.

“This is nothing but a ruthless
slaughter by boys with guns too small
to kill but sufﬁcient to injure, and
others with arms of any sort who shoot
at any living thing they come across.”
“This condition,” the article in the In-

quirer says, “was not peculiar to Clearﬁeld
County but obtained in every county of the
state where deer abound.”

Year by year this horrible slaughter goes
on all over the country. How far the deer
in a state may multiply to an extent that
the food possibly needed by them may be
short enough to cause a serious deteriora—
tion in the well-being of the entire herd,
probably no one could say exactly. And
another question is raised concerning the
damage done to crops, gardens and or-
chards by deer. There have been cases in
Massachusetts where claims have been put
in by farmers demanding compensation for
their losses, which have appeared anything
but reasonable. There are multitudes of
lovers of the country’s wild life that, for
the sake of the unfortunate deer, would
Wlsll they were all mercifully exterminated.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Without Chart or Compass

HIS is the title of an exceedingly inter-

esting article in National Nature News
with regard to the homing pigeon. For
many centuries this wonderful bird has
been carrying messages for man back and
forth, even being used in the ancient days
when the Greeks employed it to carry mes—
sages back to those unable to attend the
Olympic races. The names of the victors
were sent by air-mail-bird postmen who
rarely ever were late and failed only when
overtaken by death or storm. Yet that
mysterious sense that enables this bird to
return to its base of departure still bafﬂes
man.

The article tells us that in recent years
the ﬂight abilities of the homing pigeon
have been carefully recorded. In August,
1931, a homing pigeon took off from Arras,
France, to ﬁnd its way back to Saigon,
Indo-China, a distance of 7,200 miles, the
longest ﬂight by one of these birds known.
It seems they do not always ﬂy in a bee-
line, though they know the shortest and
easiest routes and take them when possible,
they detour when storms or fogs are
present.

That they are not dependent upon sign-
posts or lights or landmarks to guide them
is evidenced by the fact that even when
blindfolded they reach their destination.
One theory is, so the article says, that the
homing pigeon orients itself with the
earth’s magnetic ﬁeld. This has some
foundation in fact because homing pigeons
seem to be greatly confused when they
come in touch with the electro-magnetic
radiations of a broadcasting station. Tests
have been made on several occasions with
birds that have been thrown off their course
by a busy station, then taken to this same
station and released when it was still. At
this time the birds took off normally.

The Insect Glee Club at the
Microphone

A fascinating article appears in the De-
cember issue of Natural History under the
above title. It is the study of crickets and
the “songs” they sing. The article begins
with the following paragraph:

“Before ever birds sang, possibly insects
had developed noise-making mechanisms.
Indeed, the friction of cricket wings and
those of allied species probably sent the
ﬁrst land-animal sound waves vibrating
over this earth. Today man’s magic record-
ing devices enable him to study the ‘songs’
of these primordial musicians, many of
which range beyond the limits of the stand-
ard piano or the skill of the nimblest ﬁn-
gered violinist.”

The article also says, “the celebrated
European cricket on the hearth now occurs
in many American homes, sometimes un-
welcome in spite of the tradition that ‘to
have a cricket on the hearth is the luckiest
thing in all the world; it’s sure to bring
good fortune.’ Perhaps the catch is that
most American homes have no hearth.”

Our own famous katy-did (or katy-

didn’t) belongs, of course, to the cricket
family.

Jan. 1939

Gunpowder and Airplane

T has been said that the invention of the

airplane as an instrument of war is as
startling an invention as the use of gun-
powder. “At one stroke,” says a recent
writer, “the best army in Europe, the
French, and the greatest ﬂeet in the world,
the English, was rendered of no effect by
the might or even mere menace of the Ger-
man air-force.”

A distinguished student of the air-forces
of the world has said that the plane will
outlaw war. It may be true that the fright-
ful horrors that could be inﬂicted upon non-
combatants by bombing planes, crossing
indefensible frontiers, wrecking great cit-
ies, destroying millions of innocent and
helpless men, women and children, will
strike the nations of the world as so appall-
ing that their use for purposes of war will
be forbidden by the protesting voice of
humanity.

The Situation in Italy

A letter has just come to us from one
thoroughly informed with regard to the
situation in Italy, that there is “no foun-
dation for the statement that the Italian
Humane Societies have been or will be
nationalized; that no new laws for the
protection of animals have been passed in
Italy during the last 25 years, although the
Penal Code of 1931 increased the ﬁne for
cruelty as well as the penalties for all other
offenses.”

“There is no law regarding humane edu—
cation. It is true that the Ministry of
Education issued circulars ordering that
kindness to animals should be taught, but
this instruction was limited to a single
essay set by the teachers in what we would
call the fourth and ﬁfth grades. The So-
cieties of Turin and Lucca have annual
prize essay competitions in their element-
ary schools. None are held in Rome. The
Naples Society has an essay competition in
one school in turn each year, the prizes
being given only to children whose fathers
belong to the Fascist'party.”

Five Fine Girls

According to a story in the Boston Globe,
ﬁve ﬁne young girls (we are sure they
must be ﬁne young girls), attending the
Howard Seminary in Bridgewater, Massa-
chusetts, out for a walk some days ago,
discovered an unfortunate kitten whose
four feet, so the story says, were frozen
solidly to the stone, and which was hanging
helplessly to a stone bridge. Finding they
could not themselves rescue the kitten they
called the ﬁre department who lowered a
ladder and,_'with the aid of the girls and
cloths wrung out of hot water, were able to
release the kitten.

The newspaper reports that the head-
master penalized them for their act proved,
upon investigation, to be anything but the
truth. It was learned that he was in entire
sympathy with the ﬁne act of the girls in
rescuing the kitten. The medal of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. was presented by
the President of the Society to each of the
ﬁve girls before the entire school, on De-

cember 15. ‘

 




 

Apr. 1989

Reverie
RUTH STIRLING BAUER

Wouldn’t the ﬁelds seem lonely
If through the grasses sweet

N 0 wild things went exploring
0n tiny silent feet?

Wouldn’t the wood be silent

If we walked and never heard
The rustle of the branches,

The singing of a bird?

Wouldn’t the hills and valleys
Be somehow cold and bare
Without the flowers growing
And cattle grazing there?

Wouldn’t the world be empty
If we should stand and call
And there should be no answer
From creature great or small?

Safety in Colors
MILDRED D. CREHAN

ATURE dipped her paint brush into

pots of brilliant color when she painted
the ﬁre-bellied toad, the blister beetle, the
robin, the rainbow ﬁsh and many other
creatures. Their exciting colors may or
may not be responsible, but most highly-
colored creatures are an unsatisfactory
source of food. They are quite distasteful,
even to animals. Instead of “safety in
numbers,” their motto seems to be Safety
in Colors.

A bright scarlet waistcoat was Nature’s
gift to the ﬁre-bellied toad. The little fel-
low is so unpalatable no animal will attempt
to eat him if the creature is aware that
his prospective meal is a ﬁre-bellied toad.
The smart toad seems to realize that his
ﬂaming vest is an asset and if he ﬁnds him-
self in danger, he bends his head and the
rear part of his body as far back as pos-
sible, displaying his scarlet costume. He
even twists his arms and legs so that the
under parts of each are visible because
they, too, are crimson in color. He doesn’t
move or try to hop away, he merely relies
upon his ﬂame-colored vestments to dis-
courage his foes.

Blister beetles and robins are brightly-
colored creatures that are seldom, if ever,
captured for the sake of providing an
appetizing meal for another hungry animal.

The tiny rainbow ﬁsh is a creature of
dazzling colors, but quite unﬁt for human
consumption. The rainbow has formed a
queer alliance with the sea anemone. The
anemone is as ugly as the rainbow ﬁsh is
beautiful. He resembles a large burlap bag
with a huge, gaping mouth. When the tiny
rainbow attracts the attention of another
ﬁsh, the cunning creature darts quickly into
the anemone’s huge mouth. The unwary
pursuer follows and Mr. Anemone has an
appetizing ﬁsh supper. The little rainbow
is never damaged by his encounter with the
cavernous interior of the anemone and when
there is no longer any danger, he comes out
of his hiding-place and sets out to lure
another tempting morsel to his friend, the
anemone.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Pity the Poor Possum

LEE G. CRUTCHFIELD, JR.

F all the nocturnal wanderers of the
woods of this country, there- is one who
for his quaintness of habit and inoffensive—
ness of disposition deserves particular men-
tion. Call him Opossum, if you want to be
absolutely, inescapably correct, with no
chance of having the charge of inaccuracy
hurled at you, or just plain possum if you
live down in Dixie. But he’s the same crea—
ture with or without.
He has none of the churlishness of the

he likes to travel around the persimmon
trees. He climbs up into the tree and eats
his ﬁll. And now men with big dogs come
looking for him. Sometimes he can get
down and hide in a hollow in a huge oak tree
or in the roots under a giant pine. Then,
sometimes, he is safe. Sometimes, though,
men come with huge axes and chop his tree
down, or dig him out from under his pine
roots with picks and shovels, and carry
him home. Sometimes the dogs get him,

skunk, or the bloodthirstiness of the weasel. and then he is unlucky indeed. But if the

 

ON HER BACK

He is more on the order of the coon. In
fact, he is like lots of animals. He favors
a pig, with his long snout. And he is like a
kangaroo. At any rate, the mother opos-
sum carries her young in a pouch, just
like the mother kangaroo carries her young-
sters. That is” until they are too large for
the pocketbook. Then they like to ride on
her back, like so many furry little hitch-
hikers thumbing their way down the 'road.
The mother doesn’t seem to mind, but goes
about her foraging with renewed energy,
now that she has trailers to supply food to.

All of us have heard the expression
“playing possum,” and that’s what this
smart little animal does at times. He
knows he cannot run as fast as a big dog,
for example, or ﬁght as ﬁercely as a cat; or
burrow in the ground like a mole. So what
does he do? When he is in danger, he lies
low, and says nothing. He has found out
that sometimes when people see how still
he lies, and how quiet he is, they may take
their eyes off for a moment. And then is
when he will come to life. Then he will
roll over, look around, and scuttle away into
the undergrowth.

When the frost comes in the autumn, and
all the grasshoppers and crickets are gone,

 

MOTHER OPOSSUM WITH FOUR OF HER YOUNG HITCH-HIKERS
(Taken in North Carolina)

men catch him, he is always on the look—
out for the time when they are watching
something else, so he can sneak away. Too
bad, though, if he is caught near a cabin.
Then he is likely to end up on the table,
roasted. He makes a rich, if rather fat
meal.

He’s known all through the South, in
song and story, in Virginia, Carolina,
Georgia, all over the place, near cities, near
towns in thickly populated farming sections.
In winter, he likes to curl up in a hollow
tree well upholstered with dried leaves,
and sleep during the day. Sometimes at
night he will roll out and go hunting food.

How much better it would be if we could
let this funny little fellow with his happy,
foolish grin; his funny habit of playing
dead; his trick of riding his children on his
back, or having Mamma carry them in her
pocket; who never does any harm to us; go
on about his nightly rambles without chas—
ing him with big bellowing hounds, and
serving him up all garnished with sweet
potatoes! How much more fun we would
have if we went after him with a camera,
loaded with ﬁlms, instead of a gun loaded
with shot! For he is a comical little
clown r‘1" the woods and. like all clowns, he
is much more amusing alive than dead!

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1939

   

  
      
      

I

. o
M\\\
i

q
es,
, . «Q
4/ \‘ﬂ

1 /5

xx. 5

§
: i?

    

7
AAA

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulance) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND

HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex

FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters Maintained by

assachusetts S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue

Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue

Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville

Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MIss JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres. ; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,901
Cases investigated ............... 396
Animals examined ............... 4,348
Animals placed in homes ......... 188
Lost animals restored to owners. . 70
Number of prosecutions .......... 4
Number of convictions ............ 4
Horses taken from work ........... 6
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 41

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,653

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 53,168
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 29

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

 

‘ Veterinarians
l
|

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

0'90me
bowwmq

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
1 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
\ A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
Including Springfield Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 895 Cases 2,629
Dogs 697 Dogs 2,264
Cats 188 Cats 335
Birds 5 Birds 22
Horses 4 Horses 2
Monkey 1 Rabbits 2

Silver Fox 1

Goat 1

Squirrel 1

Monkey 1
Operations 935

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

 

.1, 1915 ...................... 166,424
Dispensary cases ............... 413,794
Total .............. 580,218

The Month in the Springfield Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ......... 148
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 508
Operations ....................... 200

The California Pound Act

The humane organizations of Califor-
nia put up a splendid campaign in be-
half of what is known as the State Humane
Pound Act, its purpose being “to regulate
the conduct of pounds, prohibit the sur-
render of unclaimed dogs and cats by
pounds to research or commercial labora-
tories, and provide a humane death if no
bona ﬁde home is offered.”

The Bill did not “prohibit any accredited
college, university or medical research
laboratory from using for experimental or
commercial purposes animals bred in its
own kennels, or obtained otherwise except
from pounds.” One of its purposes was “to
correct deplorable conditions in pounds; to
prevent lost or strayed household pets in
pounds from being turned over to labora-
tories for experimental purposes, whether
sold or given away.”

The Act was “patterned after. the Pound
Ordinance of San Francisco, which has
been in effect since September 27, 1932. A
similar ordinance is in effect in San Diego.”
The Act also provided “that humane meth-
ods be used by pound-masters in the cap-
ture and care of animals; that no animal be
destroyed before 72 hours, and that every
effort be made to locate the owner.”

The Act was lost by a vote of 331,887.

 

 

Page 9

Our Branch Auxiliaries

1. Winchester

HE Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals is fortunate in having
had organized, in different parts of the
state, Branch Auxiliaries which are giving

 

MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR

President, Winchester Branch Auxiliary
to Mass. S. P. C. A.

very effective aid to the parent society and
also to local humane interests.

The ﬁrst of these was the Winchester
Branch, organized through the efforts Of
Mrs. Richard S. Taylor at her home on
Mount Vernon Street, on October 22, 1930.
This ardent worker rallied a small but very
enthusiastic group who carried on so suc-
cessfully that, in addition to furnishing
hospital supplies during the early years,
became so interested in the local situation
that they were able to open an animal
shelter last April.

Each year the Winchester Branch holds
a fair, which is generously patronized.
Through this and other sales and member-
ship fees the Branch has been able to raise
sufficient funds to make the new shelter
self-supporting. It has enlisted the public
schools in a liberal program of humane
education. In its practical work it receives
the full co-operation of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A.

From the start the president of the Win—
chester Branch has been Mrs. Taylor, than
whom no more enthusiastic or conscientious
humane worker can be found anywhere.
The Branch is to be congratulated upon
having such a capable and efﬁcient woman
at its head.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty—five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.




 

Feb. 1939

Boys and Air Rifles

L. D. CHAPMAN

HILE. our lawmakers concern them-
selves with trying to hatch up some
new law to put on the statute books, I
wonder if any of them have ever given a
moment’s thought to the damage that
thoughtless boys can do to our songbirds.

When a boy starts out, armed with an
air riﬂe, and considering every living thing
his lawful prey, he can work more havoc
among our songbirds, than all of the stray
cats in the community. The boy has all the
advantages, for where the cat must get hold
of the bird, and that is usually hard to do,
the boy can reach out from a distance of
ﬁfty feet or more, and kill, cripple, or
frighten every bird out of the neighborhood.

It is hard to believe that every boy is
naturally cruel. They simply don’t realize
the pain and misery they are causing among
our wild life, and I am sure that most boys,
once they were shown the cruelty of shoot-
ing at every living thing that comes within
their range of vision, would join us whole—
heartedly in trying to correct the great
mistake.

All summer I have had birds of a dozen
varieties, who were regular visitors each
day. A few bread crumbs or a little grain,
scattered each morning, has insured me
plenty of guests. About a month ago, I
noticed there was a sudden thinning out
among my little friends. At ﬁrst I was at
loss for a reason for this sudden abandon-
ment. I watched them closely for a few
days and one afternoon I discovered the
cause.

There were a dozen or more birds feeding
peacefully, when suddenly a couple of boys
with air riﬂes, appeared on the scene.
“Sping, Sping,” spoke the guns; a sparrow
and a starling lay dead on the ground.

Before the boys had a chance to do any
more damage, I was outside. They started
to run, but I called them back. For half an
hour, I reasoned with them and explained
the cruelty they had done. Before I was
through, each boy had begun to realize the
gravity of the offense and promised faith—
fully that he would not shoot any more and
would talk to the other boys in the neigh-
borhood about it.

There has been no more shooting among
my little friends and I again have plenty of
regular visitors. Those boys were not natu-
rally cruel. They simply had never been
taught to respect the rights of our little
wild friends, but once they realized that
they have as much right to live as we have,
they were more than willing to co-operate
in giving them a chance to live.

Protection of wild life should be taught
in every school in the country, and I believe
that it would go a long way toward curbing
much of the youthful crime that we now
have.

It is only reasonable to assume that a
boy who has been taught to respect the
rights of animals and birds will likewise
respect the rights of the public.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Islands of ‘ ‘Wideawakes”

Strange Bird Colonies of the South Paciﬁc
EWE N K. PATTERSON

MONG the most remarkable sights to

be seen in the South Paciﬁc Ocean are
scores of small sandy islands, off the coast
of North Queensland, Australia, that are
the homes of countless millions of sooty
terns (or “wideawakes,” as they are popu—
larly termed).

The islands are uninhabited except for
the birds, and, in most cases, they are so
teeming with birds that it is almost im-
possible to walk on them without stepping
on a bird or nest of eggs.

As the islands are approached they
appear to have ﬂoating above them dark
clouds, which are continually moving and
changing shape. These clouds ultimately
resolve themselves in wheeling, soaring
masses of sooty terns—millions of the birds,
and their incessant cries, heard half a mile
away as a shrill murmur, become a deafen—
ing, ear-splitting clamor as the islands are
reached.

The popular name of the sooty terns,
“wideawakes,” is very appropriate, for the
birds never appear to sleep. Night and day,
without cessation, they keep up an awful
din. Nevertheless, they are beautiful birds,
and on their island homes, which are rarely
visited by man, they have absolutely no
sense of fear of visitors; they can be
handled and carried about without the least
resistance. Sometimes, however, a nesting
bird may become indignant when a visitor
strays too close and she shows her annoy-
ance with a stab of her sharp beak.

On the islands the birds invariably lay
their eggs haphazard on the surface of the
sand without even a pretense of a nest (as
shown in the accompanying photograph),
although occasionally a nest may be
scratched together out of a few fronds of
sea-weed.

The birds nest very closely together, and
it is amazing how they ever manage to ﬁnd
their way back to their right nest, once they
have left it. The male and female take
turns to keep the eggs warm until they
incubate, and then they both set to work
to ﬁsh and feed the ungainly, downy nest-
lings that hatch out.

Although other birds occasionally land on
these islands of “wideawakes,” the terns
do not seem to appreciate such visitors for

 

A PAIR OF SOOTY TERNS (“WIDEAWAKES”) AND THEIR EGGS ON AN

Page 29

very rarely do the intruders stay long on
the islands.

The terns nest throughout the summer
months, and when about six weeks old the
baby birds shed their downy coat and don,
the beautiful black and white attire of their
parents.

Birds and the Emotions

ANN C. MORITIS

We read and hear considerable of the
economic value of birds to man—and not
enough, it may be said. But one aspect not
often stressed is their esthetic or emotional
contribution to our well-being. Apart from
their dollar value, I suspect that many of
us would ﬁnd the world a bit more dreary,
more cruel to our ragged spirits without
the joyous. presence of the songsters.

Most of our enjoyments are made up of
sights and sounds. It is a hardened heart
which cannot or will not respond to these
stimuli offered by birds. Their wonderful
forms, colors, and movements are worthy of
study and appreciation. It will return divi-
dends a thousandfold. They will set the
spine atingle, as, for instance, a ﬂock of
sea gulls soaring and wheeling in martial
array through the golden sunshine, above
the limpid blue of bay or harbor. Or the»
friendly little chickadees, adding cheer to
the gloomy winter landscape, will creep into
your heart and send up little bubbles of
delight to ﬁnd vent in moistened eyes. And
on a quiet summer day, when woods and
meadows ring joyously with the song of
bobolink or call of jay, then will the human
heart be warm and happy and serene, at.
peace with God and man. It is my opinion
that these values rather than economic con—
siderations, eventually prove to be the
world’s motivating power.

Blended Beauty

THEODORA BATES COGSWELL

Pigeon’s neck and graekle’s throat,

Turkey’s tail and rooster’s plume,
Iridescent tints that float

In the peaeoek’s wide-spread bloom—
Hnes which shift, like those that range
Through a sea—Shell’s opal change—-

N ever can man’s art devise

Loneliness so soft as lies
In those heaven-blended dyes!

ISLAND OFF THE COAST OF NORTH QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA

 




 

M ay, 1939

Dictionary Animals
STANLEY STOTZ

N the pages of your dictionary you’ll

ﬁnd pictures and descriptions of many
queer animals, and you have probably won-
dered if they actually existed.

The Aard-vark

The ﬁrst one you’re likely to meet is the
aard-vark whose name is Danish for earth
pig. He lives in Africa and is usually about
ﬁve feet long including his tail. He eats
ants, which he pulls out of ant hills and
holes with his long sticky tongue.

The Aard-wolf

Like the aard-vark, the aard-wolf’s name
is Danish and it means earth wolf. He is
no kin to the aard-vark, but he is closely
related to the hyena which he resembles.
The aard-wolf is a hyena shaped creature
with a striped coat and a small shaggy

mane. He feeds on insects, and is especially
fond of termites.

The Aye-Aye

“Aye, aye,” says the sailor to his superior
ofﬁcer. But in the island of Madagascar,
aye-aye is the name of a queer animal of
the lemur family. He resembles the rat,
but he has larger ears and longer ﬁngers or
toes. He eats about the same things that
rats in this country eat.

The Cameleopard

The cameleopard lives in South Africa,
and his name comes from combining the
words camel and pard or leopard. In fact
he is a vest pocket edition of a giraffe with
a leopard’s body, the spots of a leopard, and
a neck like a small giraffe. His habits are
like those of honest-to-goodness giraffes.

The Catalo

The catalo is one-half America buffalo
and one-half domestic cattle. This animal
was invented by Uncle Sam’s Bureau of
Animal Industry for the purpose of produc-
ing a skin ﬁner than a buffalo hide, and
also to combine the ﬂavor of buffalo meat
with ordinary beef. Perfection has not been
reached, but the government experts are
still experimenting with these animals on
ranches in the western states.

The Zeburro

No, this is not a Frenchman’s attempt to
say “the burro” in English, but the name
of another animal invented by the Bureau
of Animal Industry. He has other names,
too, among them zebra.

The laziness and stubbornness of the
burro was a problem that puzzled the scien-
tists at Uncle Sam’s experimental farms,
until Emperor Menelik of Ethiopia gave
the late President Theodore Roosevelt sev-
eral specimens of the imperial zebra of
Abyssinia. The scientists began to think
that if the speed and intelligence of the
zebra could be combined with the good quali-
ties of the slow but gentle burro of the
southwest, a valuable animal would be ob-
tained. In fact, such an animal was pro-
duced at the governmental experiment
farms. This animal looked like a large
zebra, with beautiful black and white
stripes. However, the zebra’s nasty temper
has gone along with the stubbornness of the
burro. How successful this experiment will
be, is not yet deﬁnitely known.

 

A FRIENDLY FELLOW LOOKING FOR A FRIEND

On Choosing a Dog

0 those who love the race, the purchase

of a new dog is an experience unique
in ﬂavor and substance, writes Frederic F.
Van de Water in his book, “VVe’re Still in
the Country” (New York: John Day). No
other earthly matter quite parallels it. . . .
Buying a pup is at once a gay and fateful
ceremony. You are about to enrich your
life with one thing more to love and laugh
at and learn to understand and cherish.
You are enlarging your heart by adding
still another small pensioner to those al-
ready dependent on its affection and mercy.
Such dilation requires no eﬂ’ort. Instead
you itch to include all the kennel’s wares in
your purchase.

You ﬁnd yourself yearning over each of
the black, rubbery expectants who stare up
at you, prick-eared, through the pens’ wires.
You ﬁnd yourself, also, juggling your
choice. Which pair of eyes beneath shaggy
brows will be destined to watch you all the
rest of their life with bright devotion?
Which of the little tails, now blurred with
action, will vibrate most often hereafter to
the sound of your voice? Which of the
spirits in these odd, low, hammerheaded
containers will weld itself for life’s dura-
tion ﬁrmly to your own?

Existence holds few profounder, more de-
lightful questions. Existence, I know, pre-
sents no other problem that is so certain to
be solved triumphantly. Four times, since
Althea and I were wed, we have picked out
a pup from all its mates. Four times, there-
after, we have praised the good fortune and
the wisdom that enabled us to make so
unerringly correct a choice. Actually, I
question whether either guided us. One of
the joyous things about dogs is the odd fact
that the puppy you buy always proves to be
the very one you wanted above all others.

Animals need a constant supply of water.

Natural Enemies
EMMA GARY WALLACE

HERE are certain animals which do

not feel kindly toward each other. We
cannot always tell just why this is the case.
Perhaps if we could go back far enough to
some time when the world was a lot
younger, we would discover the reason for
this enmity or these hard feelings.

We do know, however, that while dogs
and cats raised together may get along
fairly well, that dogs do love to chase cats
and to frighten them so that the cats will
climb trees to get out of their way. We
know that cats in turn like to chase mice.
Sometimes they make a meal of the little
creatures right away, and at other times
they tease them by pretending they are-
going to let them go.

But we do not all understand that red.
squirrels and gray squirrels, although both
are members of the squirrel family, do not,
get along well together. In fact, a never-
ending struggle for life between the red’
and the gray squirrel goes on.

The red squirrel is a native of Canada.
and our own north woods. During the past.
few years many of the frisky little crea—
tures have found their way into New
England.

This meant that there would scarcely be
nuts enough for both groups, and so the-
grays have moved out in search of food and
great numbers of them have reached New
York State. Probably they will keep on
going West, as the reds follow and maim
and destroy them whenever they can.

These little red squirrels are deliber-
ately ﬁerce and cruel and the warfare,
carried on relentlessly, is putting the grays
to ﬂight with surprising rapidity. This
seems too bad, as, perhaps, in time the
beautiful little gray squirrels will dis-
appear entirely.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1939

Humane Work in India

OMETIME ago in our magazine we had

an article telling what had been done
by the J ains people in India many, many
years ago. We have just received a letter
from the secretary of what is known as
the Animals’ Friends Society at Ludhiana,
(Punjab) India. The letter says:

“The proverbial kindness of India to
her animals is a thing of very ancient
times; that cruelty to children, especi-
ally girls, in many sections of Hindu-
ism, cruelty to women and cruelty to
the so-called untouchables—these all
indicate that the condition of the lower
animals is anything but what \it should
be.”

There was nothing in the article at all
complimentary to humane work being done
in India, for we have always understood
that the need was exceedingly great, and
that innumerable animals suffered from
lack of any popular interest in their un-
fortunate lot. Every friend of animals must
wish for a better day for them in that
Eastern Land.

The End is Not Yet

That the present situation in Europe is
serious we would not deny. But it is not
half as serious as the situation in Europe
when Napoleon was laying the continent at
his feet. There is the famous story of Wil—
liam Pitt, the younger, who, on hearing of
the battle of Austerlitz in 1805, pointed to
a map of Europe on the wall, and said,
“Roll up that map. We shall not need it
for another dozen years.” Pitt soon died,
brokenhearted and in despair, while Na-
poleon rode on from triumph to triumph.
But the scales of destiny were from the
beginning weighted against the French
Emperor, as at this moment they are
weighted against the German Fuehrer. Just
now the skies are dark. Hitler will in all
probability gain a mastery of the European
continent which may match that of his great
predecessor. But that this tyrant can in the
end triumph, or even survive, is as impos-
sible as that gravitation may cease to hold
the stars. Hitler will go the way of all
the bandit-conquerors before him. No power
on earth can, and no power in heaven will,
save him. The only question is how long he
may endure, and by what accident of for-
tune he may fall. Napoleon lasted ten years
after Pitt surrendered. It is conceivable
that Hitler may last longer. But his doom
is already sealed. The tragedy is that the
mills of God grind so slowly, and devour
such myriads of innocent and helpless vic-
tims. The price, 0 Lord! why must such
price be paid? -——Um'ty, Chicago

Animals in the Movies

The employment of animals in motion
picture production is expensive.

Lions cost up to $100 a day; trained
monkeys earn from $50 to $150 a day;
snakes, sharks, camels, giraffe, and zebras
average about $50 daily. Not long ago, a
studio paid $10,000 for one rhinoceros, in-
cluding food, transportation and training.
The rhinoceros’s resale value was only
$5,000.—Exchange.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Kidnapped Fawns Are Not
Happy

DOROTHY HERBST

ACH spring, when city dwellers take
to the woods, ofﬁcials in the states hav-
ing large conservation areas are faced with
the problem of rearing numerous fawns
picked up by well-meaning persons who
would be shocked to hear themselves called

 

“STRANGE-R” AND THE AUTHOR

kidnappers. Yet they actually do steal the
woods babies from their mothers!

Curiosity gets the young animals into
this predicament. If the mother is not close
when the ﬁrst human being is seen by the
fawn, the fearless youngster is apt to follow
the stranger, much as a lost kitten will.
The kindly person, ﬁnding himself so fol-
lowed, is usually tempted to fondle the
fawn. Of course, he does not know that its
mother will not recognize it afterwards, and
that she may even, in her fear of the human
scent, trample her own young to death.

Fawns are affectionate and, once handled,
will continue to follow until it is easy to
believe them orphaned. Since it is unlawful
to take them as one’s own, they usually
wind up in the hands of state ofﬁcials. Most
of the native deer in our zoos arrived there
by this route. When the zoo is full, then
the fawns begin to present a problem. They
cannot be given to the persons who pick
them up as this might encourage an epi-
demic of fawn kidnappings. It is most un-
desirable that they should become the prop-
erty of commercially minded persons who
would use them as tourist attractions. This
would not only be cruel but dangerous to
conservation. A fad for caged fawns might
easily create a market demand.

Although fawns do make adorable pets,
few persons can raise one without penning
it up in quarters that must seem a prison
to any animal accustomed to wander through

 

Page 11

forests. The deer is a browsing animal and
one fawn will make short work of the trees
and shrubs in even a large garden. Nothing
short of a park will stand the strain.
Once they have been taken from their
mothers, they can never be returned to the
wild for that would be a sentence of death.
Only their mothers can give them the edu—

' cation that ﬁts young animals for life in the

woods. How much better then to leave them
where Nature put them!

The fawn in the illustration was picked
up when it was six weeks old. Photo-
graphed on the Courthouse lawn in Boulder,
Colorado, the hungry baby was nervously
divided between the desire to break free of
the ring of human beings and seek the
mother who could satisfy that emptiness,
and the impulse to make friends with the
humans who liked to fondle her ears. Only
with difﬁculty was she kept still enough for
the photographer’s purpose.

Named “Stranger” this young doe was
sadly destined to justify her name. She
loved and lost several masters before she
found one whose cabin was in the woods.
Her appetite for leaves and branches was
the cause of this inability to get perma-
nently settled. Certainly, there was nothing
wrong with her disposition!

Wyoming’s Oldest Army

Horse

Oldest in point of service in the U. S. Army
EDITH P. WALLER

HE following true story was recently

told to me by Captain George Pearson
of Troop E, 115th Cavalry, Wyoming Na—
tional Guard, of a very distinguished horse
that has been in army service for 35 years
and is still going strong. “ ‘Andy’ may be
old but he’s certainly not like the old gray
mare who ‘used to be,’ ” said Captain Pear-
son.

Andy is as ﬁne a horse as can be found
in any Troup of the Wyoming National
Guard, despite the fact that he has seen 35
years of active service in the army, and was
ﬁve years of age when purchased from a
Wyoming rancher by the government for
army service. .

This sorrel veteran saw active serv1ce
during the \Norld War and his record of
actual engagements is now with the war
department in Washington.

I recall during an inspection here in
Cheyenne recently, that Andy was received
by the Colorado National Guard in 1923.
When that unit was mechanized, in 1932, the
old veteran was transferred to Sheridan,
Wyoming, and has been there since that
time. He is still strong and active, and will
continue for at least another year in active
service.

In spite of his advanced age, over 40,
Andy stood up as well as any of the
younger horses in the campaign last sum-
mer, and will undoubtedly see service again
next summer. If Andy can talk he’s prob-
ably telling a score of “rookie” horses about
the swell times he’s had.

Nearly all the creatures that help man
to live better are vegetarians: horses, oxen,
cattle, sheep, elephants, goats, etc. Meat
eaters do not live as long as plant—feeders.
Most of these vegetarians have hooves.

 




  
  
 
  
    
 
    
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
    
 
  

 

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 30

@119 ﬂank! of merry

'DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

merican Humane Education Society w1ll send
tagger? person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
:and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1—
dent who has been duly elected, spemal Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent(i
‘See inside front cover for prlces of literature an
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One thousand one hundred and ﬁfty new
Bands of Mercy were organized during
December. Of these, 555 were in Illinois,
197 in Massachusetts, 142 in Rhode Island,
60 in Florida, 57 in Maine, 52 in Virginia,
37 in South Carolina, 35 in Georgia, seven
in Tennessee, ﬁve in Texas, and one each
in Michigan, Philippine Islands, and British
“Test Indies.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 236,753.

“Honey”
ADA M. MORGAN

NE of Abraham Lincoln’s wonderful
- characteristics was his deep love for
animals. Anything hurt or helpless never
appealed in vain for his sympathy and help,
and it was this trait that won him his dear~
est pet, “Honey.”

Honey was “just a dog” that little Abra-
ham found one day when he was returning
along the forest road that ran the several
miles from the Lincoln’s cabin to the mill.
Abraham was a very young lad at the time,
but it was one of his duties to carry the
corn to the mill to be ground into meal.
On this particular, hot summer day, little
Abraham had a doubly hard job. He had
found a dog with a broken leg—a good-sized
dog which he carried along the road to a
spring where he could attend to its injury.

A neighbor watched the boy, and often
told of how Abraham laid the dog in the
shade of some bushes, then sat down and
held it to his breast and soothed it with
gentle talk, telling it that soon it would be
well because he would ﬁx its hurt.

Then the boy brought the dog a drink
from the spring and began shaping two
splints for the broken leg. As best he could
he straightened the leg and bound the
splints on with soft pawpaw bark and
rawhide.

All the time he was working he talked to
the dog, calling it “Honey” as though it
were a child, and explaining how the injur 7
must be treated. The dog seemed to under-
stand, somehow—at least he knew the boy’s
kind heart and loved him, for he whined
his gratitude and licked the hands that held
him. And when Abraham picked up his
sack of meal to go on home he stooped now
and then, as he walked slowly along, to
stroke the head of the dog that hopped
along on three legs beside him.

Lincoln’s mother helped him nurse his
new pet and when he wanted a name for
it she suggested “Honey” as ﬁtting because
he loved it so much and because that was
the name he used when he comforted it.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Feb. 1939

 

THE STORKS’ FOUNTAIN, COPENHAGEN, DENMARK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All of Abraham’s love and care, however,
could not keep Honey’s leg from being
twisted when it healed. This made the boy
very unhappy for a time, for he thought
Honey would be badly crippled. But soon
he saw that Honey was without pain and
was very active and happy. True, the dog
was ugly, but he was also smart, and he
and his master loved each other.

For years the boy and dog were almost
inseparable companions. Never would Lin-
coln allow anyone to tease or hurt Honey.
He disliked. quarrels but he would ﬁght for
his pet. Later, Honey brought help to his
young master when Lincoln got fastened
between two rocks in a cave. The boy was
very proud of his dog; he hugged Honey
and patted him, and said to a playmate:
“Now, you see, Honey has paid me back for
mending his broken leg.”

Bird Calls as Hobbies

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

One caretaker in a state bird-refuge
claims to know every one of the more than
three hundred bird notes of the winged
friends in his own state. We may not be
able to attain to so many recognitions, yet
what more worthy or more interesting sub-
ject for either child or adult wanting a new
hobby to investigate?

Begin with the most familiar birds.
Chickadee, killdeer, bobwhite, and whip-
poor-will speak their names quite distinctly.
There is the clear whistle of the cardinal,
the rich melody or the startled me-ow of
the catbird; the song of the robin in the
rain or the cry of distress when a cat
appears among its ﬂedglings. Many birds
have more than one vocal utterance, and
each has its own special meaning. Make
note of them as you hear them: and with.
them, if possible, give interpretations.

This is a hobby bound to bring added
pleasure and zest to life. It is inexpensive
and proof of the old song, “There’s music
everywhere.” It brings a clearer interpre-
tation of the lives of the little songsters.

A Charming Fountain
ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

F the numerous charming public foun-

tains which adorn so many squares and
streets in the Old World, there are few
indeed which have a greater appeal or are
more graceful and beautiful than the lovely
Storks’ fountain which stands in the midst
of a busy square on the Storget in Copen-
hagen, a long, narrow, winding thorough-
fare, a sort of gloriﬁed Main street, and
one of the most interesting sights in the
Danish capital.

The Storks’ fountain commemorates noth-
ing and nobody but is just a happy repre—
sentation in stone of a people’s love for
Nature. From the top of the fountain’s
pedestal springs a sheaf of cattails, while
three large, graceful storks with outspread
wings a-ﬂutter poise below. At the base of
the shaft are sculptured more cattails and
various other water grasses, while jolly
looking bullfrogs' sit on the edge of the
large water basin, spouting streams of water
from their wide-open mouths. The entire
fountain and its motif and spirit are utterly
captivating and it is a blessed relief from
the stereotyped in public fountains. Storks,
by the way, are quite common in Denmark.

Many ﬂowers close their petals at night
for two reasons; to prevent the night winds
blowing the pollen away; and to keep out
insects which would prevent pollinization.

Fishes, men and all animals with a spine
also have gill slits. These form the breath-
ing apparatus in the ﬁsh, but in man are
atrophied and useless. Scientists claim we
have something like one hundred and
eighty useleSs gadgets in our bodies, among
which is a single eye set in the middle of
the head; but that this third eye is no
larger than a pea, and is hidden behind the
skull." Is this what is referred to sometimes
as “the mind’s eye?”

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 10

 
 
    

GLORY TQ
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
' CREATURE.

   
  

   

7
9
m

2

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angel] Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duf‘f ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomin, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representatives

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR NOVEMBER, 1938

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 695
Number of addresses made, 331

Number of persons in audiences, 55,297

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

 

FOXHUNTERS’ PHILOSOPHY—A GAR-
LAND FROM FIVE CENTURIES.

This is a satirical anthology of twenty—
four pages, edited by Mr. Bertram Lloyd.
As a collection of pronouncements of fox-
hunting addicts and extollers of that “noble
science” of the chase and kill, it is well
worth a perusal. It represents a new de-
parture in dealing with blood sports, and
it is intimated that similar pamphlets will
be issued in relation to stag and otter
hunting.

Price, 3 pence. National Society for the
Abolition of Cruel Sports, 4 Tavistock
Square, London.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Jan. 1939

 

DOG WAGON AT FEZ FONDOUK

 

In addition to the ambulance for horses and mules, the Fondouk uses a
wagon, of which the above is a picture, to collect unfortunate dogs.

 

The S. P. C. A. in Turkey

LETTER from Mrs. A. W. Manning,

honorary secretary of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals at
Istanbul, Turkey, tells the interesting story
of what has been accomplished since the
founding of: that organization in 1912. Re—
fusing to give herself credit for the remark-
able growth of the work in Turkey, those of
us who know her, know of her untiring
devotion to the cause, and that much is due
her for what has been accomplished.

Since the organizing of the Society, 147,-
093 animals have been cared for. During
1937 alone, more than 15,000 were aided by
the Society, 9,693 have been treated in the
free clinic, 41,590 street dogs have been col-
lected by the Municipality and brought to
the Society. Of these, 3,046 were returned
to their owners who were obliged to pay
the fee of one dollar for the license. Sixty—
siX thousand, seven hundred and seven
stray dogs and cats have been humanely
put to sleep, and each month during the
school year for the past ten years, eight
talks on kindness to animals and how to
care for them have been given in the pri-
mary schools of Istanbul. More than 10,000
leaﬂets about kindness to animals have been
distributed in Turkish schools, besides many
lectures and talks given in the higher
schools and in foreign schools.

Laws for the protection of animals were
given to the students of the police school
and, as these young policemen go out to all
parts of Turkey, one can hardly measure
the good that has been accomplished in that
special ﬁeld of work.

Prizes were offered for the best poster
drawn, with the idea of teaching school
children to be kind to animals. The prize-
winning poster was printed in colors, and
nearly 4,000 distributed among the schools
in Turkey.

Much was done to discourage the trapping
of birds to be sold for food, and more than
2,300 cruel bits and bridles have been taken
from the mouths of horses and oxen, and a
law secured forbidding the use of such cruel
devices.

This is a brief summary of the things
accomplished by this splendid organization.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for October—31 Days

Daily average large animals 54.5
Put to sleep 73 $ 13.84
Transportation 7.42

Daily average dogs 7.6
Forage for same 3.17
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 53.45
Superintendent’s salary 66.80
Veterinaries’ salaries 12.03
Motor ambulance upkeep 6.74
Motor bicycles upkeep 1.20
Sundries 61.39
Actual operating expenses $226.04
Building upkeep (new land) 7.24
$233.28

Entries: 21 horses, 13 mules, 106 donkeys.

Exits: 10 horses, 7 mules, 48 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 224 horses, 93 mules, 165 don-
keys. 3 dogs.

Other Fondouks visited: 70,. all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTE’NDENT’S NOTES: 469 cases investi-
gated, 11,491 animals seen, 1,314 animals treated, 104
animals hospitalized by us from above. 32 Arab bits
and pack-saddles (infected) destroyed, 5 animals
transported in motor ambulance. Sent by Police
Dept. 27.

G. DELON, Superintendent

We Must Be Fair

In the face of what China has been, and
still is, suffering at the hands of Japan, and
what thousands of the citizens of Germany
have been and still are suffering at the
hands of Hitler and his merciless ofﬁcials,
we must still remember the words of that
famous Englishman, Burke:

“I do not know the method of draw-
ing up an indictment against a whole
people.”

There are still multitudes of humane and
kindly people in both nations. Listen to
this, from the annual report of the Japan
Humane Society:

Last year it issued 165,000 copies of
various publications having to do with the
kind and just treatment of animals. A
dog market for the rescue of dogs was
organized; Humane Week from May 28 to
June 3rd was observed, at which time a
radio address was given; free veterinarian
treatment was afforded many animals; a
Horse Day meeting was held, and Child-
ren’s Day; and an animal cemetery was
started. In connection .with the Junior
League, talks were given to 7,180 children
Germany, too, has its humane societies.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page ’78
@1112 Earth nf merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and twenty new Bands of
Mercy were organized during March. Of
these, 279 were in Illinois, 253 in Rhode
Island, 79 in Georgia, 63 in Florida, 51 in
Virginia, 49 in Massachusetts, 47 in South
Carolina, 41 in Maine, 25 in Texas, 23 in
Pennsylvania, nine in Tennessee, and one
in Nebraska.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 239,437.

Hummingbirds Like
Gardens

LESTER BANKS

OME summer day you will hear a whir

of small wings, little more than a buzz,
and see what looks to be a large insect.
He will light on this ﬂower and that, but
always with his wings in motion. This you
will recognize as our smallest bird, the hum-
mingbird. You will observe that he prefers
the most brightly colored flowers, particu—
larly those containing blue. If there is
larkspur in your garden it will be the fav-
orite plant.

Would you like to have this little visitor
and his brothers come often to your garden?
Then you must try to make it a colorful
place, planting bright, attractive things,
many of them blue. And remember to have
plenty of larkspur; for it is the irresistible
invitation. If you will approach the hum-
mingbirds slowly and without sudden
movement, letting them see you in the
garden day after day, the little creatures
will become so familiar that you can stand
very near them while they work. They will
busy themselves on a clump of larkspur for
several minutes while you stand only a yard
away, watching them. Only at such close
range can you thoroughly appreciate the
beauty, charm and wonderful activity of the
hummingbird.

A New Hampshire animal lover, ﬁnding
that one of these little birds often visited
her garden, made a pet of it. She feeds it
honey on a toothpick, or a syrup made of
sugar and water which the bird takes from
a small plate. There seems to be no desire
to leave. He stays in the house and sleeps
late each morning, in the dainty bed of
white cotton. The only difﬁculty, apparent-
ly, is that the woman seems to like the
other pet, a chow dog, too well; and when
the canine is petted the hummingbird
squeaks angrily and dashes at his mistress’
hand to peek her ﬁngers. He declines to
be placated; the mistress simply must let
that horrid dog alone.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“ALL IN A DAY’S WORK”—

says this young colt as he submits to an
embrace from a pretty summer visitor to
Cape George in Nova Scotia

 

Victory for Dog Owners
ELLIOTT H. MARRUS

To how many bites is a dog entitled?

This was the question asked of the New
York State Legislature recently. The prob-
lem arose in the discussion of a proposed
law to make the owner of a dog liable for
damages if the pet bites anyone. At pres—
ent, the statutes provide that the owner is
liable if he had previous opportunity to
know that his dog was of a Vicious nature.

Fortunately the proposed law was de-
feated—to the consternation of the mail-
men who had backed the bill. The legis-
lators realized that a tame and gentle
animal might, on some provocation, grab
the trouser leg of a strange postman. The
owner should not be made to pay heavy
damages unless he had reason, from past
esperiences, to believe that his pet was
v1c1ous.

One senator, in a burst of eloquence,
said: “It is a traditional and elementary
principle of the common law, a principle
that has come down to us from the Middle
Ages, that every dog is entitled to one bite.
I sincerely trust that this august body will
not see ﬁt to overthrow that great prin-
ciple.”

So closes another attempt to burden pet
owners with unnecessarily heavy liabilities.

 

ﬂlay,1939
If I Could Be

LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

N o bird would kill me to possess

The feathers fair in which I dress;

No beast would follow to my lair

To take away the clothes I wear;
And if I were too small to cook

No ﬁsh would catch me on a hook;

It would be nice if I could be

Much more like them, much less like me.

A Plea for the Blue Jay

JULIETTE FRAZIER

T was a frosty October morning. A blue

jay perched upon a fence post, hammer-
ing at an acorn, held my attention as I
stood by my window.

His motions were vigorous. The mellow
sunlight caressed his handsome coat of blue,
edged with black and white. He seemed
fully aware of his distinction, judging by
the proud way he held his crested head.

Finally the acorn shell dropped to the
ground. The bird took to the air with a
loud scream of jay—jay-jay—just in time
to miss being hit by sling-shot aimed at
him by a thoughtless boy.

“Don’t shoot at birds,” I called to the
boy.

“Oh, I’m only shooting jays and the like.
Pa wants ’em killed, ’cause they do so much
damage,” replied the boy.

I recalled having seen this same boy on
other occasions strolling along the edge of
the wood. I remembered the day I found
an injured sparrow struggling in the grass
along the path. When I picked up the
little sufferer, blood oozed from his head,
and after a few gasps, he died in my hand.
Another time I found a blue jay with a
broken wing.

Boys who shoot at birds with a sling
often let their victims lie wherever they
drop, regardless of whether they are dead
or only wounded and suffering.

There are many birds, including the blue
jay, that are thought, by some people, to be
far more destructive than they really are.
For instance, shocking stories of murder in
the song birds’ nests have branded the blue
jay with a bad name. But scientists who
have turned the searchlight on his deeds
ﬁnd that his sins have been greatly exag-
gerated. The jay is more apt to eat the
eggs in the song birds’ nests than he is to
eat the nestlings. Wild berries, acorns,
nuts, and the larger seeds of trees and
shrubs, are what the jays gather in the fall.
Most of these are stored away, squirrel-
fashion, for winter days. Most of his food
during the summer months consists of in-
sects. A couple of years ago, when cater-
pillars were about to destroy the leaves
on all the trees around our house, I wel-
comed the blue jays as’ I watched them eat
these pests by the hundreds. Considering
the large number of caterpillars, ants and
other destructive insects that form the
blue jay’s daily bill of fare, we should not
begrudge him a bit of grain, a few nuts
or berries from our ﬁelds. His beauty alone
justiﬁes his existence, and entitles him to
protection by lovers of beauty.

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. when making your will.

 




 

 

Jan. 1939

The Loon

FLORENCE B. JACOBS
What are you calling, wild voice of the
night,
Seeking forever through starlight and
dark?
All of your brethren have settled from
flight,
Woodland and water are silent . . . but
hark!

Over the marshes comes floating a call,
Eerie, ecstatic, a laugh and a sob,
Piercing the denseness of slumber and wall,
Borne on the night wind as deep as a
throb.

Hungry, as I am, for something unknown,
Something that calls and will never be
still,

Baffling and vague, but so surely your own,
Driving and forcing you on to its will;
Dreaming high dreams of a glorious whole,

Seizing the promise and ﬁnding it husk,—
0h, your wild laughter is out of my soul,
Searching forever through moonlight and
dusk.

Game-Bird Protection

HENRY H. GRAHAM

HE preservation of farm-land game-

birds, such as the pheasant and quail,
depends to a large extent upon the consid-
eration shown them by farmers. Rigorous
winters are hard upon these rugged types
of game. Upon several occasions I have
seen whole coveys of quail frozen together——
a heart-rending picture to all lovers of wild
life. If those beautiful quail had been able
to ﬁnd a refuge from winter’s fury the
tragedy would never have occurred.

It is an excellent plan for the farmer to
leave on his place a little game-bird cover
such as a clump of weeds or a thicket of
some kind where the creatures can go to
escape blizzards. It is also an excellent
plan to leave a few bundles of grain in well-
protected spots. There the pheasants and
quail can go to eat when other forms of
nourishment are unavailable—when the
ﬁelds are heavily blanketed by snow. Both
pheasants and quail thrive in mild winters
that are not too wet. But they have a tough
time when the thermometer dips low and
blizzards howl. In wet, cold weather their
wings often freeze tightly together, pre-
venting ﬁght. They seldom last long under
such conditions for they become a prey to
all sorts of predators like the mink, hawk,
weasel and even the sluggish skunk. Dur—
ing the nesting season unseasonable storms
destroy numerous eggs, thus cutting down
the future population.

Pheasants and quail are always grateful
for weeds growing along fence rows, for
willow thickets and clumps of brush. A1-
most any sort of shelter keeps them from
perishing when the cold winds blow.

Several farmers of my acquaintance pur-
posely scatter wheat and corn in the back
sections of their farms where the birds may
obtain it without venturing close to the
house. This, too, is a commendable idea.
Of course, the grain must be well protected
from blizzards. Culverts, drain pipes and
the under side of bridges make excellent
depositories for the food.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Useful Barn Owl

JULIETTE FRAZIER

NE evening shortly after dusk, as I

was walking through the barnlot, I was
startled by a querulous, quavering cry,
“K-r-r-r-r-r-ik.” I paused, looked about,
saw nothing, but heard a faint swishing
sound. The sound passed over my head and
seemed to lose itself in the direction of an
old maple tree which stood about ﬁfty feet
from the barn. The querulous cry was re-
peated, and then as the moon came out
from behind the clouds, I caught sight of a
large bird sailing about with hawk-like
movement.

The following day upon investigation I
discovered a pair of barn owls in one of
the hollow limbs of the old maple tree.
While pushing them aside with a stick, so
as to be able to see the seven pure, dull
white eggs upon which they were sitting,
they clicked their bills and hissed angrily.

Upon telling my neighbor of my discov-
ery, he advised me to destroy the owls, say—
ing that they would attack our poultry.
But because our barn was badly infested
with rodents, I decided to wait and ﬁnd out
if the owls would attack the poultry be-
fore I should destroy them. Yet, although
the poultry yard was only a few feet away
from the tree in which the owls built their
nest, the poultry have never been molested.

One moonlight night, when the eggs were
hatched, I concealed myself 'behind a straw
stack and watched the birds ﬂy back and
forth to their nest. With a powerful ﬂash-
light which I used for just an instant upon
them each time they approached the nest,
I was able to see what they were bringing
to their young.

Three mice, a bat and a large rat were
brought to their brood in the hollow limb
in less than an hour’s time. The mice were
devoured head ﬁrst, then followed the body,
bolted whole. But the rat had to be ﬁrmly
grasped with both feet and torn apart be-
fore it could be bolted.

After witnessing such a sight, I con-
cluded that from an economic standpoint, it
would be difﬁcult to ﬁnd a bird who does
the farmer more good than the barn owl.

Page 13‘

The Swallows’ Revenge

ANNA L. CURTIS

HE two swallows had carefully built

their nest of twigs, and fastened it
ﬁrmly in place with muddy clay. They had
lined it with feathers and soft grass, and
securely plastered it around on the outside.
The mother bird had already laid one egg in
the nest, when a thief came and took
possession.

Both the swallows had left their home-
for a few moments. When they returned,
they were met by the sharp beak of a larger
bird which sat comfortably on the nest.
They could do nothing but chatter for a few
moments, and then ﬂy away. Soon, how-
ever, they came back with a great many
other swallows.

Every swallow ﬂew as close as it dared
to the thief, stared at it as it sat on the
stolen nest, and then ﬂew back to the chat-
tering crowd. Then they all disappeared,
and the strange bird probably thought it
could now enjoy its new home in peace.
But it was mistaken.

Back came all the swallows, ﬂying in a
long line, one after the other. Every swal-
low carried a bit of mud or clay in its claws.
They ﬂew close to the nest where the
strange bird sat in impudent security, and
as they passed, each swallow threw the
mud he carried directly into the face of the
intruder. Thus they executed the thief, and
buried him and his stolen nest together.

A young man named George Christian
Cuvier had watched the entire thrilling
drama, and was ﬁlled with astonishment.
“If these little creatures can talk together
and plan together and work together like
this, they have’brains to be respected. I
must know more of them.”

From that moment Cuvier devoted him—
self to the study of birds and, indeed, all the
animal kingdom. The swallows inspired him
to become one of our greatest naturalists.

The twenty-ﬁfth annual Be Kind to An—
imals Week will be observed from April 17
to April 22, with Humane Sunday, April 23.
Plans should be made at once for the big-
gest celebration yet held.

 

GULL AND PELICAN, ST.

PETERSBURG, FLORIDA

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 12

Marching to the Sea

WESLEY A. GROUT

UST as sure as day follows night, do

we know that precisely on a certain day
next May, millions of crabs are going to
rise up out of their holes on Crab Island and
march to the sea. Why every single one of
these millions upon millions of crustaceans
should, simultaneously, feel this irrepressible
urge to strike out for the sea on the same
day every year, is one of Nature’s most
baffling mysteries. And the wonder of it is,
they never miscalculate! The power that
governs this movement is as undeviating as
that which rules the planets of the Uni-
verse. And when this urge overtakes them,
nothing can stop them; houses, cliffs—noth-
ing, for the West Indian land crabs march
straight as an arrow to their destination.

When this frantic march is on, they climb
over any obstacle that happens to be in
their way. Even at the peril of their own
lives they will clamber over cliffs and
hedges rather than go around them. Houses
are not even considered mild obstacles to
these marching crustaceans. They creep in
at the windows, climb over the beds and
furniture, and emerge on the other side.

Their movement looks as if the whole sur-
face of the ground is in motion. The earth
is so thickly blanketed with them that it is
a physical impossibilty to walk without
treading upon them. And the noise they
make has often been likened to the din of
cavalry troops in action. When these crabs
are on the march, all animals beat a hasty
retreat, for no living creature is safe in
their path. Even the crabs themselves are
in great danger from their own kind. If one
of them happens to fall and injure its legs,
it is immediately eaten up by the horde.

This is their nuptial march, and when
they reach the sea, they immediately plunge
into the water to bathe and lay their eggs.
The eggs wash ashore and in due time are
hatched.

When the young crabs come out, every
tree root for miles around is densely covered
with them. They remain near the seashore
until old enough to travel, then they move
inland from one to three miles and dig holes
in the hills. In these holes they live until
the next May, when again it is time for
another frantic march to the sea.

For the English Sparrow
Editor:

In a recent issue of Our Dumb Animals
appeared a good word for the starlings. In
my opinion the pugnacious, much-abused
English sparrow is changing his menu to an
insectivorous one, at least in certain areas,
and should be accorded his just dues.

Early last June a twenty-foot Japanese
plum tree on our lawn became infested with
nests and larvae of the spring cankerworm.
The sparrows discovered the “ﬁnd” ﬁrst and
cleared it of nests and larvae within a short
time—but even to this day (November 7)
a .ﬂock of these sparrows occasionally
swmgs into this plum tree to peer about as
if to see whether or not they have by any
chance overlooked something.

H. E. WENTWORTH
Salem, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

MONARCH OF THE SWAN COLONY
Lithia Park, Ashland, Oregon

 

Pigeons Carry News

The New York J ournal-American has had
great success in using pigeons for carrying
negatives of photos and short news-items
from steamships far out in the bay. The
newpaper reporter carries several pigeons
with him when he makesthe trip down the
bay in a cutter to meet some incoming
steamship from Europe. As soon as he has
interviewed and photographed some celeb-
rity of importance he puts the negative of
the picture andAa short news-item in a cap-
sule which is attached to the pigeon. Then
he releases the pigeon and sends it on its
way back to the J ournal-Ameriean Building.
Here the negative and news-item are removed
and rushed to the city editor. In a very
few hours, sometimes before the steamship
docks, the picture is in print and on sale
throughout the city. Thus many valuable
hours are saved and the Journal-American
is very often the ﬁrst newspaper to carry
the photo of the celebrity. Some of the
pigeons have been wounded by the attacks
of hawks who frequent a near-by bridge.
But wounded or not they continue on their
way to their coop on top of the Journal-
Ameriean building. They have a special
attendant in charge of them and he thinks
a lot of these pigeons who each day earn
their own living for their newspaper.

Up to the present time 735,265 names
have been recorded as having expressed
their desire for membership in the Jack
London Club. The movement against the
cruelties in training performing animals, it
will be seen, has expanded rapidly. It has
already produced marked changes in the
programs of amusement—producing enter-
prises. Publicity has been the one most
effective weapon in combatting the misuse
of animals. Many disclosures of cruelty
have been revealed, and the truth about the
performing animal has been widely spread.

Jan. 1939

“Going to Housekeeping”
In Birdland

ALETHA M. BONNER

ADY BALTIMORE ORIOLE is con-

sidered the best housekeeper in bird-
land. Not only is her home skilfully con-
structed and substantially anchored in the
crotch of a stout bush or sturdy tree, but it
is most colorful in make-up, for both Lord
Baltimore and his Lady are ardent lovers
of bright tones and tints.

Such color-mindedness no doubt accounts
for the bright bits of string and thread
often woven into the bark and grass—ﬁbered
nests. Deep and pouch—shaped in design,
these cozy basket-like homes are so con-
structed as to well conceal the four to six
whitish eggs (touched with brown), to be
found during the house-keeping season.

The orchard oriole also builds a beautiful
nest. It is woven with the greatest pre-
cision, and though not pendant in pattern
it is roomy in width and securely lodged in
the fork of a fruit tree. Such a favorite
building site is responsible for the “ﬁrst”
name of the orchard oriole, and the lady of
the house has only to hop a few steps to
her fruit market in spring and summer.

Mr. and Mrs. Purple Martin, of the dis-
tinguished swallow family, delight in lining
a hollowed-out gourd, or squash, of the long-
necked variety, with shreds of bark and
grasses. Bird-boxes, too, are set up by hu~
man friends to encourage the presence of
the ever-welcomed Martin folk; however,
saucy little sparrows are quick to monopo-
lize all man-made bird-houses. Not only will
they ﬁll the small apartments with minia-
ture “hay-stacks,” but they will go to
housekeeping on the front porch if need be.

One of the most exquisitely-wrought cra-
dles for “rock-a-bye-bird babies” is fashioned
by Madame Hummingbird. Truly, “when
the wind blows, the cradle will rock,” for it
is fastened to a horizontal limb, high up in
a tree. Like its builder, the nest is a tiny
affair, but skilfully constructed. Circular in
shape, it is lined with ﬂuffy feathers and
weed-down, while the outside wall is of bark
and moss, so harmoniously blended into the
tree-environment as to defy detection.

No directory of “Best Housekeepers in
Birdland” is complete unless Rose Robin’s
name is included. True, her home is rather
ragged and rough in exterior, as it is
formed of weed stalks and leaves plastered
together with an inner wall of mud. How-
ever, a third lining of well-shredded grass
gives a touch of comfort and coziness to
this living-room, dining-room, and nursery
for two broods of birdlings.

Joyce Kilmer was doubtless favorably im-
pressed with the building skill of this
lovable bird, as a robin’s nest was placed in
the branches of the poet’s immortal
“Trees”:—

“A tree that may in summer wear,
A nest of robins in her hair!”

The Orioles

VELA B. EDWARDS

That joy may measure every hour,
The orioles come along

And gaily wind the clocks of time
With golden keys of song!




 

Apr. 1939

rising of the shepherds was attended by a
“perfect storm of barking, a general
canine jubilee.” A clergyman from a dis-
tance who one day ofﬁciated, was struck
with the seeming irreverence of the con~
gregation sitting during the benediction.
It was explained to him that it was to
“cheat the dougs.”

An Elizabethan dog in church is en-
shrined in Sir Walter Scott’s novel, “Wood-
stock.” This was an enormous mastiﬂ’
called “Bevis,” belonging to Sir Henry Lee.
He saved his master. while asleep when his
Italian valet attempted to rob him. Con-
cerning Sir Henry’s attendance at the
thanksgiving service at Woodstock Parish
Church after the Battle of Worcester, Scott
wrote of him: “followed by the faithful
mastiﬂ" which in old time had saved its
master by its ﬁdelity and which regularly
followed him to Church. Bevis, indeed, fell
under the proverb which avers, He is a good
dog which goes to Church. For, save an
occasional temptation to warble . . . he be-
haved himself as decorously as any of the
congregation and returned as much ediﬁed,
perhaps, as most of them.”

Probably many readers can recall inter-
esting and amusing incidents associated
with dogs in attendance at Divine worship,
so faithful are dogs to their masters that
they are prepared to follow them anywhere
and wait patiently till their duties, or de-
votions, are ﬁnished. In bygone days the
Scotch collies needed great patience, seeing
that on special occasions services would last
over three hours. We think of “Greyfriars’
Bobby” who was faithful even unto death.
For fourteen years this Skye terrier,
though regularly turned out by day, spent
every night on the grave of his master,
the Midlothian farmer Gray.

Step—father “Jack”

MARGARET NICKERSON MARTIN

YOU wouldn’t know about old Jack un-
less you lived on Webb street or visited
there occasionally. Jack is dead now. Some-
one killed him the other day, with a car.
He was ﬁfteen and getting a little deaf.
He moved slow1y ; and there are those who
do not understand about dogs.

Jack was no ordinary dog, for his great
passion in life was—kittens! Mother cat
kept him supplied more or less regu-
larly all the years of her life and each
succeeding family of kittens was treated
with the same untiring devotion. They soon
learned that the huge monster who towered
above them meant them no harm and soon
tumbled over him in utter abandon, much
to his delight. With patient watchfulness
and ever-ready tongue he performed his
matronly chores until each kitten emerged
sleek and wet. He’d coax them then to sleep
beneath his chin and would lie motionless as
long as they slept.

When the kittens were awake, his lum-
bering anxiety for their welfare and safety
was comical to behold. He shepherded them
all day long and was only completely happy
when they were all snuggled into his thick
coat. He spent much of his life bringing up
one family of kittens after another and not
even advancing age dampened his ardor or
curbed his watchfulness. He was the per—
fect kindly step-father.

Jack was a neighborhood character and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 55

The Railway Dog of Cape Horn

HOWARD KEGLEY

 

“PICININ,” MEETING THE PACIFIC LIMITED TO CATCH A BUNDLE OF
PAPERS, ATTRACTS ATTENTION OF DELIGHTED PASSENGERS

F a dog could sing, “Picinin” probably
H would go around humming “I’ve Been

Working on the Railroad” all the live—
long day. He is one of the few hitch-
hikers to land a lifetime job.

Out to see the world, he bummed his way
from Roseville, California, to Cape Horn,
an isolated way station on the Southern
Paciﬁc, in American River canyon. At that
point he was put off the train. Only one
family lived there, but it seemed like a nice
family, so Picinin moved right in, and has
since been in charge of its intelligence
bureau.

Cape Horn is ﬁve miles up the road from
Colfax, and not a great way from Emigrant
Gap, in the High Sierras. No trains stop
there, and the only inhabitants are Bart
Speranza, the section foreman, Mrs. Sper-
anza, and a few members of the section
gang.

Because of atmospheric interference
radio reception at Cape Horn is almost out
of the question and so, in order to keep in
touch with the outside world the Speranzas

arranged with the crews of the many over—
land trains, which ran right through, to
throw off a wide variety of magazines and
newspapers which passengers leave in the
seats of the coaches.

Mrs. Speranza, who was a school teacher
before her marriage several years ago, used
to meet the trains and pick up the bundles
of reading matter which were ﬂung from
the platforms of observation cars by con—
ductors and brakemen, but as soon as
Picinin arrived he quickly discovered that
his life work had already been cut out for
him, so he took over the job.

For a couple of years he has been meet—
ing several trains a day and hurrying the
bundles of reading matter home to Mrs.
Speranza. One might say that, because of
this, he is a trained dog, and if looking at
pictures in magazines is educational one
might even say he is a well—educated canine.
He has developed so much self-control that
Mrs. Speranza can send him down to the
butcher shop at Colfax to bring back a
roast for Sunday dinner.

 

all childhood loved him. The placid wave of
his plumed tail was the signal for a de-
lighted shout of, “Here, Jack. Here, Jack!”

Now Jack has passed to his reward. To
the place of many bones. Where kittens do
not grow up and mysteriously disappear
from one’s ken. Where the days are full
of sunshine and the nights are not so warm
but that a kitten might want to cuddle com-
fortably beneath one’s chin; where faint
winds bring scent of home and dreams of
the master’s whistle.

Rhinoceros birds perch on the backs of
rhinoceroses or other big game, devouring
the ticks and insects that annoy the beast.
Egrets do the same for elephants, and beef—
eater birds perform a similar service for
buffalo. Plovers remove leeches from the
teeth and gums of crocodiles as they lie
in their wallows, with wide—open mouths.

 

Dickens Among His Dogs

James T. Fields, in his delightful “Yes-
terdays with Authors,” describes his ex-
periences as a guest of Charles Dickens at
Gadshill, and gives us this insight to
Dickens’ love of animals:

Lunch over, we were taken round to see
the dogs, and Dickens gave us a rapid bio—
graphical account of each as we made
acquaintance with the whole colony. One
old fellow . . . raised himself up and laid
his great black head against Dickens’ breast
as if he loved him. All were spoken to with
pleasant words of greeting, and the whole
troop seemed wild with. joy over the mas-
ter’s visit. “Linda” put up her shaggy paw
to be shaken at parting; and as we left the
dog—houses, our host told us some amusing
anecdotes of' his favorite friends.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 54

Buck in Snow

HARRY ELMORE HURD

Upon a hill——
Within a wood—
Watchful . . . still . . .
A young buck stood.

He bounded down
With speed of light—
A flash of brown
And flagging white.

Hoofs in snow

M dde mimic thunder:
Now I know

The theme of wonder.

Careful Driving in Game
Districts

HENRY H. GRAHAM

ITH the motoring and vacation sea-
son approaching thousands of mo-
torists will throng the highways of our
national parks, national forests and game
preserves. And, as usual, many animals will
be struck down and seriously, if not fatally,
injured. Every year many lovable crea-
tures are killed by contact with automobiles.
This year is a good time to start being
more careful—to give some serious thought
to the forest creatures that have as good a
right to live as human beings do. Most
roads have speed limits but many motorists
fail to observe them. They hurry through
the most beautiful regions when slow, lei-
surely driving is inﬁnitely more pleasurable,
enabling themselves and passengers to en-
joy the scenery and whatever wild life may
appear. If there was ever a place where
one should drive slowly it is the great
mountain wilderness inhabited by bears,
deer, beavers and other quadrupeds.
When protected by the establishment of

 

LIKE NEARLY ALL
WHITE DEER IS VERY CONSPICUOUS EVEN IN
ITS NATIVE WOODS

THE OTHER ALBINOS, THE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

game refuges deer often become very tame
and friendly. They are commonly seen close
to the roads as well as actually on them.
When a motorist swings rapidly around a
curve and runs into such animals tragedy
is often the result. Sometimes the car is
wrecked and the driver as well as the deer
injured or even killed.

One night while driving up a lonely
wooded gulch to my summer cabin I saw
seven deer ahead of me directly in the road.
Had I been driving rapidly a crash would
have been inevitable. As it was, I cruised
slowly around the animals which did not
even move at my approach, showing how
tame they were. ‘ ‘

On another occasion I saw a dark shape
in the glare of the car lights ahead of me
after rounding a bend. Drawing nearer I
discovered the creature to be a full-grown
beaver that was towing across the thor-
oughfare a good-sized quaking aspen tree
he had evidently just chewed down on a
neighboring hillside. Driving slowly, I was
able to miss the beaver easily. Lights often
blind animals.

Let us all give the wild and domestic
animals a break by driving sanely at all
times. In so doing we will also be giving
ourselves a break—instead of a broken
neck.

Please remember the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. when making your will.

A Twin White Fawn

LLOYD G. INGLES, PH.D

HF black—tail deer were only capable of
human thoughts and reactions it would
indeed be interesting to hear what an old
doe had to say about hér newly born babies
last spring. They were both females, twins,
and both albino, which suggests that even
these twins may be the rare identical kind.
We can imagine her exclaiming, “Twin
fawns without spots.”

Born in a woods of
great Valley Oaks near
the Sacramento River in
California, these fawns
were the ﬁrst White deer
seen in this part of the
country for over thirty
years. Like many other
albino animals they fre-
quently have poor eye-
sight and because they
are so conspicuous are
generally considered to be
easy prey for all of their
enemies including hunters.
In order to preserve them
as long as possible wild
life authorities granted
the rancher who found the
youngsters permission to
take and keep them about
his home. Unfortunately,
one soon died, but the
other rapidly adapted it-
self to its new environ-
ment of cattle, sheep, pigs
and humans, and after six
months of life is hale and
hearty. It is indeed the
pet of the ranch. Thus it
Was easily photographed
at close range.

Apr. 1939

When Collies Went to
Church

ARTHUR HEDLEY

NE day when preaching in the bonnie

Borderland of Scotland, a dog found
its way into church much to the amaze-
ment and amusement of the young people;
not feeling at home in such surroundings,
doggie quickly trotted out to roam With
pleasure in the streets.

Some hundred and ﬁfty years ago, how-
ever, Scotch collies felt just as much at
home in the Church as in the cottage. The
Border shepherds encased in their plaids
went to church accompanied by their dogs
in all sorts of weather. The ﬂoors were
practically earthen and the dogs would
enter with their masters and either sit in
the aisle or by their master’s side in the
pew. Their behavior at times was rather
irreverent and disconcerting, for there were
frequent quarrels which often ended in a
ﬁerce dog ﬁght. On the slightest growl
from one the remainder would prick up
their ears; if a couple fell out it was the
signal for a general scrap. The rest that
were prowling about, or half asleep at their
master’s feet, would rush out to join in the
conﬂict. Then, as the strife waxed ﬁerce
and furious, the noise would become so
deafening that the voice of the minister
would be drowned and he would be com-
pelled to pause. Two or three shepherds
would have to leave their places and use
their nibbles (shepherd’s crooks) unmerci-
fully before the dogs were silenced and
the service of the sanctuary would be
resumed.

The singing of the Psalms seemed to
make a great appeal to the shepherds’
collies. James Hogg—a famous Border
shepherd-poet—says of his own dog, “Hec-
tor,” that when he heard his master’s voice
in the Psalms a great commotion followed.
“He fell in with such overpowering vehe-
mence that he and I seldom got any to join
in the music but our two selves. The shep-
herds hid their heads and laid down on the
seats wrapped in their plaids and the lasses
looked down to the ground and laughed
till their faces grew red.” Of Hector’s
father, “Sirrah,” Hogg said: “Many a
good song, Psalm and tune was he the
cause of spoiling: for when he was fairly
set to—at which he was not slack—the
voices of his coadjutors had no chance with
his.” Sirrah had to be banished from fam-
ily worship to the kitchen. If they forgot
to shut him up securely he would steal
into the room and when the Psalm was
sung would join in with such zeal that no
other voice could be heard. Sometimes when
his master was too weary to stay up for
evening worship he would go to bed, taking
the dog with him. Sirrah was quite con—
tent to lie in a corner of the loft, but only
until he heard the singing begin, when he
would lie with his ear to the door and on
a low note growl his own praises to the
Creator.

The collies were recognized as a section
of the congregation and the closing ar-
rangements were made in reference to
them. When the elders went round with
the collection ladles the dogs would rouse
themselves and, to prevent their barking
the congregation would remain seated
while the blessing was pronounced. The

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 102

Mascot of Boulder Dam,
Retired

GRACE BERNARD

IG” is not a friendly dog, nor is he

especially handsome. He’s old and half
blind, and if he was ever meant to be a
German Shepherd, his chances were spoiled
when some unthinking person cropped his
black ears short. Still, Nig maintains a
dignity and aloofness unusual to a dog on
the loose. For nowhere in Boulder City is
there anyone who claims to own this
strange old fellow.

Nig shuns all tourists, and any amiable
overtures or offering of food at the hands
of an “outsider” leaves him totally un-
moved. But between him and the few
remaining government workers around
Boulder City, there seems to be a kinship——
a feeling of fraternity.

What connection had Nig to that army
of workers who erected the most massive
piece of engineering in our modern times—
the great Boulder Dam? What part could
a mere dog have played in the erecting of
that 726—foot steel and concrete barrier
across Black Canyon, which impounds the
waters of the great Colorado River, some
thirty miles southeast of Las Vegas,
Nevada?

Each day this veteran dog waits by a
stop sign where the main highway leads to
Boulder Dam, seven miles away. He looks
up expectantly at any government worker
passing by, and sometimes those clipped
ears of his ﬂicker slightly before he settles
back in a resigned attitude.

A gleaming inscription on his collar
reads, “Boulder Dam Mascot,” and we
guess that his job as companion and friend
to hundreds of workers is now done. There

WAITS AT HIS POST

 

“NIG,” BOULDER DAM MASCOT, STILL

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

July, 1939

WAS THAT A CRY FOR HELP?

“Hughie” is the canine life-guard at Santa Monica, Cal., beach. He belongs to
Preston Peterson, a member of the beach life—saving crew. He wears the regulation
life—guard badge and has received a commission in the service from Chief of Police,
Charles L. Dice. He sits on the beach attached to his “life tube” and watches intently
the youngsters while they romp and splash in the surf. If help is called for or
indicated he plunges into the turbulent water and churns his way to those who hang
on to the buoyant tube while he tows them in to safety.

 

are just a few of the khaki clad boys left
to handle the visitors.
One of them gave us Nig’s story.

“We met Nig about the time construction
of Boulder Dam began, around in June,
1931. Some say that his master was killed
while doing dangerous preparatory work
for the Dam, but anyway here was this blg
black dog at the corner one morning, just
begging to be taken along on the truck.
We took him up to the Dam site, and all
that day he looked and sniffed around as
though looking for someone.

“We tried to make friends with
him, but he wasn’t ready for that
just yet.

“Next morning, here he was
again right at this stop sign, and
we never could turn him down
after that.

“Finally, it seemed like Nig
realized that there was work to
be done, and he stopped his moping
and began to notice what was
going on. He got interested in
what the boys were doing, and all
workers won his respect.

“Someone got the idea of pack-
ing his lunch, and he’d carry it in
his mouth and put it away where
the fellows put theirs. Then he’d
get it out when it was time to eat,
just like the rest of us.

“We soon made him our mascot,
and chipped in to buy this collar
for him. He deserved the name of
mascot if ever a dog did, for he
was on the job all of the time.
He’d check out with one crew and
ride back into Boulder City. Then
he’d hop on the truck there with
the fresh crew and check in again
at the Dam. He made every shift.

“Nig thought he had to super-
vise each phase of the construc-
tion work. He’d even ride the lifts
and never bat an eye when they
swung up hundreds of feet.

 

N ig’s former co-worker rubbed the dog’s
black head musingly. “You’re through now,
old fella. But don’t think that a one of us
will ever forget you!”

Turning to me, he brought Nig’s story
up to date.

“N ig’s not allowed up at the Dam any-
more, with all the tourists around. Besides
he’s too old to hop on and off of trucks.
So we’ve sort of pensioned him off around
here. He sleeps and eats in the back of the
poolroom, and never wanders very far
away from this last pick-up station. Too
bad, Nig, old mascot, but we all become
obsolete some day.”

The proud dog continued to look off into
space, and we were left to guess at his
thoughts. He seemed to realize that he was
“on the bench” for keeps now, but how
could he know that we shall always remem-
ber him as a symbol of fortitude in a great
land of endeavor and accomplishment?

“Our Dumb Animals” in

Schools

L. V. Pullman, a teacher in the Chandler
School, Detroit, Michigan, some of whose
pupils competed in our prize verse contest,
writes of the good use made of copies of
0m" Dumb Animals in the school work. She
says: “Your Children’s Page in the March
number was exceptionally good. We liked
the illustrations. You have no idea how
much your magazine helps us in preparing
our humane programs.

“Thirty-eight of our pupils have become
members of the Junior Michigan Humane
Society, and ﬁfteen of our teachers have
joined also.”

Little Mary, four years old, was visiting
her aunt when an old acquaintance arrived
from out of town. The lady by way of
conversation asked Mary where she lived.

“Well,” said Mary, very importantly,
“you know ‘Bobbie,’ the cat. I live right
next door to him.”

 




 

July, 1939
Old Horses

LOUISE DARCY

Old horses turned out in the sun
Make me feel so content

Because someone took care to see
How their last days were spent.

Somehow I think they like to see
A roof of summer sky,
Green trees that spread their cool green
arms
Fully as much as I.

How peacefully they crop at grass
Or roll in scented clover,

Remembering good days of work
That now in age are" over.

I want to ﬁnd a meadow, too,

When busy days are done,

And fill my hours with miracle
Of wind and sky and sun.

Wild Life Souvenirs

GRACE V. SHARRITT

AIRS, whether they are small carni-

vals with only a Big Top and a few
side show concessions, or whether they
assume the splendor of the gilt—edged ex-
hibits of a world centennial showing
myriads, of attractions, are not fair some-
times to many forms of wild life which are
sold as souvenirs at their concessions.
Neither are many of the ﬁve-and—ten-cent
stores in towns and cities, which ply a
proﬁtable souvenir trade with tourists, fair
to small wild life. souvenirs.

One hot August day, I wandered idly
through a ten—cent store in Detroit. (The
scene could easily have been duplicated in
any number of dime-stores or carnival
shows in any number of American cities.)
Hearing excited childish squeals of laugh-
ter, I was attracted to a counter where
two small children and a man, presumably
the youngsters’ father, were laughing
heartily at the amblings of a small turtle
trying to crawl through a mesh wire.

“Ooh, Daddy,” cried the dark—eyed boy,
“aren’t they pretty? Buy me one.”

“Me too,” chimed in his pig—tailed sister.

“What on earth would you kids do with
a couple of turtles?” asked their father.

“Play with them,” promptly replied the
boy, now poking a speculative ﬁnger at
another small painted turtle in the shallow
trough of water.

“No,” ﬁrmly replied this intelligent
Dad. “You can have some other toy but
not a live turtle. And anyway,” eyeing
the half-dead tortoises speculatively, “they
look almost gone to me.”

And about “gone” they truly were. These
tiny, little creatures with their delicate
shells painted with pin roses and violets
announced in yellow letters on their backs
that they were souvenirs of Detroit to the
store’s customers. But they told a sad tale
in their half-dead manner to discerning
eyes of any interested scientist or wild life
lover. Meant for the cooling woods and
waters they were instead captive in a hot
store, handled by hundreds: of curious
people. Perhaps, cruelest of all, they had
not been properly fed or cared for.

I talked later with a woman who is an

OUR DUMB

authority on trutles.
She has trapped hun-
dreds for scientiﬁc and
research purposes but
has never killed one.
She said, “There is no
law that I know of
which prevents stores
from selling these help-
less turtles. But there
should be some educa-
tive measures which
would at least compel
store managers to
properly house the
wild life creatures in
their care.”

She told me that
some turtles are at
home on land as well
as water. They need
meat, like fresh ham-
burger or ﬁsh, in their
diet as well as sea
vegetation. “The pre-
pared food put up in
boxes and sometimes
sold at the same coun-
ter with the luckless
turtle is not a com-
pletely balanced diet,”
she said. “Some die of
starvation, others of
thirst.”

“Thirst?” I
surprised.

“The poor things
can’t drink that
water,” she exclaimed
in disgust. “It’s un-
clean.”

Yes, we both agreed,
it will be a happy day when stores and
fairs who ply a trade in small painted tur-
tles, chameleons and other small forms of
wild life souvenirs can educate the general
public in properly caring for the pets they
sell, by setting them a shining example.

Wild Mountain Goats

CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

WENTY-FIVE miles from metropoli-

tan Los Angeles, up in the hills of
Santa Catalina Island, there are literally
thousands of wild mountain goats; the fore—
runners of which probably were left there
centuries ago.

Spain’s early conquistadores and naviga-
tors had a pleasant habit of stocking
islands in the southern channel group with
animals from Europe, in their exploring
trips along the coast line of what is now
California; and Don Juan Cabrillo’s 1542
expedition may be responsible for the huge
herd of mountain goats on Santa Catalina
today.

On this island there were luxuriant
grasses and shrubs, and the goats grew to
a greater size than their ancestors. A full
grown buck, as found there now, may
weigh as much as 350 pounds, with horn
spread of up to 36 inches. There is a record
of one Catalina wild goat with spread 0f
45% inches.

These animals have no set color scheme;
some being light fawn and some dark
brown and black; and there are even some
pure white specimens. A rare species,

asked

 

Page 103

 

WILD MOUNTAIN GOAT, SANTA CATALINA

known as “Silver Tip,” having a coat of
silvery blue, is found up at the northern
end of the Island. At a distance they may
be mistaken for buffalo—a number of herds
of which also roam the hills; the shaggy
beard encircling the head of the Catalina
wild mountain goat suggesting a mane.

The goats can scale the face of a sheer
cliﬁ' with no apparent effort. The agile ani-
mal pictured here is evidently perched for
a long view of the Catalina coast line.

 

Public sentiment and understand-
ing with respect to animal perform-
ances have changed remarkably dur-
ing the past dozen years, and for the
better. The growth and inﬂuence of
the Jack London Club is unquestion-
ably responsible for this. The amuse-
ment seeker has come to look with
abhorrence upon what he once con-
doned. To him “the sport which
owes its pleasure to another’s pain”
has come to be “detested.” The re-
action was swift when once it
appeared that the truth had been

 

long and studiously concealed.

 

 

Have animals rights that man is bound
to respect? The question has been an—
swered in the statutes of every state. How
much longer, then, at the expense of their
own physical sufferings, must they be made
a source of man’s amusement, besides his
food and raiment?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Jan. 1939

DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

For a Little Boy at New Year’s

KADRA MAYSI

This year, may flutes and yiols—never trumpets!—
Teach him the tempo for his baby feet;

And, where he walks, may April sow her flowers
To make that blessed pathway brave and sweet.

In years when I cannot, may some girl give him
That love which only from a woman comes.
Through manhood, may his steps be set to music
Of harps and pealing organs—never drums!

Three Generations of Ponies
ESTHER C. AVERILL

OTHER love must be very strong in ponies if a family

of them in Wiscasset, Maine, is a good example. Mr.
Oscar Bailey, of that town, has three ponies. “Peggy,” the
grandmother, is pure white. “June,” the mother, is chestuut,
and “Blaze,” the baby, is mouse color at present. Theselthree
generations of ponies are inseparable. They are never far
apart, although their pasture is large. If one wanders a little
way from the others in search of fresh grass to nibble, the
other two make a mad dash to reach her side. The mother and
grandmother take a keen interest in the little pony. Usually
Blaze is kept feeding between the other two so no harm can
befall her.

These ponies live in a sort of paradise where there is plenty
of grass to nibble, long hours to idle in the sun, and a family
of friendly children to feed them lumps of sugar and to brush
their shining coats.

People around Wiscasset all know these ponies. It is a com—
mon sight to see an automobile drawn up beside the Bailey
pasture while the occupants watch the horses as they enjoy
themselves together. If harm should befall one of the ponies
it would be a town catastrophe. Everybody loves them because
of their evident love for one another. Kindly care on the part
of the owner has made these three ponies unique in their
healthy, happy lives. They are living examples of the best in
family life in the animal kingdom.

 

THREE GENERATIONS OF PONIES

 

 

HAPPY NEW YEAR TO BOYS AND GIRLS AND
DOGS AND EVERYBODY!

 

Animal Engineers
DOROTHEA K. GOULD

L ITTLE engineers of the animal world! The beavers are
real mechanics. The way they can build houses, canals and
dams astounds us by the great extent of their intelligence.

With their teeth they cut down trees. They eat what they
prefer of the trees—leaves, bark and tender twigs—and then
use the discarded parts in their building. They use also dead
branches, brush and sticks. These they drag to and lay in the
spot which they select for their homes. They weight this
material down with mud, so that their homes are substantial
and strong.

When the beaver dam is broken the beavers repair it. They
can tell when their dam is broken by the sound of the water.

During the winter they sleep much of the time, although
they do run around under the ice of their pond. They are not
afraid of the ice falling on them because they are clever
enough to choose for their beaver home a place where there
are many stumps and dead trees. These hold the ice up and
give them plenty of room to run around.

They must watch their dams and homes as carefully in
winter as in summer. If the water should rise too high their
home could be washed away. If the water should drain away
the beavers would have to move.

So you see the beavers have to be very clever indeed to
protect their home under the frozen pond once they have
built it.

The beavers eat bark and leaves almost exclusively, their
favorite food being the aspen or common poplar. The beaver
is the largest member of the American rodent family; often
weighing as much as ﬁfty pounds. Not only are their outward
habits distinctive, but their anatomical markings are also in
a distinctive class.

Don’t forget to feed the birds after the storms of snow and sleet.
A little food, seed or scraps from the table, will be welcome to
them and keep them from starving. Tell your friends, too,
how much the winter birds need our help.

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1939

 

 

 

 

 

TO TRADE OR NOT TO TRADE

 

NEVER lift a grown rabbit by its ears. The ears are very
sensitive and it is a mistaken idea that it does not hurt
the animal to be lifted in this way. A baby rabbit may be
lifted in this way, but when a rabbit is grown, its hindquarters
should be supported when it is handled. It is cruel to lift a
grown rabbit by its ears, just as it is cruel to lift a grown cat
by the back of its neck.

Rabbits are very fond of corn and oats as well as wheat and
grass, clover, carrots, turnip tops, apple and potato parings,
peas, beans, celery and all green vegetables. As these little
animals are almost always nibbling they should have some
food in the hutch all the time.

Have a dish of fresh water in the hutch where the rabbits
can easily reach it. It is true they get considerable moisture
from the green food they eat, but they do need to have fresh
water at all times. See that the hutch is always clean.

Fan Mail for a Chow Dog

JOHN B. BEHRENDS

N a little corner drug store in Chicago is a Chow watchdog

that the children think so much of that they send him fan
mail when they go away on summer visits or vacations with
their parents. “Shu-Shu” is this pretty red dog’s name, and
the owner has had him since he was about nine weeks old.
He is now about ﬁve years old.

The customers who came into his store were so much inter-
ested in the postcards that Shu-Shu received that the pro—
prietor decided to put these souvenirs in his front store
window where it would be more convenient for everybody to
look at them. So he took them up from the table and displayed
them in six vertical rows along the sidewalk where every-
body could readily see them.

They are there now, about a hundred cards, taking up most
of the window space. In the collection are cards from all
corners of the United States, one each from Scotland, the
Virgin Islands, Cuba and Mexico, and a number from Canada.
Shu-Shu’s fan mail displayed there was acquired in about a
year’s time.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

The Park Squirrel

MAY ALLREAD BAKER

I heard a rustle in the old, oak tree,

Saw two, bright, eager black eyes watching me,

A little face, protruding from the bough—

“Com-e down,” I cried, “I’ve something for you now!”

Then, like a flash of russet—colored flame,

Swift down the rough bole of the tree he came;
By fits and starts approaching to my chair

At once with shy, but yet, impulsive air;

Climbed to my shoulder with small, eager feet,
Sure of my friendship—certain of his treat.
Peeped in my pocket, naughty little elf,

And, ﬁnding there the peanuts, helped himself!

What About Pussy?

If you have settled all about your own holiday, have you
thought of where the family cat is going while your house is
shut up? Do not leave it to the last moment to make arrange-
ments for her, because it might then be forgotten. If she
cannot go with you ask a friend to take her in or send her to
some one who boards cats for a small charge, but a homelike
pussy is not likely to be happy in a strange place.

How Many “G” Birds?

ALFRED I. TOOKE

There are quite a number of bird names that begin with C.
There are goldﬁnch, gerfalcon, guinea-fowl, and so on. How
many bird names beginning with G can you ﬁnd in the bird
square? There are at least a dozen. Answers next month.

IllJ/llllll Illllillm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Z—rooof

moi—4mm
Dcmr—IZ

§Emmcéﬁﬁ

 

 

 

 

 

 

n “WV/ml; 1m HUI/II . \l \\\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1939

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Woodland Waits of Winter

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

DID you ever hear the faint mouse-like call of “zeep-zeep”
as you strolled on a woodland trail in the winter time? If
you ever have heard one of these faint woodland sounds you
probably had difﬁculty in locating its origin or determining
just who gave this faint call.

If you could examine many tree trunks you might be able
to locate these creatures, and if you did, you would see that
they are the little brown creepers of the tree trunks.

The brown creeper is very slender, and its color blends so
accurately with the natural color and ridges of the bark that
it is almost invisible.

The brown creeper begins inspecting the tree near the
ground and then runs spirally to the upper branches. He never
works with his head down, and he is always so preoccupied in
his search for insects that he never notices if anyone is
watching.

The bill of the brown creeper is long and awl-shaped, en—
abling him to pick up only the tiniest of morsels, rejecting
anything that is large.

These little brown birds live in old trees, full of crevices and
holes, and are so tiny that they can always escape the ravages
of storm by vanishing into a very small crevice. These birds
live together in little families, and snuggle cozily together in
their tree-trunk homes like little children snuggled cozily in
bed. In this way they are able to keep warm and able to
survive the winter.

The next time you take a winter walk in the woodlands you
will know these faint little calls of “zeep-zeep” when you
hear them.

Mother Bear and Her Cubs

WILLIAM L. KIDD

OTHER BEAR ambled through the sun-specked woods

with her two-month-old cubs until the youngsters came
upon two nice bones. The cubs immediately became busy,
while Mother hunted for something she could dine upon.
She was a hundred yards away from the cubs when she saw—-
a man! He was nearing the cubs. Mother Bear lumbered at
amazing speed toward him, and as she passed her babies
she made a low whining sound that meant “Danger, look out!”
Instantly the cubs quit their luscious bones, raced to the
nearest trees and sat up at the foot of the trunk, all ready to
climb if Mother said so.

Mother Bear advanced slowly, now, toward the man, show—
ing her teeth, swinging her head. But the man did not
move. She stopped when about 30 feet away, hesitated—then
suddenly jumped forward, slapping the ground hard with her
front paws, lips drawn back ferociously as she frowned and
growled ominously. Still the man did not move. The cubs did,
though. They thought trouble had started so they each
climbed up their respective trees. But Mother was not looking
for trouble, neither was the man. Seeing no harm or threat
coming, Mother Bear turned and ambled back to the cubs’
trees. She sounded “Come down!” They slid to the earth and,
as close to their Mother’s side as they could get, ambled on
into the forest.

 

My Baby

JEANETTE NOURLAND

I love her little baby nose
So soft“ and round and pink;
Her tiny month of coral-rose
Is kissable, I think;
And underneath her silken suit
Her heart goes pitty-pat,
She’s so adorable and cute—
My baby kitty-kat.

Two Dozen Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

N each of the following sentences THREE animals are hid-
den. See if you can ﬁnd them all.

1. I don’t care whether I have a tunic or not, but I think
this tunic at half the price would be a very poor bargain.

2. The car I bought had a drab bit of blanket for a seat
cover that we must wash or send to the laundry.

3. If the sleep I get rests me enough we will land our cargo
at noon and there will be a roast apple apiece for your dessert.

4. This is quite a comic owl you drew, also a most eery-
looking ghost, and you do good scenery, too.

5. I prefer retaining the roses, so you may send them
Oleander blossoms, which are good enough.

6. They are all ambitious to have the lease allotted, so the
lawyer will come right away as the job is only a little one.

7. With a light tap I roused this man who seemed smart
enough to do the work, and for a tyro he managed nicely.

8. I gave a cop directing traﬂ‘ic a melting ice-cream cone,
and saw him lick it ten times and then throw the empty cone
upon your garbage truck as it passed.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

May, 1939

 

 

 

How the Elephant Uses His Trunk

E.1L BACON

HE elephant has the most useful nose of all animals.
It is true, simply because he can use it for so many
things, and in so many ways.

First. His nose, commonly known as his trunk, is a trumpet,
for through it he communicates with the other elephants in
the herd.

Second. It is a feeder, for he uses it to put his food into
his mouth.

" Third. It is a siphon and a sprayer, for he draws water up
into it, then sprays it over himself, not only because all ele—
phants love water, but also because it helps to keep his thick
‘hide in normal condition. The spray is also cooling.

Fourth. It is a lever, for he can use it to pry up many heavy
objects. .

Fifth. It is a crane, for he uses it much like a derrlck, to
hoist heavy material, such as logs, which would require many
men to lift. _

Sixth. It is a pusher. Haven’t you seen pictures where a
fond parent is pushing the baby elephant when a herd IS on
the march? .

Seventh. It is a conveyor, as he uses it to carry hosts of
different things, some of them quite long distances, and also
to shunt things about on commands from his master. .

Eighth. It also serves as a stepladder. Riders use 1t as a
means of reaching his broad head or back.

Ninth. It is a regular nose, too. He has to breathe,
doesn’t he? .

Tenth. It also serves as a ﬂail, for he makes good use of 1t
during play, and as a means of punishment. . .

Lastly, it is the elephant’s signaling device, for he raises 1t
above his head and waves it about in the air in a manner
understood only by other elephants, or those who comprehend
elephant language.

All interested in the prize contest for the best four-
line verse, written by a boy or girl under 1? years of
age, are reminded that no entries will be admitted after
June 1, 1939. Do not send any verses until you ‘l‘iave
read the directions published in the March issue of Our
Dumb Animals,” or have secured full particulars from
the Verse Editor, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

    

 

’4;

x..,
\ ‘ -\s

 

. \ \\\ i ‘
‘ \\ >X§£€

k

\‘3:
\

 

 

Close to My Heart
HARLAND:E.FITCH

There are plenty of kittens all fluffy and puffy,
As cunning and cute as can be,

But my little white one is truly the right one
To be a companion to me.

There are millions of kittens all patterns and colors,
I am sure they are someone’s delight;

I view them with pleasure but always my treasure
Is this little bundle of white.

Though all the wee kittens have ways that are charming,
And each one is doing its part,

This sprite little, bright little, white little kitten
Just snuggles up close to my heart.

A Black and White Spotted Puppy

FRED CORNELIUS

SPOT” was such a dear little black and white spotted
puppy, and he had lost his mother. He whimpered like a
child, for he was cold and hungry.

How was Betty going to feed him? She tried ﬁrst with a
spoon, but the puppy didn’t understand that way of eating.
Then,“ she thought of a bottle and a rubber nipple. She found
them and ﬁlled the bottle half full of warm milk. And how
the hungry puppy did go for this! He kept right on till the

 

bottle was almost empty and his little stomach stuck out like
a football.

Then Betty found a box and made him a soft, warm bed.
He was soon fast asleep. And, of course, Betty was happy.
She had saved the puppy’s life. “Spot will make a good play-
mate,” she said, “and it’s going to be a lot of fun feeding him.”

Answers to “What Animals Are These?” puzzle published
last month: 1. Dromedaries. 2. Chinchillas. 3. Marmosets.
4. Rhinoceros. 5. Chipmunks. 6. Elephants. 7. Antelopes.
8. Porcupines. 9. Chimpanzees. 10. Chameleons.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 80

Motherhood in Animal Life

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

HEN Mother’s Day comes around
W each year, I always think that we
could very properly stretch our observance
of the day to include animal motherhood,
in order to pay tribute to the many ﬁne
animals who care for their young as
devotedly as do human mothers.

Many stories are told of the courage and
tenderness of mother animals. They have
sympathy and understanding, it seems, for
they often adopt and raise animals, not of
their own kind in many instances, when the
rightful mother was taken, perhaps by the
wanton shot of an unthinking, so—called
sportsman. Mother cats will take little
puppies and chicks, and dogs and other
animals, including the wild beasts, play fos-
ter mother, too.

An animal mother and her young are
always an inspiring sight. The trafﬁc ofﬁcer
will stop a line of cars on the boulevard to
let a mother cat, or duck with babies, cross
to the other side when she suddenly ﬁnds
herself on the busy highway.

Pictures of animals are always of great
interest, but those that include the mother
animal surrounded by her young have
greater human appeal.

The cats and dogs that are such com—
panions are usually the mother animals,
ample of form and sedate of manner.
Motherhood adds a touch of wisdom to the
faces of animals, and gives them character
and stamps them as individuals, rather
than just cats, or dogs, or whatever they
may be.

Of course, when we talk of motherhood
in animals, we cannot omit saying a word
for the birds and the lowly fowl. A mother
hen scratching the ground and ﬁghting for
her chicks is always a sight that takes the
attention, and the industry of the mother
bird in her task of feeding ever-open mouths
is well known.

I am sure many children unconsciously
learn lessons of kindness and tenderness
while observing the way animals, birds, and
fowl treat their young, and I imagine many
human mothers take courage to go on with
their tasks in spite of obstacles, when they
see how patient and loving the mother ani-
mal is with her babies.

Our Schools and Crime

The average age of the criminal of the
United States is 23 years. In all the prisons
of the United States the largest age group
is around 19, and the next largest group 18.

This was always George T. Angell’s con-
tention when talking or writing about hu-
mane education, says the Kind Deeds Mes-
senger. “Of the possible criminals of the
future only a few can be reached in the
home or the church, but with few excep-
tions, they are in our schools. Years of
experience have taught a great multitude
of teachers that humane education in the
schools is a vital factor in character build-
ing. Rarely will you ﬁnd in our jails or
prisons, either among the young or old, one
who in childhood days was taught to be just
and kind to helpless animals. ALL REC-
ORDS BEAR OUT THIS STATEMENT.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

MOTORI S

 

 

 

 

 

180 LONGWOOD AVE., BOSTON

Stickers printed in blue ink with the
above design and lettering, for use on the
backs of envelopes, will be mailed free upon
request to Secretary, Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Remarkable but True

After a two and a half years’ hunt for
home and his owners, “Jiggs,” a half shep-
herd and half St. Bernard, found them
2,000 miles from the place where he was
left behind.

Such a statement may be thought incred-
ible but its truth has been established
beyond a doubt. Here are the facts as com-
municated by Jiggs’ master, Mr. Oscar
Bengston to Dr. Francis H. Rowley:

Dear Sir:

“We are the party that owns J iggs—the
dog that came 2,000 miles from Truman,
Minn., to Anaheim, California. It took him
21/2 years to make the trip. We are very
happy having our dog back with us again
and J iggs is very happy, too.

(Signed) OSCAR BENGSTON
Anaheim

Mr. and Mrs. Bengston could not believe
J iggs’ feat possible at ﬁrst but identifying
marks and the dog’s own actions soon made
recognition mutual. We believe this is one
of the longest trips ever made by a dog so
clearly authenticated.

Boy Prays—Dog Returns

An Associated Press dispatch in the
Chicago Sunday Tribune of March 26 states
that “Wiggles,” a dog, was left behind
when the D. C. Riedel family moved the 150
miles from Erie, Pa., to Pittsburgh on Oc-
tober 1, 1938. Nightly four-year-old Donald
Riedel prayed for the return of his dog. A
couple of days ago Mrs. Riedel found the
dog, that never before had been in Pitts-
burgh, sleeping on the back porch, worn out
from months of wandering. The animal had
been given to an Erie resident, who reported
he disappeared two days later.

M ay, 1939

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

YOURS FAITHFULLY, Cyril Nash.

This is the autobiography of a sturdy
and exceptionally intelligent female schnau-
zer, “Sonia” by name, whose master, an
actor, broadcaster and playwright, is an
admirer and keen breeder of her type. The
daily incidents of the kennels and the
bigger landmarks of prize-winning at
Cruft’s, of courtship and mating and rear-
ing a litter of pups, are cleverly narrated.

It is an interesting story, written with
uncanny insight and without any senti-
mentality. And the- reader will ﬁnd with
surprise that he has gained from it a great
deal of sound, practical information on just
those points that are of most interest——
from the dog’s point of View as well as his
own.

180 pp. $2. Longmans, Green and Co.,
New York. '

 

Congratulations to the Scottish S. P. C.
A., Edinburgh, which this year celebrates
its centenary. In honor" of this event an
illustrated history of the' Society is being
prepared to be included in the annual
report.

A horse which it is claimed is forty years
old is owned by Mr. Sumner G. Murray of
Wells, Maine. “Dan,” as the animal is
called, does all the harvesting, haying, wood
hauling and many other chores which usu-
ally fall to the task of a good farm horse.
Mr. Murray fears, however, that the prob-
lem of proper feeding for a horse minus the
necessary teeth may mean the necessity of
humanely disposing of Dan before long.
During the 23 years that the horse has been
in the Murray family he has had the very
best of care.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10.00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR

Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to

by it.

 

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal

tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital Is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

FRIENDS

the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-

 

 

.,_. —:-:~,~n 111

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page56
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider proser manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Our Wild Big-Game Life

ROM a report issued by the Bureau

of Biological Survey on the Big-Game
Inventory of the United States, in 1937,
here are a few facts that may be of inter-
est. The ﬁgures represent wild animals in
the national forests, national parks, lands
of the Division of Grazing, and state and
private lands. The ﬁgures are not abso-
lutely accurate but are carefully estimated.

In these various refuges there are

3,181,675 White-tailed deer

1,271,196 Mule deer

231,905 Columbian black-tailed deer
24 Woodland caribou

(Of these, 15 were found in
Maine, 3 in Minnesota, 6 in
Washington. Six of these were
found in national forests and
18 in state and private lands.)
Elk
Bloose

165,764
13,346
131,555 Prong-horned antelopes

9,933 Rocky Mountain bighorn goats

7,020 Desert bighorn goats

13,267 Mountain goats

725 European wild boar

81,270 Black bear

1,108 Grizzly bear

4,101 American bison or buffalo

Less than twenty years ago, the report
says, leading conservationists predicted
that the prong-horned antelope would join
the list of extinct native animals. Thanks
to the wise federal and state protective
measures, the antelope today has well
passed this danger. No longer, also, can
the American bison be referred to as hav—
ing “gone the way of the buffalo.”

A further statement says that while some
big—game species have responded to protec-
tive measures, an examination of available
data shows a serious situation with regard
to others, especially the bighorn sheep,
mountain goat, grizzly bear, moose and
caribou. Measures being taken by national
and state agencies, backed by public sup-
port, may improve the situation within the
next twenty years as has been done in the
last twenty for the elk, deer, antelope and
buffalo. Public support must certainly back
up these various efforts to preserve in na-
tional forests and state and private lands,
the nation’s wild life.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

About the Used Stamps

OR a few used stamps we could get

nothing. For a large quantity, enough
in time to endow a kennel for some unfortu—
nate dog or cat. For foreign used stamps,
if separated from the domestic ones, always
much more. Just tear off the stamp, leav-
ing a half inch or more of the envelope
with it. Of course, stamps that are printed
on the envelope, and can never be separated
from the envelope, are of no value.

The real place to ﬁnd rare stamps is up
in the attic or in some old chest where the
correspondence of the years before 1880
may have been preserved. If you ﬁnd one
of those stamps and are willing to send it,
please send the entire envelope without
detaching the stamp.

The Problem of the Crow

In certain of our states this clever
bird is fast becoming a problem. The
Bureau of Biological Survey has just
issued a study of the situation in Okla—
homa, in sections of which state the crow
has marshaled his forces in almost un-
believable numbers. With an acreage of
70,067 square miles, it is estimated the
crow population is somewhere between
3,000,000 and 3,750,000. In one county

' alone, Grady, it is said that the annual loss

from the crows feeding upon the crops
must be in the neighborhood of $18,372.
This loss, however, the Biological Survey
has not deemed sufﬁcient to warrant com-
bined state and federal action.

Nothing is said, so far as we can dis-

cover, by this Survey of the good the crow

does in the destruction of annoying insects.
That he. does, to a certain degree, help the
farmer must be put to his credit. Some-
times man in trying to destroy one evil has
let himself in for a worse one.

Finding Out What’s So

Science has done many wonderful things.
When it confronts us with an actual un-
deniable fact, we have to accept its utter-
ance no matter how it upsets our previous
convictions. Still, sometimes it seems to
discover something that we all knew long
before. For example, a New York cor-
respondent, referring to a series of experi-
ments on rats by a professor of psychology
in the University of Michigan, which ﬁnally
led the rats to “have nervous breakdowns,”
writes to his New York paper:

“Science has again proved triumphantly
and irrefutably that it is able, by means
of a patient and complicated experiment, to
discover something that everyone knew all
along.”

It seems as if one might have argued
from the fact that since if we humans fret
over insoluble problems we have a nervous
breakdown—something which we all know
—it might have been inferred that rats
might easily be affected in the same way.

Chateaubriand, after one of his unfortu-
nate experiences in losing his money and
being fired from the court, went back to
his home carrying his beautiful pair of
cats, and said to them, “The time for play-
ing the great lady is over. Now you will
have to think about catching mice.”

Apr. 1939

New Bills in Parliament

HE Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, London, England,

announces it has seven Bills on behalf of
animals that it is attempting to secure at
the hands of Parliament, as follows .

(1) To increase the number of horse 1n—
spectors in coal mines and to limit
the hours of work for the ponies.
To prevent the docking and nicking
of horses’ tails.
To prohibit the sale of plumage
which may not be brought into the
country legally.
To prohibit the training and exhi-
bition of certain animals.
To forbid the possession of any bird
trained for cock—ﬁghting and the
possession of any instrument or ap—
pliance used for cock-ﬁghting.
To prohibit the hunting of captive
animals raised for that purpose, and
so to stop rabbit coursing and the
hunting of carted deer.
(7) To protect dogs from painful experi-

mentation.

That is a brave list. We wish the Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals every possible success.

(2)
(3)

(4)
(5)

(6)

We Have Come a Long Way
Since Then

“Buck and Doe Days” at one time took
place annually at St. Paul’s Cathedral,
London, on 25th January and 29th June.
On the ﬁrst date, commemorating the con-
version of St. Paul, a doe was led through
the cathedral and presented before the
altar. On 29th June a buck was brought
by a huntsman to the church, and received
at the altar steps by the canons wearing
special vestments and red rose wreaths
upon their heads. After presentation at the
altar the buck was taken out and slaugh-
tered. Head and antlers were removed,
fastened to a pole, then carried through the
main entrance of the cathedral, and out of
the west door. The huntsman then blew his
horn to announce to the public the death
of the buck.

It is probable that the offering of the
deer had its origin in a custom associated
with the worship of Diana, goddess of hunt-
ing, whose shrine stood on the site where
St. Paul’s is now. A stag was also taken
before the altar at Durham Priory, accom-
panied by the blowing of hunting horns, on
4th September. —The Animals’ Friend

Friendly Neighbors

The Jewish Advocate recently, after a
stormy night, printed the following:

Those of us who have pets, cats and dogs
of which we are fond, would do well to see
to it that these animals are not locked out
on these cold nights. The friendly warmth
of the house is a real necessity for these
creatures when winter winds howl and the
snow or hail comes down with driving
force. Any one who has seen one of the
creatures huddling pitifully against a locked
door will understand the pain and suffering
caused.

Observe Be Kind to Animals Week April
17 to 22; and Humane Sunday, April 23.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 14

Cﬂhv Iﬁanh of ﬁling;

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

American Humane Education Society will send
to'Ielveery person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, spec1al Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of llterature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and forty-seven new Bands
of Mercy were organized during November.
Of these, 251 were in Massachusetts, 156 in
Illinois, 108 in Pennsylvania, 98 in Georgia,
89 in Maine, ’73 in South Carolina, 65 in
Rhode Island, 50 in Florida, 33 in Virginia,
12 in North Carolina, eight in Tennessee,
two in Michigan. and one each in New Jer-
sey and the Philippine Islands.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 235,603.

If I Were an Animal, Too

L E T H A D E X T E R
Age 11, Knickerbocker School, Chicago

I’ve been thinking the last few days
Of just exactly what I would do,
With trouble around me in many ways,
If I were an animal, too.

If they set daas on me,
I wouldn’t like that——
I’d climb up a tree,
If I were a cat.

I’d be lazy, you’d ﬁnd
And balky, of course,
When men were unkind—

If I were a horse.

Of my beautiful song,
Not a note would be heard
While my world was all wrong,
If I were a bird.

I’d crawl under a house
And lie still as a lag,

When anyone beat me,
If I were a dag.

It’s surely enough to make anyone sad——
The unkind things that people do;

And I am certainly awfully glad-—
That I’m NOT an animal, too.

The Industrious Ant

JOHN H.

OST ants that you see are tiny

fellows but they have certain habits
and characteristics which we must all
approve. Even though small they stand out
as the greatest member of the insect family
when it comes to adapting themselves to
their environment. They have found their
way everywhere. They are considered next
to man in their ability to adapt their liv-
ing habits to the conditions about them. No
matter whether the region is hot or cold,

JOLLIEF

OUR D UMB ANIMALS

wet or dry, the industri-
ous little ants manage to
make a living somehow.
Even King Solomon a
few thousand years ago
recognized their thrifty
and business-like ways.
He wrote: “Go to the ant,
thou sluggard; consider
her ways and be wise;
which, having no guide,
overseer, or rules, pro-
videth her meat in the
summer and gathereth
her food in the harvest.”

The homes of the ants
are more permanent than
those of other lower ani-
mal forms. Perhaps one
reason for this is their
average length of life.
Worker ants live from
four to seven years. A
queen ant may frequently
reach the ripe old age of
ﬁfteen years. But the
ants that do no work—
the males—live only a
short time. There is not
much place in the ant
society for an individual
that will not work. The
females produce the eggs
but the workers make up
the most numerous class

 

Jan. 1939

“CHIQUITO” AND I

 

in an ant colony. These
patient little laborers never go on strike——
they work in perfect harmony. They store
up food, construct the nest, build roads to
the ant hills, keep herds of “ant cows”
which they “milk” in most approved fash-
ion, keep their houses strictly sanitary, take
care of the children, and when necessary go
to war in regular army style with the usual
military discipline.

Like earthworms, ants do good by stirring
up the surface soil. They also are useful
in hurrying along the decomposition of
organic matter. But not all species are
helpful to man. Down in the tropics are
driver ants which get their name from
their habit of driving all vermin such as
bugs, mice, and rats ahead of them. Even
the largest and ﬁercest rats vacate the
premises when the driver ants arrive. It
is then that man has a real ﬁght on his
hands for they appear everywhere and are
hard to drive out. One curious custom of
these ants is their building of living
bridges. They cling to one another with
feet and mandible-s until there is a chain
long enough to reach from one side of a
stream to the other.

Even though the word “lazy” is in man’s
dictionary there is no such word in the
vocabulary of the industrious ant.

An elephant does not get his teeth all at
once, but in relays, like humans. However,
he gets only four at a time, one on each side
in upper and lower jaw. When this ﬁrst
set is quite worn down he gets four more
just back of the ﬁrst four; and if he lives
long enough, he acquires a third set. Hu-
mans have their baby teeth; then their sec-
ond set; and later in life their wisdom teeth.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

Chiquito and I

GEORGE A. STOUGH

Up with the sun,
At break of the day,
Up in the saddle
And away and away.
As daylight comes an
Yet faster we fly—
My little Chiquita;
Chiquita and 1.

Wind in my hair,

A sweet singing breeze
Keep time to my thoughts

As I lope through the trees.
My heart is so happy,

All cares pass me by—

My little Chiquita;
Chiquita and I.

Isle Inhabited Only by Cats

Tens of thousands of cats, descendants
of two which survived a shipwreck of
eighty years ago, have been found to infest
a coral island three hundred miles north-
east of Mauritius, in the Indian Ocean.

The animals, which are large and ﬁerce,
live in burrows and emerge only at night
in search of food, according to a surveyor
who has just returned from the island.

The cats, he says, catch ﬁsh in organized
fashion, by forming a circle and closing in
on the ﬁsh left in small pools and channels
at low water. '

A “drive” may yield as much as a ton
of ﬁsh. —-B. U. P.

A squirrel uses its tail as a parachute
and a windbreak, and so he always keeps it
in good condition, combing and ﬂuﬁing it out.




 

 

 

 

 

Spring Pasture
JUDY VAN DER VEER

I never saw such silly cows
As my cows are today,

We turned them in the pasture,
They all began to play.

They galloped up the hillside,
Like horses running free,
They all cavorted down again,

And shook their horns at me.

Their bells are ringing wildly
To celebrate the day,

The youngest calf and oldest cow
Think spring is here to stay!

Four-footed War Heroes

HETTY ROGERS

HEN God gave the horse to man He
gave much more than a beast of bur-
den—He gave a blessing to all races of
people. The dark-skinned Arab of the des—
ert and the Indian of the forest and plain
have been served as faithfully as the white
race. The peasant woman who has hitched
him to a plow received the same true service
as the Emperor who has ridden him leading
an army to battle.
He has been no respecter of persons and
man’s debt to him can never be estimated.
Perhaps the ﬁrst famous horse to appear
in history was “Bucephalus,” a giant horse
which no one dared to ride. Alexander the
Great, then a boy of twelve, mounted the
ﬁery animal and rode him till he tamed him.
King Philip was greatly pleased with his
son’s bravery and prowess and immediately
presented the horse to him. It carried him
through many wars and when it died Alex-
ander erected a monument for it and later
built a city which he called Bucephalus, in
honor of the steed he had loved so much.

Garibaldi, the Italian patriot, was a
friend of animals. Many stories are told of
his kindness to horses. The most interest-
ing and pathetic was his parting with
“Messala,” the beautiful white horse that
had carried him through many battles. In
1849, being greatly outnumbered by those
who were opposed to Italian unity, he was
driven into marshes and pine woods near
Ravenna where he was forced to bid fare-
well to his faithful companion of many
years. Kissing Messala on the forehead, he
left him in the keeping of a loyal peasant
and ﬂed for his life to the seacoast where
he later sailed to America.

Washington was both a lover of horses
and a notable horseman. His attachment to
his famous war horse, “Nelson,” is well
known. When the war was over Nelson was
pensioned, Washington vowing that the
faithful animal should never wear a saddle
again. He was turned out to pasture where
he enjoyed an old age of ease and' plenty.
Washington visited him almost daily.

No ofﬁcer with stars on his shoulders ever
did a more heroic deed than William Mc—
Kinley. He was especially fond of horses,
and well he might be, for a horse carried
him to important service in the Civil War.
He was chosen to take a message to General
Hayes to the 13th West Virginia Regiment.
Mounting his idolized horse “Bob-tail,” he

OUR DUAIB

dashed away over fences and ditches, in
plain view of the enemy, with bullets and
shells whistling and bursting around him.
He went safely to the regiment on Bob-tail’s
back.

No story of a war horse is better known,
at least in America, than that told in the
poem, “Sheridan’s Ride,” in which “Rienzi”
has been immortalized. It was in the early
morning of that fateful day, that Sheridan
mounted his coal-black charger and rode to
battle from “Winchester twenty miles
away.” When he reached the scene of the
conﬂict, the soldiers were so inspired by his
presence that the defeat which seemed sure
was turned to victory. According to his
own statement made to a friend at that
time, Sheridan rode two horses on that
famous ride. He started out on “Winches-
ter,” and rode him until just before the
ﬁnal attack, when he changed to Rienzi.
This noted horse was burned in the Chicago
ﬁre of 1871, Winchester went by the aid
of a taxidermist to the military institute at
Governor’s Island.

So the war horses pass in review. Many
more there are whose names are not famil-
iar, whose services remain unsung.

John J. Ingalls’ Prose Poem

One. of the most exquisite prose painters
which American public life has ever pro—
duced was the late Senator John J. Ingalls
of Kansas. Whenever it was known that
the brilliant Kansan was to speak the gal—
leries of the Senate chamber were invari-
ably packed. Usually he was caustic and
vindictive—in fact something of a wasp,
whose sting was the dread and terror of
his adversaries in debate, but sometimes he
indulged his exuberant fancy, painting the
most poetic pictures. The following apos-
trophe to grass is an inspiration. Said he:

“Grass is the forgiveness of nature—her
constant benediction. Fields trampled with
battle, saturated with blood, torn with the
ruts of cannon, grow green again with
grass, and carnage is forgotten. Streets
abandoned by trafﬁc become grass-grown
like rural lanes, and obliterated. Forests
decay, harvests perish, ﬂowers vanish, but
grass is immortal. Beleaguered by the
severe frosts of winter, it withdraws into
the impregnable fortress of its subterra—
nean vitality and emerges upon the ﬁrst
solicitation of spring. Sown by the winds,
by the wandering birds, propagated by the
subtle horticulture of the elements which
are its ministers and servants, it softens
the nude outline of the world. Its tenacious
ﬁbers hold the earth in its place and pre-

ANIMALS

Feb. 1939

vent its soluble c0mponents from washing
into the wasting sea. It invades the soli-
tudes of the deserts, climbs the inaccessible
slopes and forbidding pinnacles of moun-
tains, modiﬁes climates and determines the
history, character and the destiny of na-
tions. Unobtrusive and patient, it has im— '
mortal vigor and aggression. Banished from
the thoroughfares and the ﬁeld, it bides its
time to return, and when vigilance is re-
laxed, or the dynasty has perished, it
silently resumes the throne from which it
has. been expelled, but which it never abdi-
cates. It bears no blazonry of bloom to
charm the sense with fragrance or splendor,
but its homely hue is more enchanting than
the lily or the rose. It yields no fruit in
earth or air, and yet, should its harvest fail
for a single year, famine would depopulate
the world.”

Have you seen the Humane Calendar for
1939? Twenty cents each, two for 35 cents,
at ofﬁce of “Our Dumb Animals.”

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

POEMS OF SENTIMENT, NATURE,
HUMOUR, Henry A. Pershing.

This interesting collection of verse, by
the author of “Johnny Appleseed and His
Time,” contains one section that will especi-
ally appeal to animal lovers. Some of the
titles will be remembered by readers of
Our Dumb Animals as the verses appeared
originally in these columns. One of the
most popular is called “The Catnip Hour.”
Mr. Pershing, who for many years was an
executive of the South Bend Humane So—
c1ety, writes very tenderly both of animal
and plant life.

114 pp. $1.50. Pershing & Co., South
Bend, Ind.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of

-Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts.

Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 500 ~
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
[BL POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,

oston.

"Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

./ ..
/z/./h ./

,./ .

.ﬂ/ “4%,
/ fxﬁﬂx/ ,

/
.w/
I

.4,
n” .x
/, xV/xn /

./
7,.”

4,7,
4:

. /
/
2/ WW?»

I
I.
v.5

PRICE 10 CENTS

SOCIETY ~

sN
Mm

T
W“
Aw
OE
T:
YN
nA
EM
uu
RH
cm
wm

R
NE
OM
HA
NE
EH
w...
Rum
P a

E
H
T
R
O
F
Y
T
m
C
O
S
S
T
T
E
S
U
m
A
S
S
A
M
E
H
T

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 101;

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JULY, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Hen Batteries—Source of
Disease and Mortality

HAT do we mean by hen batteries?

“A common form,” to quote an-
other’s description, “is one in which a unit
consists of a block of eight cages, back to
back, four cages 'in a row, arranged in
three tiers to take 24 birds. Each block
measures ﬁve. feet long and 4 feet 4 inches
wide, and in this space eight hens are
caged. The usual size of cage for an adult
bird is 18 inches wide by 14 inches long and
18 inches high. There are other cages made
a few inches longer so that each cage will
keep two birds, and, in some instances, two
birds are kept together in an ordinary
18—inch by 15—inch cage. All cages have
a wire-netting floor to allow the birds’
droppings to pass through, and the ﬂoor
slopes to allow the egg to roll away for
collecting. There are no nests, the hens
never reach the ground and never go out-
doors. On many battery plants artiﬁcial
lighting is provided to give an approximate
‘working day’ of 14 hours.”

Poultrymen in this and other countries,
absolutely indifferent to the welfare of the
hen, so useful and valuable to humanity,
have resorted to these methods to make the
hen simply a laying machine for really no
other reason than the money that is in it.
No one will believe for a moment that
nature ever intended the hen to be cooped
up in this most unnatural and cruel sort
of conﬁnement. A year or more ago we
called attention to the fact that, as the
result of this battery system, poultry dis-
eases and mortality were on the increase,
according to a leading English poultry
Journal. A writer in this journal is quoted
as saylng:

“In the old days, before poultry keeping
became a specialized industry, hens were
farmyard hens. And if they didn’t lay so
many eggs they didn’t, on the other hand,
get so may diseases. Fowl paralysis, for
1nstance, was unknown.”

It would be well for humane journals to
urge upon their readers to refuse to pur-
chase eggs that come from he‘ns so treated,
both in the interest of the hens and of the
health of the purchaser.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Rabies in England and in
the United States

E have just received a letter from

Mr. Charles R. Johns, Secretary of
the National Canine Defence League, with
headquarters in London. He writes that
“there has been no rabies in dogs for many
years in England.” “The last case,” he con—
tinues, “occurred while a dog was being
detained at quarantine kennels, where all
dogs from abroad must be kept for six
months without contact with other dogs.
This dog came from abroad.”

“Prior to 1919,” says Mr. Johns, “we had
a long spell of freedom from rabies, but
about the end of 1918 a dog was smuggled
into this country and rabies in dogs was
conﬁrmed in a few cases. As a result of a
rigid enforcement of the muzzling order in
the localities affected, and also by prevent—
ing movement of dogs out of these areas,
the outbreak was quelled; and we have now
been free of the disease for nearly twenty
years.”

According to Mr. Johns, there is no
Pasteur Institute in England, but the
Pasteur treatment would be given and has
been given in the past to all persons bitten
by dogs in whose bodies the virus of rabies
has been discovered at the government lab-
oratory where such tests are made; and
sometimes the patients have been sent to
Paris where there is a Pasteur Institute.
He says further, “I do not know whether
it would be possible to have the Pasteur
treatment given here, but Paris is so near
to England that cases would probably be
sent there.”

The letter further says that “no inocu-
lation of dogs against rabies is practiced
in England, that the Ministry of Agricul-
ture evidently has so poor an opinion of
this inoculation that if a dog has been
brought into the country inoculated or vac-
cinated against the disease, they reserve
the right to increase the period of quaran-
tine to more than six months.”

We believe the general feeling in this
country amongst the leading veterinarians
is that, while there may be no value in a
single inoculation against rabies, the evi-
dence would show that repeated inocula-
tions year by year have materially cut
down the prevalence of the disease. It is
quite possible, however, that it would be
very difﬁcult to prove this statement to the
satisfaction of everyone.

A Humane Veto

Humane workers everywhere will receive
added courage from Gov. Loren D. Dickin-
son’s action in Michigan. As a result of his
veto it will remain illegal to dock horses’
tails for any purpose. The Governor’s veto
was awaited with interest by humane s0-
cieties all over the country. No one who
has not participated in the struggle for
humane legislation can realize the difﬁ-
culties encountered. The defeat of legis-
lative gains made in any state retards the
effectiveness of the entire movement. GOV-
ernor Dickinson’s veto was a service not
only to his state but to the larger state of
enlightened humanity.

——Christian Science Monitor

July, 1939

Henry S. Salt

Everywhere throughout the world, Where
humane societies exist, the name of Henry
S. Salt for years has been a familiar one.
He was founder, and for thirty years the
Honorary Secretary, of the Humanitarian
League, and for a part, if not the whole,
of its existence, editor of the organ of the
League. “He must be accounted,” says The
Aniinals’ Friend, “as one of the greatest
humanizing influences of his day and gen-
eration.” He once wrote:

“The intellectual aspect of the question”
(our relation to the animal world) “has, of
course, to be fully considered. Neverthe-
less, I am sure that the ultimate word will
be spoken not by the intellect but by the
heart. When once a ‘change of heart’ has
taken place, and kinship has been not mere-
ly argued and demonstrated but felt, any
further reasoning will be superﬂuous; there
will be no more need for us to sit in com-
mittees and to spend time in contriving
release for animals from intolerable
wrongs—time that might be more ﬁtly
spent in the worship of nature or of art.”

The death of Mr. Salt was announced on
the 20th of April. He died at the ripe age
of 87.

An Unusual Book

Under the title “Letters to Strongheart,”
(published by Prentice-Hall, Inc., New
York City,) the owner of that remarkable
dog, J. Allen Boone, has paid a rare tribute
to that extraordinary animal whose per-
formances as reproduced upon the screen
astonished the multitudes who witnessed
such evidences of intelligence as would
have been unbelievable had they not been
accurately portrayed by the camera.

After the death of the dog, which
occurred at the height of his career, Mr.
Boone has published a series of letters
written to his vanished friend and com-
panion. The following shows what a dog
really meant to him. He writes:

“That’s what that dog was made of—
qualities! Let me name a few of them for

you: goodness . loyalty . . . under-
standing enthusiasm ﬁdelity
. devotion . . sincerity . . . nobil-

ity . . . affection . . intelligence . . .
honesty conﬁdence strength
gentleness happiness .
gratitude appreciation . . . trust-
worthiness . . endurance . . integrity
. humility . . purity . . . unselﬁsh-
ness . . . fearlessness . . . love . . . and

all the hundreds of synonyms that parade
back of those terms.”

We have need of the Humane Societies.
They have done noble work in the actual
lessening of the suffering that naturally
or unnaturally comes to our wild brothers,
to our domestic animals, and to our own
kind. Let us strengthen their hand, for
theirs is a service that humanity can ill
spare. -

—Nature Magazine

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY.TO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 16

Dog Racing

WEEK before the recent election in

November, when a vote was to be tak-
en on a referendum as to continuing dog
racing in Massachusetts, the following
letter was sent to all the Boston daily
papers. None of them used the article.

November 1, 1938.
To the Editor:

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals is opposed
to dog racing because of the cruelty in-
volved in this so-called “sport.” In the ﬁrst
place, the greyhound is primarily a hunt-
ing dog, with the hunting dog’s necessity
for freedom and range. You cannot train
’ any animal contrary to its nature and “keep
it happy. The whole life of these dogs is
artiﬁcial and repressed. Their every natu-
ral instinct is suppressed. They run, not
because they enter into the spirit of the
race, but to catch and rend a stuffed rabbit
they think is alive, and the culmination of
the race is only a thwarting of that instinct.
With an inborn desire for freedom, their
lives are governed by an iron discipline.
They are shunted back and forth across the
country, from one race track to another,
with no opportunity to lead a natural life.
While they race and make money for their
owners they are well cared for, as any other
piece of valuable property would be, but
their racing life is brief and they are then
thrown into the discard and neglected.
Greyhounds are bred by the thousands for
just one purpose, and the men who breed
them are not humanitarians or, for the most
part, even dog lovers.

All this might be regarded as an indirect
form of cruelty, but it is none the less
cruelty. In essence it is of the same type
as that practised against the caged wild
animal. There is a form of cruelty con-
nected with this racing racket, however,
that is decidedly positive in character, the
cruelty involved in the training of the dogs
by the use of live rabbits. Owners, it is
reported, claim the young dogs must have
the taste of blood to encourage them to
pursue the stuffed hare on the race course.
There are cases on record, in the West,
where live tame rabbits were sewed through
the skin of their backs to an apparatus that
whirled them around the track with their
feet dragging on the ground, to be caught
and killed by greyhounds in training. An
extreme case, perhaps, but it has been a
common practice in this country to suspend
the live rabbit by its hind legs. California
has had a number of such prosecutions and
some convictions.

We had a similar case here in Massachu-
setts, two years ago, at Dighton; not in
connection with the race track, but at a
private training track set by a resident
for the training of the dogs. The bodies
of many dead and mangled rabbits were
found buried at this place, and while we
did not secure a conviction, because of
conﬂicting evidence, there was no doubt in
the minds of the Society’s ofﬁcers and the
police that live rabbits had been used.

In the Middle West, wild jack rabbits
are used to train young greyhounds. Cer-
tain publications there contain advertise-
ments offering to supply any number of
jack rabbits for the purpose, usually at 75
cents to $1 apiece. It might be "thought

\ up u
'J‘fl‘Ii

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Jan.1939

that the rabbit, under such conditions, one only from each pupil, teachers to make
would have a Sporting chance, but a sur- the selection.
cingle arrangement is often attached to the 3. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut-
jack, which makes its capture and mutila- out paper (original, not magazine covers,
tion certain. etc.), silhouette, water-colors or charcoal
Very few racing greyhounds are bred may be used. Color adds greatly to the
and trained in New England, where the effectiveness.
laws against cruelty are drastic and well 4. DRAWINGS, ON LIGHT CARD-
enforced. That is done mostly in the South BOARD OR HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE
and West, in localities where the anti- NOT LESS THAN 12 X 18 INCHES, NOR
cruelty laws are largely a dead letter. By MORE THAN 18 x 24 INCHES and
legalizing racing here, however, we encour- should be SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled),
age cruelty elsewhere. On this ground all charges prepaid, to reach the MASSA-
alone dog racing should be banned in CHUSETTS S. P. C. A. not later than
Massachusetts, and we urge people to vote March 25, 1939.
“No,” November 8, on the question, “Shall 5. In the upper right-hand corner, on
the pari-mutuel system 0f betting. on 1}' the back of each poster, must be written
censed dog races be permltted 1n thls legibly the contestant’s name, WITH FULL
countI'Y-” HOME ADDRESS, also number of the
, FRANCIS H- ROWLEY grade, name and address of the school, and
Pres1dent, Massachusetts 8' P- C- A' name of the teacher. Use white ink or

paste a white slip with names and addresses

School POStCI‘ COﬂtCSt when dark cardboard or paper is used.

6. All posters receiving awards become

HE annual school poster contest of the the property of the Society. Other posters

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will close on will be returned only if request is made at
March 25, 1939, a week earlier than last time of sending and return postage en-
year due to the advanced dates of Be Kind closed, or arrangements made to call.
1:0 Anlmals W991i (Aprll 17-22)- A new, 7. Address all posters plainly, Secre-
espec1ally des1gned medal has been adopted tary, Massachusetts S. P. C. A. 180 Long-
by the Society for the awards. Medals with wood Avenue Boston. ’
blue ribbons are offered as ﬁrst prizes; ’
those with red ribbons, as second prizes;
and annual subscriptions to Our Dumb
Animals for honorable mention. That these
prizes are distributed liberally through all
the competing schools is proved by the fact
that last season, when 8,402 posters were
entered by pupils representing 563 schools
in 170 different cities and towns, there
were 1,116 ﬁrst awards, 1,303 second; and
1,554 honorable mentions.

1. The contest is open to pupils in gram- °

mar grades above the third and in junior O U 1‘ D u m b A I] 1 III a l 8
high and high schools—both public and Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by

. . the Massachu tt S ' t f '
parochial—1n Massachusetts only, and Cruelty to Alfiemzﬁs, 04c: genfrlalths‘irtlelrtfvii‘digtogf

closes positively on March 25, 1939, results MassaChuﬁltts' B°5t°n Ofﬁ‘fe‘ . 13° L°ngw°°d
to be announced during Be Kind to Animals venue. dress all communications to Boston.
Week, April 17—22. During that week and TERMS

. 1 .
the one followmg, many 0 f the best Of the the()r‘1:o 133.1” per year Postage free to any part of

posters Will be on exhibition in the Fine _ All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en—
Arts Department Of the Boston Public tsltle tthe sender to membership in either of our two
Library, Copley Square. ' we les' RATES OF
2. NEW REGULATION. Th ° ~ MEMBERSHIP IN
h e entmeb THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
ave grown to such an extent that a new OR THE MASS .
lan will be tried this ear In t d f ‘ ACHUSEWS S. P. C. A.
p . . . _ . y - S ea 0 Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
COHSIderlng‘ each d1v1s1on, or room, sepa- Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 500

rately in a school, like grades will be judged suStaining Life crafdggws Inga“??? 1 00

as a whole and the best posters chosen Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
from 93011 gI‘OUp. ThlS Wlll offer more A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
competition, No more than ﬁve posters BOSton'

. Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
may be submltted from any one room, and Longwood Avenue, Boston,

In Cuzco, ancient city of Peru, we ﬁnd
gorgeously attired Indians, descendants of
the Incas of old, caring tenderly for their
llamas. So fond are they of these animals
that they consider them pets, rather than
beasts of burden. In fact, the llama is
treated as a member of the household,
sharing in joys, griefs and festivities.

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

y it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............ -. . . o . . -~
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

lb: "

‘ .L

" ..
‘I‘ l
.v‘ > "|

 




Apr.1939 OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 59

Annual Report of American Fondouk, Fez

RepOrt of the Honorary Secretary

UCH time as well as correspondence

in 1938 was devoted to the arrange-
ments of the new land. My week in Maroc
last March was devoted to securing esti-
mates for completion of works of immediate
necessity—grading, fencing, connecting with
original land purchased, etc., and the entire
work was accomplished at the ﬁgures
quoted. M. Delon’s careful attention to de-
tails made a very appreciable economy. He
wrote every one of the contracts and trans-
lated all the estimates, which in the case of
the original purchase cost, I believe, in all
about $500. \

Two-thirds of the new land is already
under cultivation and will save many
francs yearly now spent for forage. My
visit was also timed to complete the “Ma-
triculation” of the purchase price of land—
ten years after the building of the Fon—
douk. This “Matriculation” Law in France
is insisted upon more or less as a guaranty
of good faith, and, in case of a charity,
honest administration, taking the place to
a certain extent of our “Registry of Deeds”
in the United States. All was promptly
paid, funds being furnished by Mrs. Cort-
landt Field Bishop.

There has been a continuance of new
improvements of the property throughout
1938 in the original plot as well as the new
land, and I am never in Fez without much
regret that all of our widely scattered sub-
scribers cannot see for themselves the re-
sults of their generosity in the vastly im-
proved condition of animals in general
there in these ten years of the Fondouk’s
activities. Respectfully submitted,

(Signed) CHARLES A. WILLIAMS,
Hon. Secretary

Translation of Article Appearing in “Le
Courrier de Maroc” of January 3, 1939

Mr. Charles Alvan Williams, honorary
secretary of the American Fondouk at Fez,
has been promoted to the grade of Ofﬁcer
of the Ouissam Alaouite because of the
work accomplished by him in connection
with the American Fondouk.

Mr. Williams, from 1914 to 1917, was
secretary of the American Ambulance at
N euilly, and of the charitable organization,
“Mon Solday,” receiving the silver medal
of the American Red Cross.

From 1917 to 1919 he was director of
the American Red Cross at Naples, for
which he received the gold medal of the
City of Naples and the Cross of the Cheva-
lier of the Crown of Italy. He is also the
representative in France of the American
Humane Education Society and Honorary
Secretary of the Committee of the Ameri-
can Fondouk there.

Report for January—31 Days

Daily average large animals 46.4
Put to sleep 16 $ 2.50
Transportation 1.45
Daily average dogs 6.8
Forage for same 2.80
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 55.40
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 11.88
Motor ambulance upkeep 4.46
Motor bicycles upkeep 1.19
Sundries 61.97
Final matriculation of land 35.12
Actual operating expenses $276.77

 

SOUK (MARKET) NEAR BAB FTOUH, MOROCCO
One of the markets regularly inspected by the Fondouk Force at Fez

Entries: 8 horses, 13 mules, 63 donkeys.

Exits: 9 horses, 12 mules, 54 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 114 horses, 38 mules, 125 don-
keys, 11 dogs, 4 cats. 13 animals transported in
motor ambulance. 21 sent by police dept.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 455 cases investi-
gated, 5,47O animals seen, 610 animals treated, 51
animals hospitalized by us from above, 19 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

Extracts from the Annual Report of the

Superintendent

The hard times of last winter obliged the
French Government to take strong meas—
ures toward improving conditions of life
for the Arabs. Every year now with the
coming of the winter months and the scar-
city of forage, all grains arrive at prohibi-
tive prices for the natives to pay.

For the ﬁrst time, in August we were
able to buy in advance, as was done by the
French Administration and the Military
Intendence (at the same time and the same
price), a supply of forage which we believe
will prove sufﬁcient for the last ﬁve months
of 1938, and the ﬁrst three months of 1939,
thus maintaining our daily average of 50
large animals fully hospitalized. The cold
months of October, November and Decem-
ber are the worst for the Natives, as so
many animals become of but little use, due
to malnutrition. Twice a week, in the
course of my inspections on the Souks
(markets) for the sale of animals, I ﬁnd
some for which owners ask a ridiculously
small sum (but not worth more).

Thanks to the energy, the conscientious-
ness and the charity of Mr. Maitre, head
of Municipal Services, and the three vet-
erinarians of the Service de l’Elevage and
Municipality, many important reforms
have been accomplished and accepted by
their united untiring interest in what the
Fondouk’s ambitions have been from the
beginning. Due to their interest and posi-
tions, they have, with the help of the Police
Dept. and of the Fondouk, instituted a sys-
tem of control of all horses of the public
carriages in day and night service. With
the co-operation of the authorities we have
also arranged to report all animals injured
with hot irons to the Commissaire du Gouv-
ernement, who can impose ﬁnes on any of

the farriers who use hot irons for treating
(?) lame animals.

One of the last activities of the year 1938
was the publication of a circular in Arabic,
French and English, of quotations from
Islamic religious books regarding the treat-
ment of animals. This circular has been
widely distributed among the Arab au-
thorities, schools, etc.

GUY DELON
Superintendent

Translation of Article Appearing in “Le
Courrier de Maroc” of January 4, 1939,
Reporting Some of the Activities of the
American Fondouk, for the year

1 938
Daily average of animals hospitalized ....... 53.8
Daily average dogs in Pound—afed and cared for 6.1

Incurable animals hospitalized and humane-
ly put to sleep .......................... 406
Animals hospitalized during the year ........ 1,185

Anmals hospitalized by our own
Fondouk ........................ 745
Animals sent to us by police ...... 234
Animals brought to us by owners .. 206
Number of inspections in the fondouks ..... 5,671
Animals inspected during these visits ....... 93,229
Animals treated during these visits ......... 11,929
Animals sent to the American Fondouk ..... 745
Infected pack-saddles destroyed ............ 224
Number of outpatients ..................... 4,454

Animals transported in the American Fon-
douk’s motor ambulance—either accident
cases or those badly injured .............. 93

The Donkey Dreams

MARJORIE HUNT PETTIT

Little Donkey, gray and sleek,
Browsing in the April sun,

Do you dream of Passion Week,
And that pilgrimage begun

When down the city’s teeming street
A donkey passed on patient feet?

Little Donkey, in your eyes

There is glory—and regret;

Green the earth and blue the skies,
But your heart cannot forget

That Christpassed by, that joyous day,
Upon a donkey, small and gray.

 

 

 

 

 




 

,H

 

_<_>IOI 5mm

 

._._._m Z>mm>nzcmm44m mon_m._.< «on ._._._m

urm<m .202 o." ancmﬂi ._.o >z_§>_.m

. a... ._._._m >2man>z :c.s>2m mocn>._._oz
on_m._.< I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GLORY *0
G00. ,
PEACE ON EARTH.

"KINDNESS. JUSTICE
‘ AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING .1

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell,, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representatives
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JANUARY AND
FEBRUARY, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 1,188
Number of addresses made, 643
Number of persons in audiences, 93,918

For Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Other Side of the Story
From Italy

N the January issue we published a

statement from a correspondent who, we
believed, gave the facts as they were. At
that time we said, “No new laws for the
protection of animals have been passed in
Italy during the last 25 years.”

We have recently received from the
Naples Society for the Protection of Ani-
mals a statement, from which we are glad
to present a few sentences to our readers.
Among the various actions taken by the
Italian Government in recent years in the
interest of animal welfare, the letter says,
“In the year 1927 a Disposition of the
Law, given by circular letter to the Pre—
fects concerning the transportation of ani-
mals, directed that all cruelties must be
avoided, and recommended the most rigor-
ous observance of the Law.” It also says
that “any game or public show that might
cause pain or suffering to animals was
prohibited; that orders were given that in
slaughtering, the method to be used should
be the one that would bring death most
quickly and with the least suffering.” Also,
“that clear orders were given to all authori—
ties and employees of the stations and rail-
roads to make everyone observe the humane
laws concerning the transportation of ani-
mals; that on April 11th, 1931, by the ex—
pressed wish of Mussolini, a new law was
passed by both Houses—the Parliament and
the Senate—by which the protection of ani-
mals was declared of such importance as
to require the Government to make it a
national Institution, and the National Fas—
cist Society for the Protection of Animals
was legally founded.” Furthermore, that
“circular letters of several Ministers were
issued in favor of animals, two of which
were from the Minister of Education, urg-
ing that the schools should give humane
education the proper prepared lessons on
humane subjects, to elevate the sentiments
of pity, compassion and love.”

We quote also the following:

“If the improvement in the treatment of
animals seems slow in taking effect it is
due to the difﬁculty that I think we ﬁnd in
all countries to change a long—standing men-
tality in the people, especially of the coun-
try places where these people really believe
that animals do not feel or suffer like men,
and that the only way to obtain obedience
from them is the strong way—by force.”

That the progress in securing the enforce-
ment of these laws has been slow is evident
from what one still sees in many of the
country regions of Italy. We are glad,
however, to quote from this last report.

Do You Know That

Wales and England, with 58,000 square
miles, could really be hidden away in Texas,
with its 265,000 square miles, and almost
lost for anyone looking for them? Add
Scotland and Ireland, with 120,000 square
miles, and Texas would still have 87,000
square miles to the good.

The average New Englander, riding
through our State of Maine, often gets the
idea that there is no limit to its extent, but
eight Maines could be dropped into Texas
without difﬁculty.

Apr. 1989

A Better Day for Tulsa

EADERS of Our Dumb Animals are

more or less familiar with the indiffer—
ence of the ﬁne city of Tulsa to the welfare
of animals. The dog particularly seems to
have none to do him honor. The dog pound
was a disgrace because of the unsanitary
and miserable conditions under which it ex-
isted. From all over the country, letters of
protest came in to the Chamber of Com—
merce and the City Commissioners until we
have just learned the pressure became so
great that the Chamber of Commerce has in-
formed the City commission that something
must be done to stop this publicity. For-
tunately, at that moment a new Commis-
sioner was appointed who was very much
on the side of the Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals that has been
struggling long and hard for the better
treatment of animals. Apparently a new
dog pound is to be built, and the Tulsa
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals deserves any amount of credit for
its untiring service.

New Humane Literature

“The Animal or the Child” is a two-page
reprint of an editorial by Dr. Rowley, which
appeared in the January issue of Our Dumb
Animals under the title, “We Happened to
Meet—.” It shows that however much hu-
mane education is doing for animals, it is
doing vastly more for children. This is for
free circulation and a sample will be sent
to any address upon application.

“1939 Humane Exercises” is an eight-
page pamphlet for the use of teachers in
preparing programs for Humane Day in
Schools in connection with Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week (April 17-22). It contains a
special message from Walter F. Downey,
Commissioner of Education for Massachu-
setts. Price, $1.50 per 100 copies, prepaid.
Sample free to teachers and humane
workers.

“For Humane Sunday” (April 23, 1939)
is a two—page compilation of selections from
prominent ministers and others for the use
of those interested in preparing addresses
suitable for church services, Sunday—schools,
young people’s meetings, etc. Copies will
be mailed for one cent each in any quantity
above ﬁve. Sample free.

For any of the above, address the Ameri—
can Humane Education Society, 180 Long-
wood Ave., Boston.

Wild Life in Canadian Parks

In the fenced enclosures of Canadian na-
tional parks there are now 5,600 buffalo,
3,600 elk, 1,512 mule deer, 907 moose, 320
antelope, with smaller numbers of cattalo
hybrids, Rocky Mountain goats, Rocky
Mountain (big horn) sheep, white-tailed
deer and yak, besides great numbers of
smaller animals, says a writer in Conso-
lation.

A woman once said of J oubert, friend of
Chateaubriand, that he looked like a soul
which had met a body by chance and tried
to make the best of it.

The new bound volume of “Our Dumb
Animals” for 1938, is now ready.
$1.00, postpaid to any address.

Price

 




UARY I939

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

and THE «AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 60

Gull on a Building Inland

JOHNIHTCHEY

Oh sea-lost voyager, your flight
Across the ocean of the night

Has ended on an island where
The waves of traffic beat the air.

You perch upon this cliff of stone
And watch the night come on alone.

The lights might be those seen at sea
And not a windowed mystery.

What do you seek in such a place,
Is it a word, is it a face?

Bird of the Darkness

JASPER B.SINCLAIR

THE raven, sable-hued bird of darkness,
ﬁgures in more of literature’s classic
pages than many another feathered crea-
ture of the air.

It has its place in the mythology and
folklore of the nations, as well as in early
Biblical history. The raven has the honor
of being the ﬁrst bird mentioned by name
in the Old Testament. And it was by the
ministry of the raven, of course, that Elijah
was fed in his hour of need.

In the folklore of the Northmen the raven
was the bird of Odin. From his celestial
palace in Asgard, Odin was supposed to
have sent out his two ravens to bring him
daily tidings of all that was taking place
in heaven and earth.

In the classical mythology of the Greeks
and Romans the raven was a character of
ill-omen. Succeeding writers have sus-
tained that reputation down through the
centuries. In that respect the early English
dramatists and poets took the lead in lam-
pooning this jet—black bird.

Christopher Marlowe calls it the “sad
presageful raven.” Shakespeare’s works
contain any number of similar allusions to
the raven’s ill-omened appearance and the
many superstitions to which the bird has
given rlse.

On this side of the Atlantic Edgar Allan
Poe is in the forefront of those writers
who bespeak the bird’s foreboding appear-
ance, with his best-known poem to “The
Raven.”

Perhaps, after all, the raven has no one
to blame but itself for this widespread be-
lief in its ill-omened nature. Its grave
manner, its sable plumage and its habit of
so readily mimicking the speech of human
beings certainly do not inspire any spirit
of friendliness or cheerfulness.

Yet it is strange that the folklore and
literature of the nations should remember
the raven merely as a bird of ill-repute.
Christian peoples should be rather inclined
to remember it as the bird that performed
the miracle of feeding Elijah. For that one
friendly act alone it is deserving of a much
better fate from the pens of the poets and
the tongues of the tellers of folklore.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

OUR DUMB

 

A NEVER-ENDING TASK TO SUPPLY
THE EVER-OPEN MOUTHS

' An Ink Bath

LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

 

HE English sparrow is a husky bird

with a strong hold on life. A few years
ago the pressman in a newspaper ofﬁce
left the big barrel of ink uncovered while
ﬁlling the presses, and a curious English
sparrow drifted into the ofﬁce through a
window left down from the top, ﬂew around
a few times and disappeared. Someone ﬁ-
nally thought to look in the ink barrel,
where he saw two frightened eyes and the
top of a dusky head as the bird was settling
into the thick black sea.

The pressman ﬁshed the victim out, took
him over to the water tap and by running a
slow stream over him washed off the greater
part of the ink, being careful to get his
wings and the body underneath clean, as
printers’ ink resembles glue when it dries.

The bird was then put out on a roof over
a shed at the back of the ofﬁce and a dish
of water and bread crumbs provided for
him. Late that afternoon he had flown
away, as we feared to die, but all that
summer the bird came back to the roof
which he considered a feeding-station.

For more than a week it was easy to
recognize him by the ink on his back, even
when he brought his relatives to share in
our generosity.

The shark is a most valuable ﬁsh. Sev-
eral grades of ﬁne leather, says Youth’s
Instructor, are made from its skin; oil
similar to cod-liver oil is made from its
liver; glue is made from the head and
smaller ﬁns. The larger ﬁns are dried and
sold to the Chinese, who use them as a
relish. The bones are used as fertilizer,
and the ﬂesh is often eaten.

ANIMALS

Apr. 1939

Nest-Building Birds’ Human
Helper

W.S.EDGAR

EVERY morning and evening on East
Eighth Street in New York, a middle—
aged gentleman, with gold-rimmed spec-
tacles and a brown beard may be seen
feeding the wild birds of the neighborhood.
For the greater part of the year, from
January to September, he may also be seen
tearing cotton into shreds and blowing it
into the air. This cotton is sterilized and
is used by the birds as material for building
their nests.

The gentleman is Dr. Attillio Mario
Caccini, who is one of the medical men
employed in the service of the New York
Department of Health. Among other duties.
he specializes in giving anti-rabies treat-
ments to people who have been bitten by
dogs. He has been a bird lover all his life
and shortly after his arrival in New York
from his native Italy, he saw to his regret
that the sparrows in the neighborhood of
his lodgings were decreasing in numbers.
He began to feed them, but not with bread
crumbs which he declares are difﬁcult for
the birds to digest. “That’s like giving cake
and pie to a nursing baby,” he says. “It
completely upsets their system. He gives
them bird seed, suet, and a mixture of ants’
eggs, grated bone and dried meat.

A few years ago, Dr. Caccini, who has
remained unmarried, decided that there was
one more service he could render to his
feathered friends. With the replacement
of horses by automobiles and trucks in the
large cities, stables with their lofts of hay
and straw have been largely replaced by
garages, which yield no nest-building ma-
terial. What little scraps were available to
the birds on the streets were so dirty, the
doctor decided that they were a menace to
the health of young birds. At the Depart-
ment of Health, he found that every day
odds and ends of the best quality surgical
cotton were being thrown into the discard.
He promptly ordered all this to be saved,
for the use of the birds, along with bits of
linen and rope ﬁbres to help in binding the
nests. The fragments were blown into the
air so that the birds could catch them be-
fore they fell to the ground among the
germ-laden dirt. For the same reason, Dr.
Caccini: forbore giving them feathers
which might contain harmful parasites.

Dr. Caccini believes that his nest-build-
ing help has been even more beneﬁcial to
the bird life of his neighborhood than his
twice-daily distributions of food. Since he
started scattering the cotton shreds eight
years ago, the number of birds in the dis—
trict has more than doubled. The pigeons
are the only birds which do not appear to
have made use of his building materials.
The most enthusiastic beneﬁciaries have
been the bold, enterprising and adaptable
English sparrows.

A trained elephant works as a switch
attendant where three important lines meet
the main line of a lumber railroad company
in India. Colored disks on the engines of
company trains correspond to the: colors on
the switch for the tracks which each train
is supposed to take. The elephant throws
the levers accordingly, and without super-
v1s10n.

 




 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Cen

 

u {QMark Registered Ln 1 .
m 1868.AND FOR FORD/.0
BY

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of

VQﬂ.72

From Melbourne, Australia, a report
comes to us of a sullen and intractable
prisoner in a certain jail who was ﬁnally
allowed to keep his dog with him. The man
now is regarded as a model prisoner. His
dog goes with him to his work each day as
he labors in the yards, and sleeps on a mat
in his master’s cell at night.

It is estimated from reports received that
more than 600,000 hunters took to the woods
in 16 states during the last open season on
deer, and that 275,000 deer, at least, were
shot. How many were wounded and left
to die _no one will ever know. One hundred
and thirty-four sportsmen were reported
dead from gun-shot wounds or other acci-
dents connected with the hunting.

The passengers and’ officers on the Grace
Liner, Santa Rosa, report that during a
recent voyage on that ship there was a
mass ﬂight of canaries from Tortugas to
Crooked Island in: the Caribbean Sea, num-
bering something like 2,000, that descended
on the ship, evidently for a rest. The birds
were described as exhausted when they
descended, the bolder ones readily accept—
ing passengers’ invitations to food scattered
upon the deck.

Among the vigorous and inﬂuential or-
ganizations in England, interested in hu—
mane work, is the University of London
Animal Welfare Society, the name recently
changed from U. L. A. W. S. to U. F. A. W.
——the University’s Federation for Animal
Welfare.

Volume V of their report contains an
exceedingly interesting article by Sir Peter
Chalmers Mitchell, formerly secretary of
the London Zoological Society. We had the
pleasure of meeting Sir Peter some years
ago. No zoological garden ever had as see-
retary a man more deeply interested in
animal welfare and in guarding against
the sufferings of those many forms of life
shut up in what, at best, is to them more
or less of a prison.

February,1939

Bands of Mercy in India

FAR away from our western shores is
Amritsar, and a young man there by
the name of S. C. Batra, now recognized
as organizing secretary of Bands of Mercy
for India, who some time ago wrote us of
his interest in humane work, and was
vouched for by a professor in Yale Uni-
versity who had spent some time in India
and knew this young Mr. Batra well. With-
out asking for aid from this country, Mr.
Batra has been able, through friends he
interested, to begin the work of organizing
of Bands of Mercy. He says the ﬁrst one
was started in Amritsar in January, 1938,
and has multiplied into six with a member-
ship of not less than 800. He gives the lists
of schools in which the Bands have been
organized. There are four in high schools,
one in what is called a “middle” school, one
in what is known as Cambridge College,
one in Ceylon, and Bands also, he writes,
have been formed in Madras.

The Committee back of this, he tells us,
consists of the Bishop of Amritsar and the
representatives of each of the several
Bands. Two feasts were given to animals
in stables by the S. P. C. A. through the
Bands of Mercy. The members fed the ani-
mals with their own hands.

About 17 lectures were delivered, and a
very ﬁne tribute is paid to the President
of the American Humane Education Society
for his help and co-operation in this work.

He also writes of a Mr. Mercado, retired
president of a college, who is now acting
as president of the Council. Of Dr. R. S.
Vine (a lady) he also speaks as one who
has been greatly helpful in the movement.

The above we take from the report of the
Amritsar Society for Promoting the Wel—
fare of Animals.

The Registrar of Motor Vehicles in
Massachusetts, Mr. Frank A. Goodwin, is
very quick to suspend the license of any
hit-and-run driver who, striking a dog upon
the highway, hurries on, failing to stop.

postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct
Boston Office, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

    

Gronv 70
con,
PEACE on EARTH,

      

mo MERCY TO ‘
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

    
 
 

  

tral Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Mass.

TQo.2

The Temple and the Statue

N one of Zangwill’s books a Temple is

described “open to the winds where stands
a wondrous statue with a face that is beau-
tiful in its eternal calm. The winds from
far and near sweep round the palace laden
with the pain of the world, but the statue
hears them not; eternal calm is on its face.

“Until one day its ears are opened, and
it hears the message of the wind—it hears
the cry of the world’s vast woe. And the
pain of the statue is greater than the pain
of the whole world, for it hears but it can-
not help.” '

Keen as is the pain of a thousand hearts
at the sufferings that they know day by day
are laid upon the patient and defenseless
animals that man has brought within his
power, keener still, and harder far to bear,
would be the pain could we lift no hand,
speak no word to lessen those sufferings.
We, thank God, can act. We can speak at
least in behalf of kindness and justice. We
can write the letter that may move someone
stronger than we to utter his voice.' And
yet, more to be pitied than Zangwill’s
moveless statue with the cry of the world’s
pain ringing through its heart, is the man
or woman who can hear that cry and in
selﬁsh indifference let it ring on unheeded.

Thomas Carlyle and His
Horseshoe

A correspondent of The Animals’ Friend
says that the famous Thomas Carlyle, 104
years ago, invented a special horseshoe for
horses on frozen and slippery roads which
became universally adopted. The shoes
were known as Frost Cogs. The original
shoe can be seen today at the Museum of
his old home in Cheyne Row.

Carlyle is also quoted as having said
once to a niece, “Ever since I was a boy I
have never thought of the practice of vivi-
secting animals but with horror.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

u U. S.Trade Mark, Registered \

O 1. ANGELL ‘N

1868.AND FOR F‘ORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

December, 1939

No. 12

 

The Fondouk at Fez

We are glad to tell all interested in the
American Fondouk at Fez, Morocco, that
though the Superintendent, Mr. Delon, has

.been called to service because of the war,

arrangements have been made whereby for
the present he and the four grooms are per-
mitted to continue to keep the Fondouk
open and carry on the work.

For the Horses’ Christmas

Free dinners for working horses will be
distributed on the Saturday before Christ-
mas by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Trucks loaded with bags of grain, apples
and carrots, will traverse the streets where
many horses are in daily service. The feed
will be placed on the wagons of peddlers
and carried to the stables which let out
horses for hire.

This pre—holiday feature has been ob-
served for more than twenty years. Its
humane educational value warrants its an—
nual repetition.

Contributions of money or grain or
apples or carrots, sent to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, will be gratefully ac-
knowledged.

The Bill which would have demanded
that before a declaration of war the people
of the country should vote upon the subject,
we still believe should have been passed.
Who go to war? Not the President or the
members of Congress. The fathers, the
sons, the husbands—these are the men out
of our homes who are sent to face the
horrors of war by a mere handful of men
who may represent some of the people, but
never all of them.

We are pleased to learn that the post
ofﬁce at Holyoke, Mass., will again act as
commissary for the feathered population of
that district this winter. Organizations or
individuals who wish to contribute food are
assured that it will be properly and speedily
distributed by the Holyoke letter carriers.

Christmas

T comes this year as it has come for cen-

turies in spite of all the jarring voices
that war against its gracious message. Its
song of “peace on earth” rang out into a
world that had little welcome for it; that
denied even the right to live to Him who
translated its music into a human life. It
was a song of faith. Drowned a thousand
times by the discordant shouts of hate and
war, it has not faltered in the calm conﬁ-
dence of the truth it was given to proclaim.
Again and again as the tumult and the
shouting have died away, it has been heard

still ﬂooding earth and sky with its holy”

melody.

It is the song of the world’s great opti-
mist. There were ears that heard it even
amid the darkness which fell upon that
“green hill far away without a city wall.”
Ears there are that will hear it this year
despite the clash of hostile armies and the
roar of a thousand cannon. Multitudes
there are who will sing it with the same
conﬁdent faith as in those days of peace
when they trusted reason was soon to take
the place of war. To doubt the ﬁnal tri-
umph of the truth sung to the world in the
“Glad Tidings” of its ﬁrst Christmas day,
is to sail a sea without a bottom or a
shore, chart and compass lost.

We do not hesitate then to send out our
Christmas greeting. The things that are
seen are temporal. It is in the realm of
the unseen that we must seek just now that
which abides in the Christmas message and
which no night of war, save for a time,
can dim with its primeval darkness.

If we dare not wish our readers a Merry
Christmas, we do wish them all the glad-
ness homes and hearts may know where
faith and hope and love still live. To all
little children who look forward to the day
with joy we send our wish for a very
“Merry Christmas.” Notwithstanding the
pain and loss the year has brought, we
shall ﬁnd the Christmas joy just in propor-
tion as we strive to kindle it in other
hearts. Never was need greater since time
began that each of us live out toward all

men everywhere the spirit of the imperish-
able song, “Peace on Earth, Good Will
Toward Men.”

The Horse in War

NDER this title The Animal Pictorial,

an unusually ﬁne publication, devoted
to animals, and published in London, has
printed an article by Major-General Sir
John Moore (Director of Veterinary Ser-
vices, British Expeditionary Forces, 1914-
1918) giving a detailed account of the num-
ber of horses used by the allies and the
fatalities among them.

On all fronts the English had 1,361,000.
France, without giving the exact ﬁgure,
had about the same number. By November
1, 1917, 1,188,539 animals had been bought
from Spain and America to make up the
wastage in the French armies. Many
thousands died from disease and various
forms of sickness, and from exhaustion
from labor forced upon them but beyond
their power of endurance. How many sur—
vived the war we are not told. He does
say that from July 1, 1916, to the end of
the war, gas killed 211, gunﬁre and bombs
killed 58,090 and wounded 77,410, and 2,220
were incapacitated, making a total in
France of 137,931.

While the exact number of horses in the
war which survived is not given, the ﬁgures
that Sir John Moore gives us would seem
to indicate that the mortality among the
horses was less than we had been led to
suppose.

“To this day,” says the Major—General,
“few people realize the tremendous services
which were rendered by these animals dur-
ing the four and a half years of deadly
struggle. We have not yet appreciated
their noble achievements or the immense
help they gave us. They worked side by
side with us, shared our dangers, diﬂi-
culties, losses and incapacities; they suf-
fered with us and died with us; they were
with us in times of dreadful disappoint-
ment and they took part in the ﬁnal
Victory.”

Alas, all these animals to which such
splendid credit is given were not volun-

 




 

Feb.1939

located an old rotten stump. Setting to
work, he dug industriously and was re-
warded by ﬁnding a couple of fat grubs.
Another half hour of digging failed to
reveal anything more in the line of food.

Blackie was famished. The grubs had
only been enough to sharpen his appetite,
while the digging had whetted it to a keen
edge, that sent hunger pangs shooting
through his thin body. He was desperate.
He must have food.

Suddenly he remembered the strawstacks
in the ﬁeld where he had hunted grass-
hoppers last fall. These must yield some
mice. A half-mile journey over the snowy
meadow brought him to the stacks.

He paused, snifﬁng the air. Presently his
keen nose caught the scent of meat. Here
at last was a feast. Stuffed in a little niche
in the side of the stack he came upon a pile
of feathers, and from it came the smell of
fresh meat.

Casting caution to the wind, Blackie
pounced upon the feathers. Snap! A sharp
knife-like pain shot through his front leg.
The rattle of a chain told him that he was
caught in one of those wicked traps that he
had evaded so many times before.

Blackie struggled and twisted in agony,
but his foot was held secure in the crushing
grip of the cruel trap. He bit at the chain,
as the torturing jaws ground into his quiv-
ering ﬂesh.

After hours of agony, he discovered that
his foot was not hurting him so badly as
it had been. His whole leg was numb.

Something seemed to tell him to nip his
imprisoned foot. The numbness had dead-
ened the pain. And so Blackie set his sharp
teeth into his aching leg.

After hours of ﬁtful gnawing, Blackie
succeeded in amputating his foot close to
the cruel jaws and, writhing and twisting,
he wrenched his numb, bleeding stump free
from the deadly grip and hobbled away to

' his den to nurse his tortured leg.

Many days of intense suffering followed
before his leg was healed. He had escaped,
a three-legged cripple for the rest of his
days, like so many others of nature’s chil-
dren to whom life is dear.

NOTE: To anyone, thinking of setting
traps, we would present this true story.

Tribute to a Dog

We have a dog. He came to us as a pup,
and so we taught him the rudiments of
gentlemanly canine conduct. But the things
we have taught him are in small measure
indeed to the things we have learned from
that small black dog. He taught us how to
play again—to throw off care and worry in
the exhilaration of a good romp. He taught
us to laugh wholeheartedly, without reser-
vation or cynicism. Much that we know of
beauty has come to us because of him—the
glory of an early sun, its slanting rays just
touching the tops of the tallest elms, and
setting them on ﬁre; the magic of a full
moon, poised momentarily between twin
steeples; the gentle, growing loveliness of
soft rain on one’s hair and upturned face—
these and a thousand other phases of the
world about us we have found because there
was a little black dog begging for a walk.
But most of all we have learned the beauty
of loyalty that lies in a pair of worshiping
brown eyes. ——Chicago Tribune

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

THE LINCOLN FAMILY CROSSING THE WABASH IN 1830
This Memorial, opposite Vincennes, was dedicated June 14, 1938

 

Lost or Strayed
SALVATORE MARSIGLIA

Oh, little lost dog‘, with a sad, mournful air,

And a quivering tail as you sit on the stair,

There are tears in your eyes, and I know
not why,

Or your tremulous whine and your pitiful
sigh.

You were here last night, for I heard you
bark

In the furious storm and the gloom and the
dark;

And you scratched at the door when the
thunder roll’d,

And shivered and whined in the rain and
the cold.

Ah, I know you are lost! but you won’t
come in

To the heat and the shelter that waits you
within;

I could give you the love that you once
possessed

And the good comfort and care that I know
is best.

Oh, little lost dog, with the saddest of eyes,

And the heart-rending pity your whining
gives rise,

With the mad, angry winds blowing ’round
your ears,

And your tender, brown eyes that are ﬁlled
with tears . . .

Could you but speak, I would show you the

way
Or lead to your master who wonders this
day . . .

Your absence deploring, and missing you so,
Your bright diSposition, and friendly dog’s
glow.

Lincoln and His Dog
VERNA E.

N March, 1830, when the Lincolns moved

to Illinois, the journey was exceedingly
difﬁcult. Lincoln declared he would remem-
ber it as long as he lived. He was taking
a little ﬁce—dog along with him to his new
home and he nearly lost the dog while Cross-
ing the Wabash river. Thirty years later
he related to a friend how it happened,
and what he had to do to save the dog’s
life:

“I crossed the Wabash at Vincennes,”
he said, “and the river being high the road
on the low prairie was covered with water
a half mile at a stretch and the water
covered with ice—the only means by which
I could keep the road was by observing the
stakes on each side placed as guides when
the water is over the road. When I came to
the water I put a favorite ﬁst (ﬁce) dog 1
had along into the wagon and got in myself
and whipped up my oxen and started into
the water to pick my way across as well as
I could. After breaking the ice and wading
about a quarter of a mile my little dog
jumped out of the wagon and the ice being
thin he broke through and was struggling
for life. I could not bear to lose my dog
and I jumped out of the wagon and waded
waist deep in the ice and water, got hold of
him’ and helped him out and saved him.”

In 1938 a beautiful memorial depicting
the Lincoln family crossing the Wabash
was erected opposite the city of Vincennes
and dedicated on Flag Day, June 14. A
bronze statue represents young Lincoln,
walking beside his family and ox team,
which is carved in bas-relief on a limestone
panel.

MUTCH

Please remember the American Humane.
Education Society, Boston, in your W1".

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 106

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

KINDNESS, JUSTICE
. AND MERCY TO

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel] Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 738
Number of- addresses made, 225
Number of persons in audiences, 27,564

Which One?

Which of these eager pairs of eyes,
A-gleam with expectation,

Will watch me through their span of years
In quiet, sure elation?

Which of these animated tails
Will quicken in its motion

Merely to hear my step or voice,
Proving his proud devotion?

Yet I suspect the one I choose—
Licking my hand, undaunted—

Will prove beyond a doubt to be
The very one I wanted!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Where Do We Fail in Kind-
ness to Animals?

AY not the question be answered in

one word, INDIFFERENCE? It was
Ruskin who wrote: “He who is not actively
kind is cruel.” Herein lies our chief failure,
not that we do not properly treat our own
pets, but that we are likely to be rather in-
different to the welfare of our neighbors’
pets, and especially to blind our eyes t00the
cruel fate of the creatures whose sufferings
we do not see—the animals used for food,
those used for clothing, and those trained
to perform unnatural stage acts for our
supposed entertainment.

Probably no cruelty to animals bulks so
large, and is so little realized, as that of
the transportation and slaughter of our
food animals. Nearly 700,000 such animals
arriving in Boston last year, were inspected
by ofﬁcers of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
and hundreds of them humanely put to
sleep because of sickness or injury! But
what of the terror inspired in animals
forced to see the execution of their mates,
and what of the agony that might be
spared in the exceptional instances where
the animals are not ﬁrst humanely stunned?

Indifference towards the cruelty of train-
ing animals for stage performances, due
largely to ignorance of what actually takes
place, has been overcome to an extent by
the activity of the Jack London Club spon-
sored by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
and widely agitated by other societies in
this country and abroad.

In Funchal, Madeira

The Society for the Protection of Do-
mestic Animals of Funchal, Madeira, in its
report for 1938 states that perhaps the
biggest event in the year’s work was Kind-
ness Day, April 23, this being the second of
its kind organized in that island. The So-
ciety’s Hospital was open for inspection
and the Governor of Madeira and other
ofﬁcials were among the visitors. The in-
spector of schools of Funchal has become
interested in the humane education work
planned, but there was much disappoint-
ment because text-books printed in English
for the Society were still being held at the
Customhouse. The introduction of motor
lorries in Funchal has greatly relieved the
often overworked and overburdened draft
animals. The Society notes a marked in-
crease in membership.

Manual for Greek Students

The honorable secretary of the S. P. C.
A. in Athens, Greece, advises the American
Humane Education Society that he has
been requested by H. R. H. Princess Cath-
erine, President of the Athens S. P. C. A.,
to prepare a manual for zoology teachers
in Greece for the purpose of using the
lesson of zoology as a means for humane
education. He plans to have the manual
suggest a new method of teaching zoology
to students of primary and secondary edu-
cation and to indicate such activities as will
teach children to be kind to animals.

We were glad to send suggestions and

samples of similar manuals published in
English.

July, 1939

 

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee

The American Humane Education So-
ciety has had for many years no more
devoted, faithful and enthusiastic worker
than Mrs. Weathersbee. From Atlanta,
Georgia, where her home is, her inﬂuence
in the interest of humane education has
spread even beyond the State in which she
has so faithfully represented the Society.

Chicago Humane Education

Society

HE President of the Chicago Humane
TEducation Society, Mrs. E. C. Dow, is
worthy of all praise for the ﬁne work she
has been doing for years in that great city.
Not only has she, without ceasing, sought
the better treatment of all animals, but her
services in behalf of children, the oppor—
tunities she has sought before various or-
ganizations to present causes in which she
is so deeply interested, her campaign
against the use of toy guns, ﬁrearms and
various weapons by which the youth are so
often maiming or destroying life, humaner
methods in the destruction of our food ani—
mals, are all witnesses to her unselﬁsh and
uncompensated devotion in the interests of
the great City and of the State in which
she lives.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety is proud of the Chicago organization,
one of its children, of which, as we have
said, Mrs. Dow is President.

Cameras for Air-guns

Mrs. Oliver Dreyer, president of the
Humane Society, Texarkana, Arkansas,
writes, “I would like to have 500 Band of
Mercy pledge cards as I am giving ten
cameras to the ﬁrst boys and girls who,
during Be Kind to Animals Week, will
bring their air—guns and give them to me
in return for the camera and sign a pledge
to never again own a gun.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
under the Act of March 3, 1879

u U.S,Trade Mark. Registered ‘

m 1868.AND FOR man.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

Entered as second—class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103,

GLORY 'ro
GOD,

AND Meacv To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

September, 1939

No. 9

 

We complain of many things we would
like to see different here in our own land.
But who of us today would change places
with the citizens of any other land.

The article on Rabies which will be
found on another page of this issue is well
worth reading, especially at this season of
the year. Fatal as the disease is, it is much
rarer than is generally supposed, and un«
necessary fear and anxiety too frequently
prevail. '

The real lover of animals is often in
danger of going to extremes. It is no act
of mercy to keep alive an incurably sick
and suffering animal, or multitudes of
homeless strays whose offspring are doomed
to lives of disease and starvation.

Mrs. Minnie Maddern Fiske, the widely-
known actress of a few years ago, once told
us that she was not particularly fond of
animals. It was her sense of justice and
compassion that made her one of the most
devoted champions of their rights.

In Great Britain a committee has been
formed to provide for the welfare of ani-
mals in London, should a hostile air-raid
attack the city. It is said that, in addition
to the 40,000 working horses, there are
18,000 pigs, 9,000 sheep, 6,000 head of
cattle, 400,000 dogs and approximately
1,500,000 cats. The public is apparently
looking to the Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals to see that
this vast army of animals has adequate
protection.

At the annual convention of the National
Education Association, attended by 10,000
teachers the ﬁrst week of July in San
Francisco, literature of the American Hu-
mane Education Society was distributed by
Mrs. Alice L. Park, who has been in charge
of our Western Humane Press Bureau for
many years.

The Horse —— Then and Now

URING the early years of the Angeli

Memorial Animal Hospital we aver-
aged anywhere from twenty to thirty
horses a day. In the long—continued spells
of excessively hot weather, ambulances
were kept busy bringing them in after they
had collapsed with the heat, and all space
available was ﬁlled with them—many un-
able to stand and demanding the best
possible treatment to restore them. During
the year 1938 here is the story:

Forty-six brought to the Hospital for
treatment requiring a stay of anywhere
from a few days to a few weeks; sixty-
nine brought to the Hospital for examina-
tion and advice and provided with reme-
dies—total, 115.

Much as all lovers of the horse regret
his rapid disappearance during the past
quarter of a century, they must rejoice
unceasingly at the burdens of toil from
which this faithful servant of mankind has
been relieved by the advent of the motor
vehicle. Few horses today suffer from ill-
treatment, underfeeding, overloading, com—
pared with the thousands that met such a
pitiful lot only a few years ago.

For Our English Readers

N English humane journal recently
Acharged that worn-out horses were
being shipped from this country to certain
foreign ports where they could be bought
for a song, either to be used if ﬁt for work
or slaughtered for other purposes, and
stating that the International League for
the Protection of Horses “is putting a stop
to the detestable trafﬁc in worn-out horses
from the American continent to Europe.”

Reading the report, we wrote to the
Department of Agriculture at Washington
to know the facts. This is what they say:

“The Bureau of Animal Industry of this
Department has no knowledge of the ship-
ment of worn—out horses from this country
to Europe. Comparatively few horses and
mules are exported from the United States
to foreign countries. Nearly all of these

animals were cleared through the Omaha
market and, owing to the freight and ship-
ping costs, it is not likely that any of them
were of a type which could not render
years of service.”

We shall be glad to learn from the Inter-
national League the evidence for the state-
ment made. If the story is true, we believe
the practice referred to can be stopped.

The Rabbit and the Farmer

SERIOUS condition has arisen in
Colorado, due to the rapidity with
which the jack rabbit has multiplied. Com-
plaints have come to us telling of what
seems like a very brutal way of extermi-
nating these pests to farmers and ranchmen.
A brief summary from the assistant sec-
retary of the State Bureau of Child and
Animal Protection, Denver, Colorado, says:
“The farmers and livestock men of
Northeastern Colorado were faced with an
alternative: Exterminate jack rabbits or be
exterminated by them. Crops were de-
stroyed by hungry rabbits; cattle range
was denuded. The harassed farmers and
stockmen determined to follow the only
effective pattern known: Conduct a rabbit
round-up and destroy the pests with clubs.”
The assistant secretary of the Colorado
Bureau says:

“While we do not, of course, condone
cruelty, any action on our part to stop the
drive would have placed us in the position
of evaluating rabbits above humans and
made the Bureau subject to attack by in-
dignant farmers and stockmen whose eco—
nomic existence is imperiled by jack
rabbits. Future extermination activities
may be conducted with ﬁrearms, since the
rabbits have been somewhat thinned out by
the past two or three clubbing crusades,
though experts claim shooting is much more
cruel than the method to which exception
has been taken.”

It is devoutly to be hoped that some way
will be discovered of getting rid of these
unfortunate rabbits which, unconsciously,
are such enemies of the farmer and the

ranchman.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

 

Keep Your Dogs
1' e e

FROM WORMS

WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

    
  

   
    

WORM cAPsuLEs

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES, DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Address Desk N -58--0 Animal Industry Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS 8. 00., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell ParkevDavis Products

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

WHILE THEY ARE STILL MINOR LOCAL IRRITATIONS

SOAP'AND
OINTMENT

 

[II'I'IEIIR

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR
For 1939

With colored picture
“In the Land 0’ Bobbie Burns”

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve
for $1.80, postpaid.

AMERICAN HUMANE
EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Entertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22
and Humane Sunday, April 23, 1939

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Humane Calendar for 1939 .......... each, 20 cts,

two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%, x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ..... .50 “ “

The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider. Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .......................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ..... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .......... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50 “ “

The Cat in LiléiélﬁiéfﬂiiilﬁXIIIi .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

I Knew She was a Lady ..............
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special boards, 50 cts.

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 3O cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1 00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... 50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” $0.30 per 1"» "
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity ? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan, .50
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50

Humane Education

Humane Education, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Frim
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. I‘ ran.—
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools, -

96 pp .................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1. 0':

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each. 10 CES.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ....... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each ; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25c_
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each : ten for 25¢.
Humane Exercises for 1939 ........... $1.50 per 101}
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each ; .75
Humane Education, What to Teach and

HOW to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness Or Cruelty . . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer”. . 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ ‘

Need of Humane Education Societies and
Methods of Forming Them ......... . ‘
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ........................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .50 “ “

‘6

Does it Pay, Story of one Band OfMercy .30 “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

FILMS FOR BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

Although we have several prints both of “In Behalf of Animals” (two reels) and “The Bell of
Atri” (one reel), it will be necessary to make reservations early for rental of these ﬁlms for use
during BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK or on HUMANE. SUNDAY. If you are interested in these,
please write at once to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
to say whether you wish the large (35 mm.) size, such as used in theaters, or the small (16 mm.)

' size, used in schools and small halls. Printed description of each ﬁlm mailed upon request.

stating your requirements. Be sure

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tel. KIR. 6043-4—5

G. Nelson Armitage
PILGRIM BADGE AND
SPECIALTY COMPANY
614 Memorial Drive
Cambridge Mass.
BADGES - MEDALS - BANNERS
CELLULOID BUTTONS

and
ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FEDERAL ENGRAVING (0

FOR QUALITY AND SERVICE
"I" DAYandN|G HT "f.

Phone LIBertq 2496 - 24-97
I5 EAST ST. BOSTONMASS.

 

   

“THE BEEPS,” by Virginia Holton

The Flights and Cruises of Three Missouri Tree Sparrows

A TRUE account of the friendship between the birds and the man and
woman whom they followed for nearly 50,000 miles, even to the 1nter10r of
China and back. . .

PART of The Beeps’ story has been told by Dr. Franc1s H. Rowley, Presi-
dent of The American Humane Education Society; by Mr. Robert Ripley 1n
BELIEVE IT OR NOT; by Mr. John Hix in STRANGE AS IT SEEMS; by
the Associated Press; by the North American Newspaper Alllance; by the
American Weekly; and many other publications. The Beeps are known all over
the world.

THE PRICE of THE BEEPS is $2.00 at all bookstores or by.mail to the
publisher, The John Day Company, 40 E. 49th Street, New York Clty.

THE Westchester Syndicate Reviewer writes of THE BEEPS: “The narra-
tive is as fascinating as it is incredible, and numerous photographs included by
the author testify to its actuality. Get it for your youngsters, but certalnly
read it yourself.” ‘

EFFORTS are being made to place THE BEEPS, a beautiful story of
kindness, affection, courage, loyalty, and love of peace, in a mllllon Amerlcan
homes by Christmas.

 

 

 

      
 

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

N E MA
WORM

CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALI. BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Indusfry Dept, Desk N—58_M
PARKE, DAVIS 8; C0., DETROIT, MICH-

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

  
   
 

 

 

 

 

Humane Films for Rent or Sale—-

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longf‘ellow's poem
and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”
Showing work of the M. S. P. C. A.
Address
SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   
 

Amazing mild medication helps
soothe and whiten hands.
Superior to lotions, creams!

  

uuuuuuuuu

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.l. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Mootttakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINEE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR
1940

Contains a beautiful series of twelve photographic studies of
Children and their Pets.

All of the best-known and best-loved animal pets are shown,
and the calendar will appeal to all lovers of animals.

It will make a charming and inexpensive Christmas Gift and
will be mailed by us to any part of the world, postage prepaid.
A gift card bearing your name will be enclosed if desired.

PRICE 500.
THE TORONTO HUMANE SOCIETY

11 St. Albans St.
TORONTO ONTARIO CANADA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“THEY KNOW NOT”

An impressive novel with a New England setting, by Dr.
GEORGE SANFORD FOSTER, a well—known surgeon, of which
it has been said: “Here is a philosophy of living that creates
something new out of accepted human values and which raises
the otherwise commonplace events to epic heights.”

From every sale the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals Will derive a substantial proﬁt.

Price, $2.50 per copy, postpaid to any address. Use this
form in ordering:

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Please send ........ copies of “They Know Not” to

Name .......................................................
Address .....................................................
Check or money order for $. . . L ...... enclosed.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GLORY TO
GO D,

PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY T0
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 159
Number of addresses made, 92
Number of persons in audiences, 19,073

Retirement Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu—
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

Oct. 1939

 

BAND OF MERCY IN NATIONAL EPISCOPAL SECONDARY SCHOOL,

BASSA, PALESTINE

 

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for July—31 Days

Daily average, large animals 51
Forage for same $178.73
Put to sleep 14 3.32
Transportation 2.04
Daily average, dogs 6.6
Forage for same 3.32
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 60.93
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 15.89
Motor ambulance upkeep 16.26
Sundries 36.05
Apartment (plan) 7.94
Actual operating expenses $424.48

Entries: 15 horses, 11 mules, 65 donkeys.
Exits: 8 horses, 15 mules, 60 donkeys.
Outpatients treated: 108 horses, 64 mules, 101 don-

keys, 1 dog, 2 cats.
Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

Cases investigated, 385. Animals seen, 5,957. Ani-
mals treated, 615. Animals hospitalized by us from
above, 66. Pack-saddles (infected) destroyed, 24.
Arab bits destroyed, 91. Animals transported in
ambulance, 12. Animals sent by Police Dept., 25.

G. DELON, Superintendent

Honor Conferred upon Fon-

douk Officials

The “Ouissam Alaouite” is an order
which in Maroc ranks as the “Legion
d’Honneur” does in France. It includes the
same grades, Vizz—Grand Croix, Com-
mandeur, Ofﬁcier and Chevalier. It is the
only decoration given in Maroc to for-
eigners, French or Maroccans, for their
services to the country of Maroc. It is
awarded by the Sultan according to pro-
posals made by the Resident General at
Rabat.

In the New Year’s honor list Charles
Alvan Williams, hon. sec’y. of the Ameri-
can Fondouk in Fez, was made Ofﬁcier. In
the 14th July honor list of promotions only
ﬁve persons of Fez were named, one of
whom was the superintendent of the Ameri-
can Fondouk, Monsieur Guy Delon, who
was made Chevalier.

My crown is in' my heart, not on my head:
Not decked with diamonds, and Indian
stones;
Nor to be seen; my crown is called, content;
A crown it is, that seldom kings enjoy.
SHAKESPEARE

From Far-off Bassa

ASSA is a town in Northern Palestine,

and from the National Episcopal Sec-
ondary School we have from our corres-
pondent word about the splendid work that
is being done in organizing Bands of Mercy.
The picture represents the secondary class
students—members of the Band of Mercy.
In the front row, just above the letter “X,”
is Jirius Saropheme Jidoun, who has sent
us an essay he has written on “Cruelty to
Animals.”

This is only one of the many Bands of
Mercy organized in that section of Pal-
estine, and Mr. Bishara, our representative
there, says that it is a source of great glad-
ness to see how the spirit of mercy and
compassion and justice is rapidly gaining
headway over the cruel practices of the
past.

A Cow Did It

A relative of one of the counselors of
the Australia Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals is authority
for the statement that a pet kangaroo in
his family suddenly attacked the housewife
and would doubtless have killed her if the
family cow had not rushed to her defense
and, with her horns, driven off the kan—
garoo. We have heard of dogs and cats
coming to the rescue of some endangered
human but never before of our good friend
the cow.

A prominent Pittsburgh attorney, in re-
newing a subscription for his grandson,
writes: “A few days ago I took my ten-
year-old grandson, who was visiting me
from New Jersey, and his sisters for a
drive in the country. We stopped to look at
an oil well but presently I found the chil-
dren more interested in some horses that
had come up to the fence out of a pretty
dry pasture. The lad was pulling grass
from the road and feeding it to them.
When I asked him later how he came to
make friends with the horses, he said,
“Well, Granddaddy, its that magazine, Our
Dumb Animals, that you sent me.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE SHOP IN THE WOODS
Off the beaten path
North Conway, N. H.

A beautiful shop in a beautiful
setting

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No 652

NEMA

WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE ._
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N.58-F
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 00., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

     
  

   
 
   

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR ONLY ONE DOLLAR

Postpaid to any part of the world, “OUR
DUMB ANIMALS,” bound volume for 1938,
with 192 pp. and 150 illustrations.

180 LONGWOOD AVE. BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mutertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C- A"
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Humane Calendar for 1939 ............ each, 20 cts.

two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 .50 “ “

The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

, About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 _pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. .............................
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
.5 “ “

$2.00 per 100
.50 l‘ ‘6

Surplus Cats ......................... 0

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady ............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp., special .boards, 50 cts.

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth; 30 cts. . .paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “

Humane Education “Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness . . . . . . ._ ........... '. . .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ ‘ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... j .50 “ “

The Jack London Club ,

What is the Jack London Club? ...... ' .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,$0.50 per 100

4 pp. . . . . ................. . ........
Do Wild Animals Prefer CaptiVIty? Helen O
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............ .. . . .. . . .5

Trained Animals — Cruelty Dlsgulsed,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “
Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activnty of the
National Congress of Parents an Free

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley..
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends 29 ., a er covers, many

illus. .., ...... pp. . pip-15 cents each ; seven for 351-00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts.; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play .................... .3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ............................ 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Free

each, 10 cts.
each, 25 cts.

.............................

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty. . .50 “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

on y .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

‘£ 6‘

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

x

Low rates for summer rentals of theFilms

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,

and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. and its
Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Address SECRETARY, 18

Animal Hospital, two reels
0 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

:Ii’ﬁiix""t-.1‘f-3 '
_~,v. w” '7~,,.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 128

The Hunter and the Goose

MYRTLE G. BURGER

He shot the wild goose on the wing;
It fell, a still, insensate thing.

Torn were those wings that cleft the sky,

Silent the wild throat’s haunting cry

Which sounded from the creature’s mouth
When the great wedge flew north or south.

Stilled was the strange instinctive urge
Which made desire within him surge '
To follow after the summer’s call

To warmth and comfort and food for all.
Now let his wild) mate droop forlorn,
Companionless upon the morn.

N 0 man may guess her sorrow dim

And she, perhaps, may fall like him
Who lies so still and silent there
Dropped from the free and lovely air.

A battered lump of lifeless clay

The wild goose by the hunter lay.

And he whose need was not for meat
Glanced toward the creature at his feet
With a pleased smile upon his lip

At what he called his sportsmanship.

Southward Bound

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

N hot afternoons, after working in the

ﬁelds all day, we go down to the brook
for a bath. It was the brook, more than
anything else, that decided us to buy this
farm, and so far we have not regretted it.
Under the trees the air is cool, but in little
patches of sunlight the dragonﬂies dart
here and there. The surface of the water
is barely rufﬂed by the current, but we re-
member days after torrential rains when
this gentle stream became a raging yellow
torrent, a good’ ten feet deep, roaring down
to the river with a grinding of boulders
heard above the sound of rushing waters,
and bearing aloft trees, fence-posts and
hen-coops.

In the summer, though, it is peaceful,
sleepy, its spring-fed waters cold as ice.
Coming down from the ﬁelds exhausted,
caked with dust, we slip out of our clothes
and lie in the shallows. After the ﬁrst
shock, new life seems to course through our
veins and our tired minds begin to plan new
work for the morrow.

One day we started downhill. As we
neared the brook we heard a curious sound.
Upon investigation we saw a tiny black
duckling, paddling around and around in
a tiny pool and uttering loud cries. As we
approached it dashed away into the bushes,
but we caught it after lacerating our hands
and faces in the blackberry thicket.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 
 

It had a length of red string tied to its
foot, showing that it was not wild, but its
struggles and cries indicated that it was
terriﬁed at our approach. It happened that
we had a brood of half-grown ducklings
near the barn, so we put the little wild
fellow with them. In two days it ruled the
duckyard, snatching its food from the very
mouths of its foster-brothers and sisters,
and driving them away from the water
fount when it was thirsty.

In time it became very tame, and when
it was full-grown was beyond all shadow of
doubt, a female mallard. All winter she
remained, but in the spring she took to
wandering off with an old drake and ﬁnally
disappeared altogether.

I was grubbing out stumps one day not
long afterwards when I came upon one that
was hollow. I looked into the hole and
there, within two feet of my eyes, was the
duck, sitting so quietly that I could hardly
believe that she was there. She had pulled
twigs and dried leaves over her back, and
her plumage was so nearly the same shade
that it was impossible to see where the
leaves stopped and feathers began. She
did not protest when I lifted her gently
from her nest. Underneath her were ten
eggs.

She returned to the barnyard one day
with nine little ducklings. No hen nor
rooster could approach within ten yards
without the gallant little mother driving
them away with bristling plumage and
angry hisses. The little family grew until
they were larger than their mother. All
seemed tame and quiet.

One day in late October I was feeding the
ducks. The sky was gray, the grass stiff
with frost. Suddenly, from overhead came a
wild shrill call, and looking up I saw a
ﬂight of wild ducks, hurling themselves
toward the South, while they called to each
other from time to time. As I gazed, there
was a sudden ﬂapping of wings and my
ﬂock of ducks, with their mother, rose
aloft with) clamorous outcry and sped after

their wild cousins. In a minute they had
disappeared, never to return.

The saluki, a hunting dog bred in Arabia,
Persia and Egypt for more than 6,000

years, is supposed to have the oldest pedi-
gree in existence.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name.

 

“The Massachusetts Society

in the count

Hospital should, nevertheless,
tion of Cruelty to Animals
the Hospital is not incorpo
by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

. for the Prevention of Cruelty
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

ry, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the
be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
“for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
rated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or

to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or,

if other property, describe the property).

to Animals”; that it is the

Angell Memorial Animal

 

 

    

      

 
 

Aug. 1939

 

Executing Your Own Will
AN ANNUITY PLAN

You give to either of our two Societies
any sum of money, and it will be used for
the humane objects for which the Society
is chartered.

The Society will pay you semi-annually
during your lifetime a fixed income on the
sum given, depending upon your age at the
time of the gift.

In other words, you receive an assured
income during your lifetime, and thereafter
your gift will be used solely for the charitable
purpose for which you made it.

ADVANTAGES
It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
No waste of your estate by a

will-contest.

CONVENIENCES

An income guaranteed to you during life
by a ﬁnancially sound corporation, the work
of which dates from the year 1868.

Your gift will not be subject to market
fluctuations, or to the necessity of reinvest-
ment at stated or unexpected periods.

Your money, given while you live, can
never be diverted to any other purpose.

The wide ﬁnancial experience and high
standing of the trustees, John R. Macomber,
Chairman of the Board, First Boston Cor-
poration; Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President
and Treasurer of Unite-d Shoe Machinery Cor-
poration; and Philip Stockton, Chairman of
Executive Committee, First National Bank of
Boston, to who-m are entrusted the care
and management of our invested funds, are
a guaranty of the security of such an invest-
ment. Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The Societies solicit correspondence upon

this subject and will be glad to furnish all
further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals.

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUM’ANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Oct. 1939 , .

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood 6100

. L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
, Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec. 0

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MIss JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Wbmen’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P.VC. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday. '

Winchester Branch Auxiliary —MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 19,582
, Cases investigated ............. 432
Animals examined ............. 4,318
Animals placed in homes . . . . ‘. . . 250
Lost animals restored to owners. . 49
Number of prosecutions ......... 11
Number of convictions .......... 9
Horses taken from work ........ 13
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 40
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,829
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 54,732

Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ I 20

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue'Telephone, LongWood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H

9553:4505:
rowama

. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ .877
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,248
Operations ....................... 663
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ......... 193
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 627
Operations ...................... 139
Totals .
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 174,532
Dispensary Cases ............... 436,156
Total .............. 610,688

At the Free Water Stations

The free watering service for working
horses, maintained by the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. in Boston, was terminated on
September 9. At the four stations, situated
on the principal routes of horse-drawn
trafﬁc animals were supplied water 6,242
times.

That this service is relied upon and
appreciated by both drivers and horses is
still evidenced by the record. It has long
since become a humane Obligation to supply
this relief during the hot days of summer
where there are no fountains or water
troughs for those servants of ﬂesh and
blood that toil under conditions made harder
and harder in a mechanical age.

“The Beeps”

Our readers will remember the extra-
ordinary story of the sparrows, known as
the “Beeps,” which followed Lieutenant
Commander (United States Navy) and
Mrs. Holton from this country even to
China and back again to Manila and the
United States. The story was so incredible
in what it said about the intelligence Of
these birds that one could scarcely believe
it, had it not been for the testimony Of
eye—witnesses other than the statements of
Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. Holton.

Mrs. Holton has just published a book
entitled “The Beeps—the Flights and
Cruises of Three Missouri Tree Sparrows.”
The book is published by The John Day
Company, New York, and the price is $2.
It is a volume the size Of the ordinary
popular novel, and should have a reading
by all. lovers Of birds. Any order sent to
The John Day Company will bring a copy
Of the fascinating and amusing story.

Page 153

Lost—Stray—Unwanted

MONG the many serious problems all
Asocieties for the prevention of cruelty
to animals have to face is that of the lost,
stray, unwanted small animals. Few cities
provide funds for taking them from the
street, ﬁnding homes for such as should be
kept alive and humanely putting to sleep
those wholly unﬁt. The average dog Ofﬁcer
is more or less indifferent. This work
necessitates thousands of dollars in expense
annually for the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, for
which neither the State nor any city in it
makes compensation. The town of West
Springﬁeld did give us $200 a year for four
years toward looking after its lost and
stray animals. That, however, was cut out
in 1939, owing to what appeared to be the
necessity Of reducing the town’s budget.

The Society now is doing this work,
without any compensation, for the city of
Springﬁeld, Holyoke, the town of West
Springﬁeld and several other adjoining
towns. That is true of its work all over the
State from the Berkshires to the Cape. It
is a burden that the State ought not to put
upon a humane organization. At least
some compensation should be given. In
Boston, the City. does grant the Animal
Rescue League a certain amount for this
work. How far it coVers the expenses we
do not know.

Annual Fair Coming Soon

Remember the date—Wednesday, Novem-
ber 8, 1939, for the annual Bazaar of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., to be held this year at the
Society’s building, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., under the
direction of Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president.

Foods, candies, household novelties, ﬂow-

; ers and antiques will be on sale at the vari—
‘ ous tables. Luncheon at 12:30; bridge
from 2 to 4.

Contributions of funds or articles may be
sent to Mrs. Willard Bliss, Treasurer, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Animal Life in Borneo

Borneo, located in the East Indian Archi-
pelago, is said by geographers to be the
third largest island in the world, according
to a writer in Stepping Stones. It has an
area of about 289,000 square miles. Though
the interior is mountainous, most of the
island is jungle covered, and wild life is
plentiful. There are many monkeys in the
forest, tapirs, small Malay bears, deer, and
in the north are elephant and rhinoceros.
Birds abound, also brilliant butterﬂies and
moths in variety, and the rivers, lagoons
and lakes swarm with ﬁsh, crocodiles,
snakes, frogs, and leeches.

Endowed stalls and «kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Treasurer.

 

 

 

 




  

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET NO 652

WORMj~
CAPSULES .
EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE ,
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE

Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N_58_]'
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

DA N. D. R’U FFr'
AND HAIR. LOSS CHECKED
‘|.'|'C|-|_|'NG 35: IiIGEYER .BY

   

 

 
  

   
   

soAp and omr

 

 

 

THIS SPACE ._
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For
Only One Dollar

Postpaid to any part of the world,
“OUR DUMB ANIMALS,” bound
volume for 1938, with 192 pp. and
150 illustrations. ~

180 LONGWOOD AVENUE

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.l. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDG
City and Out-of-Town Service

E

 

 

 

 

'Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ....................

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices,

postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

$1.00

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume 75

Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. $1.00

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 33/8 $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. $0.60 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “

The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.

‘i (‘

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider 2.00 “ “

Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat ——- A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.3and4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons .50 “ “

Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three
‘ girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. .............................
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2
How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air—Gun and the Birds ...........

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................

$2.00 per 100
.50 (‘ 4‘

.50 H 6‘
.50 5‘ ‘(

.50 ‘K “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
I Knew She Was a Lady ............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special . . . . . . .' ................. boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. , Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

aysof Kindness ...... v .............. .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
$0.50 per 100
Prefer Captivity? Helen

pp. . . . .
Do Wild Animals

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley.. Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00

Kindness'Picture'B‘o‘o-k,‘ '32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane du-
cation, 32 pp.

..................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. ddy .......... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each;ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ............................ 10. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty.. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ...............

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

$1.00 per 100

6‘ (‘

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J Edd 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ..............................
Band of Mercy Membership Card .....
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy

$3.00 per 100
.50 “ (‘

.50 (C ‘6
.30 it H

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood

Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Low rates for summer rentals of the Films—

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem

“lN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital, two reels
Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Address SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

\
\

ﬂ

and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

July, 1939

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone(Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.~—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MRS. FRED A. PELTON, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

, Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary ——MRS. RICHARD S.

TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 17,569
Cases investigated ............. 492
Animals examined ............. 5,004
Animals placed in homes ....... 248
Lost animals restored to owners. . 66
Number of prosecutions ......... 3
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ 20
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 41

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,473
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 60,535
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 44

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

PHPHFN
Howe

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 806
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,050
Operations ...................... 743
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ......... 179
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 547
Operations ...................... 202
Totals

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ..................... 171,657
Dispensary Cases .............. 427,922
Total ............. 599,579

Important “Dont’s”

In the care of your puppy:
Don’t forget to take the chill off the food.

Don’t feed potatoes, lima beans, corn,
peas, pork, cake, cookies, or candy.

Don’t give a dose of worm medicine just
because he is off his feed without the advice
of your veterinarian.

Don’t take your puppy with you while
visiting kennels. Distemper is highly con—
tagious and is Often carried on the clothes
or rugs.

Don’t bathe a puppy. Wipe with a damp
cloth and brush well. Wait until it is six
months old, if possible, before a bath is
given.

Good Advertising

Occupancy of a nest in the top of the cab
of an ice delivery truck is the way in which
one family of brown thrashers is meeting
the current hot wave in Henrico County.

Hatched early yesterday in the truck of
G. L. Wagner, of Pine Street, Highland
Springs, the young birds made the daily
rounds yesterday and were ready for an-
other busy day today. The mother bird
sometimes sat on the nest with her family,
but at other times emerged for rations for
the widespread mouths of her offspring.
At one time she followed the truck for one-
half mile carrying a worm.

Mr. Wagner plans to leave the nest un-
disturbed as long as the brown thrashers
care to be his guests. He ﬁnds they are
paying their way in the advertising he is
getting along his entire route.

—Richmond News Leader

Page 105

Why We Have Humane Laws

ELLIOTT H. MARRUS

HILE the most of us go through life

being as considerate to dumb ani-
mals as to our fellow-beings, there are some
people who, because of some twist in their
character or, more frequently, purely out of
negligence or spite, rush through this exist—
ence like the proverbial bull in the china
shop. ,

Among the latter class are to be found
those individuals who are both cruel to
animals and alien to their fellows. It is
they who have to be taught that living is
something more than just working, eating
and sleeping. This they must be taught by
some way or other.

Since education has not as yet reached
the stage where such information is thor-
oughly inculcated in the people, some other
means must be adopted to Show these mis-
guided individuals that neglect and cruelty
to animals is unwise and wrong.

Organized society, recognizing this need,
has through its constituted authorities en-
acted statutes to keep the inconsiderate
“in line.” That is why we ﬁnd in all parts
of the country, laws punishing cruelty to
dumb animals. Because of an enlightened
judiciary and active humane societies, these
legal bans are strictly enforced. Regularly
the newspapers report convictions and pun-
ishments for malefactors who violate the
laws of their states and of decency by
whipping, conﬁnement or other forms of
mistreatment of pets.

One of the most commendatory steps in
this direction was taken by New York when
it enacted, after a strenuous campaign by
the Noble Dog Foundation, a law providing
ﬁnes and imprisonment for persons who
permit their cars to hit animals and who
then “run” away from the scene. Given a
surging motor under their control, some
people speed along the highways and
streets, taking little heed of the damage
they do. Many times, irate animal owners
and friends have complained to the authori-
ties because motorists ran over their pets
and left them rolling in pain on the road.

To do away with such occurrences, the
New York law states than an automobilist
who runs over a horse, dog or cattle must
stop and report the accident to the police.
In addition, he must “take any other rea-
sonable and appropriate action so that the
animal may have necessary attention.”
Severe punishment is provided for failing
to do these things.

Since this law has been in effect, a num-
ber of drivers have been hailed to court to
answer for their hitting animals and leav-
ing the scene of the accident. One magis-
trate who imposed a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars
and revoked the driver’s license for six
months, said in imposing sentence: “I want
this to be a lesson to others who hit dumb
animals and leave them in the street in-
stead of assisting them.”

Thus we have reached the stage where
the law steps in and with a ﬁrm hand
teaches some people that animals must be
treated in a humane manner. It is a sad
commentary on our life that this should
have to be done. If more emphasis were
put on teaching children the importance of
kindness to animals, such laws might be
unnecessary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1939

Butter, Cheese and Chick-
adees

CONRAD O. PETERSON

UR little winter friends, the chicka-

dees, are real friends of the farmer.
They just dote on butter and cheese. We
found this out, my brother and I, as we sat
by our camp-ﬁre in our wood-lot, while
eating our midday lunch.

These camp-ﬁre lunches have always
been made interesting by the appearance
of the little feathered visitors. We knew
from experience that they liked white bread,
and that they did not care for dark cake.
But the fact that they loved butter and
cheese was a real surprise.

The birds have now become so accus-
tomed to us that they show no fear what-
ever. As I absently held a cheese sandwich
in my hand yesterday, a chickadee landed
on my thumb and began pecking away at
the sandwich—not at the bread, but at the
cheese between the slices of bread. My
brother experimented with the same result
with his butter sandwich.

I scattered pieces of bread, butter and
cheese on a near-by stump and saw the
birds carry away the butter and cheese
ﬁrst. The chickadee eats only the smaller
pieces at once. The larger pieces of food
are carried away and stored for future use.
These are usually placed in hollow places
and openings in the bark of trees. Small
as he is, the chickadee also looks to the
future—when the blizzard will howl and
food become scarce.

The Welcome Junco
WILLIS MEHANNA

(V LAD as we always are to see the little,
ll slate-colored junco, he has a sobering
effect on us for we realize his appearance
means the melancholy days are soon coming.
But in any case .his coming is a boon for
him and for us. For him, because it means
he will winter in a milder climate than that
from which he came and where food is more
abundant. For us, because he is good com-
pany and devours eggs of insects which he
ﬁnds in the dead stalks of weeds and in the
bark of trees.

To keep insects from destroying vegeta-
tion Nature has provided birds to ﬁght them
in winter as well as in summer. Contrary
to what we might suppose, there are insects
that live in the dead of winter seemingly
without difﬁculty—some kinds of worms and
many varieties of bugs. These the junco
destroys. In so doing he is seen not only in
the woods and near dwellings in the country
but in the parks and backyards of big cities.

In appearance the junco with his retiring
colors is, I think, a very beautiful bird. He
matches the setting and background of the
seasons he is with us. His throat and breast
are a slate-color, more or less washed with
grayish brown. Stomach white and sides
grayish. Outer feathers of tail white while
head is very dark. Juncos nest in Canada
and the northern states. They build their
nests in low bushes and on the ground.
These contain four or ﬁve bluish white
eggs with dark spots. Male and female are
similarly colored.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sport
JOY O’HARA

Soft, in the dogwood depths,
A widow sings,

H appy—unknowin g

Of life blood flowing,

A loved heart slowing.

What did the wild bird say
While falling?

“Oh, foolish son,

Put down your gun,

My song is done.”

When, from her nest,

His anxious mate is calling,
And no reply

Comes from the sky,

What price this fun?

Oh, boys, ﬁnd other tools
And better things

To try your skill,

Than ways to kill!
There’s ﬁelds to till

And roads to build!
Oh, let bright wings
Soar overhead.

Too many dead
Already lie

In pools of red.

A Simple Feeding Station

Any child can make a feeding—station for
birds, by having a cocoanut sawed through
the middle, and nailing the halves to the
the top of fence posts, a trellis or window
ledge. Keep the hollow in the center of each
half ﬁlled with crumbs, bits of suet, seed-
less raisins, and ﬁne grains. The birds will
in time eat out the cocoanut, leaving only
the shell, but this can be used for years.

L. M. T.

Page 61
“Wren” Day in Ireland

AMELIA GARVEY

N the twenty-sixth of December of

each year in the villages of Ireland,
small boys and boys not so small dress up
in any kind of masquerade costume they
can ﬁnd—mother’s skirt and dad’s ﬂannel
shirt do ﬁne—and go around from door to
door asking for money to “bury the wren.”
This last word is pronounced “ran” by them
in their rich Irish brogue. They recite a
sing—song rhyme as they go, something like
this:

“The wren, the wren is the King of All
Birds,
Oh, give me a penny to bury the wren.”

They also sing songs and dance an Irish
jig in order to wheedle a few coppers from
the farmers and their wives.

The origin of this quaint custom is lost
but it is probable that it grew out of the
tender-hearted Irish people’s love for their
dumb friends and their unwillingness to
allow this smallest of the bird kingdom to
remain unburied.

The title “King of All Birds” is supposed
to have been given to the wren when, years
and years ago, there was a contest among
the birds to see which could ﬂy the highest.

The thrush, robin, blackbird and all the
others started at the given signal, each con-
ﬁdent of being able to ﬂy the highest and
with dreams of being crowned “King of
All Birds.”

Soon, however, the lordly eagle far out—
distanced his closest follower and was just
about to be declared winner, when the little
wren was seen to soar away up above him.

The trick was, of course, that the wren
had just sat on the eagle’s back all the
way up and when that bird had ﬂown as
high as his strength would allow, the little
wren, who had saved all his strength, made
his own little ﬂight above the eagle’s, and
won the contest.

This was how the wren came to be known
as the “King of All Birds.”

 

FATHER AND MOTHER SWAN AND THEIR FIVE TINY CYGNETS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 20

From a Hilltop
HARRY ELMORE HURD

A dismal trilogy of sounds
Proclaims the running of the hounds.

The primal cries that split the air
Announce the drama of despair.

There is no respite in this strife
That presses on the heels of life.

Standing on this lonely hill
I hear the 'voice of evil will——

Hear the harriers draw near——
Feel the frenzied rabbit’s fear.

I cannot see, I only know
That crimson life shall stain the snow

And beauty, taken by surprise,
Shall die with wonder in its eyes.

“Buck” Calls on Me

E. E. WATSON

OME years ago while prospecting for

zinc or lead ore in the rough hills and
mountains of the Ozarks, I started out one
morning, just after a snow, and soon ran
across tracks of a deer. Then I found where,
after wolves had struck his trail he had
leaped, and, slipping on sloping ice had
fallen and slid to the bottom of a gulch.
Hearing wolves snarling, I hurried down,
drove away three wolves, and stepped over
to a young buck who was down and, as I
found, with a broken leg.

The poor fellow was so weak he would
not even attempt to get up, but what sur-
prised me was that when I approached
him he made no effort to move or struggle
in any way. As I patted a shoulder, he
looked at me as though knowing he had
found a friend. I hurried back to my lone
cabin, a very short distance away, and
secured rope, cords and a sled I occasionally
used for hauling my tools when ice or snow
was on the ground.

When I got back two of the wolves were
just sneaking up to poor “Buck.” Arranging
the sled beside Buck, and tying his legs
together to prevent him kicking and rolling
off, I lifted him onto the sled and tied his
body there, then worked my way up the
gulch to where I could haul him and the
sled out. Taking him to the cabin, I un-
loaded him, ﬁnding that he also had a very
jagged wound on his neck—doubtless caused
by a sharp rock in his fall. I whittled out
and applied splints to his broken leg, after
washing the place and applying a disin-
fectant, then washed and dressed the wound
in his neck.

Every day, before and after work hours,
I fed and petted him. He’d eat most any-
thing I gave him, such as oatmeal, corn
meal and cabbage and potatoes—even can-
ned beans and peas. Within two weeks he
seemed to feel he was quite capable of
getting around again. I had a pen near by,
with a little shed that I kept my burro in.
I let Buck stay there for a few days (the
burro had been taken back to town after
my boy and I had brought out the last load
of stuff). There were some oats and corn

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Feb. 1939

 

BLACK—TAIL FAWNS IN MONTANA

 

left in there yet and Buck feasted on them.

Soon he became restless within the en-
closure and I let him out to roam. He did,
BUT every morning and evening he came
for feed, and in very bad weather he in-
sisted on coming into the cabin. In the
spring I moved my prospecting to another
cabin several miles away. I had not been
located over two hours when Buck showed
up.

It’s been nearly ﬁve years since I ﬁrst saw
him—and every winter he has showed up
as usual. He’s as tame as any house dog
ever was.

Sprites of February Woods

FERN BERRY

HEN the snows of the hunger

month, February, lie banked high
along the roads and the aisles of the woodL
lands are carpeted with it, when the ﬁelds
are broad snow-and-ice crusted plains, we
become weary of the winter and long for
our summer friends, the robin, bluebird
and lark. But out in the woods, or coming
as visitors to our feeding stations, are the
tiny sprites of the winter woods.

The brown tree creeper, a dainty little
bird, not larger than a wren, has a thin
lisping, “seet-seet-seet” call-note. The habit
of the creeper to carefully cover the tree
trunks in search of food in the form of
insects, eggs, larvae, is an interesting one.
The feet and legs seem almost invisible but
the beak is long and awl-like and just right
for pulling out tid-bits.

The white-breasted nuthatch is another
of the winter woodland birds with the habit
of searching the great tree trunks for its
food. This bird has a strange elﬁn appear-
ance. It is as large as a sparrow and the
coloring is blue-gray and white with a
blackish crown. It has an inquisitive habit
of poking here and there as it travels over
the lichen-covered trunks.

The hairy and downy woodpeckers and
the blue jay add to the great orchestra of
the winter woods with their cries and
drumming. Like a ﬂash the cardinal leaves
his hiding place in the hemlock grove and
sets out to ﬁnd a vine still bearing a few
dried grapes or berries.

The Cruel Trap

L. D. CHAPMAN

LACKIE,” the skunk, slowly dug his

way up through the six-foot drift of
snow that covered the old woodchuck hole,
which had been his home during the long
winter months. The snow had come early
and one storm had followed closely on the
heels of the previous one, keeping him
denned several weeks longer than usual.

At ﬁrst he didn’t mind it. He had put in
a busy summer, roaming over the country-
side, in quest of grasshoppers, crickets and
other insects which comprised the larger
part of his bill of fare and, with the com-
ing of winter, he was more than willing to
take a few weeks of rest.

He had crawled into the snug woodchuck
hole, when the ﬁrst blizzard drove down
from the north and had curled up to make
the most of his leisure time. His chunky
little body was well covered with a thick
layer of fat that was sufﬁcient to supply
his bodily needs for several weeks to come.

Finally, however, Blackie’s long sleep
was broken. He wakened and prowled un—
easily about his den, but mother nature
warned him that it was not yet time for
him to venture forth. Heeding the warn-
ing, he again curled up in his snug nest and
promptly went back to sleep. At last there
came a day when sleep was out of the ques-
tion. Late one afternoon he commenced
digging his way through the deep drift. He
was not long in reaching the top and, pok-
ing his sharp-pointed nose through the crust
of snow that covered the drift, he sniffed
testingly of the soft balmy air that was
blowing from the south. Everything pro-
claimed that at last spring was in the air.

Blackie was never so hungry in his whole
life. All of the stored-up fat had been con-
sumed during the long weeks of sleep and
now his hungry stomach was calling for
food. His keen nose had always led him to
plenty of food; surely it wouldn’t fail him
now. He made his way leisurely toward an
old hedgerow. There he would ﬁnd some
mice and what better food could anyone
ask for?

But the hedgerow proved to be devoid of
mice and Blackie was disgusted. Later he

 




 

 

E0. 1. AN

u U. S,Trade Mark, Registered ‘

CELL IN 1868. AND FOR FORW‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
———COWPER

AND Mancv T'o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered assecond-clasamatter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

March, 1939

No. 3

 

There appears to have been during 1938
only sixty cases of rabies in Massachusetts,
the smallest number for the past twenty-two
years. The largest number of cases of this
disease for the same period was in 1928
when there were 862.

The Blue Cross, ofﬁcial organ of the
Shanghai Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, continues to come to
us. It is a very attractively prepared maga—
zine and beautifully illustrated. As we
think of Shanghai, it hardly seems possible
that any organization there has been able
to carry on as in the past.

Mount Greylock is Massachusetts’ high-
est mountain. Since 1932 what has been
known as the Eternal Light has burned on
its summit, a 12,000—watt beacon blazing
from the 1,110-foot tower. But what glad-
dened the human eye as it turned toward
that beacon to the migratory birds became
a lure to their death. And so, during the
migratory seasons, the Light will burn no
more.

Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, the widely-
known lover of animals and of children and
equally welcome broadcaster, began Febru-
ary 7 to speak from Springﬁeld, over
WSPR (1140 on the dial), in the interest
of the Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals and the
Springﬁeld Animal Hospital and the many,
many forms of animal :life that have won
his love and affection. He will be heard on
this station at 6.15 P.M., each Tuesday.

Schopenhauer was a great philosopher.
His name will rank with the leaders of
human thought, and it was he who said,

“Boundless compassion for all living
things is the surest and most certain guar-
antee of pure moral conduct; and needs no
casuistry. Whoever is ﬁlled with it will
assuredly injure no one, do harm to no one,
encroach on no man’s rights; he will rather
have regard for everyone, help everyone
as far as he can, and all his actions will
bear the stamp of justice and loving kind-
ness.”

Why the Following Letter?>

January 19,‘ 1939
Will Hays, President
Motion Picture Producers & Distributors

of America, Inc.
New York, N. Y.

Dear Mr. Hays:

Though often assured by motion picture
managers that the day had passed when
cruelty to animals would be tolerated in the
making of ﬁlms, I am now particularly
astonished at an article which has appeared
in a New York paper relative to the inhu-
man cruelties inﬂicted especially upon
horses in the ﬁlming of the picture known
as “Jesse James.”

Unfortunately, I have had no opportu-
nity to see the picture, but I have read the
report which appeared, written by Irvin
John Scully, a widely-experienced news—
paper man and publicist, and the testimony
presented seems absolutely irrefutable. I
am, therefore, expressing here the protest
of our two great organizations, and shall
publish in our magazine, which goes all
over the world, and to every humane or-
ganization, the substance of this report. I
cannot understand how any American
organization appealing to a decent and hu—
mane American public can be guilty of such
cruelties as are reported by eyewitnesses
and thoroughly reputable people.

I feel certain that the membership of
the more than six hundred humane organ-
izations in this country, learning of what
occurred during the ﬁlming of that picture,
will show their indignant protest by abso-
lutely refusing to see the picture and by
telling their friends to stay away from it.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) FRANCIS H. ROWLEY,
President

If the above letter does not satisfactorily
explain itself, here are the facts on which
it is based:

Having had information from eyewit-
nesses of the cruelties to horses involved in
the ﬁlming of the picture, “Jesse James,”
(produced by Twentieth Century Fox

Studios, Inc.) the Humane Society of Mis-
souri (St. Louis) and the American Hu-
mane Association took steps to secure the
testimony of people actually present at the
place where this section of the moving
picture was ﬁlmed. We quote now from the
afﬁdavits of eyewitnesses, according to an
article by Irvin John Scully, spoken of in
the above letter.

“Last October a Twentieth Century loca—
tion crew arrived at the Lake of the Ozarks,
Camden County, Missouri. On October 4,
the crew set up a greased slide, blind chute
and roller rocker, above a drop—the moving
picture company admits it’s close to ﬁfty
feet—at what is known locally as the
Osage Arm of the Lake of the Ozarks. A
local company furnished a fleet comprising
rowboats, a cruiser, a runabout and a
barge, which hovered below the chute,
October 5.

“That day, with cameras set up, a stunt-
man mounted a blind-folded horse which
had been led on the chute. As the animal
was urged forward by members of the
movie crew, its weight automatically tipped
the greased chute, plunging rider and horse
into the waters below. According to the
afﬁdavit, the unfortunate animal hit the
water hindmost, came up twice and then
sank. The stuntman escaped unhurt.

“A high point in barbarity followed,
according to the witnesses. After the
horse’s body had been recovered with grap-
pling hooks, the saddle was adjusted to
another horse, which was put through the
same procedure on the chute. In the second
instance, the horse missed the greased slide,
fell close to the almost prependicular cliff,
breaking off a projecting rock. As before,
the stuntman successfully leaped off the
saddle, and escaped unhurt. Boatmen
lassoed the horse and towed it ashore.

“Mr. Amundsen, managing director of
the Humane Society of Missouri, St. Louis,
Missouri, when apprised of the facts, ob-
tained afﬁdavits from eyewitnesses to the
wanton acts of cruelty.”

Dear Reader, won’t you please write a
personal protest to the Twentieth Century
Fox Film Corporation, 444 West 56th
Street, New York City?

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

Talkies at the Zoo

EDYTI-IE A. BACON

“Just look at that hat!” crowed the chim-
panzee,
As he scratched and rubbed a stiﬂ old
knee;
“If I had to wear a thing like that
At least I’d get one WORTH looking at!”

“It’s a peach compared to the one I saw,—
You should-a SEEN it,” screamed the gay

macaw.

“I couldn’t make out how it stuck on her
head,

But women are queer, as I’ve always
said.”

“What do YOU know ’bout peaches and hats?
You’re just a chimp,—and a bird that
yaps.
But look at ME!” croaked the big baboon,
“You’ll see nothing ﬁner from here to the
moon.”

“YOU!” yelped the apes in the monkey cage,
“You’re the wooziest thing in this mod-
ern age!
You must trim your whiskers and flatten
your lap,
Reduce your diet—you’re much too fat.
A ‘daily dozen’ would do you good!
And you don’t part your hair just like

you should.”
“For the luvva Mike! Can’t you monks be
still?
How’ll I get my nap?” barked the queer
mandrill.

“You yammer and yap and grumble all day.
You’s all get spanked, if I had MY way.”

The wise old camel just twitched his hump
And chuckled aloud, “Why be a Chump?
You could talk yourself purple, or green, or
yellow,
But ’twould never make you a ‘regular
fellow’;
Why not. be cheerful, light-hearted and
gay?
TRY being pleasant_you’ll ﬁnd it will

pay.?7

The Annual Slaughter

JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

HE coming of fall again ﬁnds the

hunters busily engaged in cleaning and
polishing their riﬂes and other hunting
equipment. Yes, the annual slaughter of our
wild game life will soon be on. Once again
the forests that offer protection to these
animals will be invaded and the crack of
riﬂes will bring death and suffering to
countless animals. Each year the number
of hunters increases while wild life dimin-
ishes. The majority of these hunters are
not really interested in killing for the pur—
pose of utilizing the game for food, as I
found out last hunting season.

While driving upstate one day I stopped
at a farmhouse for dinner. There were
several hunters present at the table and I
inquired from them as to what satisfaction
they got from hunting animal life. One
young fellow of about nineteen answered,
“I get a thrill from hunting. To see a
deer fall before your ﬁre is sure some kick.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

>0

MOUNTAIN SHEEP IN

The second hunter replied, “I hunt to test
my marksmanship. A moving target, such
as an animal, is just the thing for that
purpose.” The third and last hunter an-
swered, “Hunting to me is an opportunity
to show my friends back in the city just
how many deer I can bag in one week.”
Three reasons, each different to be sure.
but still not one of them a good reason for
slaughtering our wild animal life. Not one
of these hunters mentioned that the meat
would be utilized for food. Instead it
showed the hunters were more interested
in killing either as target practice, to get a
thrill, or a chance to brag to their friends
in the city how many deer they could shoot.
Yet only a riﬂe and a hunting permit are
necessary to bring about this steady dim-
inution of our natural wild animal life.

“Unofficial Game Refuge”
HARRISON MCELWAINE

EEP in the heart of the Virginia

Mountains lies an “Unofﬁcial Game
Refuge” where a retired author—lecturer-
adventurer has created on his farm a
sanctuary for his friends of the forest.
Here, on the pleasant little farm of Mr.
Edgar Young on the outskirts of the town
of Bigstone Gap, Mexican quail, Virginia
partridge, ring-necked pheasants, rabbits
and squirrels roam the woods and ﬁelds in
perfect safety under the watchful eye of
their protector. Later, Mr. Young hopes to
be able to invite bear and deer to share his
bounty and friendship.

Leading a life that is a combination of
drudgery and intellectual work, Mr. Young
alternates between dirt farming and many
pleasant hours with his literary work, and
still ﬁnds time to spare to see that his pets
are well looked after.

Grain and corn are esnecially planted and
harvested for winter feed for his many
visitors, and the birds and animals have
come to know him and to respond to the

 

BANFF NATIONAL PARK,
ALBERTA, COME TO THE GAME WARDEN TO BE FED

Sept. 1939

friendship which he offers
them. Squirrels—t h r e e
generations of th em—
scamper around the ﬂoor
of his little study. There
are grandfathers, fathers
and children no bigger
than mice—and twice as
mischievous; rabbits hop
about the yard mingling
with quail and partridge
which in turn hobnob
freely with the barnyard
fowl. From near—by bush
and trees, baby quail pipe
plaintively as the old hens
call them out to sample
their protector’s bounty.

And he does protect
them.

Recently he warned off
his land three men who
came over the fence to do
some Sunday shooting.
They became abusive, but
when they realized Mr.
Young was in deadly
earnest, they climbed back
over the fence. Five min—
utes later, their guns
blazed and they had their
petty revenge in seeing a
number of quail and pheasant crumple
beneath their bullets. Before Mr. Young
could reach them, they ﬂed, the license plate
of their car obscured in a cloud of dust.

Dropping his work entirely, Mr. Young
joined forces with the local game warden
on the case. Slowly, and in a manner in
which some of Mr. Young’s own ﬁctional
detectives might have worked, they ran their
slender clues to a head and closed in on
their men. They proved to be three prom-
inent citizens of a near-by town, and they
threatened swift reprisals if Mr. Young
attempted any action against them.

But this man who had learned to love
the birds and animals had the courage of
his convictions. Not only was he willing. to
feed his little friends through the lean
winter months, but he had guaranteed them
protection against predatory animals. Now,
man, the greatest killer of them all, had
violated the sanctuary with gunﬁre. Man
could not be exterminated like any ordi-
nary poacher, but he could be brought to
book in another way.

The law.

Regardless of their threats, he haled
them into court and, personally prosecut-
ing the case, he had the satisfaction of
seeing the court impose stiff ﬁnes and a
sentence that brought their shooting ac-
tivities to an abrupt end for some time to
come.

Do the wild things instinctively know
those who love them? I like to think so—
so does Mr. Young. And when last he
wrote me he told me that he had ﬁnally
succeeded in taming the biggest jack rab-
bit he had ever seen. It required months
for the job, but now the long-cared fel-
low would perch by the hour on a specially-
built stand outside the window of Mr.
Young’s study, his head cocked on one side,
one ear stiffly erect, apparently fascinated
by the rattle of Mr. Young’s typewriter.

 

 

 

Happy the day when wars shall cease
And nations learn the arts of peace.

 

 

 

 




 

if

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at th
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided

0,1. ”‘05

umb

f \ .
U. S.Trade Mark, Registered [2 1

LL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

AND Mancv To
Evanv lema
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

e Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
form section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vﬂﬂ.72

Junc,l939

PQo.6

 

Over against the possibility of another
European war, the results of which would
be disaster appalling beyond measure, such
appeals for peace as that of our country,
the plea of the Pope, and the broadcast of
the Duke of Windsor from the battleﬁeld of
Verdun, kindle in the heart of humanity a
hope it has scarcely dared cherish.

In vetoing a bill passed by the Michigan
Legislature, which would have permitted
the docking of horses’ tails, Governor
Dickinson, our readers will be glad to know,
said, -

“If the Almighty wanted the bony part
of a horse’s tail six inches shorter why
didn’t He make them grow that way?
Don’t ask me to assist in changing His
plans. I therefore veto thisact.”

Always ready to further any thoroughly
practical movement of humane societies,
our Massachusetts Senator, Hon. David I.
Walsh, has introduced in Congress a Bill,
S—1494, which would provide full protection
for the bald eagle. We hope many of our
readers will write at once to the Hon.
Ellison D. Smith, chairman, Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry, United States
Senate, Washington, D. C., urging favor—
able action on the bill. Unless some such
protection is provided, to the sorrow of
millions of our citizens, extermination of
the bald eagle will be only a question of
time.

The movement in Congress for a refer-
endum, whereby the people of the country
should be entitled to vote as to whether we
were to enter into any war except one for
defense, has aroused a wide difference of
opinion. While such an amendment seems a
wise one to us, evidently there are serious
objections to it made by many whose judg-
ment must be taken as sincere and unpreju-
diced. We imagine the average citizen
would say that those who, in a war, would
be the ones to suffer and die and the mem-
bers of the homes from which such would
come, should have a voice in deciding such
a fateful question.

The Widening Circle

HE birth of the child meant the birth

of the family. The birth of the family
meant the birth of the tribe. The birth of
the tribe meant the birth of the nation.
So has human sympathy slowly reached
out through ever—widening circles of interest
in others. It spread from the family to the
tribe, from the tribe to the nation. With
millions it has spread from the nation even
to humanity. And is there any better meas—
ure of civilization than its answer to the
appeals of suffering and pain, let it come
from whatever source it may?

That there are still some whose thought
and whose interests have never gone beyond
the horizon of their own little world, alas
is true. We have heard the story of a
Ku-Klux merchant who put a sign, once,
in his window, “We are 100% Americans;
we hate the Catholics, the Jews, the
Negroes.” A neighboring merchant of the
same Klan felt he must go his rival one
better, and he placed a sign in his window
which read, “We are 200% Americans; we
hate everybody.”

We cannot vouch for the truth of the
story, but it certainly illustrates the spirit
of the narrowest and most intolerant na-
tionalism. Over against it should be set the
words of Professor Goldwyn Smith—that
“ABOVE ALL NATIONS IS HUMAN-
ITY.”

There is a still wider world even than
humanity, and that is the world of the
creatures below us. Civilization rises to a
higher level when it thinks of those fellow
creatures, millions of whom have served
humanity through unnumbered generations,
too often at the cost of starvation, cruel
treatment which has reached even to tor-
ment, and without whose services it would
seem that man could never have built the
cities, the homes, the cathedrals, the
churches, the libraries, the museums and
the highways of the world.

In vast sections of the earth still, the
horse, the mule, the ass, even the ox, are
the beasts of burden that serve man under
conditions that make one who knows the

facts sick at heart when he thinks of what
they must endure. More and more must
humane activity reach out beyond the lands
where humane societies have so largely
reduced the cruelties once inﬂicted upon the
beasts of the ﬁeld: and the birds of the air,
to those other lands where the rights and
the claims for justice and compassion for
what we speak of as the lower forms of
life are as yet practically unrecognized.

War

ANON “Dick” Sheppard, whose living

memorial is the Peace Pledge Union, of
which he was founder, declared that “War
of any kind for any cause is not only a
denial of Christianity but a crime against
humanity, which is no longer to be per-
mitted by civilized people.”

With these words, too, might well go
those of Sir Phillip Gibbs, author and war
correspondent, “There will be no hope of
peace until the peoples of the world recog-
nize their brotherhood and refuse to be led
to the shambles for mutual massacre.”

Coming to our own shores, we recall the
memorable words of Dr. Harry Emerson
Fosdick:

“I have an account to settle between my
soul and the Unknown Soldier. I have
deceived him. I deceived myself ﬁrst, and
then I deceived him, assuring him that good
can come out of war. What good can come
out of it? Mad civilization! . . . 0, Unknown
Soldier, however can I make that right
with you?

“I renounce War and never again,
directly or indirectly, will I sanction an-
other. 0, Unknown Soldier . . . I make
you that pledge.”

Give me the money that has been spent
in war and I will clothe every man, woman,
and child in an attire of which kings and
queens would be proud. I will build a
school-house in every valley over the whole
earth. I will crown every hillside with a
place of worship consecrated to the gospel
of peace.

Charles Sumner ‘ (1 8 1 1 - 1 874)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

July, 1989

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for April—30 Days

 

 

Daily average large animals 61
Forage for same 33 37.35
Put to sleep 18 2.32
Transportation 1.88
Daily average dogs 3.7
Forage for same 1.72
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 55.63
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 11.92
Motor ambulance upkeep 6.20
Motor bicycles upkeep 3.70
Sundries 41.00
Actual operating expenses $261.72
Building upkeep account 5.40
Total $267.12

Entries: 6 horses, 10 mules, 105 donkeys.

Exits: 3 horses, 8 mules, 88 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 109 horses, 56 mules, 300 don-
keys, 5 dogs, 1 goat. 3 animals transported in ambu—
lance, 23 animals sent by Police Dept.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 535 cases investi-
gated, 6,208 animals seen, 768 animals treated, 68
animals hospitalized by us from above, 35 pack-
saddles (infected) and 33 Arab bits destroyed.

One Day’s Work

WEDNESDAY, 19th. 7 a.m. Usual work of treat-
ing animals. French policeman of Ville Nouvelle
sent one animal to Hospital. 10.30 a.m. visitors: Mr.
Robert Moreau, lawyer, and Madame, of Brussels.
They wrote in our Visitors’ Book: “I have been very
moved by what I have seen in the American Fon-
douk, and I heartily congratulate Mr. Delon for this
work, of which he may be legitimately proud.” 11
a.m. to noon Dr. Larrouy, Municipal Vet., inspecting
horses of 8 public carriages. 1.30 p.m. Fondouk.
2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Bou J eloud-Talaa—Casbat Nouar
inspection. 3.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. Dr. Bouguereau’s
inspection, reporting all getting well. Operating on
one mule. Men gardening, planting trees. Animals
in Hospital: 46.

G. DELON, Superintendent

Contributors to the Work of
the American Fondouk

As a copy of our magazine goes to all
those who are so generously supporting the
work of the American Fondouk Mainte-
nance Committee at Fez, the following sum-
mary of a letter from the Honorary Secre-
tary, Mr. Charles A. Williams, who has
recently visited Fez, will be read with
great interest:

“The new land is nearly all developed
and will be productive of various forage in
another ten weeks.

“I have contracted for 25 large palm
trees and 150 cypresses, besides 175 myopo—
rums, to divide the paddocks. These will be
four each side of the main central walk in
which we can tether large or small ani-
mals. This leaves about one-third of the
new property undeveloped.”

The purchase of this property adjacent
to the Fondouk was certainly one of the
wise things done by the Maintenance Com-
mittee. It not only furnishes space for con-
valescent animals to get air and exercise,
and space for the raising of a certain
amount of good forage, but also adds much
to the attractiveness of the Fondouk.

The Indifferent Attitude

D. D. TWITCHELL

O lessen cruelty and to promote ani-

mal welfare, it is necessary to awake
not only pity and tenderness in the hearts
of men and women but also to help them to
understand and recognize the fact that
every living creature is capable of feeling
and suffering. This is essential since so

OUR DUMB

few of the people who
treat animals un-
kindly do so because
cruelty actually exists
in their hearts. Their
deeds of cruelty, how-
ever deplorable they
may be, are many
times the result of
ignorance, indif—
ference and a strange
failure to take the
animal’s welfare into
consideration.

A man or woman
may and often does
show marked aﬂ’ec—
tion for a household
pet, expending much
time, effort and
money to insure its
health and comfort
and yet show such an
utter disregard of all
wild and domestic
animals that it is
both surprising and
disconcerting. House—
wives too often pur-
chase veal with a
zealous care as to
whether the price per
pound is high or low
but with never a
thought of the calf
that was dragged un-
willingly from its
lowing mother, ship-
ped in a crowded
truck and ruthlessly
killed in order to pro-
duce the piece of veal
that she is consider-

ANIMALS

 

Page 109

 

 

A REFRESHING DRAUGHT

 

ing. The enjoyment

of the woman who is wearing a fur coat is
often in no way lessened by any thought
of the agonies experienced along the trap-
per’s line. “Out of sight is out of mind,” is
equally applicable to the slaughter-house
and the steel trap.

The city dweller while familiar with
household pets and the animals of the zoo,
knows but little of the wonderful intelli-
gence and ﬁdelity of the farm animals,
while the owners of the creatures on the
farm too often consider them from a com—
mercial standpoint that is unsoftened by
any compassion or sympathy. Sentiment is
rarely allowed to interfere with dollars and
cents. Since poorly housed, underfed and
inadequately cared for animals are known
to be less proﬁtable to their owners, it gen-
erally follows that the better educated and
more successful farmers are the most hu-
mane in their treatment of their live stock.

That animals cannot express their feel-
ings should awaken in every heart a desire
to protect them in every way possible from
cruelty at the hands of those who are so
unfortunate as to neither know nor love
God’s voiceless children of the forest, ﬁeld
and farm.

Never hesitate to interfere kindly when
you see an animal being abused. It is weak
and cowardly to be afraid of ridicule.

In Los Angeles, California, it is illegal
to sell lizards, snakes, or other reptiles in
any public place.

The Watering Trough

J. E. ELLIOTT

The road ran west from the little town
Among the hills, and up and down,

Then, winding through‘ a little glade,

Fell into Beauty’s ambuscade.

From rock outcropping like a wall
There sprang a tiny waterfall
Whose waters danced along a glen
Too peaceful for the world of men.

An iron pipe crossed empty air

Where it was placed with thoughtful care,
To bring cool water from the bank

Into a trough where horses drank.

There, while the tired horses stayed
Their thirst with water from the glade,
We felt that everything had blessed

The place where Beauty’s feet had pressed.

The American Humane Association an-
nounces that its sixty-third annual meet-
ing will be held in Albany, New York, on
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
and Friday, September 11, 12, I3, 14 and 15,
1939.

Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a ken-
nel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall in the
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital will in-
sure a suitable marker inscribed with the
donor’s name.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 22

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Unchained Dogs Are Happy Dogs

R. O’DARE

lightened days, how many people there

are who still misuse their dogs. The
animals are not given nearly enough free-
dom, and are frequently kept on chains
until life becomes positive torture to them.
It simply is not fair. And yet, the offenders
carry out these injustices more in ignorance
than from any direct desire to inﬂict
cruelty.

If these people would only stop to think,
they would perhaps realize how much pro-
gressive good they are undoing. They are,
by their very thoughtlessness, driving do-
mestic canines back into the wild state from
which they have emerged after a long pro-
cess of civilized care and patience.

A dog which does not have enough liberty
and exercise will never be a happy one.
Malformation may not be apparent but, in-
wardly, the dog will undergo a growing
resentment which will make him both unre-
liable and savage, both to his owners and
to others. Also, he will become less than
useless in the capacity for which he has
presumably been purchased.

Pet dogs, poodles and the like, excepted,
a dog’s chief duty is as guardian. But if
he is constantly kept on a chain, he will
never be able to fulﬁll the duties expected
of him, should necessity arise, however
much he may wish to. If he is kept with the
idea of discouraging burglars, and other
intruders, his owners are defeating their
own ends by keeping him so helpless a
captive. In that capacity, he is a defense-
less target for poisoned meat and other
dangers. If he is properly trained, the
chain should not be necessary.

In days gone by dogs were wild animals,
savage and uncontrollable. They would at-
tack human beings with fang and claw. It
is hard to say who ﬁrst realized their po-
tential usefulness, and began to make them
tame. But it was long before the Romans,
for “Beware of the Dog” is one of the
oldest signs in the world. The Romans used
it. Civilization in very early times recog-
nized the immense possibilities in horses’
strength and prowess, and gradually came
to train and use them for useful purposes.
In just such a way was the dog’s ferocity
utilized in guarding the property of man.
For just as soon as man began to have
houses and valuables, he simultaneously
began to feel the need of some adequate
protection. Surely, no more worthy guard—
ian could have been found than the dog.

Through long and careful training,
breeding and inter-breeding from genera-
tion to generation, the wildness of the dog
gave place to faithfulness, docility, and
understanding. Yet today man is so per-
verse in his nature that by his very treat-
ment of the dog he runs the risk of re-
fostering the old treachery and ferocity
of earlier days. Having taught the animal
to depend on him, and trust him, he chains
him up by day and night, so that the
appellation “guardian” becomes a useless
mockery. All the best feelings in a dog’s
nature are brought to the surface, only to
be ignored and overwhelmed. No wonder
he yelps and whines for freedom, when
treated so. His very frenzy and unbounded
Joy on being released should effectively

H T is surprising to ﬁnd, even in our en-

prove his gratitude and appreciation.

It is just as cruel to fasten up a dog for
long periods as it is to shut up a human
being in a room, deprived of friendship
and creature comforts. Malefactors are im-
prisoned as a punishment—but why should
our canine friends be submitted to such
rigor? True, it is not done with any inten-
tion of punishment, but merely in senseless
disregard of the dog’s needs and feelings.
Both in mind and body the dog has been
created to enjoy a free and active existence.
To deprive him of that right is to under-
mine his health, quite apart from the dam-
age done to his nature. His temper will
naturally suffer so that he will gradually
come to regard humans as his enemies and
tormentors instead of as his friends and
benefactors. Alas! When he speaks in the
only language he knows, and pleads for
his liberty, he receives, not sympathy, but
even harsher treatment, perhaps. No won—
der he grows discontented.

A dog who has been fastened up too long
is far more likely to attack people than is
one who has had a more normal upbringing.
A kennel should be provided for him, cer-
tainly—but he will not appreciate it nearly
so much if he is chained to it out of all
sense and reason. To be any use at all, the
dog must be free to do his job—assuming
that he is “on guard.”

For those who are afraid of burglars,
there can be no ﬁner safeguard than a good
house dog—particularly a fox terrier. And
to be a house dog, he should be set on guard
in the house—preferably in the hall. If he
is properly trained, he will do no damage,
and will utilize the special little niche pre-
pared for him to lie down. At the slightest
indication of anything wrong, he will be
immediately alert, and will arouse the
household. But fastened to his kennel in
the yard, of what good is he? For he barks
and yelps so often for his freedom that
notice is not taken of him when real trouble
is afoot. Dog lovers worthy of the name
will never treat their canine friends this
way, and will take steps to dissuade or
prevent other dog owners from doing so.

Homes

So long as we have homes to which men
turn

At close of day,

So long as we have homes where children
are,

And women stay,

If love and loyalty and faith be found
Across those sills,

A stricken nation can recover from
Its gravest ills.

So long as we have homes where ﬁres burn,
And there is bread;
So ling as we have homes where lamps are
it
And prayers are said,
Although a people falter through the dark,
And nations grope,
With God, Himself, back of these little
homes,
We have sure hope.

GRACE NOLL CROWELL

Feb. 1939

 

THIS IS “WIMPY,” PRIZED PET OF
N. S. FISCHMAN, ELMIRA, N. Y.

 

The Hunters’ Holocaust
BESSIE L. PUTNAM

HERE were too many deer in the woods

of Pennsylvania. The animals were
deteriorating in quality. There was a
scarcity of food; something must be ‘done,
the powers decreed, and that something was
ﬁnally decided as an open season for does
and antlerless bucks.

During at least the ﬁrst of those six days
of merciless slaughter, many schools in the
vicinity of the big wood were closed. “No
use trying to hold pupils in school” with
such a glorious holiday on. Besides—many
teachers had caught the hunting fever. En-
tire families, mothers as well as fathers,
and every child over twelve, shouldered a
gun and scurried to the chase; and each
one, as a rule, soon added one victim to
the family larder. Others, non-hunters,
looked with amazement as car after car
passed through their village, each with its
helpless victim, spotted fawn or mother,
strapped to the running board; or a man
with a truck returned with the booty of
several individuals.

The estimated kill was 100,000. The
savage Indian always observed the rule
never to kill more than needed at the time.
There was never need under his manage-
ment, for wholesale slaughter “for the good
of the herd.” Never scarcity of food for
deer as well as hunter. We wonder how far
wrong the Frenchman was in his estimate
of the American as “One who wants to go
out and kill something.”

 




‘.
L.- -

 

M ar. 1939

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS FOR

1939

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, Gov—
ernor of Massachusetts

His Honor Maurice J. Tobin, Mayor of
Boston

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Adams, Edward 8., Fall River

Appleton, Francis Henry, Boston

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Blaisdell, Albert R, Haverhill

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. PerCy, Southern Pines,
N. .

Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Converse, Mrs. Costello 0., Boston

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City

Friend, Victor A., Melrose

Friend, Mrs. Victor A., Melrose

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Gould, Arthur L., Boston

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston

McAfee, Mildred H., Pres., Wellesley College

McGarry, Rev. William J ., Pres. Boston
College

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College

Parker, Hon. Herbert, Lancaster

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Shearer, Miss Mary B., Baltimore, Md.

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Woolley, Mary E., Westport, N. Y.

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON
Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ex-officio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM
EDWARD G. FISCHER
JOHN R. MACOMBER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, Chairman of Executive

Committee, First National Bank of
Boston

’

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana Orcutt Stanwood K. Bolton
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan Hon. Channing H. Cox
Miss Dorothy Forbes Philip Stockton

Charles G. Bancroft Hon. Percival P. Baxter
John R. Forgie George F. Booth
William E. Putnam Thornton W. Burgess
John R. Macomber George H. Godbeer
Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn Edward G. Fischer
Walter M. Kendall

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.

Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham

Mrs. Margaret P. Behrend, Wellesley

W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England

Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld
Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland
Mrs. Grace D, Proctor, Fitchburg

Capt. Fergus MacCunn, London, England
Charles Rowland Johns, London, England
Miss Edith Ward, London, England

Col. Leonard Noble, Henley-on-Thames,
England

Mrs. Ida Young Denault, Longmeadow,
Mass.

Active Life Members

A Friend Chase, Miss Alice P.
A Friend Cheever, Mrs. Grace J.
A Friend Clark, Miss Elizabeth

Abbott, Mrs. Mary L- Cochran, Mrs. Edwin Paul
Abercrombie, William H. Codrington, Mrs. Ethel M.
Adams, Mrs. Nancy M. Converse, Mrs. Costello C.
Allen, Mrs. Linda W. Corliss, Miss Clara K.
Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy 13- Cote, Mrs. Emfma S. Ellliott
Ames, John S. Couch, Franklin Lindley
Ames, Mrs. William H. Countway, Francis A.
AMOS, MiSS Virginia A. Craig, Elizabeth Worthing
Anderson, Johan M. Craigin, Mrs. Louise
Andrews, Miss Frances Crane, Mrs. Francis V.
Virginia Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.
Appleton, Miss Maude E. Crocker, Mrs. Emmons
Aronson, Harry Crocker, Emmons
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D. Crocker, Miss Katherine
Ayling, Edith Cornish Crocker, Miss Lispenard S.
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C. Crompton & Knowles
Baker, Mrs. Charles M. Loom Works
Baldwin, Mrs. Anita Crossman, Mrs. Howard A.
Bancroft, Hugh, Jr. Crowninshield, B. B.
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H. Cummings, Miss Florence
Bandry, George, M.D. .
Barnard, Henry F. Cummins, Miss Anne M.
Barnard, Miss Mary Alice Cummins, Miss Elizabeth
Bartlett, Miss Bess B. I,
Bartley, Miss Hattie C. Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-
Bates, Ruth B. ence C.
Beals, Mabel E. Curran, Mrs. Maurice
Beardwood, James Curtis, Miss Amy
Beardwood, Mrs. James Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich
Behrend, Mrs. Margaret P. Curtis, Miss Clara
Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic
Bolles, Mrs. Mary K. Haines
Boston Plate & Window Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.
Glass Co. Cutler, Mrs. Elliott C.
Bouve, Mrs. Howard A. Dane. E. B.
Bray, Miss Ella W. Dane, Mrs. E. B.
Brigham, Robert 0. Davis, Mrs. Kate K.
Brown, Mrs. Edwin P. Davol, Miss Florence W.
Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick Day, Mrs. A. L.
Burke, Mrs. Florence E. Day, Cordelia P. “Mem-
Burr, Mrs. Herman M. orial Life Membership”
Burr, 1. Tucker DeGogorza, Mme. Emma
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Eames

DeWolf, Charles E.
Dodd, Miss Ethel
Douglas, Elizabeth
Drooker, Mrs. Minnie
Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.
Ellison, Eben H.
Emerson, Charles H.
Emmerton, Miss
Endicott, Miss Katherine
Endicott, William
Engstrom, Richard
Ernst, Mrs. Harold C.
Esleeck, Mrs. Martha R.
Evans, Owen N.
Ewing, Miss Amanda W.
Farley, Dr. Wm. C.
Fearing, Mrs. George R.
Fish, Miss Margaret A.
Fisher, H.
Fiske, Miss Gertrude
Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.
Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.
Forte, H. T.
Foss, Mrs. James 0.
Foster, G. Herbert
Fottler, Mrs. Jacob
Fowler, G. W.
Fowler, H. P.
Fowler, Madeleine H.
Frothingham, Mrs. Louis
A.
Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M.
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S.
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr.
Gifford, Josiah H.
Godbeer, George H.
Godfrey, Mrs. O. M.
Graﬂy, Miss Dorothy
Graﬂy, Mrs. Frances
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F.
Gray, Miss Ellen
Gray, Roland
Greeley, Maude E.
Greenough, Mrs. Henry V.
Grifﬁn, Mrs. Frank D
Grinnel, Mrs. Susan B.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R.
Grozier, Mrs. E. A.
Hale, Francis W.
Hammond, Samuel
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. B.
Hastings, Miss Claire
Hathaway, Mrs. C. P.
Hayward, Miss Elizabeth
H

Hemenway, Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Myles
Henderson, Mrs. H. P.
Hickey, Mrs. J. G.
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore
Higginson, Francis L.
Higginson, Mrs. Francis
L.
Hill, Miss Ella A.
Hill, Haven G.
Hitchcock, John
Holmes, Mrs. Margaret
A. Ramsay
Hooper, Mrs. James R.
Hopkins, Mrs. Susan S.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, William C.
Houston, Ada Bell
Howard, Frank A.
Howe, Mrs. Lydia
Howes, Mrs. Ernest
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Huntington, Mrs. Amy
Low
Huntington, Mrs. Archer
M

Hutchinson, Mrs. Mabel
Ingersoll, W. Fitch
Innes, Charles H.
Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt
Jacobs, Mrs. F. W.
James, Ellerton
Jenney, Mrs. Edwin C.
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F.
King, Miss Caroline W.
Kinzle, Mrs. Japsey
Lockett
Kittredge, Mrs. John
Krook, Mrs. Amanda J.
Lahey, Mrs. Frank H.
Langshaw, Walter H.
Lasell, Josiah L.
Lawrence, John S.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza
Leonard, Mrs. Charles H.
Loomis, Sara C.

Page 45

Lord, Elizabeth F.
Loring, Miss Helen
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Low, Mrs. Seth F.
Lyman, Miss Mabel
Lynch, Efﬁe M.
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.
MacNiven, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mason, A. P., M. D.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.
Merrick, Grace L.
Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N.
Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Munsell, Alex. E. O.
Murdock, William L.
Murray, Mrs. T. Morris
Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris
Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate
Otis, Mrs. Alfred W.
Paine, Mrs. Frank C.
Paine, Richard C.
Paine, Mrs. Richard C.
Parker, Miss Eleanor S.
Parker, William A.
Paul, Frank
Pearson, Mrs. Bernice A.
Pease, Mrs. Edith G.
Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Peirce, J. Gadget
Penniman, Miss Annie B.
Penniman, Miss Ella
Perini, Joseph R.
Pfaff, Mrs. Charles
Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Phillips, Mrs. Charles
E. H.
Pike, Mrs. Frank B.
Plummer, Mrs. Harriet H.
Porter, Miss Frances R.
Powers, Thomas R.
Powers, Mrs. Thomas R.
Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Quincy, Mrs. H. P.
Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry
Rea, Charles S.
Richards, Mrs. Sarah
Richardson, Mrs. Charles
F

Riley, Charles E.
Riley, Miss Mabel Louise
Rivette, Mrs. Josephine P.
Roberts, Paul B.
Robertson, Mrs. M. W.
Robinson, Forrest
Robinson, William A., Jr.
Rockwell, Mrs. C. P.
Rogers, Bradlee
Rountree, Mrs. H. H.
Rowe, E. J.
Rowe, Mrs. E. J.
Russell, Allen H.
Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.
Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.
Scott, Miss Katharine
Schrafft, W. E.
Sears, Miss Eleanora
Randolph
Sedgwick, Mrs. Lydia C.
Shapleigh, Amelia
Shaw, Samuel
Sias, Mrs. Alice E.
Silsbee. Mrs. George S.
Simpson, Nellie Pennell
Simonds, Otis
Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.
Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.
Sloan, Mrs. E. S.
Smith, Mrs. Helen M.
Smith, Mrs. Ida A.
Snow, Miss Louise
Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.
Spring, John C.
Storck, Mrs. Maude L.
Storer, Mrs. R. H.
Storrow, Mrs. James J.
Jr.
Stratton, Mrs. W. J.
Sumner, Mrs. Charles P.
Symmes, Mrs. Henry W
Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps
Thayer, Mrs. E. R.

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1939

, OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Creatures of Peace in W ar
SYDNEY MOORHOUSE, F.R.G.S.

 

Wide World Photos

SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE—A DOG WAITING IN A TRENCH AT THE FRENCH
FRONT WHILE A MESSAGE IS BEING WRITTEN. THE FRENCH USE DOGS
REGULARLY TO CARRY DISPATCHES

(Photo taken recently and passed by the French censor)

ETHODS of warfare have altered a

great deal since the advent of the
twentieth century and the substitution of
mechanized units for cavalry has meant
that large numbers of horses are no longer
required on the battleﬁelds of today.

On the other hand, highly trained dogs
are used a great deal. In the Great War of
1914-1918, Airedales and collies saw active
service on the battleﬁelds of France and
Belgium and acquitted themselves with
great distinction.

The Germans have always been conscious
of the usefulness of well-trained dogs on
the battleﬁeld. At Frankfurt is the largest
military dog school in the world. The
“students,” which consist mainly of sheep-
dogs, rottweilers and pinschers, go through
a strenuous course of training and the
curriculum is an interesting one.

 

The carrying of ammunition is regarded
as being of prime importance and some of
the larger animals have proved themselves
capable of carrying as much as 45 pounds
in their harness cradles. By the aid of a
special spool, telegraph wires can be run
across broken country. Some of the excep-
tionally intelligent dogs have been coached
in the art of carrying a time-bomb into
enemy trenches and then scampering back
to safety before the fatal explosion.

It is pleasing to be able to record, how-
ever, that the dogs are also trained to take
part in more humanitarian work among the
wounded. This consists of taking ﬁrst-aid
equipment and restoratives on to the battle-
ﬁelds and thus supplying the injured with
medical aid. Afterwards, the dogs hurry
back to the base for help with a piece of
the soldier’s tunic in their teeth.

Page 181

At the outbreak of hostilities, it was
estimated that the Germans could put 50,000
trained dogs in the ﬁeld, a canine battalion
being attached to each regiment of infantry.

Although the British and French have
never gone in for canine conscription on
anything like the same lines as the Ger-
mans, there is no doubting the fact that
the general standard of dogs attached to
these armies today is of an exceptionally
high quality.

Pigeons are also used during war time
and at the present time it is estimated that
the British Government has at its disposal
no fewer than 500,000 of these birds, as
well as the services of about 2,000 men to
handle them. .

With the possibility of telephonic com—
munication between the ﬁghting line and
headquarters being cut off by air raids,
pigeons are invaluable for sending import-
ant messages. In addition, they can be
taken with attacking tanks and, indeed,
form the only available means of com-
munication between these machines and
the base. Ships and airplanes will also
have pigeons with them ready for releasing
should their radio sets fail.

In civil work, pigeons may often prove
to be the only way of communicating and
already many big ﬁrms in Britain have
arranged for carrier pigeons to be at their
disposal.

The Humane Societies of this country
have put themselves on record as favoring
action leading to the suppression of the
American rodeo. Concerted effort would be
necessary to wipe out these revivals of a
lawless period in the country’s growth.
They have failed to get a footing on for-
eign soil, after several desperate and
strongly-ﬁnanced attempts. The modern
rodeo is still a most vicious, depraved and
demoralizing form of cruelty to animals.

Do you know that the General Court of
Massachusetts, following the example of the
English Parliament of 1643, passed an act
in 1659 that “anybody who is found ob-
serving, by abstinence from labor, feast-
ing, or any other way, any such day as
Christmas day, shall pay for every such
offense ﬁve shillings.” Massachusetts did
not repeal this ordinance until 1681.

Wide World-Photos
UNCLE SAM’S CARRIER PIGEONS STAGE A SHOW DURING A REVIEW AT SCHOFIELD BARRACKS, HONOLULU,
THE LARGEST ARMY POST OF THE UNITED STATES

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sept. 1939

Gratitude

OLIVE L. DOELLING

UMANS kicked around as stray cats

are, more often than not lose their
courage and quit; not so cats. Take the
story of “Daisy,” for instance.

We lost our tomcat. Whether he was
poisoned or run over by a car, we never
found out, but he vanished. Although we
had a good rat dog, he couldn’t catch all
the rats and mice on the ranch. As for
gophers, he drew the line there. We had
to have a cat and intended getting another
one, but like many intentions it was put oﬁ.

Soon after the cat disappeared, rats be—
gan to infest the barn and granary again.
They were getting pretty bad when all of
a sudden they gradually decreased in num-
ber. My husband was puzzled. He knew
the dog wasn’t killing all of them or he
would have seen their bodies lying around.

Then one night as my husband was milk—
ing the cow, he glanced up into the barn
loft and there, looking down at him, was
the most forlorn and emaciated cat he ever
saw! Maybe she was the rat catcher. He
called to her coaxingly but at sound of his
voice, she darted back out of sight. It was
evident she had been booted around from
place to place until she was afraid of every-
one. Hoping to persuade her to stay, my
husband put some warm milk in a basin for
her and left it in the barn.

The milk was gone the next morning but
there was no sign of the cat. Every night
milk was set out for her and just as regu—
larly it was lapped up. We hOped in time
she would realize we wanted her to stay
with us. Eventually we succeeded. Little
by little she became bolder and once in a
while would sit just out of reach and wait
for milk when my husband was milking.
He talked to her reassuringly and was
pleased when at last she let him stroke her,
even though her body trembled at his
touch. Her fear soon gave way to conﬁ-
dence and she became our pet.

We called her Daisy because of her ad-
mirable qualities. She never yowled, and
spoke only when spoken to. When her
hollows ﬁlled out, her fur grew sleek and
her gray and black stripes were more pro-
nounced and very good looking. She was
middle-aged when she came to us and she
only presented us with kittens once a year.
It was from one of these batches we raised
a ﬁne tom.

In her feline way Daisy always seemed
grateful to us for giving her a home. She
showed her gratitude by paying for her
shelter many times over in a never-ending
war on the rodents about the place.

Much to our regret, she lost an eye in a
hard ﬁght with a huge rat one time. For
days she was sick from the rat’s poisonous
bite and pain from the blinded eye, but we
nursed her back to health. Her courage
was as strong as ever for, with only one
eye, she went on killing rats. We saw no
slackening of her vigilance in keeping other
pests annihilated as well.

Daisy lived with us two years and one
night died in her sleep. We mourned her
loss but were glad we made her declining
days happy ones.

Forgiveness is the fragrance that ﬂowers
yield when trampled on. GOETHE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“MONARCH OF ALL I SURVEY”

 

Impersonator Catbird
THEODORA BATES COGSWELL

Prime actor in the leaves is he,
A dozen birds in one,

Though outwardly a slender shape
That slips from shade to sun.

By turns he feigns an oriole,
A grosbeak, or a thrush,

Perching from dawn to dusk a-swing
On birch or lilac-bush.

His whimsies charm the weary air
When August’s rays beat down——

With ever through his sweetest lilt
An undernote of clown.

Alert, amused, and mischievous,
He dons this role or that—

But always, when the rain descends,
He mews—just wet, gray cat.

’Tis slander;
Whose edge is sharper than the sword;
whose tongue
Out—venoms all the worms of Nile; whose
breath
Rides on the posting winds, and doth belie
All corners of the world; kings, queens,
and states,
Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the
grave
This viperous slander enters.
SHAKESPEARE

 

Page 139

Rabies vs. Running Fits

RUDOLPH H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Assistant
Chief Veterinarian, Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts

S. P. C. A.

ABIES and so—called running or fright

ﬁts are two distinctly different mala-
dies. They are, however, repeatedly con—
founded one with the other. This mis-
understanding of their real natures has
led, in many instances, to much unneces—
sary alarm and the destruction of many
harmless house-pets while the unidentiﬁed,
menacing, rabid dog has been allowed to
roam freely about and spread his infection.

Definition

Rabies is caused by a speciﬁc virus and
is a communicable disease. The contagion
is spread only through the bite of an
afflicted animal who inoculates the suscep-
tible through the broken skin with its virus—
laden saliva, and not by mere contact and
association as are many other maladies.

Running ﬁts or fright ﬁts on the other
hand has never been proved to be of an
infectious character, nor is it communicable
in the general sense of the term. At times
it appears as though it were a contagious
malady because of the co-existence of many
cases in the same kennel or community, yet
investigation will reveal that the same ex-
citing cause is inﬂuencing all these animals
synchronously.

The cause of this malady, as it is seen in
this section of the country, is generally
found to be due to stomach indigestion
brought about by faulty feeding, such as
overfeeding and the feeding of unsuitable
foodstuffs. The consumption of boiled liver
or kidney, dog breads and other prepared
foods, starchy foods, salted or smoked
meats are some of the food elements most
likely to disturb the gastric functions and
bring about these nervous derangements in
the dog.

Symptoms Different

Rabies sets in with a variety of peculiar
manifestations, in brief, those expressive of
anxiety mingled with fear. The dog ap—
pears in a troubled state of mind and
usually appeals for sympathy. He is prone
to become more affectionate than is com-
mon, to excessively lap the hands of his
attendants. He wants more petting to
appease his distress. Restlessness is a
marked early symptom as is also the fact
that he is easily startled. He is continually
pacing around excepting for perhaps a
momentary pause here and there. He will
generally refuse food shortly after the
onset of symptoms, but shows a marked
depraved appetite for inedible substances,
such as sticks and stones, or he may chew
up his bedding. It is sometimes noted that
the rabid dog will be continually lapping
the woodwork about the house, such as the
ﬂoors and furniture. The thirst is decidedly
increased but it will be noted that he does
not actually swallow very much water, for
in spite of his constant lapping, his water
pan remains ﬁlled, though soiled from the
admixture of drooled saliva. This is be-
cause he cannot swallow as his throat is
becoming paralyzed, a condition which will
shortly be followed by paralysis of the jaw,
causing it to drop and remain opened. The
tongue also becomes similarly involved, be—

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

0.1. ANGELL

u U. s,Trade Mark.Registered \

YEARSED

m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,

PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce) at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for maihng at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

August, 1939

No. 8

 

You need not love animals to feel the
obligation to protect them from injustice
and suffering.

No animal may rise up at last in judg-
ment against the man who has ill-treated
him, but the deed will be there to be reck—
oned with.

These are times that call for courage,
cheer and a sane optimism. The world will
yet sit down and stop rocking the boat.
Suppose we talk occasionally, when we
meet, of our hopes instead of our fears.

If, as Herbert Spencer says, the emotions
are the masters and the intellect the ser—
vant, one may well wonder how many of
the millions now being given to our col—
leges will be devoted to the education of
the masters and how many to the servant.
It was not a college professor, but still a
wise man, who said, “Out of the heart are
the issues of life.”

“Wherever there is an unfortunate,”
wrote Lamartine, “God sends a dog.” “And
certainly,” says one of his biographers,
“few men have loved dogs as he did, or
understood them more thoroughly.” Of a
dog who came to him once on a dreary day
of his self-imposed exile in Switzerland,
he said: “After being adopted by this dog
my solitude ceased. He never left me; we
loved each other, we talked, we slept,
together. He divined me and I understood
him.”

The British Columbia Teacher, a most
interesting and carefully edited periodical,
quotes, from an article which appeared in
the April number of School Science and
Mathematics, published in Menasha, Wis-
consin, that “the care and handling of
pets is one of the most popular science
activities in the elementary grades.”

If this is true, as we judge it is, of all
the schools in Wisconsin, that State is doing
a ﬁne piece of work in the way of humane
education.

“Dumb?”

AVE we all blundered when we have

said “dumb animals?” Recently we
read that “this phrase betrays more ignor-
ance of the life around us than any other
ever invented by our race.” The word
“dumb” seems to come from an old root
which meant dull or stupid, then unable
to use articulate speech. It is in this latter
sense that men have used it with refer-
ence to animals. No one has thought of the
word as describing animals as mute, or
silent, or powerless to utter sounds, or as
unable to convey to one another in many
cases their various emotions, fears, desires,
satisfactions. The mare who whinnies for
her colt, or the cow who lows for her calf,
so far as articulate speech as we know it
is concerned, is dumb; just as one is dumb
who cannot speak, though he may produce
sounds which those who know him can
understand. If by being dumb you mean
that an animal can make no sound or con-
vey no idea or impression, then, of course,
it is most stupid to speak of it as dumb.
If, however, you use the word as it has
been used from time immemorial, in Shake-
speare, Milton, and our English Bible, you
will not wonder that Mr. Angell, when he
founded the ﬁrst magazine devoted to the
welfare of our speechless fellow creatures,
called it Our Dumb Animals.

Bullfighting at the World’s
Fair

A letter from the chairman of the
Amusement Control Committee of the
World’s Fair, now being held in New York,
tells us that no bullﬁghts, whether mock
bullﬁghts or those of any other character,
will be permitted at the Fair. A statement,
therefore, made over the radio sometime
ago by Sidney Franklin must have been
made entirely without warrant and with-
out any authority from those having the
Fair in charge.

A Great Investment

0 lover of his country can better invest
his money for his country’s future than
to put it into the work of humane educa—
tion. Lawlessness, Violence, strife, strikes,
lockouts, boycotts, class animosities—these
symptoms of a diseased social order were
never so common this side the sea as today.
The war was, in part, responsible for this.
War never leaves behind it any higher
ideal of civic righteousness than that which
preceded it; rather does it dwarf all the
ideals with which men entered into it.
Leave out of our public schools a large
part of what now consumes the time of
teacher and pupil and quicken in the hearts
of the scholars the idea of justice, fair
play, humanity, and human kinship,. and
not only will the future of the country be
safeguarded from many a peril, but our
children will be educated in things that are
really fundamental and Vital in character
and life. This is humane education.

The Dog in Connecticut

HERE must be lovers of dogs not
only in the State of Connecticut but in
its Legislature. A law has just been passed
which says that Whoever injures or kills a
dog on the highway shall immediately stop,
do what he can to relieve its suffering,
notify the owner if possible, (if not, the
police) giving full particulars. While no
penalty seems to be attached to a viola-
tion of this law, it is understood that the
owner can notify his insurance company
at once and collect for the value of the dog.
Here in Massachusetts, for any convic-
tion of that sort, the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles is very apt to take away the
license of the driver for a certain period.
One might well wish that the Connecti-
cut law had some penalty attached to any
willful or careless violation of this law.

Read about Executing Your Own Will—
an Annuity Plan on the back page of this
issue. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 131;

 

GRACE ON THE WATER

 

The Wonder Bird of the Sea

HELEN R. BISSELL

HE ocean is the kingdom of the beau-
tiful albatross! They are the great
ﬂiers of all sea birds, dependent on land
only for nesting. They have a light body,
narrow wings, but with those great living
sails ten or twelve feet or even more from
tip to tip, they are the wonder of the ocean.
They will ﬂy unweariedly day after day,
night after night, hundreds and hundreds
of miles with fastest ships, sailing round
and round them with marvelous skill of
wing. For ages the secret of their ﬂight
has been much debated. Many scientists
have thought that the sailing is effected
with stationary wings on unperceived cur-
rents of favoring air. But the truth is that
the albatross adjusts its great wings to
match its needs in the air just as an avi-
ator maintains his balance in an airplane.
Nature has given it a mastery of the art
of conserving energy and its ﬂight is the
despair of every man who tries to ﬂy.

If you ever take a trip around the Cape
of Good Hope you will meet immense ﬂocks
of them in the early part of the summer
attracted thither by the vast shoals of ﬁsh,
whose migrations they follow. There is a
story told of a sailor who fell overboard
in those waters and even though it was
only a few minutes until he was rescued,
a number of these birds almost made way
with him. So you can see they can be very
formidable enemies.

The ﬂesh is not good to eat so they sur-
vive in great numbers. Their cry is like
that of a pelican but they also emit a noise
like the braying of a donkey. The female
bird heaps up a rude nest of earth not far
from the sea or deposits its solitary egg in
a slight hollow which it makes in the dry
ground. The egg weighs a pound and is
about four inches long.

The albatross is one of the great objects
of interest to voyagers far away from land
particularly when in the southern seas. It
IS seen sweeping the surface of the
ocean. It seems to ﬂoat and glide in the
air rather than ﬂy like other birds and,
except, when rising from the water, the
motion of its long wings is scarcely to be
percelved. Maybe a motion picture of its
ﬂlght will sometime yield up its secret.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Already we know that a ﬂicker, a swift
rise or down beat are among the bird’s
master strokes in aviation.

Sailors have a superstition that to kill
an albatross brings them the worst possible
luck, leading to all kinds of misfortunes.
You are all, no doubt, familiar with Cole-
ridge’s poem, “The Ancient Mariner,” which
deals with such a catastrophe.

The Mocker Returns

MARIA MORAVSKY

S that your pet bird?” a neighbor asked

me, pointing to a young mockingbird
which followed my footsteps when I was
feeding the lovebirds which I raise in my
back—yard aviaries.

“No, just a beggar.” I threw the mocker
a handful of seeds.

“Why don’t you catch it and keep it in
the house? It would sing for you.”

“You mean, in the cage? It doesn’t seem
right to keep a mocker in a cage. It sings
for me quite often now—from the top of
my tulip tree.”

In a few days, the mocker disappeared.
I thought a prowling cat had got it. I
grieved for a while, then forgot about it.
But, a few weeks later, having a need to
borrow a tool from my next street neighbor,
I walked into his yard and saw a home—
made cage with a mocker and a red car-
dinal in it.

There was a lock on the cage’s door, but
it was not sprung. I hesitated. Yes, it was
the semi-grown beggar mocker which used
to follow my footsteps. I recognized its
markings. Deliberately I opened the cage
and let both birds out.

The neighbor came out of the shed, where
he was tinkering with a bird trap, and
raised Cain. I explained:

“It seemed better than to denounce you
to the authorities. Don’t you know that
Miami is a bird sanctuary? Would you
rather pay ﬁve hundred dollars ﬁne for
catching and keeping a song bird in cap-
tivity?”

He looked ashamed of himself, and de-
spondently walked into the house, leaving
the empty cage with its door open, and the
lock dangling from it.

At sundown, I heard his excited voice at
the door of my back porch:

“Maria, come down and see what hap-
pened!”

I followed him to his yard. There, in the
open cage, both the cardinal and the young
mocker were standing at the seed hopper,
having their supper.

“What am I to do now?” The neighbor
was undecided.

I asked for a screwdriver and unscrewed
the hinges of the bird cage. Soon the door
was down. Of course, my activity fright-
ened the birds away. But next day, at sun-
down, they both came back again, to feed
in the now perpetually open cage. My
neighbor calls it his bird restaurant. Be-
sides birdseed, he serves the transient
guests worms, raisins, and apple cores.
Mockingbirds dote on raisins.

The mocker now has a family, in a
thorny tangelo tree. His babies gobble ham-
burger we feed them. When a stranger
approaches the nest, though, daddy bird
peeks at him as ﬁercely as a blue jay would.
I never made any attempt to tame that
bird. He tamed himself.

Sept. 1939

A Sea Gull Flying

HORTENSE ROBERTA ROBERTS

Over and back across the sky,
Over the sea, over the shore,
The shrillness of your mewing cry
Rises above the ocean’s roar.

Calm as a clouded sea at rest,
The motion of your wings’ mist-gray . . .
Sail low, with coral beak on breast
White as the cold and salty spray!

Watching, I too can touch the sky
With those bright wings that curve and
dip;
And cleave the waves with seeking eye,
In glad, unearthly fellowship.

A True Animal Lover
LOUISE PRICE BELL

VERY child likes pets of one kind or

another. And all parents agree that
they are ﬁne companions for their children.
It should be a part of every child’s educa—
tion to know about pets, to care for them
properly, and to understand their needs.

Jane Withers’ pet—education should cer-
tainly be a complete one, for this lively
young lady has more than 200 animal pets,
and she loves every one of them, cares for
them herself, and is continually on the look-
out for more. No wonder that Mr. and
Mrs. Withers are at times almost beside
themselves for the Withers’ estate re—
sembles a menagerie—more or less. In fact
one of the family station wagons bears the
label JANE WITHERS’ MENAGERIE in
the young star’s own printing.

Jane’s extreme love of animals is nat—
ural. But it means much more than simply
having them to play with and to amuse her.
She is deeply concerned in the welfare of
all animals and bids fair to be one of their
strongest defenders.

Recently there was an epidemic of pet-
poisoning; eleven pet dogs were poisoned
in the Santa Monica Canyon within two
weeks, several others in the neighborhood
of the Withers home. Jane was decidedly
upset about it. And so the Junior Secret
Service of Westwood was organized—its
purpose being to expose and obtain convic—
tion of all pet-poisoners. There are over
ﬁfty children in the organization, backed
by interested and understanding parents,
and they all feel as Jane says: “People
who poison childrens’ pets are the meanest
people in the world!” . . Out of the
mouths of babes. . .

Because of Jane’s constant interest in
the welfare of all dumb animals, she
occupies a position such as is probably not
held by any other child in the world. She
is on the Board of Directors of the Cali-
fornia Zoological Society and sits in at
meetings with bankers, railroad magnates,
university presidents, public and church
ofﬁcials. Not only that but she is constantly
reminded that in this capacity she should
forget the adage that “children should be
seen and not heard.” After all, the chil-
dren of today are the men and women of
tomorrow and the more humane-minded
they are now, the better our country will
be so far as animal life is concerned as
these youngsters grow to maturity.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

The Song of the Wilson’s
Thrush

’Tis Spring-—
In the sunset’s afterglow I step outside,
And—what do I hear—my heart beats
Fast—can I believe it?
Above the din of train whistle, and the
Rattle of cars in the street—out of the
Flowering tree-tops—the silvery note of a
Thrush—sweet, and clear as a bell in the
Soft, still air—
Never before have I heard it here, and I
stand
Entranced—listening—listening—to the
Sweet, melody——
A chill in the air, but I am loth to leave,
and
Say “Goodnight” to the charm of the out of
doors—
I must wait, and listen once more to this
Exquisite harmony, a Godsend in a world
of strife—
ELIZABETH FARLEY UNDERWOOD
Belmont

Birds and Your Garden

CONRAD O. PETERSON

Last summer birds attacked our melons,
cucumbers and tomatoes. It seems that
birds will attack any crop that runs high in
water content, especially if ﬁelds and woods
are dry. July and August seem to be our
worst months.

Wondering why the birds did not stick
to their bug and seed-eating habits, I
placed pans of water on the ground a short
distance from the edges of our garden plot.
Around each pan I spread assorted grain,
also bits of left-overs from our table. I
then watched the result with interest.

The birds ﬂuttered around the pans in a
ﬂurry of wings. While some sipped water,
many tried to bathe in it. The grain soon
disappeared. I had to reﬁll the pans and
respread the grain each day but it less-
ened the garden depredations. The birds
satisﬁed their thirst and hunger, and, their
attention was drawn away from the garden.

It is obvious that when the hot sun drys
and scorches the earth, birds will search
out any green appearing succulent vege-
tation.

Give the birds a food and drink substi-
tute when the sun blazes high! You can
then save both your garden and your
friendship with the birds.

Reincarnation
ALICE CHURCHILL CHAPHE

If, when my dust has once again,

Become a part of God’s fair earth,

And I could have the chance to take
another form

In all the glow of a new birth,

I know my own desire would be to turn
into a pine

With branches lifted to a friendly sky,

Through which the sun and stars could

shine;

Branches curved just a wee bit

To hold. the nests of birds and hear them
Sing;

While I would gently rock them in the wind,

Swaying like a green-boughed swing.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1939

 

The Cowbird

GLADYS WATTS

HICH is the mother bird in the pic-
W ture? You are wrong, the little bird
is the black—throated green warbler feeding
her foster child the cowbird.

The cowbird leads a strange irresponsible
life and is apparently devoid of any mater-
nal instinct. It never builds a nest or looks
after its young in any way. When nest-
building time comes in the spring, you may
see a dirty brownish-colored bird a little
smaller than a robin sitting up in a tree-
top, whistling. Sometimes several cowbirds
will gather in a small ﬂock and whistle
without a care in the world while other
birds are busy building nests.

The cowbird is a parasite upon smaller
birds. When the female ﬁnds a nest ready
made with one or more eggs in it, she will
take temporary possession and lay an egg
of her own. After laying the egg she for-
gets all about it and goes on her way.
Seldom does she lay more than one egg in
the same nest. The warblers seem to be
the foster parents she prefers for her off-
springs because she most often lays her
eggs in warbler nests.

The yellow warbler sometimes double
crosses the cowbird by building a false
bottom in her nest above the cowbird egg.
Then she will lay a set of eggs and not be
annoyed by having a small cowbird to rear.
However, the cowbird often comes back a
second and even a third time to lay an egg,
after the ﬁrst has been covered. This
means that the yellow warbler’s nest keeps
growing higher and higher. I have often
seen a yellow warbler’s nest four to six
inches thick at the base, and have dug out
two or three hidden cowbird eggs.

It wouldn’t be so bad to bring up an
extra baby if it didn’t crowd the warbler’s
children. In many cases the cowbird grows
so fast that it smothers the young war-
blers. The reason for its fast growth is that
it gets most of the food. A mother bird
seems unable to recognize her own children,
so she drops food in the mouth that opens
the widest and yells the loudest. Since the

cowbird seems always to be hungry his
mouth is stretched above the others.

The story about the birds in the picture
is an interesting one. Every day while the
black-throated green warbler was building
her nest a female cowbird sat in a. near-by
tree whistling. Finally, I came to the con-
clusion that the cowbird was waiting for
the nest to be ﬁnished so she could lay an
egg. On several occasions the cowbird ﬂew
down from her perch and made a closer
inspection of the nest when the warbler
was away.

After the ﬁrst warbler egg was laid the
cowbird deposited a large speckled egg in
the nest. Then she ﬂew away and never
returned. When the female black-throated
green warbler returned she pushed the new
egg around and attempted to remove it,
without success. At last she accepted it,
and when she had ﬁnished laying her own
four eggs she incubated it with her own.

I watched the two parent birds bring up
their family. It was a sad and hopeless
task to try to care for the baby warblers.
From the very ﬁrst the last one hatched
had no chance. It was smothered by the
ungainly cowbird baby the day it hatched.
A second one died, apparently of starva-
tion, two days later. The last two made
brave attempts to live, but one day I found
them both on the ground dead. Apparently
the intruder had pushed them out.

The young cowbird grew strong and fat.
When he’ was ten days old he jumped from
the nest and his foster parents coaxed him
off in the bushes. It was several days later
that I saw him on a fence post, ﬂapping his
wings and calling for food. Soon the par-
ent black-throated green warblers appeared
with worms to stuff down the ever-empty
throat.

Song birds and birds of ﬂight usually
build nests far above the ground. Heavier
bodied birds, building close to the ground,
or on it, lay a larger clutch of eggs than
those higher up, as the ratio of enemies
down below is greater, and, at that, per-
haps, only a few live to grow up. Ground
birds can run and fend for themselves
almost as soon as hatched.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 142
@1112 43am?! nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society Will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature .and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven new Bands of Mercy were formed
in Virginia during July.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 241,971.

“Swift” is Right!

MARIE WAGNER

SWIFT is a bird resembling a swal-

low. He looks uninteresting, even
ordinary. Yet—he is the fastest bird in the
world. '

“Airplanes?” he says contemptuously.
“Duck—soup! I can ﬂy circles around air-
planes, and eat my dinner on the way!”

A boast—nevertheless, a substantial one.
He often goes for a casual loop-the—loop in
the air at seventy miles an hour. That’s
just a slow saunter! A hundred miles an
hour is better exercise—but he can go two
hundred miles an hour!

He has another claim to fame, in that he
does not build the usual bird’s nest. In—
stead of merely entwining different materi-
als, he has special salivary glands that give
out a gluey substance to cement the
materials together. Sometimes the entire
nest is made up of this glue. It is un-
fortunate that many of these nests are
sought for the purpose of making the fa-

mous “bird’s-nest soup” so relished by the

Chinese epicure.

Another peculiarity is seen in the swift’s
feet, which are so constructed that he can
walk right up the bare face of a cliff. So
he doesn’t limit his nests to trees, like most
birds. He, chooses queer places. Sometimes
he even builds a couch in the same cave as
a family of bats. The bats go out foraging
at night, and the swift moves into the
establishment until morning.

Always in a hurry, the swift never stops
for meals. He just opens his wide, ﬂat bill,
and the dinner—usually insects—ﬂies in.
Among his favorite dishes is the termite,
or ﬂying white ant of the tropics. Since
termites are so destructive that they can
tear down entire buildings before they are
discovered, the swift does a real service
here.

He received his name from his speed,
and if he can beat an airplane—“swift”
is right!

The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark,

When neither is attended; and, I think,

The nightingale, if she should sing by day,

When every goose is cachling, would be
thought

N0 better a musician than the wren.

SHAKESPEARE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Sept. 1939

Facts and Fancies About Frogs

LOIS BOYD

ROGS are very ancient ani-

mals. Greek and Roman au-

thors mention them, and a
plague of frogs was suﬁered by
the Egyptians in Bible times.
Perhaps it is because they are
harmless and do not affect our
everyday lives very closely that
scientists were so slow to make
any study of these little crea-
tures.

During the centuries many
superstitions have arisen con—
nected with frogs. Several an-
cient writers speak of “showers
of frogs” and one Heraclides
Lembus in his history states: “In
“Paeonia and Dardania, it has,
they say, before now rained frogs, that
the houses and the roads have been full
with them; and at ﬁrst for some days
the inhabitants, endeavoring to kill them
and shutting up their houses, endured the
pest; but when they did no good, and when
they could not make use of any water, nor
put their feet on the ground for the heaps
of frogs that were everywhere, and were
annoyed also by the smell of those that
died, they ﬂed the country.”

Quite as strange as the idea that frogs
rained from the sky was the idea, pro-
posed by Aristotle, that frogs were pro-
created from mud. It is not much more
than two hundred years ago that the facts
concerning the hibernation of frogs became
known.

When the tiny tadpole is hatched in the
spring he does not look like a frog at all.
He has gills, no legs, a tail and a queer
parrot—like beak. During the ﬁrst summer
of his life he spends his time growing into
a real frog; ﬁrst his gills are absorbed
then his hind legs grow out near the base
of his tail; later his right arm comes out
and then his left arm. While his legs are
growing his head structure changes, he
loses his beak and acquires the wide mouth,
characteristic of the frog. Last of all his
tail is absorbed and his physical develop-
ment is complete. By the end of the sum-
mer he is a sure enough frog but only
about half his adult size. When the cool
days come in autumn the frog seeks for a
sheltered place along the border of a pond
and there he buries himself in the mud and
hibernates to reappear, when the spring
days come, as an adult frog ready to add
his voice to the evening concert at the
pond.

Just why the frog should have been
associated with sorcerers and alchemists
during the Middle Ages is hard to deter-
mine. But many a witch’s brew had “toe
of frog” among its ingredients and many
a wretched sufferer was forced to swallow
nauseating concoctions in which powdered
skin of a frog played a prominent part.
Among the ancient Chinese powdered toad
skin was used in many medicines. Recent
investigations have shown that this prac-
tice was not as foolish as it sounds for
adrenalin is produced in such compounds.

The toadstone was a treasure once eager-
ly sought for. Because the toad has such a
gleaming brilliant eye it was believed that

 

THE HARMLESS FROG

a marvelous jewel was concealed within its
head. This jewel was supposed to possess
magic powers; it could heal disease and
prevent disaster if worn as charm or amu—
let. Shakespeare draws a moral on it in
these famous lines:

“Sweet are the uses of adversity;
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head.”

The idea that handling toads causes
warts is still quite common but wholly un—
true. The only precaution necessary when
handling toads is to be sure that the secre-
tion from their skin glands does not get
into one’s eyes or mouth. This may cause
infection and serious difﬁculty but it will
not produce warts.

There are about two thousand species of
tailless amphibians, but we call them all by
the two common names of “frog” and
“toad.” The toad, strictly speaking, lives
on land during the entire summer months
while the frog inhabits both land and
water.

Beautiful and Useful

WILLIS MEHANNA

The song of the red—winged blackbird as
he perches on a limb close to the nest of
his mate, which is often among the tops of
a clump of cattails or wild rice plants in
some pond or marsh, is pleasant to hear.
But more pleasing still is this bird’s scarlet
shoulders, yellow tinged throat, the mingled
white and black of his wings and the blue-
black of the rest of his body. He is a thing
of beauty as he busily circles around the
pond catching insects and any vermin he
can ﬁnd. The mother bird is colored some-
what like a ﬁeld sparrow, only brighter and
darker.

The nest contains four or ﬁve light blue
eggs with black, hieroglyphic markings on
them. These birds come north during March
and April and nest in May. The nesting
season is a short one. They Winter south of
the latitude of southern Ohio. Redwings are
valuable on account of the insects and weed
seeds they consume around ponds and
marshes. It is also claimed that they carry
the seeds of cattails, wild rice and water
ﬂowers from one pond to another. Being

loved by humans and often overcoming en-
emies by superiority of numbers, they seem
to be in no danger of extinction.

 

 

 




..

 

Oct. 1939

The Vanished Dodos—And
Others

FRANCES MARGARET FOX

NCE, on the Island of Mauritius,

which is east of Madagascar in the
Indian Ocean, there lived a great, gawky
pigeon, the size of a turkey, that could not
ﬂy because its wings were tiny. Instead of
feathers it wore a coat of down. The
Portuguese had discovered the island and
named the bird the dodo, meaning that it
was a simpleton because it trusted the
ﬁrst men who ever stepped foot on their
green island. It is rather a short, sad
story. We still talk about dodos, although
they vanished from earth about three hun-
dred years ago.

Half way around the world from Mauri—
tius, on the Hawaiian Islands of the
Paciﬁc, once there lived a beautiful bird
called the mamo. It wore glossy black with
trimmings of a few crocus yellow feathers
in its wings and tail. When Captain Cook
discovered the islands, mamos still were
ﬂying through the forests, living on insects,
and keeping their family secrets. Even the
bird—catchers never knew much about the
habits of the mamo, because they were
interested only in the bird’s yellow feathers.
The great chiefs sent their own hunters in
search of the yellow feathers of which
their ceremonial mantles were made. In
the Smithsonian National Museum at
Washington there is one of these ancient
treasures known as the million dollar cape.
This royal garment is made of mamo
feathers taken from millions of birds. Now
there are no more mamos left anywhere.

Down in New Zealand once there lived a
giant bird called the moa. It was the. larg-
est bird that ever walked the earth, and
like the dodo, it had no true wings. It was
fourteen feet tall and had leg bones larger
than the legs of a horse.

The Maoris cooked and ate moas until
now they are gone: but we should know
that such birds lived in rather recent times.
Scientists and historians wonder about six
hundred moas whose bones, with bones of
geese and ducks, were found not long ago
in a pit in New Zealand. Nobody knows
what happened to the six hundred moas.
There isn’t a moa left to tell the story.

Another bird that has left us forever is
the great auk, or garefowl. It could not ﬂy
although it used its wings when swimming
under the water. The penguins get their
names from these birds which were called
pinwings in early days. The great auks
lived in the northern seas and were com-
mon on the New England coast during
nesting time. Sailors ate them. The last
of these birds nested on islands oﬂ‘ Iceland,
but even there their enemy, man, found
them and stole their eggs until the family
perished. In. these days the price of a great
auk’s egg is several hundred dollars.

The California condor almost has gone
the way of the vanished. The truth about
the wanton slaughter of these great vul-
tures is one of America’s saddest stories.

Another story, too depressing to tell, is
about what happened to the snowy heron
and the American egret down in Florida
where the plume hunters did their murder-
ous work.

It is lucky that the hummingbirds can’t

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

read their own history
about what happened
after the coming of white
men down in the West

Indies. There so many
thousands of these ﬂying
jewels were killed for

their feathers that on
some of the islands soon
no hummingbirds w e r e
left. It is a wonder that
there are any humming-
birds, or parrots, or
argus pheasants, or her-
ons, or loons, or gulls, or
birds—of-paradise, left in
the world, so terrible is
the story of man’s cruelty
in killing the loveliest of
birds for their plumage.

In North America, the
C a r o l i n a parakeet, the
heath hen, the Eskimo
curlew, and the passenger
pigeon, once common, now
are gone forever.

Join the Jack London
Club, opposed to trained
animal exhibitions on
stage or screen. Write to
180 Longwood Ave. Boston.

Page 157

 

KILLDEER IN ROCK ISLAND ARSENAL

 

The Robins’ Gratitude

W. REID

T was nesting-time in the spring of
[[1988 and a pair of robins had made
several attempts at raising their family,
only to have their eggs taken and the nest
destroyed by mischievous boys. At last
they decided to build in the eaves of the old
parsonage near the church. There they
found protection and they succeeded in
rearing their brood. It was not long after
the nest had been completed when, one
morning, we were awakened to hear the
singing of restful and happy birds. When
the nest was ﬁlled with eggs and the
mother began the period of incubation, the
male invariably as the daylight faded from
the sky perched on the church spire some
two hundred feet from the ground and
with all his soul, as if in gratitude, poured
out his song.

For the little protection given we were
repaid a thousand times over by that un-
forgetable singing, but my story does not
end here.

It was a season when gardens were un-
usually infested with insects and many
people gave up the ﬁght and watched their
vegetables quickly disappear. We had been
on vacation for ﬁve weeks with nobody
looking after the garden, and returned
expecting to see not even the last traces of
growth. To our surprise the garden was
in a most healthy condition, and how to
account for it we did not know. Nobody
seemed to know. But, rising early one
morning, we discovered the secret of it.
The garden was alive with birds. Birds
everywhere, on vegetable and ﬂower alike.
This we discovered was the regular morn-
ing procedure of the birds as if they had
been summoned by the robins. Kindness
shown to animals and birds is often sur-
prisingly returned.

Arsenal Used for Nursery

NTENTIONALLY or otherwise, this

killdeer chose a very safe nursery. First,
she laid her eggs in the Rock Island Arsen—
al. Although it is the largest plant for the
manufacture of ordnance materials in the
United States, it also is a bird and game
refuge. Secondly, she laid her eggs close
enough to the Rock Island Arsenal golf
course so that it immediately attracted
attention and army ofﬁcers placed guard
sticks near-by so no one would accidentally
step on the eggs.

It is characteristic for killdeers to lay
their eggs in gravel or stones. When any-
one approaches, the killdeer ﬂees, screeching
at the top of her voice, hoping the intruder
will follow her and thereby leave the
vicinity of the eggs. Once the intruder is
led away from the eggs, Mrs. Killdeer stops
screaming and sneaks back to her eggs by
a round-about way.

George Arliss says: I have a deﬁnite
rule that animals should not be introduced
into my ﬁlms. My reason is, ﬁrstly, because
I feel that animals should not be exploited
in any way for our beneﬁt, and, secondly,
because I know that when animals have
been used in ﬁlms there has always been a
certain amount of cruelty. I have fre—
quently cut from scenarios incidents intro—
ducing ﬁghts of birds, monkeys, or dogs.

Pot of Gold

GENE MOORE

Now who am I to care where rainbows
end?
Or where their pots of precious metal
glint?
Our orchard has a nest of orioles,
All golden coins from Nature’s mighty
mint.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

, :.1 ,. '. on. ._,‘_-,.u
, -._.- ﬂﬁ<——3W-.g—

      
    
  
 

Keep Your Dogs
1' e e

FROM WORMS

WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No 652

 
 

wORM CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES, DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Address Desk N '58-3 Animal Industry Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 60., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hospitals Quanta.“
can" '
rely on Cuticura.

skin deserves

this special care.

CUTICUBA

 

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR
For 1939

With colored picture
“In the Land 0’ Bobbie Burns”

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve
for $1.80, postpaid.

AMERICAN HUMANE
EDUCATION SOCIETY
B o S t o n

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.I. s.;-(‘WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our D'umb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937 bound volume .75
Humane Calendar for 1939 ............ each, 20 cts.

two for 35 cts. ; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ..$0 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ..... .50

The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 :: ::
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card” $1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .......................... .00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp. ., illus ........... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ; 12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and2 .50
How the Birds Help the Farmer ..... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .......... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ......................... .50

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady .............. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ....paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp... 1. 00
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1. 00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ...... .30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” $0.30 per 100
Films, pFakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp.

(‘ [I

.50 (t ‘4
.50 ‘l ‘0

Humane Education

Humane Edurcation, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp. , paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ., 15 cts. ' ,seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’

play .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.

Humane Exercises ................... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . .50 “ “

A Talk with the Teacher .............
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer”.. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs ofy Happy Life, with music, S.

J E ........................... 50 cts.

Songs of yHappy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy

:50 S‘ (S
.30 (I (C

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Two reels, 30 minutes.

Write for terms for rental and sale of the Films—

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing activities of the Angell. Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Boston,
scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and of some of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

State whether 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required.

Address, Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Descriptive, illustrated circular of this film free upon application

“THE BELL OF ATRI"

One-reel, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title. The text of the poem will be sent free upon application

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 42

Methuen

It was in the spring of 1917 that the
beautiful farm of 155 acres in Methuen,
known as the Nevins Farm, was given to
the Society as a Rest Farm for Horses and
for a Shelter for small animals. The Su—
perintendent of this Farm has also acted as
one of the prosecuting ofﬁcers of the So-
ciety, answering complaints and making
investigations wherever required. Soon
after the Farm came into the Society’s
hands a Shelter was built and its work is
so much in demand that one wonders what
was ever done for unwanted and small and
injured animals in that section of the State
before the Methuen Shelter came into exist—
ence. The report of the cases and of the
relief work appears below. The average
number of horses taken care of during the
year at the Farm was 28.

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ............... 97
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 13,752
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips ......... 1,726
Small Animals (returned to
owners) .............. 54
(placed in homes) ...... 200
(humanely put to sleep). 3,567
Horses (taken from work). . 5
(humanely put to sleep). 74
Mileage .................. 1 3,459

The Cemetery

The graves at Hillside Acre, the Society’s
Cemetery at Methuen, now number 1,050.
The Cemetery has been carefully looked
after and has attracted to itself many
hundreds of people. It has sought particu-
larly to minister to those unable to spend
any large amount of money for a place in
which they could bury their family pets.

PITTSFIELD

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................ 201
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On inVestig‘ations only . . . . 4,729
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips ......... 2,105
Small Animals (returned to
owners) .............. 51
(placed in homes) ...... 312
(humanely put to sleep). 2,884
Horses (taken from work) . . 3
(humanely put to sleep) . . 5
4. Prosecutions. . 4 Convictions 3
Mileage ................... 20,293
SPRINGFIELD (OFFICER)
l. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ............... 966
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 4,878
At Stock-yards ........... 759
Abattoirs ............... 2 1 , 769
Auctions ............... 581
Total ............... 27,987
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Small Animals (humanely put
to sleep) ............. 18
Horses (taken from work) . . 11
(humanely put to sleep) . . 16
4. Prosecutions. . 5 Convictions 4
Mileage ............... . . . . . 22,578

(OUR DUMB ANIMALS

SPRINGFIELD
3.

3.

3.

(HOSPITAL)

ANIMAL RELIEF WORK Number
Ambulance trips ......... 1,984
Small Animals (returned to

owners) .............. 309
(placed in homes) ...... 913
(humanely put to sleep) . . 5,675

Mileage .................. 8,230

A T T L E B O‘ R O

CASES Number

Complaints received (investi-
gated) ............... 217

ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 4,189
Abattoirs ............... 371

Total ............... 4,560

ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips .......... 412
Small Animals (returned to

OWners) .............. 38
(placed in homes) ...... 89
(humanely put to sleep) . . 767
Horses (taken from work). . l7
(humanely put to sleep) . . 20

Prosecutions . .4 Convictions. . 4

Mileage ................. 30,017
H Y A N N I S

CASES Number

Complaints received (inVesti-
gated) ............... 1,044

ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 1,680

ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips ......... 595
Small Animals (returned to

owners) .............. 24
(placed in homes) ...... 11
(humanely put to sleep) . . 1,063
Horse (taken from work) . . 1
(humanely put to sleep) . . 5
Prosecution. . 1 Conviction. . 1
Mileage ................... 33,354
W E N H A M

CASES Number

Complaints received (investi-
gated) ............... 225

ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 8,737
Auctions ................ 3,663

Total ............... 12,400

ANIMAL RELIEF WO‘RK
Ambulance trips ......... 195
Small Animal (returned to

owner) ............... I
(placed in homes) ...... 27
(humanely “put to sleep) . . 292
Horses (taken from work). . 13
(humanely put to sleep) . . 136
Prosecutions . . 5 Convictions . . 3
Mileage ................... 20, l 04
W O R C E S T E R

CASES Number

Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................ 463

ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ..... 4,163
Abattoirs ............... 478
R. R. yards .............. 1,021
Auctions ............... 605

Total ................ 6,267

ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Small Animal (returned to
owner) ............... 1
(humanely put to sleep) . . 29

M ar. 193.9

Horses (taken from work) . . 27
(humanely put to sleep) . . 16

4. Prosecutions. .9 Convictions . . 7
Mileage .................. 1 1 ,707

T A U N T O N
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Small Animals (returned to

owners) .............. 73
(placed in homes) ...... 25
(humanely put to sleep) . . 834
Horse (humanely put to sleep) 1

Other Local Agents

In addition to the above branch ofﬁces,
the Society has special local agents, to whom
complaints may be made relative to any
cases of cruelty to animals or injured
animals, as follows: W. J. Callahan, Athol;
E. D. Mosher, Fitchburg; Dr. E. Erskine
Harvey, Greenﬁeld; Wells C. Smith, Haver—
hill; and Arthur P. Reed, Peabody.

Women’s Auxiliary

No report for the year would be com—
plete without recognizing the splendid work
done by the Women’s Auxiliary under the
enthusiastic and efficient leadership of its
president, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke.
Through its annual bazaar and its various
other activities, the purchase of greatly
needed equipment and supplies for the Hos--
pital has been made possible.

In connection with her work as chairman
of the Boston Auxiliary and organizer of
other Auxiliaries throughout the state,
Mrs. Clarke organized a new Auxiliary in
Great Barrington, visited Pittsﬁeld several
times in the interest of organizing a branch
there; also made many trips to Northamp-
ton where a branch had been formerly
established; attended meetings of the Win-
chester and Springﬁeld Auxiliaries, and
planned for the organizing of an Auxiliary
in Attleboro.

We regret exceedingly that we have been
compelled to go to press before receiving a
report for last year from the president of
the Springﬁeld Women’s Auxiliary which
has done so much for the Society in that
city, and has stood so loyally and nobly
back of the Springﬁeld Hospital. We
doubt not that the illness of its president,
Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, accounts for the fail-
ure of the annual report to reach us in
time.

In 1938, the Winchester Auxiliary held
regular monthly meetings at the homes of
members at which many articles for use in
the HOSpital clinic were prepared. An in-
tensive campaign soliciting funds for a
Shelter was conducted, and toward the
same end, two food sales were held, and
later on, a more inclusive Fair. On April
30, Dr. Rowley, Mrs. Edith W. Clarke, and
Guy Richardson spoke at exercises which
ofﬁcially opened the permanent Shelter at
432 Washington Street. The Auxiliary is
extremely fortunate in having Mr. Arthur
Bryer and his mother, Mrs. Horatio Bryer,
in charge of the Shelter. To date they have
cared for 200 dogs and 67 cats. The Aux-
iliary now has 64 members and enthusiasm
is steadily mounting for the work it is
accomplishing.

The Taunton branch, under the devoted
direction of Mrs. Howard F. Woodward,
has rendered an excellent service and met
an actual need in that community.

 




 

 

June, 1939

/ ,
”4/15“,
l"

/

say/ﬂ
a ' 5’
,. 'l/u
\ =52.
, Ill? 111mm

vlr

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone(Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.
Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—

COUNTEss CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, BostonPMRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary -—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 17,073
Cases investigated ............. 430
Animals examined ............. 3,870
Animals placed in homes ....... 256
Lost animals restored to owners. . 62
Number of prosecutions ......... 2
Number of convictions .......... 1
Horses taken from work ........ 17
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 56

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,209
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 53,386
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 49

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER. D.V.M.

B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

paemam

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 706
Cases entered in Dispensary ..... 1,832
Operations ...................... 626

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 165
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 449
Operations ...................... 171

Totals

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 170,672
Dispensary cases 425,325

.............. 595,997

Cruel Abandonment

The abandoning of a cat is a criminal
Offense under Massachusetts law. Convic—
tions are rare owing to the difﬁculty of
securing sufﬁcient evidence to present to
the court. The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
has offered a reward of $20, for some years,
for evidence which will convict of this
offense. In April Ofﬁcer T. King Haswell,
the Society’s representative in Berkshire
County, prosecuted an offender for abandon—
ing a cat. Relying upon the information
furnished by Miss Ethel J. Cummings as to
the defendant’s name, car number, and her
willingness to testify, court action was tak-
en. The defendant was found guilty and
ﬁned $10. The informant received the $20
reward.

Northampton Branch

The Northampton Branch of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. was two years old in
April. It maintains an animal shelter at
the Happy Hunting Kennels on Cooke
Avenue. This year the shelter has been
managed by Dr. Grace Wilder and Mrs.
Eleanor P. Howes. During the ﬁrst four
months of 1939 there were received 60 un-
wanted, sick or injured cats and dogs. The
work of this new organization is growing
and the members hope for more and more
co-operation from the public.

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. held its annual dinner and
election of ofﬁcers on May 9. Mrs. Clarke
was re-elected president. Dr. Rowley was
the chief speaker at the dinner.

Page 89

Annual Hospitality Day

N unusual number of guests were

entertained by the Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. at the annual
Hospitality Day at the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, on Tuesday, April 25. The arrange-
ments were in charge of the president, Mrs.
Edith Washburn Clarke, assisted by Mrs.
Charles C. Hoyt, Mrs. Willard C. Bliss,
Mrs. Francis G. Carreiro, and Mrs. John A.
Dykeman. A large group enjoyed bridge,
held in the club-room, with Mrs. Edward C.
Brown, chairman, and Mrs. Charles E.
Staniek, co-chairman, assisted by the fol-
lowing hostesses: Mrs. A. B. Parker, Mrs.
Charles H. Hillman, Mrs. Eugene G. Bou-
telle, Mrs. Fred L. Rice, Mrs. E. M. Bartlett,
Mrs. Lena W. Grouard, Mrs. Edward A.
Barney, Mrs. Walter Hart, Mrs. Edward C.
Green, Mrs. J. H. Hood and Miss Elise
Stone.

A table of interesting articles from
“Grandmother’s Attic” was in charge of
Mrs. Edwin Will, assisted by Mrs. Jessie G.
Tenney and Mrs. Richard Delaney. There
was also a food table, in charge Of Mrs.
Herbert Prescott. Tea was served at four
o’clock with Mrs. William J. McDonald as
chairman, assisted by Mrs. Frank Towne.
Guests were welcomed by Mrs. George
Ramlose. The pourers were Mrs. Robert
Sanderson and Mrs. Fred Blaisdell, dis-
trict directors of the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs.

Music throughout the afternoon was fur-
nished by Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Custance,
harpists.

The patronesses were: Mrs. Charles
Arthur Root, Mrs. Leverett Saltonstall,
Mrs. Maurice J. Tobin, Mrs. Charles G. Ban-
croft, Mrs. Henry W. Hildreth, Mrs. James
J. Storrow, Mrs. Harold Walters, Mrs.
Hugh Bancroft, Mrs. William J. Under-
wood, Mrs. Ezra R. Thayer, Mrs. Louis A.
Frothingham, Mrs. Adnah Neyhart and
Mrs. Fred Blaisdell.

New President Elected

Mrs. Morton B. Miner of Hazelwood
Avenue, Longmeadow, was elected presi-
dent Of the Branch Women’s Auxiliary of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., at the
annual meeting held in Springﬁeld on May
11. She succeeds Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe,
who has served the Auxiliary as president
for the past six years,- and who declined to
accept the ofﬁce for another term due to
pressure of other interests. Other ofﬁcers
chosen at the same time are: First vice-
president, Mrs. Magnus F. Peterson; second
vice-president, Mrs. Frank W. Winslow;
recording secretary, Mrs. Edward L.
Stoughton; corresponding secretary, Mrs.
Owen Whitman Eames; treasurer, Mrs.
Herbert F. Payne; directors, Mrs. Harold
G. Duckworth, Mrs. Aaron Clark Bagg,
Mrs. Dwight W. Ellis, Mrs. George W.
Ellis, Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, Mrs. Stuart
M. Robson.

The guest speaker of the day was Presi-
dent Francis H. Rowley of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A.

The annual “June Day” will be held on
June 6 on the estate of Mr. and Mrs. John
C. Brooks, Forest Glen Road, Longmeadow.

 

 




Apr. 1989

 

 

 

OUR DUIMB

AN Ill! ALS Page63

 

 

 

Spring Cricket
FRANCES RODMAN

He put away his tiny pipe

Last autumn, when the gale was chill;
And now in rusty coat and brow-n

He tries his strength upon the hill.

With ﬁddle tucked beneath a wing
He staggers over stubbled. ground;
He climbs upon a sunny stone,
Shakes winter off, and looks around.

He polishes his dingy coat

And scrapes a valiant tune and high
To tell his tiny universe

That April’s due to saunter by.

Strange Bedfellows
GERTRUDE RATHBUN

Q NE of my friends, Who is exceedingly fond of animals,
, numbers on her long roll of pets one little guinea pig.
This animal disappears for about two months every summer,
returning to his shed in early autumn.

Last year October passed and he did not appear. His mis-
tress was mildly concerned, but when freezing weather came in
late November she gave him up in despair, feeling sure that
some misfortune had overtaken him.

Meanwhile a mother cat and ﬁve kittens, looking about for
a comfortable home, found the guinea pig’s shed and moved in
for the winter.

One morning the head of the house carried the feline family
a basin of milk. It was early and she found them sleeping, and
in the midst of the furry mass, snugly curled up, lay her fat
little guinea pig.

He continues to share the bed with his new friends, but
refuses to eat with them, insisting on a basin of his own.

He brought no excuse for his tardiness, and no map of his
wanderings.

What Animals Are These?

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HAT animals did you see on your travels, Uncle
Tony?” Jim asked.

“Many different kinds,” was the reply, “and a ﬁne time we
had hunting some of them so that we could get photos. Give
me that pencil and we’ll see if you are a good hunter.” Uncle
Tony wrote for a few minutes, then handed Jim the paper.
“There you are, young fellow. I’ve just jumbled up the letters
in each name. N ow see how quickly you can hunt out the real
names!”

Here is the list he gave Jim. And here’s a tip for you. The
last letter in each real name is the letter S.

1. MARRIED DOES 6. HEN PLEATS
2. CHAIN CHILLS 7. STOLEN APE

3. SEA STORMS 8. SOUP PRINCE
4. CHORE IRONS 9. MAZE PINCHES
5. HUMP NICKS 10. LEMONS EACH

 

“Petie,” the Mocker
ANN ROE ANDERSON

H T was after dark one evening when the continued cheeping
of a young bird caused us to investigate. On an upstairs
rooﬂess porch we found a young mocking-bird. The astonish-
ing thing about this was that our cat sat within a foot of the
ﬂedgling, watching curiously, but making no move to hurt it.

How the bird came to be there, we do not know. A few times
that cat has brought birds into the house without injuring
them in the least. The little mocker may have fallen from a
nest in a near—by pepper tree, and the cat may have found it
and brought it to the porch. Or, in falling from the nest, its
ﬂuttering ﬂight may have landed it on the porch, and the cat
was attracted by its cheeping.

We fed it prepared food for wild birds, hard-boiled egg yolk,
and bread and milk until it was old enough to forage for itself.
Petie was a most interesting pet. Learning quickly where his
food came from, he would hop swiftly across the ﬂoor to us,
wings spread, mouth stretched to capacity, cheeping lustily
whenever we entered the room where he was housed among
eucalyptus boughs.

Baby Squirrels

VELA EDWARDS

I’m spell-bound with the pleasure

That thrills me through and through,—
Four bright-eyed baby squirrels

Just passed within my view.

With golden little brush tails
Held proudly to the sky

And grace in each swift movement,
The furry balls passed by.

The woodland shelters many
Delightful folks, I know,

But Mrs. Squirrel’s babies
Will always steal the show.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

P619640
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MARCH, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Film Censorship

N England, we learn, there is a Board

of English Film Censors. Sometime ago
representatives of both the Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and the University of London Animal Wel-
fare Society were asked to serve on an
Advisory Committee on animal ﬁlms. Of
course the request was gladly accepted. It
seemed to promise a better day for ﬁlms in
which use was made of animals. At last
it was discovered that certain ﬁlms were
being exhibited in which animals were used
and no notice given to this Advisory Com-
mittee. The result has been that these two
organizations have withdrawn from the
Board of British Film Censors.

The protests pouring into the Twentieth
Century Fox Studios, Inc., against the in-
human cruelties to horses, evident in the
ﬁlm entitled “Jesse James,” may ultimately
lead some of these moving-picture com-
panies to ask for one or two humane people
on their Board of Censors.

The Hit-and-run Driver

How any automobilist can kill or injure
any sort of animal on the highway and
hurry on without stopping to see what he
has done, it is quite impossible for the
ordinary person to understand. We are glad
to quote from an editorial recently appear—
ing in the Springﬁeld (Massachusetts)
Union:

Happily the Supreme Court of Massachu-
setts holds that a licensed dog has the right
of way on the highway, and that the motor-
ist must respect it. Happily, also, from the
humanitarian point of view, Frank A.
Goodwin, Registrar, is sympathetic with
this view, and suspended for ten days the
driving license of a man who had, according
to testimony of eyewitnesses, disregarded
the rights of a dog and had driven over it,
death resulting for the unfortunate crea—
ture.

We are glad to say that the Exeter Street
Theater, in Boston, acknowledging our
letter, writes us that they will not only not
show the ﬁlm of “Jesse J ames,” but have
written a protest to the Film Company.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Our State Branches

III. Northampton

BRANCH of the Massachusetts So-

ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals was organized at a gathering held
in Northampton, Massachusetts, in 1937,
brought about through the interest and
support of Miss Eunice Barrows. Mrs. E.
W. Clarke was chosen as the ﬁrst president.

 

MRS. F. E. DOW

The following year Mrs. Frank E. Dow was
unanimously elected president, with Miss
Jane Bigelow as treasurer.

Due to the splendid work of Mrs. Dow,
this Branch has been able to open a shelter
for stray animals, meeting this expense
with funds raised on tag days and at the
annual bridge parties.

Through the co-operation of the North-
ampton Gazette the Branch has been able
to bring before the public the fact that
stray animals and accident cases would be
given immediate attention.

Is the Elephant Liable to
Disappear?

From the Twelfth Annual Report of the
Animal Year Book, published by the Uni-
versity of London Animal Welfare Society,
we learn that in the Belgian Congo alone,
in spite of the recent decline in the inter-
national trade in ivory, the Ministry of
Colonies estimates that between 20,000 and
25,000 elephants are killed each year. In
a land like ours where the elephant is so
rarely seen, it is hard‘ to believe that such
an extraordinary number of these great
creatures are sacriﬁced every year in the
ivory trade.

Already the mountain zebras are practi-
cally exterminated, and the Cape buffalo,
once extremely common, is now rarely found
south of the Zambezi.

 

Mar. 1939

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868
See Page 45 for complete list of ofﬁcers

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone(Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex

FRED T. VICKERs, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters Maintained by
Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTEss CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 16,704

Cases investigated . . . . ....... . . . . 381
Animals examined ........ . . . . . . . 2,428
Animals placed in homes ....... . . 179
Lost animals. restored to owners. . 70
Number of prosecutions. . . . . . . . . . 5
Number of convictions ............ 5
Horses taken from work .......... . 3
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 54

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,345

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 61,146
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 48

Still Good Enough

Ascum—I see there’s some talk of having
the people vote at the next election upon
the question of abolishing capital punish-
ment. Would you vote to abolish it?

Fogie—No, sir; capital punishment was
good enough for my ancestors, and it’s good
enough for me. ——The Messenger

Payment of $35 for a kennel or $75 for a
stall in the Angel] Memorial Animal Hos-

~ pital, will insure a suitable marker in—

scribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and
kennels given upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No 652

NEMA

WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE '=' .

ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS

OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N.58-E’

PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, M ICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

   

 

 
  

   
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

BASHE

rritation soothed, healing promoted
by using effective, mildly medicated “on...‘%‘~‘“...o/

[u '. —I :' SOAP'and
,. . , .,"'~NWFNI .

     
   

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF
“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers of
1938. Beautifully bound in cloth and
stamped in gold. Ideal gift for hu-
mane friends and for institutions of
all kinds. 192 pages—150 illustra-
tions. Postpaid to any part of the
world for One Dollar. Address: OUR
DUMB ANIMALS, 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Entertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane-Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .
Humane Calendar for 1939 ........... each, 20 cts.

two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals. Blotters, 6%; x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “

The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ ::

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus, $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider. Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 10
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .......................... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ............. 1.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ....................... .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady .............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp., special . ...boards, 50 cts.

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club ? ...... .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
pp. .............................. $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals -— Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Edwcation, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts.; seven for $1-00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ......... . ............ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each;six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play .......
3 cts each; ten for 25c.
Humane Sunday ........................... 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75
Humane Education, What to Teach and

l‘ (d

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ...........

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.

“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.

Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

$1.00 per 100

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Low rates for summer rentals of the Films

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital, two reels
Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Address SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,

and

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sept. 1989

Released

SARAH MIZELLE MORGAN

I saw him stop and buy
A trembling mockingbird
Held captive in a cage.
IVithont a single word
He opened wide the door,
Then stood with shining eyes
And watched it wing once more
To freedom through the skies.

An Island of Birds

EWEN K. PATTERSON

NE of the strangest bird colonies in

the world is Willis Island, a tiny sand
key out in the Paciﬁc Ocean, some 250
miles from the eastern coast of Australia.
On this lonely islet, only 20 acres in area
and so far off the normal course of steam-
ships that in ten years only one passing
steamer has been sighted, is a radio-
cyclone-warning station, where two men, a
meteorologist and a wireless operator, keep
a vigil like Robinson Crusoe and Man Fri-
day. Their duties are to warn shipping on
the Australian coast of the approach of
cyclones.

Reposing in isolation in the middle of a
vast expanse of heaving ocean, Willis
Island has a greater bird population than
any other island of similar size in the
Paciﬁc, if not in the world. The tiny speck
is the home of countless thousands of birds
as tame as domestic fowls, birds of many
species that live in complete harmony with
each other, their nests intermingling on
virtually every square foot of the little
island.

Most plentiful are the noddies—trim
little ﬁgures in dark—brown, with crowns of
silver gray. Masked gannets, red-footed
gannets, and brown gannets are also there
in great numbers. Master divers and
ﬁshermen, these birds spend most of their
time at sea, soaring and dipping over the
sun-kissed waters seeking ﬁsh. Sooty terns
and crested terns are also plentiful. The
latter are very attractive birds‘ of a battle—
ship-gray color, with ﬁne yellow bill, neat
black-capped head, with a “crest” on the
nape of the neck which is erected when the
bird is indignant, as, for example, when the
peace of its home is disturbed.

By far the most interesting bird on the
island, however, is the banded landrail.
This bird is found in many other parts of
the world and is known to be a speedy ﬂier.
But on Willis Island the bird is ﬂightless.
On Willis the landrails cannot ﬂy, but they
make up for this deﬁciency by being ex-
tremely fast runners on the ground. The
presence of this ﬂightless bird on the lonely
island, which is over 200 miles from any
other land, is a puzzling mystery.

When the cyclone—warning station was
established on Willis Island eighteen years
ago it was thought that the birds might
resent the intrusion of man to their domain
and leave the island to settle elsewhere.
Instead the birds have become the greatest
of friends with the men at the station.

It is almost impossible to walk even a
few feet on the island without stepping on
an egg, and wherever one walks one is
accompanied by a noisy bodyguard and the
ﬂuttering of a myriad wings that seem al-
most to fan one’s face.

OUR DUMB

 

SECTION OF WILLIS ISLAND IN THE PACIFIC
OCEAN, SHOWING THE AMAZING BIRD POPU-
LATION THERE

ANIMALS

 

 

 

Birds in the Economy of
Nature
JOHN H. JOLLIEF

FAIR amount of observation shows us

that birds of all species, located in
their respective regions over the earth,
occupy a place in nature that cannot be
ﬁlled by any other class of animals. Such
an observation at once attracts the atten-
tion and commands the respect of lovers
of bird life.

Birds have the distinction of preserving
the balance of the forces of nature to a
greater degree than any other group of
wild life. For this unique calling they are
specially ﬁtted. Their physical structure
is such that they can be assembled at once
to correct unusual outbreaks of plant or
animal life. Just let a swarm of locusts
appear, or a plague of ﬁeld mice occur, and
almost immediately, as though in response
to telegraphic orders, birds of prey gather
in astonishing numbers for a feast of ex-
termination.

Nations have their mechanical air forces
for defense, but so have the bird policemen
of the air whose assignment is that of
ridding the earth of decaying materials,
which otherwise might quickly pollute air
and stream. The sea monster on the beach,
the dead animal in ﬁeld or glen, the accu-
mulated debris left by a receding tide,—all
are pounced upon at once by feathered
scavengers.

Nature has planned the bird well. Power-
ful wings make the procurement of food
possible on land, in the air, or on the water.
If necessary, this may be done while mov-
ing at high rates of speed. Flight at high

Page 183

speed makes escape from ene-
mies possible. Strong muscles
make migration possible. Large
bodies of land and water are
crossed safely though some
perish. The senses of sight and
hearing are developed to an
almost incomprehensible degree.
The blood temperature is higher
than in other animals, and the
circulation is more rapid. The
bodily activity is greater than
that of other animals in pro-
portion to size. To maintain
such high temperature, rapid
circulation, and great bodily
activity, an unusual amount of
food must be eaten. The struc-
tural ability to handle large
quantities of food ﬁts a bird for
its special tasks on land, in the
air, and on the water.

Then, too, there is that basic
law in nature which says that
each plant and animal shall try
to preserve its own life and re-
produce its own kind. Were
insects and robins and red
squirrels to increase without
natural check, man would be
driven off the face of the earth
in a very short time. Birds aid
in keeping the insect pests
under control, and in turn are
themselves kept from over-run-
ning the earth by certain other
animals. The balance of nature
is maintained; any serious dis-
turbance of this would surely lead to dire
consequences.

Birds also aid in other ways. They
destroy millions of weed seeds, thereby
checking undue plant growth. They also
scatter desirable plant seeds, resulting in
a wider distribution of plant life.

Is it not clear therefore that man’s suc-
cess and bird life are closely related? Is
it not true that birds are an essential part
of nature’s most wonderful plan? Could
man for long thrive and grow prosperous,
to say nothing of existing, if it were not
for the birds? Is there not an implied duty
and obligation on our part toward the
birds? How important it is, then, that all
of us recognize our responsibility and do
our small bit in promoting and protecting
our friends and co-workers, the birds.

He Loved Birds and Animals

John Ruskin’s love of birds and animals
was not conﬁned to his own pets, the tame
rook, “Grip,” and the succession of cats and
dogs he cared for during his lifetime. He
made friends with his friends’ pets, and the
dog and cat that crossed his path when
traveling did not pass unnoticed.

In a letter he tells of the little black
kitten that sat on his shoulder, when he was
having tea at a hotel, and lapped up half
his jugful of cream. When traveling
through Savoy, his coachman’s kindness to
his horses and dog so pleased him, he added
a very generous tip to his fare, and then
added two francs to the tip for the dog.

His love of animals reached out to the
wild creatures. His moor and wood fur—
nished them with a safe asylum and his
window ledges had a lasting welcome for
the birds that alighted on them. A) W.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1939

Really Contented Cows

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

HEN we look at cows grazing in a

ﬁeld, or standing quietly in their
barns, chewing reﬂectively, we get the im-
pression that these creatures are by nature
so constituted that they enjoy life under
almost any conditions. This is far from
being the truth, although only a small per-
centage of cattle owners realize the many
things which cause cows pain and discom-
fort and how easily these conditions may
be improved.

I have more than once surprised farmers
by demonstrating to them that if they
brush and currycomb their cows frequently,
especially just before milking them, they
will get more milk. Cows respond very
quickly to this kind of treatment.

Plenty of salt is essential to the well-
being of cows. That fact should be well-
known by now, but because most com-
mercial dairy feeds contain a small amount
of salt a great many owners assume that
this is all that is needed. When they are
persuaded to place a block of salt in front
of their animals they are convinced by the
eagerness with which they lick it that’ they
were actually suffering from an insufﬁcient
supply. When a cow does not have enough
salt her coat becomes rough and coarse, her
appetite falls off and her milk production
drops.

In winter weather, when the cows are
conﬁned to the barn most of the time, their
hoofs grow, often several inches. This
makes walking painful, and if, as is fre-
quently the case, the hoof cracks under
these conditions, they may suffer a great
deal. Trimming the hoof when it grows too
long takes only a few minutes.

If you want to know how a cow feels
when she is covered with ﬂies, stand near
her on a hot summer day. Some of the
vicious green-headed ﬂies will light on your
skin, sink their heads in deep and start
sucking your blood. The big horseﬂies will
do the same. You can brush them off, or
go inside, but the cow must stand all day
covered with dozens or even hundreds of
biting and stinging ﬂies. Spraying her sev—
eral times a day will make her comfortable.
As she will not eat when so tortured, and
will therefore give less milk, such kindness
has a practical dollar-and—cents basis, if
that is an added inducement.

Cows often contract mastitis, which is a
painful as well as a dangerous disease, by
lying in stables where there is insufﬁcient
bedding, or where the bedding has been
allowed to become foul and damp. Good
clean straw is inexpensive, and should be
used lavishly at all times.

Milk is one of our most important foods.
By treating the cows which produce it in
a humane manner we will have not only
more milk, and safer milk, but we will have
the satisfaction that comes from knowing
that the animals which produce it are as
comfortable and well-cared for as is hu-
manly possible.

“I have found nothing,” says a teacher,
“so disposing the hearts of my pupils
toward accepting the teaching of the
Christian gOSpel as the training I have
given them in the principles of humane
education.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A CONTENTED MOTHER

 

The Italian Cricket

MIRIAM DEAN BLACKBURN

Here where the spawn of the southern
wind sings,

And the nest of the hummingbird rhythm-
ically swings,

Where the wild plum-tree nods to the
creek’s drowsy tune

That meters the mood of the warm after-
noon,

A cricket composes a tune on his lyre,

At variance with his most somber attire.

His ﬁrst piping notes are both lilting and

airy,

Yet they soften, becoming a theme frag—
mentary,

As he, too, succumbs to the sun’s steady
sweep

And scuttles within the cool bushes to sleep.

When evening comes on and the moon’s
light caress

Sprays the grasses and leaves in a mystical
dress,

then the plum finds
white silver-coated,

The cricket bursts forth with a- song
shrilly-throated.

He thrums until dawn his too fluty rendi—
tion, /

A challenge to sleep and to MY disposition.

A Remarkable Hen

This incident is vouched for by a
trusted correspondent. It seems that there
is a hen which every day, during egg-
laying season, at a certain time pecks at
the kitchen door for admittance. A cloth
is spread on the bed and little “Beckie”
lays her egg. She never shows off by cack-
ling. She just gives her mistress a knowing
look, smiles broadly in hen fashion, and
very politely departs. But at the door
Beckie hesitates because she expects to be
rewarded for her day’s work. After receiv—
ing her pay in corn she rejoins her sister
hens and goes merrily about her business,
scratching for unsuspecting worms.

her blossoms of

 

Page 155

Return to Life

JUDY VAN DER VEER

NE morning I went out to ﬁnd the

oldest cow trembling with delight over
her new—born calf. I was delighted, too,
though I hadn’t planned on being delighted.
The cow, who bears the remarkable name
of “William,” is the ﬁrst cow we ever
owned. She has given us many beautiful
calves and countless gallons of milk. I had
wanted her to have a long rest with no
more calves. We do not believe that faith—
ful old cows should be allowed to wear
themselves out calving, or that they should
be sent to the butcher when their time of
usefulness is over. So I had worried when
I found that old William was going to
calve again.

Now that the calf was born I could not
be sorry. All of William’s calves have been
beautiful, but this little bull was her crown-
ing achievement. He looked like a woods’
creature, beautiful as deer I’ve seen graz-
ing with my cows in the hills. He was the
most exquisitely proportioned little Jersey
ever born, and I decided that we would
raise him to be the father of other beauti-
ful calves.

For two weeks William was happy as
only a cow can be happy when she is
allowed to keep her calf by her side. She
fed him well, groomed him until his fawn-
colored coat was shining, and hid him care-
fully among the wild tobacco bushes for
his naps.

Then one morning I went out to ﬁnd the
little calf, whom we had named “Benja-
min,” following another cow about and
bawling with hunger. I couldn’t under—
stand why his mother was neglecting him.

I found her resting under a live-oak tree,
and she was so sick she couldn’t get up.
Every once in a while she would call to
Benjamin, but her anxious voice was al-
most too weak to be heard. I gave the calf
milk from another cow, and brought him
to take a nap by his mother’s side. That
comforted her a little while I hurried after
the veterinary.

No sick animal is quite as sick as a sick
cow. Old cows, when they sicken, give up
very easily. They seldom ﬁght to live.
When I looked at old William’s dull eyes I
didn’t feel hopeful. Neither did the veter—
inary. He found that she had been unable
to digest something she had eaten, there
was a great hard lump in her paunch.
Together we managed to get her on her
feet, and Doc pumped ﬁve gallons of warm
salty water down her throat in an effort
to loosen up the mass. He left medicine
for her and told me to make her drink lots
of water, eat bran mashes and green grass.
She must not have hay.

But she didn’t want hay. Or anything
else. She got down and stretched out and
moaned with every breath. Towards even-
ing little Benjamin grew very hungry.
Mother had always taken good care of him
and now he didn’t understand why she
didn’t notice him.

I’ll never forget that little calf, as he
moved around the stricken cow. He shoved
at her, trying to make her stand and feed
him. He ran around to nose her face and
lip at her ears. He poked and prodded,
begging her to lift her head and look at
him. But her head was so heavy in the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 184

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

DECEMBER, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

Christmas Legends

THERE are many superstitions con-
nected with the coming of Christmas
itself, writes Robert Haven Schaufﬂer in
the Introduction to his anthology entitled
“Christmas.” The bees are said to sing, the
cattle to knee], in honor of the manger, and
the sheep to go in procession in commem-
oration of the visit of the angel to the

shepherds.
Howison, in his “Sketches of Upper
Canada,” relates that on one moonlit

Christmas Eve he saw an Indian creeping
cautiously through the woods. In response
to an enquiry, he said, “Me watch to see
deer kneel. Christmas night all deer kneel
and look up to Great Spirit.”

In the German Alps it is believed that
the cattle have the gift of language on
Christmas Eve. But it is a sin to attempt
to play the eavesdropper upon them. An
Alpine story is told of a farmer’s servant
who did not believe that the cattle could
speak, and, to make sure, he hid in his
master’s stable on Christmas Eve and
listened. When the clock struck twelve he
was surprised at what he heard. “We shall
have hard. work to do this day week,” said
one horse. “Yes; the farmer’s servant is
heavy,” answered the other horse. “And the
way to the churchyard is long and steep,”
said the ﬁrst. The servant was buried that
day week.

From the Church of Scotland

In connection with the one hundredth
anniversary of the Scottish Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which
occurs this year, the General Assembly of
the Church of Scotland has made the fol-
lowing pronouncement:—

“The General Assembly congratulate the
Scottish Society for Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals on the attainment of the cen-
tenary of its existence. The General As-
sembly, believing that the inﬂiction of
avoidable suffering is contrary to the will
of God, commend the aims of the Society,
and recommend all ministers to devote all
or part of a sermon on one Sunday in the
year to the general subject of mercy and
kindness to all living creatures.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dr. Hugh F. Dailcy

FTER months of illness, many of
"Which had been spent. .in hospitals

where everything was done fOr his comfort

and recovery, Dr. Hugh F. Dailey, for sev-
enteen years chief veterinarian of the
Angell Animal Hospital, died suddenly,
October 29, at the Massachusetts General
Hospital.

Dr. Bailey, a native of New Haven,
Conn., was a graduate of the Veterinary
School of the University of Pennsylvania.
He joined the staff of the Angell Animal
Hospital upon its opening in 1915. For a
year and a half he served, with the rank
of ﬁrst lieutenant, in the World War. He
was a member of several veteran organiza—
tions and of the New England Veterinary
Association and the Massachusetts Veter-
inary Association.

He was a nationally known authority on
animal diseases, and it is estimated that
during his service at the Angell Hospital
he personally treated no less than 25,000
animals. He inaugurated many new ideas,
devised original methods for transporting
sick or wounded animals, and had an un-
usual love for pets of all kinds. At his late
home, 24 Glen Avenue, Newton Center,
Mass, he kept a variety of animals as
household pets.

Besides his Wife, Eva Smith Dailey, one
son, three daughters, a brother and ﬁve
sisters mourn his loss, to whom the sincer-
est sympathy of all his colleagues and a
host of friends is extended. The funeral
services were at the Waterman Chapel,
Harvard Street, Brookline, Tuesday after-
noon, October 31. Not since the obsequies
of George T. Angell has a funeral of a
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. worker been so
largely attended by representatives of the
Society. President Francis H. Rowley was
in charge and, in the course of a touching
tribute, said:

Dr. Dailey seemed by nature extraordi-
narily ﬁtted for the calling he had chosen
when he began his life’s work. He had
certain gifts that seemed to have been born
with him. He was an unusually gifted
diagnostician. One look often was enough
to tell him what the trouble was and what
was needed. Beyond what he had learned
from books and experience and what he had
gained from the years of practice, he
brought to his daily work an unmistakable
love for all animals and especially for
those that suffered, and, more than that, a
very real sympathy for those who came to
him with their sick and injured four-footed
friends. They knew at once by the look in
his eye and the kindly smile on his lips
that he was their interested friend.

Only those who have really loved these
lowly fellow creatures know how deep and
sincere is the affection one can feel for
some household pet, or some other four-
footed friend, whose companionship and
devotion have meant so much to them. To
these, Dr. Dailey’s sympathetic personality
helped to make a little less the sense of
loss when they had to give them up.

To him the Society he served owes no
little part of the success of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital. For nearly
twenty-ﬁve years he served it, and those
who came into personal contact with him

Dee. 1939

always called for him when they had to
return.
To all who served with him and to all

7 associates with him in the various depart-

ments of the organization’s work through-
out the Commonwealth, he endeared him-
self by his universal kindness, his gener-
osity and his helpfulness.

Horses in Philadelphia

Says Animaldom, small but snappy pub—
lication of the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.;

There are 5,310 horses in Philadelphia
according to a census we have recently
completed as of Oct 1, through our district
agents. Stabled in some 300 places. Larg-
est group is owned by the city; 1,021 in
Street-cleaning Dept, 97 in Police Bureau,
71 saddlers and workers used in Fairmount
Park, 14 at Byberry Farm. Of private
owners, Supplee-Wills-J ones leads with 472,
Abbott’s and Harbison’s Dairies and Frei-
hofer Baking coming next in that order.
Last count made by the city in 1920 was
far from complete. Our agents checked up
on care, condition and stabling, noted ﬁre
risks, warned some smaller owners. Serious
violations are reported to Fire Marshal
Jacob Clinton, whose own inspectors are
also on the watch.

Skunk Problem No Problem
After All

Wild life technicians of the National Park
Service, consulted as to what should be
done with regard to the problem of skunks
in the vicinity of hotels in Glacier N ation-
al Park, Montana, or other national park
areas, contend that it is not the skunks
that constitute the problem, if any, but the
attitude of the public.

“Allay the fears of the visitors regard-
ing these harmless and interesting mam-
mals,” advise the wild life experts. “Edu-
cate the people to become better acquainted
with skunks—at least on paper—and in
time the prejudice that has so long pre-
vented the skunk from enjoying friendly
relations with visitors to the country, will
be overcome.”

——National Nature News

The Unknowing

MARION H. ADDINGTON

The oaten’s breath was warm and clover-
sweet;
No inkling of a wonder came to them
Who from the hillside heard the sleepy
bleat
0f stirring sheep, that night in Bethle-
' hem.

They did not see the angels in the skies,
But watched, all unaware how they were
blest,
With placid, mildly interested eyes,
A holy Babe upon his mother’s breast.

And in the flicker of the lamplight’s gleam,
Ruminant, they stood contentedly,

Nor saw against the rafter’s heavy beam
The shadow of the cross of Calvary.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 182
Ode to a Hound Dog

I. HERBERT BLAIS

Hound, whose drooping auricles have lis-
ten’d
To my tales of woe, my secret fears,
Who understood with amber eyes that
glisten’d
My every thought reserved from human
ears . . .

Hound, who leap’d and gambol’d with me

wily,
Who shared my moods, my secret
rendezvous;
In whom full proof of faithfulness show’d
daily, -
Who trotted at my side the long years
through . . .

Dog 0’ mine, you haven’t really left me:
Your aged body knows eternal peace,
But of your spirit death has ne’er bereft

me:
Your trotting at my side will never
cease.

Ways of the ’Garter Snake

WILLIS MEHANNA

The common garter snake reaches a
length of over three feet and is about one
and one-fourth inches in diameter. He is
dark brown with three longitudinal yellow-
ish-like stripes. Above and between these
are rows of spots resembling the design of
Navajo bead work. This snake makes its
home both on upland ﬁelds and on low
ground near the streams. While upon the
high ground he feeds on mice, toads and
insects, but when near streams he often
goes into the water for food. I have seen
him in creeks, when the water was clear,
crawling along on the bottom of a pool and
catching small crawﬁsh, tadpoles and such
creatures as are found there. On this
account he is useful. Many of the insects
he devours are harmful, and this snake is
neither quick enough nor combative enough
to molest the nests of birds and is there—
fore harmless. He is a sort of ground and
water snake.

 

NOW, WHERE DID THAT MOUSE COME FROM?

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Gentleman Jerry
NEIL WENTWORTH

ERRY was only a dog—but what a

dog! Born in a coal yard, without an—
cestral tinfoil, he could not afford to be
particular in regard to his future home,—
and we, not being in the social register,
were not in the market for “pedigreed
pooches,” so you see, our feelings were
mutual from the start. Strange how we
met, and as I glance back I recall, with a
smile, the unorthodox situation that re-
sulted in Jerry’s adoption into our home,
and the entire neighborhood’s heart.

It was at an amateur stage production
of “Little Women.” The play had reached
a rather dull note, being almost entirely
dialogue at this point, when, from behind
the velvet curtains strolled—horror of
horrors—a canine prodigy determined to
make his stage debut then and there! The
screams of laughter rippling from the audi-
ence, caused him to peer quizically out over
the footlights to the delight of all con-
cerned, except, of course, the dismayed
players. Completely ignoring the impas-
sioned pleas of the stage hands in the
wings, and apparently pleased over the
furor he was causing, he completed his in-
vestigations with utter nonchalance, with-
drawing ﬁnally (of his own accord) with
the air of a trooper who, having played his
part to perfection and stolen the show, was
ready for a long—term contract! He got
it—with us—through the persistent efforts
of my brother Dana, who, without even
waiting for the curtain, rose from his seat
and dashed backstage with a “do or die”
attitude that clearly indicated his inten-
tions.

A humorous account of the incident in
the local paper on the following morning
nicknamed him “Gentleman Jerry,” because
of the fact that after stealing a whole
scene, he was “gentleman” enough to abdi-
cate and leave the rest of the honors for
the players. How Jerry mastered the un-
usual throughout his brief life is another
tale, the real moral or thought lying in his
death. I was crossing the street to my
home one rather disagreeable, foggy, eve-
ning—Jerry trailing at my heels, as usual—
when I stepped into the path of an oncom-
ing automobile. The
driver, seeing me, tried
to bring the vehicle to a
direct stop, an action
which the slippery pave-
ment would not entirely
permit. In an endeavor
to avoid those crushing
wheels I slipped—but
Jerry didn’t! One mighty
leap brought him be-
tween me and the
screaming Wheels, sim-
ultaneously taking his
life and checking further
progress of the car!

In my bewildered mind
I marveled, at the mo-
ment, that a dog should
act on the impulse of his
silent, unfaltering, love
and ﬁdelity to his mas-
ter—while man—intelli-
gent, brave, courageous,
man—champion of the

Dec. 1939

animal world, putting the law of self-
preservation above that of love, would
hesitate!

Greatly because of my grief, and partially
because of the density of the mist or fog,
I failed to notice either the stranger or
the car he drove—but my ears still ring
with his parting remark, as he stood per-
spiring despite the chill of the evening air,
relieved to ﬁnd me unhurt, then suddenly
realizing that he had struck something and
discovering Jerry’s lifeless form: “Whew—
it was only a dog!”

Know Your Cat
JOHN P. DINNENY

HERE are many genuine cat lovers

who do not enjoy to the full the friend-
ship of their pets. The cause lies in their
lack of knowledge of the more subtle com-
plexities of the cat’s nature. A cat owner
must possess such knowledge if he would
develop to the highest degree those endear-
ing qualities that make Puss a friendly and
comforting companion.

Like a genius of our own species the cat
is a particularly sensitive animal. Her
feelings are easily ruﬁied by rough hand-
ling, teasing, noise, or sudden movement.
This upsets her dignity, and Kitty is noth-
ing else if not digniﬁed. Once this barrier
breaks she is very apt to become cross and
unmanageable, or even dangerous. She in-
stinctively expects to be treated with every
consideration which well-bred people show
toward each other.

Treated thus, the cat’s affectionate na—
ture will cause her to make friendly
advances. It must be remembered that this
is her special prerogative; she makes
friends with us, not we with her. She
accepts or rejects us at her own discretion.
Whether she decides “yes” or “no” depends
upon the tact and kindness we have dis-
played toward her.

We must also understand the cat’s hearty
aversion to making changes of any sort.
She is a methodical animal who grooves
herself into a daily routine. Radical
changes in environment, diet, or other hab-
its create a sense of fear which will make
her anything but a likable creature. If
such changes are necessary, they must be
made gradually, with ample time in be-
tween for adjustment to the new conditions
and under the most kindly auSpices.

These are only a few hints toward a
better understanding of our cat’s psycho-
logical make-up. Almost any library will
contain one or more good books which will
add to, or amplify, the above. In such
books, also, the reader will ﬁnd detailed
instructions on the physical care of their
cats which is of no less importance than
the mental care. In fact both are so inter-
twined that one cannot be neglected with-
out affecting the other.

So, in a word, we must study our cat
not alone through our own observations but
also through the writings and experiences
of other persons. Then shall we enjoy to
the full the natural charm, graciousness,
dignity and sincerity of that most delight-
ful of home pets—Grimalkin.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 180

tary beings, sacriﬁcing, suffering and dying
for their country. They were simply wholly
unconscious of what it all meant, driven
by their human masters to face the tragedy
of a war for which they were in no way
responsible, suffering and dying for the
sins and follies of the men who had
launched the cruel war.

The All-Purpose Animal

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

S the Christmas season approaches we

hear so much about the jolly rein~
deer—the animal of the frozen North which
does such an important work for Santa
Claus by taking him over the snow and
helping him make his Christmas deliveries
on time. But I wonder how many of you
really know just how useful the reindeer
really is all through the year?

No other domesticated animal in any
part of the world renders more service to
its owners than does the reindeer. The
Laplanders, for instance, count their wealth
by this animal. The lives of these sturdy
folk are almost entirely dependent on their
reindeer for food, drink and clothing. The
Laplanders even have to accommodate
their ways of living to that of their rein—
deer herd, for they have to move continu-
ally in order that reindeer have food.

The reindeer is unique among the deer
family in that the female has antlers as
well as the male, although they are some—
what smaller. It is the only member of the
deer family that has been domesticated by
man.

Reindeer thrive and are used in the
Arctic portions of both the Old and New
Worlds, Scandinavia, Spitzbergen, North-
ern Russia, Siberia, Alaska, Canada and
Greenland. In America it is called the
caribou.

In Eskimo-land the reindeer plays an
important part in the lives of the Eskimos.
These useful animals draw the Eskimos
over the snow at great speed. With a load
of two hundred and ﬁfty pounds a rein-
deer can travel nine or ten miles an hour,
and keep this up all day.

In spite of all the important work which
the reindeer does, its upkeep is very inex-
pensive, for the animal can ﬁnd its own
food even when on a long, cold trip, by
pawing off the snow with its feet to get at
the moss and lichens underneath.

It has often been said that the reindeer
serves as horse, sheep and cow all in one.
It furnishes meat and milk for food, ant-
lers for glue and other implements, hair
for mattresses and life belts, skins for soft
and pliable leather (out of some of which
Eskimo shoes are made). A number of
skins sewed together make a warm tent.
The undressed hide is cut for ropes and
twine, ﬁshing lines, nets, etc.

The reindeer herders are very careful
of their animals, especially in the winter
when the wolves are ravenous, and they
guard them day and night. But, of course,
such an important and useful animal de-
serves all the good care that he can get.

Animals are such agreeable friends—
they ask no questions, they pass no criti-
Clsms. GEORGE ELIOT

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Youngest Camel
A Christmas Legend
K A D R A M A Y s I

The bridle bells were ringing and the camel
drivers singing
Where the long, long way from Syria
began.
But, as that way grew longer, one by one—
except the stronger
Of the beasts—fell out behind the cara-
van.

The youngest camel followed. At the noon-
day halt, he hollowed
In the sand of the oasis, with his cloven
feet, a bed;
And he slept, only awaking at the goad.
His heart was breaking
From the pace and, on his dun coat,
saddle galls were raw and red.

In the daybreak, vultures, wheeling, watched
the weary creatures kneeling
While the drivers tightened rope or
shifted load.
But, at last, where sheep were grazing on
Judean hills, the blazing
Silver star which fled before them seemed
to stand above the road.

In the courtyard, by the stable, fell the
little camel, able
But to pass the gate. He lay—exhausted
——-sore.
He had no more strength for trying and
he knew that he was dying . . .
When he saw the Christ Child through
the open door!

By that vision he was given life and power.
Never driven
In the future, he was leader of the train.
And each year, a camel wearing silver bells
is proudly bearing
Christmas gifts to children of the East
again.

An Animal That Glides

EWEN K. PATTERSON

MONG the most remarkable of all

furred acrobats is the ﬂying phalanger
of Australia. An attractive little animal,
with a silky-furred coat of a grayish-black
color on top and white underneath, the
phalanger is noted for its magniﬁcent tail,
which any Persian cat might envy.

The creature is rarely seen in the day-
time, which it spends sleeping in the trees,
but as soon as darkness falls it begins to
feed, “ﬂying” about from tree to tree in
search of fresh young leaves and berries.

The animal does not really “ﬂy,” but
glides, and is the most amazing glider in
the animal kingdom. It has a loose ﬂap of
skin connecting its fore and hind legs with
the ﬂanks of the body. When the limbs are

9.9

Dec. 1939

 

THE AUSTRALIAN PHALANGER

outspread the loose skin-ﬂap is stretched
taut, and the animal can glide for upwards
of 100 yards. The long pendulous tail acts
as a rudder and balancing organ.

When a phalanger wants to “ﬂy” from
one tree to another, it simply climbs to the
highest branch of the tree it is in, then
leaps out into space and glides swiftly
downwards, alighting safely on the trunk
of the other tree. When near its objec-
tive, the phalanger checks its speed by a
quick and graceful curve upward, and
makes a clever “landing” on the tree-trunk
to which it clings easily with its delicate
ﬁne claws. Then it immediately climbs up
into the branches.

In the Australian bush the haunts of the
phalangers are easily discovered because of
the many scratches in the bark of trees,
where the animals’ sharp claws have re-
peatedly torn the surface when “landing”
after “ﬂights.”

On moonlight nights the blurred image
of these agile creatures shooting through
space is a wonderful sight.

 

REINDEER TRAIN HAULING CAMP SUPPLIES

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 62
@le Earth nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and eighty-ﬁve new Bands
of Mercy were organized during February.
Of these, 263 were in Illinois, 261 in Rhode
Island, 97 in Florida, 72 each in Georgia
and Massachusetts, 48 in Pennsylvania, 32
in South Carolina, 25 in Virginia, eight in
Texas, six in Tennessee and one in Indiana.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 238,517.

Night-Errant to the Rescue

C. M. B.

HEN “Punch” came upstairs to our

apartment one cold winter day, he
brought with him a very timid and unhappy
Persian princess. I must say, she was a
sorry looking princess. Her dress was
dirty and ragged, her hair matted with
snarls, and, on lifting her, I found her
pitifully thin and light. She couldn’t speak
a word of English, but Punch walked
around from one to the other of us, and I
knew that he was hinting, “Don’t you think
we’d better do something for this lady?”

I got some food and warm milk ready
for her, and Punch sat near her and
watched her drink like a starved creature.
Meanwhile I was asking myself what was
the next thing to be done. I hated to turn
the princess out again, yet I couldn’t offer
her a home. I had adopted Punch when he
was a mere baby, but I just couldn’t adopt
any one else. I put on a coat and ran down
to the corner to consult a neighbor.

“Yes,” she said, when I had described
the Persian princess, “I’ve seen’ her; she’s
been dodging about alleys and sheds around
here for a week or two, scared and cold,
and living on anything she could ﬁnd. I
think she must have lived with some people
who moved away lately, and maybe they
just left her, in their hurry.”

“What a shame!” I cried. “They don’t
deserve to have anyone like her stay with
them a single day! Why, she’d be lovely
enough for a palace with the right care.
Don’t you know of anyone who could take
her?”

“Let me see!” mused my friend. “Wait!
I’ll call up someone who might.”

I heard her describe the princess and tell
her story over the phone; then she listened,
and at last came back to me, smiling.

“My friend will be delighted to take her,”
she said. “Wants me to bring her out to
her house this afternoon. No fear of ne-
glect if the poor little thing gets into that
home.”

I went back, greatly pleased. The prin-
cess had been dozing in the warm room. I
put on an apron, got things ready, and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1939

 

A RURAL SCENE IN NORWAY

 

went to work to clean her up. It wasn’t
very pleasant for her, and she cried a little
before all the snarls were out, but she
seemed to understand that it was for her
good, and when, at last, all was done, how
much better she felt! At noon she ate and
drank again, and then followed me into
the living-room.

I sat down on the little sofa with some
sewing, and the princess curled up in a big
armchair. Presently I looked up to see if
she had gone to sleep. To myl surprise, her
head was up, and her beautiful eyes were
wide open and gazing straight at me. There
was surely some strong feeling behind that
intent look, I thought. I watched her curi—
ously. Suddenly she jumped down and ran
across the room. Climbing upon the sofa
beside me, she pressed herself against my
side as closely as she could, and pushed her
head up under my arm.

“Well!” I said, stroking that pretty little
head, “for a lady who can’t speak a word of
my language you’ve said a very plain
‘thank you.’ You’re just so glad to be clean
and warm and fed that you had to say it
somehow.” And I went on talking to her
in gentle tones, and petting her, and she
leaned against me in perfect content until
my neighbor came for her. Even then,
though she didn’t understand, she seemed
to trust that whatever I’d planned for her
was quite right, and she went quietly with
her new friend.

Some weeks later I inquired about the
princess.

“Is she happy in her new home?” I asked.
“Do they like her?” '

“Like her!” laughed my neighbor, “Like
her! They adore her. She owns the place.
She is tended and petted and humored by
them all, and gets prettier and more charm-
ing every day.”

I was glad to hear that the princess had
come into her own. I don’t believe in spoil-
ing children, but it seems to be the proper
thing for Persian kittens.

And my short-haired yellow, amber-eyed
Punch had acted a truly chivalrous part,——-
don’t you think so?

Fun with Animals

ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

S is well known, the scenery of Norway
, is sublime and very often breathlessly
spectacular. But its attractions are not con-
ﬁned to the scenery, remarkable though that
is, for the rural districts of the country are
rich in unconventional human interest. Nor-
way has few large cities. It is made up
mostly of small towns and tiny villages
where life is very simple, old customs still
prevail, and amusements and diversions are
limited.

In an out-of—the-way Norwegian farming
community a scene like that shown in the
picture is not surprising. It depicts the
friendship which exists between the farm—
er’s daughter and the domestic animals.
Goats are very important economically in
Norway, furnishing milk and cheese as well
as meat. They grow to a huge size, are
very hardy and are found in large or small
numbers on every farmstead. The girl and
the goats seem to understand each other
very well as the big fellow receives a special
tid-bit at her hands.

The goat gives a proportionately larger
quantity of milk than does the cow, con-
sidering its size and the amount of food it
requires, says Fact Digest. But for large-
scale production of milk, as required for
the vast centers of population of today, the
goat must be conceded to be inferior to the
cow. The milk of goats is extremely rich
and nutritious. It is in cases recommended
for sickly infants and persons suffering
from tuberculosis, since it is more easily
digested than cow’s milk. In many parts of
Europe it is popular in the making of
cheeses.

The twenty-fifth annual Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week, will be celebrated from April 17
to 22, with Humane Sunday, April 23. Ev-
ery teacher is reminded that Humane
Day in Schools should be observed on
Friday, April 21, or the nearest convenient
date.

 




 

 

 

 

Page 46

Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.
Thissell, Walter Fox
Thompson, Miss Mary
Helen
Thorn, Mrs. Mary
Thurber, Mrs. C. H.
Tolfree, Edw. R.
Tower, Miss Florence E.
Tower, Mrs. Jennie M.
Tozzer, Alfred M.
Travelli, Mrs. Charles I.
Tudor, Mrs. Henry D.
Twombly, John Fogg

Underwood, Miss Mary R.

Underwood, Miss Sophia
A.

Upham, Miss E. Annie
Upham, Miss Jessie I.
Valentine, Mrs. George E.
Van Brunt, Miss Jessie
Vaughan, Bertha H.
Walker, Mrs. Kate R.
Ward, Miss M. DeC.

Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.
Watts, Mrs. Mary
Webster, Ruth E.
West, Miss Edith E.
Whitin, Mr. and Mrs.
James E.
Whitman, Hendrick H.
Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Wilkinson, EdW. S.
Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Winkley, H. W.
Winslow, Mrs. Sydney B.
Wood, Cornelius A.
Wood, Miss Rosalind
Wood, Mrs. William M.
Woodman, Miss Mary
Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, Mrs. B. L.
Young, Percy L.
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.
Younglove, William K.

Associate Life Members

Arnold, Miss Abbie T.
Beekman, John V., Jr.

Beekman, Mrs. John V., Jr.

Bessom, Florence C.
Bliss, Philip W.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W.
Burdett, Mrs. Paul
Caldwell, Miss L. W.
Carpenter, Edwin Z.
Coburn, Mrs. C. W.
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle
Edmunds, Miss Helen C.
Fowler, Josiah M.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P.
Goddard, Benjamin
Grimes, E. E.
Holland, Miss Florence
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R.
Hooper, Edward W.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee
IIysIop, Samuel
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex-
ander
Jones, Miss Helen L.
King, Mrs. H. P.
Kingsbury, W. S.
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund
Minot, C. H.
Newcombe, Miss Adelaide

Ogden, Mrs. Warren G.
Osborne, Lyman P.
Phillips, Mrs. Elizabeth D.
Pillsbury, Parker W.
Pitman, Mrs. Theodore B.
Pratt, Mrs. Clara E.
Pratt, R. M.

Putnam, Mrs. Harriett
Richards, E. Ira
Richardson, Mrs. Guy
Rogers, Miss Catherine L.
Safford, Mrs. Nath’l M.
Seeberg, Elizabeth
Shattuck, Miss G. A.
Simmons, Miss F. W.
Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.
Soule, Miss Sarah M.
Stearns, Miss Ellen
Stearns, Miss Priscilla
Stone, Miss Esther A.
Thayer, Charles E.
Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
Thayer, Miss Marjorie
Thayer, Miss Nancy

Van Horn, Dora

Van Horn, Elsa

Walker, Mrs. William B.
Webster, H. S.
Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.
Williams, Mrs. Edward R.

 

Report of the President
(Continued from page 41;)

than 10,000 free subscriptions to 0m" Dumb
Animals sent to Bands of Mercy, humane

Societies and various individuals.
Summary
Addresses by ﬁeld worker's ...... 3,447
Total number in audiences ...... 504,095
Pieces of literature, etc., distributed
free ....................... 163,518
New Bands of Mercy organized. . . 8,615

Total Bands of Mercy at end of year. 236,753

New members enrolled in Jack

London Club ............... 39,715
Membership of Jack London Club
at end of year .............. 736,482
Treasurer’s Report
Receipts from all funds ....... $20,399.68
Expenditures ............... 22,156.76
This leaves deﬁcit of ........ 1,757.08

This deﬁcit, as usual, is taken care of
by funds from the Massachusetts Society

for the Prevention of

FRANCIS H.

Cruelty to Animals.
ROWLEY, President

Be Kind to Animals Week, about to be

celebrated for the twenty-fifth year, was
started by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
and the American Humane Education So-
ciety at the suggestion of Mr. Henry F.
Le with of Charlestown, S. C.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

FOR 1939
President
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex—Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa

Barton, Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Barton, Mrs. Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Mount Carmel,
Conn.

Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.

Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.

Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., Santa Monica, Calif.

French, Marie, St. Joseph, Mo.

Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Johns, Charles R., London, Eng.

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.

Landes, Bernard 8., Colorado Springs, Colo.

MacCunn, Captain Fergus, London, Eng.

Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey

Phillips, William T., Philadelphia, Pa.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario

Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, Memphis,,Tenn.

Wentzel, Dr. Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, Chairman of Executive
Committee, First National Bank of
Boston

Directors of the American Humane

Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
Miss Sarah J. Eddy Stanwood K. Bolton
William Dana Orcutt John R. Macomber
William E. Putnam John R. Forgie
Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall Mrs. Margaret Deland
Charles G. Bancroft Philip Stockton
Walter M. Kendall ' Hon. Percival P. Baxter
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan Edward G. Fischer

M a7". .1989
Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New Or-
leans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langw‘ill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Active Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Baber, Miss Zonia Marsh, A. M.

Ballard, Dellworth Mitchell, Miss Mary
Barnard, Harry Ransom, John E.
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Rogers, Albert R.
Burhans, Mrs. Lela G. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Smith, Oliver

Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fisher, H. Traver, Mrs. L.

Glenn, Miss Carrie Upham, Miss E. Annie
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Huntington, Archer M. Williams, Miss Nellie C.
Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H. Woodward, Miss Mabel M.

Associate Life Members

Barnwell, Almon Angel] Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Meyer, Miss Heloise
Curtis, Atherton Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. W.

Furlong, Rollo L. Parker, Miss E. S.
Gray, Miss Ellen Stone, Miss Esther A.
Larkin, John D. Todd, Mrs. Albert

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

J uly, 1939

Higher Education
CLARA J. GALLAGHER

I taught my dog a score of tricks,
He learned to dance and pray;
A most accomplished dog was he—

My canine protege!

I taught my dog—but oh! the things
That little dog taught me!

A code of love and faithfulness
And staunch ﬁdelity.

“Old Sheppie”

Miss Virginia W. Sargent, president of
the Animal Protective Association, Wash-
ington, D. C., is. mourning the loss of “Old.
Sheppie,” a dog that she had rescued from
starvation eight years ago and that she
had since kept as a favorite pet. In a very
tender tribute to the memory of this faith-
ful animal Miss Sargent says:

Old Sheppie was glorious in life. He was
a true old-fashioned Scotch collie. He was
kind to everybody and to everything. He
dearly loved childish hands to pull him
around and was a perfect gentlemen to his
dog and cat friends. He cheerfully and
quietly stayed alone long hours during the
ncessary absence of his mistress in rescu—
ing other waifs like himself, but when she
returned, no matter how late, he barked
and barked from sheer joy at being alive
for her. In fact he at last almost entirely
lost his voice by this constant demonstra-
tion of his joy. He loved attention and
especially to pose for his picture. For sev-
eral years he was pictured in the news-
papers with his little neighborhood child
friends and other pets celebrating Kindness
Week. One time when a photographer
picked out another dog for a picture he was
plainly hurt to the quick!

Miss Sargent feels deeply grateful that
she was for so many years the recipient of
the love and loyalty that Old Sheppie so
richly gave.

“SHEPPIE,” FAVORITE PET OF
MISS VIRGINIA W. SARGENT

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Heroes Both

‘ GEORGE A. KELLY

T happened one winter evening in the

West End of Boston. A ﬁre was raging
on the third ﬂoor of a four—story brick
tenement house. Upon discovering it I sent
in an alarm from the ﬁre-box directly
across the street, went into the building,
discharged my revolver once on each ﬂoor
to attract attention; yelling as loudly as I
could, “Fire in the building! Everybody out.”

When about to run up to the third land-
ing I was almost thrown to the ﬂoor by
the impact of the body of a police dog
against my knees, who was barking with
all the power in his immense lungs.

“Get out of here, boy!” I yelled at him
as I attempted to push him down the stairs.
It was of no avail. He just whirled and
leaped up the stairs in front of me and
down to the end of the long hall where he
stopped in front of a door.

While making for him in the smoke-ﬁlled
hall I collided with an aged woman who
was choking and screaming. I carried her to
the entrance of the building, with the dog
at my heels, still barking, sat her on the
ﬁrst step and hurried back to the same
ﬂoor. All the way back up the stairs the
dog kept in front of me, still barking
loudly, wagging his tail furiously, and
sneezing intermittently.

“Let’s go, old boy,” I yelled at him,
slipping my ﬁngers under his collar; as
the smoke was so dense it was impossible
to see a hand in front of me. Digging his
claws into the ﬂoor as he led me to a door
and standing on his hind legs he began
scratching vigorously, at the same time
whining piteously.

Pushing open the door which entered
into a kitchen my eyes discovered a man
leaning half out of an open window. I ran
into the bathroom, soaked a large turkish
towel in the hopper, placed it over his nose
and tied it around his head, again slipping
my ﬁngers under the collar of the dog and
yelled at him, “All right, Pal, let’s get out
of here!”

As you can imagine, it was his instinct
that led us to the stairs, down them and
into the street, where his master and I were
rushed into a patrol wagon and taken to
the Relief Station where we were treated
for “exposure to smoke.”

On the way I discovered his master was
blind. In between coughing and wiping my
eyes with a handkerchief I noticed the dog.
His eyes were red and there was a wet
streak leading from each one down to his
mouth. He sat on his haunches and rested
his paws on the chest of his master who
was stretched out on the seat in a semi-
conscious condition. What a picture!

Upon recovering I went to'the room of
his master, gave him all the details and
told him I was going direct to the leading
sporting goods store to buy his pet the very
best harness and leash that money could
obtain.

Needless to say, to that wonderful ani-
mal I owe my life, and to make it up to
him I never pass by any dog without
throwing it a small dog biscuit, of which
one of my pockets is always full.

Please remember tlie Massachusetts 5. P.
C. A. when making your will.

 

The Mascot of Station 5

“Buster,” for eight years mascot of Sta—
tion 5, Worcester, Mass., was formerly
owned by an irresponsible man who ill-
treated and abused him. One day he fol-
lowed an ofﬁcer to the Station where he
immediately made himself at home. He has
his bed in the guardroom, travels with the
ofﬁcers on their beats, is a pet of the school
children, and growls with hate at the smell
of liquor. The ofﬁcers of Station 5 pro-
vide a fund for food and for a license for
Buster. Every morning the dog waits for
the mailman and goes with him over his
route.

“Duke” Likes Old Home

ERNEST E. VERNON

COAL-BLACK Great Dane puppy,
A “Duke,” owned by the Range West
Kennels at Oldham, S. D., was recently
taken to his new home at Schuyler, Ne—
braska, but memories of his old home in
South Dakota were too vivid in his dog
mind.

He leaped through a window and in ﬁve
and one-half days he had covered more than
300 miles and was back in his former home
in Oldham, averaging more than ﬁfty miles
a day. He was hale and hearty on his re—
turn but a bit thirsty, for he drank a gallon
and a half of water but refused to eat
before having a long sleep.

Although he was taken by automobile
through Sioux Falls, Sioux City, Omaha
and Lincoln to Schuyler, he evidently passed
around these cities on his return trip, for
no one seems to have seen him pass through
them.

Duke, whose full name is Duke von
Reimthursen, is only 20 months old and
weighed 176 pounds. He lost about 15
pounds on his return trip. He stands 331/2
inches tall at his shoulders. Duke’s father
weighs 200 pounds. His mother is one of
the ﬁnest Great Danes in the northwest and
has won many prizes at dog shows in the
country.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Cat on a Postage Stamp

NLY once has the picture of a domestic
_ cat appeared upon a postage stamp,
writes W. Henry Boller in The Ambassador.
This was upon a Spanish stamp issued in
1930, in honor of America’s famous aviator,
Charles A. Lindbergh. This cat picture
really perpetuates a peculiar error. When
Lindbergh ﬂew the Atlantic in 1927, it was
rumored that he had taken with him a
small black kitten as mascot. Of course no
kitten accompanied the famous ﬂier on his
ﬂight, but upon the postage stamp the
mythical black kitten occupies a portion of
the design, together with the Statue of
Liberty, the Spirit of St. Louis, and a
portrait of the famous aviator himself.

Bangor H umane Society

The Bangor (Maine) Humane Society
had a very busy year in 1938, according to
the report of Miss Gladys F. Taggett, sec-
retary and director of humane education.
A story contest in the schools and radio
broadcasts during Be Kind to Animals
Week and at Christmas were outstanding
activities. Nearly 2,000 investigations were
made by the Society’s agent who humanely
put to sleep 14 horses, 33 dogs, 51 birds
and 1,211 cats. Homes were found for 185
dogs, 83 cats and four rabbits.

We Hope it is Nor True

According to a late report, some sort of
bull-ﬁght is being planned for the New
York World’s Fair. We cannot believe any
such relic of barbarism will be permitted.
The New York State laws would not allow
any unnecessary suffering to be inﬂicted on
an animal even if no blood were drawn.

Join the Jack London Club and add your
protest to thousands of others against
such cruelty as has been proved in the
ﬁlming of “Jesse James,” when one horse

was killed and another was in danger of a
Similar fate.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Cattle Crossing

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

HE United States imports several hun—
Tdred head of dairy cattle each year,
chieﬂy from the Channel Islands. Most of
us have heard the term “cattle boat,” and
have wondered whether cattle on ship-
board were well cared for and comfort-
able. I found the answer by accompanying
a shipment from the Island of Jersey all
the way to New York City, and was greatly
impressed by the fact that every anlmal
arrived at the end of the journey in the
best of condition.

When cattle are loaded on the ship each
is walked into a large slatted box. The
front and back ends are closed and a crane
lifts the box and contents gently from the
wharf and lowers it so carefully into the
hold that the animal hardly knows that it
has been moved. It is then led to an indi-
vidual stall, well bedded in clean straw.

There are partitions between the stalls,
to prevent the possibility of the animals
injuring each other in rough weather. Each
stall is large enough to permit its occupant
to move about freely and to lie down com-
fortably. A rope from the halter to a bar
keeps them all headed in the same direction,
crosswise to the boat, which makes the
journey easier.

Early each morning attendants give them
fresh cool water, hay and grain, and add
new clean straw. At noon, and again at
night they are fed and watered, and given
still more hay just before the attendant
retires to his well-earned slumbers. Mangel-
wurzels furnish an occasional change in
diet and act as a gentle laxative.

The cattle are blanketed during the voy-
age, to avoid chills, for by means of ingeni-
ously-constructed “wind-tunnels” a current
of fresh air is kept circulating constantly
through the hold. The coats are brushed
daily, and even the tails are washed each
morning with soap and warm water. Cows
giving milk are milked regularly.

.When the regular attendants retire at
night, one man comes down into the hold
whose duty it is to stay up all night, read—
justing a blanket which has slipped, watch-
mg every animal to see that it is well and
comfortable, adjusting the wind-tunnel to
provide good ventilation but in such manner
as to avoid draughts.

At the end of the ten-day crossing, the
animals are lifted carefully from the hold
and set on the dock, where they start off
on their next journey, to the U. S. Quaran-
tine Station, with the greatest unconcern.

Apr. 1939

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

FEATHERS AND FUR ON THE TURN-
PIKE, James R. Simmons

A study of wild life casualties on the
highway, which constitutes Part I of this
authoritative volume, reveals some astound-
ing facts in relation to bird and animal
mortality.

After a ten-year investigation of the
wild life destruction by automobiles in New
York State on two selected strips of im-
proved road, the author makes the follow-
ing startling conclusion: “If these road
strips represent a fair average for the
country as a whole, no less than 16,000
specimens per day, or 6,000,000 per year,
are killed by automobiles in the United
States, without counting the injured that
die at some distance from the scene of
accident or that are picked up by their
natural enemies.” What can and should be
done to lessen this enormous slaughter is
told in an important chapter. Good posters,
printed signs and warnings as well as edu-
cational campaigns are among the ways
that are suggested.

In Part II, which is termed “a study of
the present trends in wild life conservation,”
the writer discusses a wide range of sub-
jects. He observes that consideration of
wild life salvaging may even rebound to the
greater interest in saving human life.

Automobile drivers and the fast travel-
ing, callous public should be apprised of
the great destruction of wild life, which
goes on with ever-increasing magnitude.

148 pp. $1.75. The Christopher Publish-
ing House, Boston.

 

Total area of our National Forests is
reported to be 22,728,025 acres; total area
under national administration, 175,238,168
acres.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10.00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

in the

by it.

I give to The Massach

dollars (

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
he Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the

second incorporated (March, 1888) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital ShOUId, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

t th A ' usetts SOCiety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
o 6 meme“ Humane Educatim‘ Society), the sum of .....................

or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

   
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
    
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
    
   
 
  
      

   

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 136

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

SEPTEMBER, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do .not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Connecticut and Dog Racing

T will be a source of genuine satisfac-

tion to know that the pari-mutuel bet-
ting, which would have permitted dog racing
in Connecticut, has been turned down by
the Legislature of that State. Not even is
horse racing within the law. In the Con-
necticut Humane Bulletin it is said:

“The most objectionable feature from a
cruelty standpoint is the training of dogs
with live rabbits. In one case, evidence was
secured that live rabbits had been sewn to
the electric machine at the track. The
machine was then run slowly enough for
the dogs to catch the rabbits. In this par-
ticular instance the bodies of over one
hundred torn rabbits, used that same day
in training, were found.”

The article quotes the late Matthew Mc-
Currie, secretary of the San Francisco So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, as saying, “When a community
goes for the dogs, it goes to the dogs as
well.” There is much truth in that state—
ment.

Doctor of Canine Fidelity

A Newark, New Jersey, newspaper tells
us that Newark University recently con-
ferred this degree upon the dog named
“Bonzo” which, for four years of his blind
master’s college life, escorted his master to
every class, and the master was graduated
with high honors. The University presi-
dent said, upon the granting of the degree,
that it was given the dog “for those quali-
ties of faithfulness and devotion which
have made you a familiar and inspiring
ﬁgure.”

Saddle Horses

From a recent publication we note:
“With growing interest in country life,
horseback riding is on the increase every-
where. Each year sees more horse-shows,
more riding clubs, more riding stables and
more private stables. No other products of
the farm have kept up in relative prices
with saddle colts and saddle horses.”

~The Rider and Driver

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

From South Africa

INCE the close of the Boer war in

1902 the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals in Johannesburg has
been operating with measurable success.
A communication from its secretary, W.
C. Pitchford, states: “During the last two
years we have made great progress; we
have a Hospital and Clinic and a full time
veterinarian employed; we give free treat-
ment to animals of persons unable to pay
for veterinary services; our Clinic and
Hospital were built at a cost of nearly
£6,000 and fulfil a long felt want in this
city. As a matter of fact we are the only
place on the Reef which provides free
treatment. The Reef extends for approxi—
mately 60 miles.

“We have a very cosmopolitan population
here, including several thousands of na-
tives of various tribes. The need for the
Society is very great, our natives are still
cruel to animals, more due to ignorance
than anything else, but we are doing our
best to educate them.”

During the past year this Society made
269 prosecutions and secured 266 convic-
tions for cruelty; treated 3,356 animals in
Clinic, and 519 in Hospital.

A Day in Fez

HF you are interested in the Fondouk in
Fez, you will be interested in the fol—
lowing:

A report comes to us of every day’s work
through the year, done by those who serve
at the American Fondouk in Fez. The days
are very much alike. Here is one of them
that has recently been reported to us:

6:30 am. Usual work of treating ani-
mals. 8:00 am. Request for motor ambu-
lance to transport an animal to the hos-
pital. 9:30 am. to 11:00 am. Inspecting
animals at three different market places
where they are to be found. Destroyed 5
Arab bits and one infected pack-saddle.
2:00 pm. Inspected a number of pack ani—
mals. Sent one donkey to hospital. 2:30
pm. Visited the quarries near Suk el
Khemis. Transported one donkey in motor
ambulance. Destroyed one pack-saddle and
3 Arab bits.

The month for which we have just given
one day’s work, includes the following out—
patients which were given attention:

44 horses, 32 mules, 58 donkeys, 3 dogs—
Total 137.

It is hard to visualize all that the Ameri-
can Fondouk has meant to suffering animals
in that far-off country where the need is so
great.

Antelopes are not all the same size. The
eland of Africa is one of the largest, weigh-
ing sometimes as much as 1,500 pounds and
standing as high as six feet. The smallest
one in the world is also found in Africa. It
is the dik-dik which is about the size of a
rabbit.

In the corrupted currents of this world,
Oﬂence’s gilded hand may shove by justice;
And 0ft ’tis seen, the wicked prize itself
Buys out the law.

SHAKESPEARE

Sept. 1939

Annual Bazaar, November 8

EDNESDAY, November 8, 1939, is

the date selected for the annual
Bazaar of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, to be held this year
at the Society’s headquarters, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

Luncheon will be served at 12:30. Bridge
will be enjoyed from 2 to 4. ,

There will be tables for food, candy,
household, novelties, ﬂowers, and antiques
from Grandma’s attic.

A cordial invitation is extended to all
friends of animals to come and help those
who cannot help themselves. Contributions
of articles for sale will be greatly apprec1-
ated. They may be sent to Mrs. Willard C.
Bliss, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston. Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president of the Auxiliary, is general chair-
man of the Bazaar.

Report from New
Correspondent

E have recently appointed Senor E.

J. H. Escobar, secretary of the
Sociedad Protectora de Animales de Cali,
our foreign correspondent for Colombia,
South America. A summary of his report
follows:

The Society of which Mr. Escobar is see-
retary has succeeded in interesting a lead-
ing Senator and former Minister of Co-
lombia to the Argentine in the Society’s
work. .As a result there is now before the
National Congress a bill to prevent the un-
neCessary killing of ﬁsh in their rivers by
means of dynamiting.

Another item of interest is that the
wretched dog pound in the city of Cali has
been closed and a stop has been put to the
practice of the pound authorities of poison-
ing stray dogs in the streets when there is
a scare of rabies.

Perhaps the most interesting of all is the
report that, through the City Council, they
have procured a piece of land and have just
commenced construction of an animal shel-
ter and kennels. These will be designed
along hygienic lines. A prominent surgeon
of the city. and a great animal lover, has
provided the initial funds for this work.
Additional funds are to be given through
the City Council and by the Unidad Sani—
taria Nacional at Bogota.

Baboons Adopt a Boy

The following statement is taken from
The Animals’ Friend of July, this year:

The News Chronicle of June 20 last re—
ports that a South African native who was
adopted as a baby by a troop of baboons,
has now learned to talk sufﬁciently to be
able to tell his story. When captured by
the police near Grahamstown in 1921 he
walked on all fours and made gutteral
noises like a baboon.

In his statement the native said that his
food when with the baboons consisted of
crickets, ostrich eggs, prickly pears and
wild honey. He explained: “I was hunting
for food one day with my baboon com-
panions when two policemen shot at us
with revolvers. One of them captured me.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1.40

comes parched dry, and even blackened,
protruding limply out of the mouth. These
paralytic manifestations, together with the
ﬁxed gaze of the eyes, lend a dumb expres-
sion to the face, hence the term, dumb
rabies. Gradually, but at times quite rap-
idly, there is a progressive paralysis to all
parts of the body and death ensues. Some
dogs will, during the stage of excitement
or what is termed the furious stage that
precedes that of paralysis, snap into the air
at imaginary objects and at their ﬁrst
opportunity escape from their homes.

An important symptom, suggestive of
rabies, and the accompanying oncoming
paralysis of the throat, is manifested in the
bark. Not only does he bark more, for no
apparent reason, but it is of an unnatural
tone. It is a hoarse, long drawn-out howl
simulating inxpitch that natural to a fox-
hound. This symptom is so characteristic
thatto a trained ear it alone is diagnostic
of the complaint.

As stated, fright or running ﬁts are but
symptomatic of other difﬁculties. A dog
afflicted with these ﬁts is seized suddenly,
and, as the name implies, the trouble lends
the impression that the animal has actually
been frightened. He will have been per-
fectly normal when suddenly he is seized
with an attack,~his eyes glistening and

one place to another in or out of doors. As
he races frantically about he further mani-
fests his excitement by emitting a continual
yapping, shrill, high-pitched bark. If mo-
lested during these attacks his wildness is
intensiﬁed and he is likely to bite if re-
strained. Such a bite, however, is not in—
fectious as is the case of a bite from a
rabid dog. After a while he will crouch
down in a corner and will quiet down and
become quite normal again, excepting for
perhaps slight nervousness. Unlike the
rabid dog that howls when at rest, these
dogs are quiet; while on the other hand the
rabid dog is mute when afoot and roaming,
the dog with ﬁts barks continually as he
runs. These attacks may be repeated at
varying intervals many times during the
course of a day~each one being as a
violent storm, coming suddenly, and after
a brief stay passing away, leaVing a calm
in its wake. Such a dog appears to be
going mad, and the person whose impres-

Termination

Rabies ends in death from complete
paralysis generally within the period of a
week.

Running ﬁts usually terminates in recov-
ery if properly attended to at the beginning
and the offending causes removed.

Treatment

For rabies, after symptoms appear, there
is no known cure. If a case is suspected,
conﬁne the dog in a comfortable place and
guard against his escape. Then consult
your veterinarian or local health depart—
ment.

In the case of running ﬁts do not attempt
any form of procedure that is likely to
excite the patient. Neither should you give

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

him anything during an attack.
First, place him in a dark, moder-
ately cool place and let him alone.
He will soon quiet down while you
may be consulting your veterina-
rian. If unable to obtain such
assistance, give the dog when quiet
Syrup of Ipecac every ﬁfteen min-
utes until he vomits thoroughly.
The dose is two teaspoonfuls for a
small dog and a tablespoonful for
a large dog. Withhold all food for
24 hours, though water may be
allowed. Then place him on a
liquid diet—milk or beef tea.
After a few days he may be put
on a diet of small feedings of milk
and raw beef. It is better to feed
little and often for a short time
after an attack. When going back
to the usual rations the process
should be gradual as to quantity.
Generally these cases respond to
such a course of treatment. If the
attacks keep coming back it is im-
perative that you consult your
veterinarian for further diagnosis
and instructions.

Don‘t feed chop bones or bones
of any fowl to the dog, as they are

angerous and may cause an in-
testinal stoppage or penetration.

An Unmannerly Dog

ATrue Story
ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

N Louisiana lived a generous-hearted

lady who allowed each of her children to
have as many pets as he liked. One of the
boys had a dog, but each of the rest had a
cat or two. A couple of cats had families
and the lady found her household in pos—
session of seventeen cats.

The place was large and the hospitality
of the real Southern variety, so the dog and
the seventeen cats were allowed to stay.
When feeding-time came, a pan of food was
given to the dog, and three pans to the
cats, who divided themselves into groups,
always, so their mistress averred, the same
cats in each group.

But she was puzzled. “I declare,” she
said one day, “I can’t see what’s the matter
with those cats. They’re always hungry
and they are thin as rails. I know I put
enough food in their pans for twenty-ﬁve
cats. I don’t know what becomes of it.”
She decided to watch and see.

Next time she ﬁlled the four pans, she
went into the house and peeped through a
window, suspicion in her mind. The sus-
picion was justiﬁable. No sooner was she
out of their sight than the dog darted at
one of the cat pans, frightened the cats
away and gobbled some of their food. Then
he darted at the second pan and took some
of that, and so on, making the rounds, pro-
tecting his own pan as well, until the poor
cats had only half the food intended for
them, while the rascally dog was gorged.

It took two switching to make him mend
his manners, but he understood at last, ate
from his own pan only, and the seventeen
cats grew fat.

Animals require plenty of fresh water,
especially in hot weather.

 

Sept. 1939

 

YOUR DOG DESERVES YOUR BEST CARE

\

Give Your Dog His Due

KATHARINE A. PARK

IFE for the dog in the country should
L be healthier and happier than it is for
the city dog. At present, however, this is
not the case, because without the regula-
tions imposed by the city the average dog-
owner feels no public responsibility for his
pet. He still feels that the way to give his
dog a good life is to turn him loose and
forget about him. He still considers it an
unavoidable misfortune when his dog is
killed in a ﬁght, run over, poisoned, or gets
into trouble with the neighbors.

Recently we read of a prominent actress
who was pushing a baby carriage down the
road, accompanied by her two small dogs.
Three huge dogs came rushing out of a
near-by house, attacked and nearly killed
one of her dogs, and bit the actress in three
places. Certainly the public highway should
be safe for everyone. The man who buys a
dog is assuming a public responsibility,
just as he is when he buys an automobile.
Until he realizes this responsibility, the life
of the country dog will not be a safe one.

What, then, is the solution of this prob—
lem? Have a fenced-in yard that the dog
can be out in all day, where he can dig
holes and bury bones, lie in the sun, or use
trees in the way dogs know they were
meant to be used. Take him with you when
you are camping, ﬁshing, swimming, or pic—
nicking. Let him go out and play ball with
the children or accompany any member of
the family on their errands to the village.
But do not turn him loose alone. Any dog
is glad enough to tag along with someone,
but will seldom take enough exercise, if left
to himself. Proper care of a dog takes
time and trouble. If the dog himself is not
compensation for this trouble—DON’T BUY
ONE.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

dust that it didn’t seem as though she
could ever lift it again.

I fed the calf and shut him in the barn
so he wouldn’t go wandering off after other
cows in the night. I poured medicine down
the old cow’s throat and covered her with a
blanket. Before bedtime I went to look at
her. Her eyes were glazing, every breath
was an effort, I could scarcely feel the
faint, uneven beating of her heart. I sat
down and held her tired head in my lap,
kissed her and cried without shame. I felt
that this was the last time I would ever see
my dear old cow alive.

I slept little, and towards morning I
couldn’t have slept if I wanted to. Benja—
min, separated from his mother for the ﬁrst
time, became hungry and frightened and
started telling the world how unhappy he
was. He bawled until he was hoarse, and
kept on bawling in a cracked voice, and
would not be still. It was harrowing to hear
the little fellow crying for the mother who
surely must be dead by now.

As soon as it was light I went out. I
couldn’t believe my eyes when I looked
under the oak tree and saw the old cow’s
blanket, but no cow. Bewildered, I looked
around, and in the early dim light I saw
William, like a gray ghost. She moved as
Benjamin moved the ﬁrst time he stood on
earth. Her trembling legs threatened to
go four different directions at once. She
was hunting for her calf, who had been
calling her, through the night, to come
back to the land of the living.

When I brought him to her, her joy was
so intense, and somehow so pitiful, that I
cried again. But this time for joy, for I
felt now that she would surely ﬁght to live.

At ﬁrst I could get her to swallow only
a few mouthfuls of bran at a time. She
was not hungry, and eating was a tiresome
effort. “Take a bite for little Benjamin,”
I would beg, and manfully she would try
to consume the prescribed amount. I pulled
up tempting clumps of grass and coaxed
her to try some. I carried buckets of water
and induced her to drink a considerable
quantity. Surely she understood that I was
trying to help her, for she swallowed bitter
medicine willingly.”

The next time I saw the veterinary he
inquired about the cow. He was surprised
to hear that she was well and happy, even
getting a little fatter.

“It’s like a miracle!” he said. “When an
old cow’s digestive organs start Wearing
out there isn’t much hope.”

It was a miracle that saved old William.
But not so much a miracle of medicine as
the miracle of love in the heart of a tired
cow for her calf.

The Mocking-bird’s Notes

The mocking-bird, while an inveterate
eater of small fruits, is also a good friend
In destroying insect pests. But we all feel
willing to stand the stealing of fruits by
the mockers as their songs are so lovely.
Last night I listened to one singing in the
moonlight and he had a repertoire of
twenty-six marvelous notes before he made
a repetition of them. I loved every note,
but the cranky person sleeping with me
sa1d next morning, “I couldn’t sleep for
that pesky mocker making such a racket in
that chinaberry tree, all night.” R. F.

OUR DUZVIB ANIMALS

Elfin Fencers—I—Iumming-

birds

KATHERINE PEAVY

OR a daily, year-round show replete

with color, music, drama and sound
effects that can be viewed without so much
as stirring from our own living room, noth-
ing can equal our garden full of birds. Each
season brings new actors to our garden
theater, and each year our show is different,
yet it is ever the same.

The most intriguing of our tiny actors
are the hummingbirds. Spring is here, and
again the hummers have come back to sup
the nectar from the tall spikes of delphini—
um and red hot poker by the patio wall
and to search the fuchsias for the tiny vials
of sweetened water they are sure to ﬁnd,
and that are kept ﬁlled for them.

Suddenly there is a jewel-like ﬂash of
color accompanied by a musical whirring of
wings and a hummingbird swoops appar-
ently from nowhere to inspect a favorite
ﬂower stalk where he may sup. Backward,
forward and sidewise he ﬂies, searching
stalk after stalk, and when he ﬁnds what he
wants, he remains perfectly stationary in
the air, feeding always on the wing.

Our hummers are pugnacious little mid—
gets, and two visitors never arrive at the
same time to feed but a battle occurs. They
will dash at each other in elﬁn fury, speak-
ing in ﬁne, high tones almost impossible to
hear, exchanging stroke for stroke with
their sharp bills, for all the world like a
pair of fencers. After this ﬁrst fracas, they
drink their ﬁll, then ﬂy at each other in
fresh combat. Never a bird seems to be
hurt in these encounters, but they never
seem to learn that they must share the
garden. I am afraid that if the humming—
birds were as large as their courage, the
world would not be a very safe place for
anybody.

Last year, one particular bush seemed to
be considered the private property of one
female, and later in the summer we found
a wee nest that this brave little ﬁghter had
been trying to protect. After an especially
noisy battle, she would light on the near-
est wire and burst into a shrill, almost in-
audible warble, as much as to say, “Once
again victorious!”

 

ONE COMPILER FOUND 124
VERNACULAR NAMES FOR
‘ THE FLICKER

Oct. 1939

Penguins of Antarctica

PENGUINS may be rightly called won-
derful birds. For countless generations
they have made their home on the seas and
islands of Antarctica. On land, they are
awkward and helpless in motion, but when

 

BLACK-FOOTED PENGUINS

standing, they assume an erect, soldier-like
posture. When full grown they attain a
height of three feet and specimens have
been found which weighed over seventy
pounds. Though once a bird of ﬂight the
penguin has abandoned that power and has
been transformed into one of the most
expert of all the diving and swimming
birds.

The emperor-penguin is the largest of
the tribe and too bulky to move fast on
foot, but it is said that when speed is neces-
sary it lies down upon the snow and pro~
pels itself with its feet, traveling in this
manner with incredible speed. Penguins
breed in huge communities called “rook-
eries” which number tens of thousands of
individuals.

The Valuable Flicker

If the ﬂicker had no other valuable eco-
nomic quality it would deserve protection
because it is the enemy of the ant family,
50 per cent of its food being of these insect
pests, according to a leaﬂet published by
the National Association of Audubon So-
cieties. Ants, besides being wood-borers,
care for and perpetuate plant-lice or aphids
which infest and are very destructive to
vegetation in all parts of the country to
the very serious loss of agricultural inter-
ests. Flickers also destroy quite a large
percentage of beetles, moths, and miscel-
laneous insects and thus do much good.
While the ﬂickers are fruit-eating to some
extent, yet cultivated fruit and grain are
taken in so small an amount that the
ﬂickers can be considered entirely beneﬁcial.

 




 

J une, 1939

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page85

 

Be Kind to Animals Week Generally Observed

Twenty-fifth Annual Celebration Notable for Radio Talks on Many

School

Stations,

Activities, and Press Publicity Throughout Country

 

A FEW OF THE PRIZE-WINNING POSTERS MADE BY PUPILS IN MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOLS IN
THE CONTEST CONDUCTED BY THE S. P. C. A.

HE beasts of farm and ﬁeld and

forest and the birds of the air,” for

whom Governor Saltonstall bespoke
protection in his Proclamation for Be Kind
to Animals Week, must have rejoiced at
the activities throughout the Common-
wealth in their behalf. The program of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. began on the
Saturday afternoon before the Week opened
with interviews direct from the Society’s
Hospital building with President Francis
H. Rowley and Dr. E. F. Schroeder of the
Hospital staff, through apparatus especially
installed by Station WEEI. Broadcasts
followed throughout the week in rapid suc-
cession—Monday, Secretary Guy Richard-
son on Station WHDH; Tuesday, Ronald
Spriggs of the Angell Hospital on Station

WAAB, and Dr. R. H. Schneider on Station
WCOP; Wednesday, Alphonse Boudreau on
WMEX; Thursday, Dr. C. L. Blakely on
WORL; Humane Sunday, Guy Richardson
on (short wave) Station WlXAL, and
Thornton W. Burgess on Station WBZ.
Broadcasts in cities other than Boston are
noted below.

Humane Day in schools was set for Fri-
day, April 21, but observed in Boston and
other places on the preceding Friday due
to vacations coming the week of the seven-
teenth. The usual program of “Humane
Exercises,” prepared and contributed by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., went out to
8,700 teachers in the elementary schools of
the state. It carried the hearty endorse-
ment of the Society’s work by Commissioner

of Education Walter F. Downey.

The annual humane poster contest of the
Society was a marked success. The total
of 6,998 entries came from pupils in 500
different schools, representing 159 cities
and towns in Massachusetts. Medals were
awarded as follows: ﬁrst, blue ribbon,
1,021; second, red ribbon, 1,178. In addition
honorable mentions, including a year’s sub-
scription to 0er Dumb Animals, were won
by 1,429 pupils. As many posters as the
exhibition room of the Fine Arts depart-
ment of the Boston Public Library, Copley
Square, would hold, were shown there
throughout the Week and the week follow-
ing the anniversary. They attracted a
large number of Visitors.

On the afternoon of Humane Sunday

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

»-iav_w__r._.ﬁww‘r?y 71-: ,-; ,, 1:.r-Wr , A, ,

Page 38

My First Robin

NETTIE RAMSEY

Out over my garden, so dreary and brown,

A myriad snowflakes came tumbling down;

Like swift marching soldiers in order they
flew,

Until the drab picture was hidden from
view.

“0 I am so tired of snowstorms,” said I,

Watching the hurrying flakes flutter by,

“I wish spring would hasten with sunshine
and showers;

I long for the song birds, I’m hungry for
flowers!”

Then, sweeping the white drift outside of

my door,

As through the long winter I’d oft done
before;

Lo! came a glad greeting, the sweetest I
know,—

“My ﬁrst robin,” singing away in the snow!

High up in the top of my big maple tree

He twittered and warbled his gay melody;

And calling: “Dear Robby, I’m SO glad
you’re here

Again, with your message of joy and good
cheer,”

The thought came, how childish, how foolish
am I

To give way to sadness, or utter one sigh

Because skies are cloudy, and chill March
winds blow;

And joining: my robin, I sang in the snow!

Guests

LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

The ﬁelds lie white as far as eye can see,
And almost I can think it must be bloom
Of some strange plant that only lacks

perfume,

Rather than snow, for in my dooryard tree
Where I have ﬁlled a shallow pan with

seeds

And strung a suet necklace, there are wings

Of many kinds, even a brown thrush sings
A little song, since I have met its needs

Of food and water. Diverse guests I know
Sparrows and snowbirds, grackles, and a

wren;
Some\ come but once, and some return
again,

Since birds remember best when cold winds

blow.

I have known winters that were far too

long,

But now St. Francis blesses every hour
And snow is lovelier than any flower,
These chirpings sweeter than a summer

song.

A dish of crumbs, I might have thrown
away,
A little grain, the time I did not need
And I have learned how good it is to feed
The cold and hungry on a snowy day.

The birds that lay eggs on the ground
always lay more of them than do those
higher up, since they are more subject to
destruction down low. And these ground
birds usually lay speckled or yellowish eggs,
the better to be camouflaged in the grass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“I Wanna Worm”

BRUCE COLE

HIS baby rose-breasted grosbeak, mak-

ing his ﬁrst excursion from the nest,
willingly posed for the photographer when
he was promised a fat, juicy worm.

Completely unafraid and eager to earn
his pay as a model, he persisted in hopping
closer each time the cameraman had the
focus just about adjusted. The photo-
grapher would then retreat a step or two,
or else start refocussing, only to have the
same thing happen again before the shutter
could be snapped.

Patience and the cameraman ﬁnally won
out, although the baby grosbeak was only
twelve inches from the lens when this pic-
ture was taken, and a moment later he
hopped forward once more.

His twin brother, more wary of human
beings, refused to be cajoled within picture-
taking distance, and whenever the photo-
grapher would approach he’d hop in the
opposite direction. Since they looked exact-
ly alike, it makes little difference, except
that a picture of “Hungry” and “Wary”
together would have been more interesting.

Food for Winter Birds

That a steady diet of bread crumbs for
the birds that remain North during the
cold weather is deleterious to them and
liable to produce the disease of “polyneu-
ritis” is the information given by Dr. Gerry
B. Schnelle of the staff of the Angell Ani-
mal Hospital. “It is a common illness
among these birds,” he states, “and is
caused by a deﬁciency of vitamin B. Rather
than brushing off the table cloth and toss-
ing the crumbs out of the window for the
birds, those folks who really wish to help
would do far better if they tossed out the
small, left-over pieces of meat and ﬁsh.
Dried corn or grain of any kind is equally
good.”

Mar. 1939

Inviting Birds to Stay
FERN BERRY

F you live on a farm or have farmer rela-

tives or friends you will be able to give
your bird friends a real treat during the
latter part of the winter, in February or
March, when ice or cold rains and snow
cover the few remaining patches of weeds,
by taking baskets or sacks and placing chaff
from the barn ﬂoor or hay loft in them.
This chaff should be scattered near the
places where the birds are used to feeding.
How they do revel in scratching among the
loose chaff for the abundance of seeds and
a bit of green, dried clover, too!

Save all of the old yarn from socks and
caps which have become worn out. Sweaters
yield much yarn. Unravel this and place it
between an old fashioned toaster, if you
have one. Hang it out in the yard in early
spring and you will be pleased with the
happiness it gives to the birds who are
seeking nest-building material. They will
take every shred of the yarn, which should
be in short lengths.

One farmer always trims off the long
ragged hair from his horses’ manes in the
fall. This hair is carefully saved and placed
in a box where the birds carry it off for
nest building.

Another bird lover, when on trips with
her little son, gathered the seed pods of
milkweed or cattail, placed them in an
empty flour sack and hung them in the ga-
rage. In the spring they were placed outside,
dry and ﬂuffy for the birds to use in lining
their nests. Birds will, of course, search
for and ﬁnd nesting material, but they will
be quite likely to build near by if you help
them out a bit—and besides, it is such fun,
giving the children worthwhile lessons.

Feeding Dogs

The dog is not expected by nature to
masticate his food. It is what we term
“bolted” and enters the stomach in large
pieces. Food must, therefore, remain in the
stomach of the dog for a much longer
period than in animals which masticate
their food in the mouth before it enters the
stomach. It is a known fact that the same
food eaten by a dog takes twice as long to
undergo stomach digestion as it does in
man. Overfeeding is unquestionably the
cause of much sickness and disease in dogs.
Twice a day is often enough to feed a ma-
ture, healthy dog. A light meal for the
morning feeding should consist of milk or
milk and stale whole wheat bread or
shredded wheat. The evening meal should
consist of raw or cooked beef or lamb. Liver
and kidney may be fed occasionally, always
raw. Cooking destroys their value and
makes them hard to digest.

Cooked leafy vegetables, such as spin-
ach, cabbage and lettuce, may be mixed with
the meat. Such ﬁbrous vegetables as car-
rots, beets and string beans should always
be thoroughly cooked and crushed. Never
feed them to a dog with a sensitive stom-
ach, as at best they are hard to digest.
Such starchy foods as mashed potatoes, rice
and white bread may be fed sparingly un-
less obesity or eczema develops; then they
must be discontinued entirely.

 




July, 1939

Pagell? OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ing of breeding stock.” Its scope embraces
both the heavy or draft horse as well as the
lighter breeds. Chapters on “A Brief His-
tory of the Horse” and “The Horse Situa-
tion in the United States” will draw the
attention and interest of the general reader.

Bob-o-link

COLLIER

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

F- B- M - LETTERS TO STRONGHEART, J. Allen

There’s excitement in the meadow, BOOHG.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bob-o-link is here,
Grass blades rise in swift salute,
Dancing cloudlets fleck the sky,
Planing low to catch the cry:
Bob-o—link, Bob-o-link;
Summer, I think.

Orchard petals blush a welcome,
Bob-o-link is here,

Fragrant blossoms spill their incense,

Dandelions toss their gold,

Tributes to the rondel bold:
Bob-o-link, Bob-o—link;
Summer, I think.

Prima Donna of late spring,
Bob-o-link is here,

Ricocheting back and forth,

Scattering matchless silver notes

Wildly from ecstatic throats;
Bob-o—link, Bob-o-link;
Summer, I think.

The Cheerful Goldfinch

JOHN H.

IKE the human lovers the goldﬁnch

prefers the month of June for mating.
Then in July comes nesting time, somewhat
later than most of his neighbors. Look for
the felted nest of cottony materials from
six to forty feet up in the orchard tree or
in maples near the garden. Itwill be a
very neat job, round and compact; made of
grass and moss and lined with seed and
plant down; wider than it is high, and
located usually in a branch crotch. In it
will be from four to six blue-white eggs,
generally unmarked.

This little songster is one of our most
cheerful, conﬁding companions. He makes
our hearts rejoice as we go about our duties
in the garden. His ﬂight is so graceful;
dipping, undulating; a thing of beauty in
motion. The entire family have no difﬁculty
in recognizing this bird neighbor and
friend. He is about ﬁve inches long; a
sleek ball of yellow with black and white
on the wings. His wife is a brownish olive
above; yellowish below. His song is sweet
like a canary’s warbling. Each year we
hear it beginning in April and continuing
through July and on to the latter part of
August.

It feeds mostly on seeds of weeds—wild
clematis, wild sunﬂowers, and ragweed. It
does not disturb cultivated fruit.

JOLLIEF

Unique indeed is this fascinating volume
of letters addressed to a famous dog, now
deceased. “When I ﬁrst met him,” says the
author, “he was so well—educated and knew
so much more than I did about so many
important things in the universe that I had
to let him teach me in order to keep intelli-
gent company with him.” Perhaps this is
the keynote to the appealing philosophy in
the letters. Many wise things are said,
many pertinent observations made, many
frank opinions expressed—all, maybe, in-
spired by “Strongheart,” or, rather, by the
close association of author and dog. There
are delightful travel sketches which are
different from the usual run. We are in
the Sierra Madre mountains, on the Mojave
Desert, on the open Paciﬁc, in Tokio and
Nikko, and Kyoto, in Shanghai and Hong
Kong and Singapore, on the Inland Sea of
Japan and the South China Sea, in Java
and Bali, in Ceylon and India, in Cairo and
Venice, in Paris, London, New York, and,
of course, Hollywood.

Ever and again appears the writer’s atti—
tude towards animals, illustrated by his
quotation of the reason why a man he met
in China prefers to live in the jungle: “If
I go into the jungle armed, I am a potential
killer, and I mentally broadcast that news
to animals near, far and wide. They may
not always pick it up, but usually they do.
If I am unarmed, there is no mental threat
of danger or death broadcasting itself from
me, and the animals assume an entirely
different attitude towards me. That is why
I never go armed. And that is why I sel-
dom experience any difﬁculties with natives
or animals.”

The frontispiece presents a ﬁne likeness
of Strongheart.

241 pp. $2.50. Prentice-Hall, Inc., New
York.

A HORSEMAN’S H A N D B O O K ON
PRACTICAL BREEDING, John F.
Wall.

There is hardly any part of the entire
world where evidences have not been found
that the horse has existed since the earliest
dawn of authentic history. It may be said
that he has been coeval with mankind.
Even in this mechanical age he is still
loved and reared, enjoyed and exploited,
by countless thousands.

This volume is a timely tribute to the
respect and honor in which the horse is
held today. “It is intended,” says its
author, “as a digest of some opinions and
practices of experienced breeders of horses,
and is prompted by a desire to encourage
and assist individuals who have little op-
portunity to observe practical breeding of
horses, the handling, the care and the feed-

well to
subject.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

,. In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

A section of the book entitled “Appendi-

ces” treats of many topics, as “Nomencla—
ture of the Horse,” “Age of the Horse,”
“Terms and Deﬁnitions,” “Veterinary Ser-
vice,” “Shipping Horses by Water, Rail
and Van,” etc. To the sources of his infor-
mation and material the author makes
acknowledgment to more than a hundred

reliable authorities.
Photographs, plans and drawings serve
lllustrate many phases of the

The horse—loving public will place a high

estimate on this exhaustive production and
Its effect should accrue to the great beneﬁt
of the horse—the age-long friend of man.

308 pp., Published by Thoroughbred

Bloodlines, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.

Kind Words from Abroad

Among our interesting foreign exchanges
is “L’Ami des Animaux,” organ of the
Geneva Society for the Protection of Ani-
mals and several other Swiss Societies in
French-speaking cantons. We are advised
that there are in Switzerland twenty-two
cantons, in nearly all of which is at least
one S. P. A. The Geneva Society covers
the canton of that name, with less than
200,000 population, but with an estimated
6,000 dogs, thousands of cats, 300 swans
and, in winter, thousands of gulls, ducks
and coots. A message from the Union
Romande, a federation of French-speaking
Societies, contains these kind words: “We
have been receiving for years your very
ﬁne paper, ‘Our Dumb Animals.’ We have
always read it with great interest and
congratulate you on its high humane, liter-
ary and printing standard. You are doing,
if we may say so, uncommonly good work.”

If I Could Be

LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

N o bird would kill me to possess

The feathers fair in which I dress;

No beast would follow to my lair

To take away the clothes I wear;

And if I were too small to cook

N 0 ﬁsh would catch me on a hook;

It would be nice if I could be

Much more like them, much less like me.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10.00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 




 

M an". 1939

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 41

Seventy-first Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1938

I

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

HERE is very little that the President

can tell the members of our two So—

cieties or the readers of our magazine
that has not already appeared in the col-
umns of the magazine itself, because month
by month the work of the two organizations
is recorded, and about all that is left for
the Annual Report is to gather the facts
and ﬁgures together in as brief a summary
as possible.

Still Moving Forward

Two important things were done during
the past year in the way of enlarging the
work of the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. For
years there had been a demand for some-
thing in the way of a shelter in the region
of the State known as the North Shore, a
section including Essex County. To be sure
we had had an oﬂicer with headquarters in
Lynn, but Lynn was too far away from the
center of the section that he had to repre-
sent. Finally a very attractive new house
with plenty of land was found in the town
of Wenham, and there, after the purchase
of the property, a new Shelter was built
where 10st and stray animals could be
brought or cared for when sent for by the
ofﬁcer until their owners were found, or
homes found for them, or, if they were not
wanted, where they could be humanely put
to sleep. The expense involved in the pur-
chase of this property and the building of
the Shelter amounted, in round numbers,
to $8,575. ,

In Attleboro, where two or three years
ago we established a greatly needed Shelter,
there was added in the latter part of. 1938
a Clinic; arrangements being made to have
one of the veterinarians of the Angell Mem-
orial Hospital present one afternOon each
week and one evening each week for the
special beneﬁt of those particularly unable
to secure regular veterinarian service. The
establishment of the Clinic was at the re-
quest of a generous group of Attleboro
people, and its patronage has warranted
the experiment. The average number of
dispensary cases brought to it has been 11
daily. The cost involved in this was ap—
proximately $1,304.

Extensive Repairs

The Angell Memorial Animal HOSpital,
which contains also all the various ofﬁces
for the clerical, mailing and other work of
the two Societies, was dedicated in 1915.
The building, splendidly built, has stood the
wear and tear of twenty-three years re-
markably well, but the time came during
1938 when a good many thousand dollars
had to be spent in repairs and in bringing
it, particularly the Hospital sections, up to
modern standards in order that the Hospi-
tal itself might fall behind in no way the
latest and most modern institutions of that

sort. An expense of $6,132.89 was involved,
and the interior of the buildings looks as
fresh and bright today as when it was new,
and very much has been added to the equip-
ment in the Hospital and facilities for its
very best work.

Merging with the Berkshire Animal
Rescue League

After many years of excellent service in
the western part of the State, the Berkshire
Animal Rescue League, with headquarters
in Dalton, deemed it wise to turn its work
over to the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. This was
arranged for in a very amicable and satis-
factory way by the Directors of the League,
and a Trust Fund of $4,023.08 was turned
over to the Society, the interest to be used
for a special purpose in Berkshire County;
and $1,760.38 in cash. This merger, of
course, has saved considerable overhead ex—
pense and duplication of work and has
proved to be a very wise and helpful
arrangement.

The Society’s Two Hospitals

During 1938 at our two Hospitals—the
one in Boston and the one in Springﬁeld——
49,669 animals were treated in the dispen—
sary, operations were performed to the num-
ber of 13,177, and animals cared for in the
Hospital numbered 12,809. These ﬁgures
divided, show the work for each Hospital—-
that is, 41,528 for Boston and 8,141 for
Springﬁeld.

The expenses of the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital at Boston for 1938 ex-
ceeded receipts by $45,042.31. Expenses of
the Springﬁeld Hospital for 1938 exceeded
receipts by $7,406.23. Free work and un-
paid service rendered, account for the deﬁcit

in both instances.

Summary

Cases in Hospital since opened

March 1, 1915 ............ 167,342
Cases in Dispensary since March

1, 1915 ................. 416,349

Total ................... 583,691

Hospitalization work for animals in this
country and even in other countries is
steadily increasing. We shall spare no
pains to keep the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital abreast of the latest and best
equipment and facilities that are approved
by the leading veterinarians of the country.

The following ﬁgures represent the work
done by all the ofﬁcers of the Society, in-
cluding those with headquarters in Boston
and those in other cities throughout the
State:

Complaints investigated ........ 5,097
Prosecutions ................. 35
Convictions .................. 29
Animals inspected ........... 64,808
Miles traveled ................. 209,420
Horses injured or unfit for service,

humanely put to sleep ....... 679
Horses taken from work ........ 118
Small animals, injured, diseased or

unwanted, humanely put to sleep 24,468
Animals placed in homes ....... 2,361
Animals returned to owners ..... 778
Ambulance calls .............. 9,826
Animals inspected at stock-yards. . 692,253
Service rendered to horses at sum-

mer watering stations ........ 8,113
Ambulance mileage—Boston ..... 22,926

The following are reports from cities and
towns outside of Boston:

 

 

TWO OF MANY WHOSE LONG JOURNEY WE HAVE
HUMANELY ENDED

 

 

 




Dec. 1939

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Christmas Silence

Hushed are the pigeons cooing low

On dusty rafters of the loft;

And mild-eyed oxen, breathing soft,
Sleep on the fragrant hay below.

Dim shadows in the corner hide;
The glimmering lantern’s rays are shed
Where one young lamb just lifts his head,
Then huddles ’gainst his mother’s side.

Strange silence tingles in the air;
Through the half-open door a bar
Of light from one low-hanging star

Touches a baby’s radiant hair.

No sound: the mother, kneeling, lays
Her cheek against the little face.
Oh human love! Oh heavenly grace!
’Tis yet in silence. that she prays!

Ages of silence end to-night;
Then to the long—expectant earth
Glad angels come to greet His birth
In burst of music, love, and light!

MARGARET DELAND

My Bird Study

.WALTER CARLIN

EDITOR’S NOTE :—The writer who sends us this
brief account of himself which follows is a pupil
at the Henry School, Chicago. He is deserving of
the highest commendation. We anticipate that he
will ﬁnd further pleasure and proﬁt as he pursues
his studies in bird life. He has supplied us with the
long list of birds which he has individually identiﬁed.

The ﬁrst time I became interested in
birds was when I was eleven years old. At
that time, I found a robin that had been
shot in the wing by some thoughtless boy.
I picked up the robin and brought it home
and nursed it until it was able to ﬂy again.
After this happened I thought it would be
nice to study different birds and their
habits.

During my reading period in school I
picked out various books concerning birds.
I then proceeded to study the colors of birds
and how to recognize them. My mother
bought me a pair of ﬁeld glasses, and on
my summer vacation I went to the woods
every two or three days.

I am now thirteen and have seen ﬁfty-two
different birds. If boys would realize how
useful birds are to man they would not kill
them but protect them as I do.

What a Contrast!

A correspondent in Lebanon, Syria, Mr.
N. B. Matta, whose successful humane edu-
cational work has been previously noted,
writes as follows: “Despite the menace of
war in Europe and the trepidation in the
hearts of our countrymen, I have visited
some thirty Villages in Syria and Palestine,
and lectured on ‘How to Care for Animals
in Time of War;’ the people were much
interested in the subject.” He states that
the expense of traveling by motor has so
increased that he fears his labors must be
greatly curtailed. He has continued thus
far in having the co-operation of the police
of Beirut who “have done their best in
arresting all those who maltreated, under-
fed or overloaded their animals.”

 

 

 

A RURAL SCENE IN THE ISLAND OF CAPE BRETON

 

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for September -— 30 Days

Daily average large animals 33.6
Forage for same $ 75.17
Put to sleep 7 0.81
Transportation 0.82
Daily average dogs 6.9
Forage for same 2.76
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 52.87
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 10.34
Motor ambulance upkeep 25.50
Motor bicycles upkeep 1.24
Sundries 32.66
Actual operating expenses $302.17

Entries: 6 horses, 9 mules, 57 donkeys.

Exits: 2 horses, 8 mules, 37 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 123 horses, 85 mules, 79 don-
keys, 5 dogs.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Cases investi-
gated, 98; animals seen, 1,423; animals treated, 284;
animals hospitalized by us from above, 22; pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed, 4; Arab bits destroyed,
12; animals transported in ambulance, 5; animals
sent by Police Dept. 21

G. DELON, Superintendent.

The little nuthatch is fond of scale
insects, mealy bugs, and is death on the
tent caterpillar which is one of our worst
pests. The nuthatch will sit in a tree and
eat the larvae that destroy the fruit and
leaves of the tree. He hops here and there
and never misses a worm. Often a fruit
tree will send out fresh leaves after the
birds have cleaned the tree of the. pests.

Song of Peace

And in despair I bowed my head;
“There is no peace on earth,” I said;
“For hate is strong
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!”

. . Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
“God is not dead; nor doth He sleep!
The Wrong shall fail,
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men!”

LONGFELLOW

In Rustic Cape Breton
W. J.

HERE are still corners of this North
American continent where such rustic
scenes as this, reminiscent more of the old
world than of the new, reward the traveler.
As we motor along the picturesque Cabot
Trail on Nova Scotia’s Cape Breton Island
we meet the plodding OX, sleek and well-fed,
dragging wagons or homemade carts with
wheels of solid wood. Even more primitive
is this type of vehicle, with wooden run-
ners, also ox-drawn and used for many
tasks around the farm. Our scene is in
haying time, and as grandmother visits the
hayﬁeld she does not forget to bring a
bottle for her favorite lamb. Native wool,
spun and woven by the Cape Breton folk,
makes handicraft products much admired.
The Cape Breton highlands much resem-
ble those of Scotland, and indeed nowhere
in America have the early Scots settlers
so preserved their ways of life, Gaelic still
being the prevalent tongue in some villages.
In neighboring communities the descend-
ants of the original French Acadian colon-
ists prevail, and cling with equal tenacity
to language and customs. All, like most
rural folk with tradition behind them, take
good care of their livestock. People who
live close to the soil and its products seldom
fail to experience a strong natural afﬁnity
for the animal folk who make possible their
livelihood.

BANKS

A leading Roman Catholic journal says,
“We had a few conscientious objectors in
this country during the World War. Should
another war come we shall have millions.”

Doubtless this statement is true.

An aviator in the last war, who received
the Croix de Guerre, said recently to his
son, “Better go to prison than to war. If
you go to prison you will at least be ﬁght-
ing for an ideal.”

And the father had won the Croix de
Guerre.

 

 




 

 

ZlIar. 1939

 

MORE THAN 25,000 DOGS WERE
TREATED IN 1938 IN THE TWO
DISPENSARIES OF THE MASSA-
CHUSETTS S. P. C. A. AND MORE
THAN 8,000 ADDITIONAL IN ITS
TWO ANIMAL HOSPITALS

 

Unusual Facts About Cats

EDWIN BROOKS

HERE are only seven tortoise-shell tom-

cats in England, and it is stated that
during the past thirty-six years only twen-
ty-one male tortoise-shell kittens have been
born. There are plenty of female tortoise-
shell cats, but hardly any male ones. It is
a mystery of Nature which has never been
fathomed.

Broderip, an authority on cats, writing
so long ago as 1847, speaks of the rarity of
tortoise—shell toms, and says that in 1817 one
was exhibited in Piccadilly and was priced
at a hundred guineas—and ‘guineas were
gold in those days!

The domestic cat comes in almost every
possible color. Perhaps the most beautiful
of all is the snow—white Persian with tur-
quoise blue eyes, but these—like white bull
terriers—are very often deaf! Then we
have blue Persians and some the color of
smoke. Another Persian is chinchilla, an
exquisite shade of gray, and there are cats
of this variety with silver coats.

The Siamese cat, which has a crooked tail
and curiously deep voice, is fawn or dark
brown or chocolate, and has wonderful blue
eyes.

At one of the great cat shows at the
Crystal Palace in London, one may see dark
blue cats which came originally from Rus-
sia, yellow cats, and some which are almost
the color of a ripe orange.

In the Middle Ages cats were rare. In
the tenth century they were protected by
law and their prices ﬁxed by Government.
A kitten was worth a silver penny, but
after it had caught its ﬁrst mouse its price
was fourpence.

In those days a black cat was thought
more of than one of any other color.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dogs Versus Cats

JOHH P. DINNENY

ANY of us take for granted the seem—

ingly natural enmity existing between
cats and dogs. It is part of their heredity,
we say, something deeply bedrocked in the
fundamental make-up of their natures and
implanted therein eons ago in the dim
geologic past.

It has occurred to me, however, that we
ourselves are responsible in some measure.
We often hear poeple say, “I do love dogs
but I hate cats,” or vice versa. Thus we
have a clash in human personality, between
the dog—lover and the cat-lover. Social pres-
sure. usually tends to keep these indiffer-
ences submerged, and apparently all is well
on the surface. But if you are a dog-lover
your dog will instinctively and actively re-
ﬂect your own dislike of cats. He loves you,
therefore he must hate cats. So it will be,
too, with the cat and its owner. Those of
us who have successfully housed both to-
gether in a peaceful and congenial atmos—
phere are people who love Rover and
Grimalkin equally. Alas! they are too few.

One further suggestion as to the human
basis for cat-dog antipathy. It is also con-
cerned with individual differences in people.
Cat-lovers, you will note, are generally the
quiet type, persons who are prone to
thought and meditation. The cat’s quiet,
undemonstrative affection, no less deep for
all that, appeals to them as more in har-
mony with their own personality. On the
other hand the devoted dog-lover will be
found to be the more physically active type,
less inclined to thinking or meditating.
Thus the dog, noisy and demonstrative in
his display of affection, will make his own
particular appeal to persons so constituted.
Those people who have a great love for
both cats and dogs will invariably be found
to be a combination of the meditative and
active natures.

So it may be said that cats and dogs in
disliking each other are merely giving ac-
tive expression to the innate, though sub-
merged, antagonisms of their owners. If we
all develop an impartial love for both, then
it may happen that these two most comfort—
ing friends of man may bury their hatchet
of hate and mistrust.

EDITOR’S NOTE: You may, or may not, agree with

the above.

An uninvited guest was reported at the
canary show held in San Jose recently. The
guest? A gray and white tiger cat, which
wandered unconcernedly about, politely eye-
ing the 200 free lunches in cages which
were so proudly exhibited by their owners.
So entirely unconcerned was Tabby that she
found a comfortable place under some of
the cages and curled up and went to sleep!

—Our Animals

A horse mows the grass with his front
teeth. His grinders are back of these sharp
front teeth and, like millstones, grind his
corn into meal. The carnivores, however,
have knives instead of grinders. They seize
their prey with their front teeth, and hold
it with them. The saber—toothed tiger of
ancient time, had two sharp front teeth
that were hollow, through which he sucked
the blood of his victim.

Comrades

J. E. ELLIOTT

You met my gaze, your brown eyes laughed;
I met your glance, and smiled at you,
As if a friendly cup we quaﬂed.
A world of wondrous things to do!

That day in spring we shared our joy,
Two merry comrades at our play.

N o touch of sadness to annoy
0r worry us that joyous day.

When we returned at eventime,
My hand was resting on your head;
You licked my hand in pantomime,
And turned away to kennel bed.

Books on Dogs

E have just received from the Col-

lege of William and Mary, in Vir—
ginia, a very handsomely prepared bulletin
of 131 pages, giving a list of 1,993 titles and
2,300 volumes on dogs, a collection presented
to the library of William and Mary by Mr.
and Mrs. Howard M. Chapin of Providence,
Rhode Island, who had undertaken the col-
lection of these books as an appropriate and
unique memorial. They had spent many
years in locating the titles in English,
French, Dutch, Danish, German, Swedish,
Spanish, Italian, Latin and Greek lan-
guages. The bulletin says, “No more suit—
able region than the Old Dominion could
have been selected to receive the gift of this
library.”

While civilization has now so largely
deprived us of the horse as an object of
affection, we hope it will leave us the dog,
our faithful and loyal companion.

Lizards sometimes have long tails which
they can shed at will when pursued. These
tails, continuing to twist and squirm after
their owners have departed, so challenge
the interest of the pursuer he loses sight of
the lizard itself, which makes its escape.

 

WEIGHED BUT NOT FOUND
WANTING

 

 

 

 




 

 

0.1. ANGELL

u U, S.Trade Mark, Registered L

1N 1868.AND FOR FORTY~0NE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

6|.th TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

EVERY lema
Caexrune.

 

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vﬂﬂ.72

h4ay,1939

lQo.5

 

We are glad to report that the city coun-
cil of Tulsa, Oklahoma, at last has appro-
priated $3,000 to build a proper public
pound.

We greatly appreciate the kindness of
those who have responded to our call for
canceled stamps, and if in any case we
have overlooked acknowledging them we
regret it. ‘

The oldest horse of which England has
any record died at the age'of sixty. In this
country, so far as we know at the moment,
the oldest horse lived to be ﬁfty-two years
of age. .

Be Kind to Animals Week was celebrated
in Sydney, Australia, from March 12 (Hu-
mane Sunday) to March 18. In this con-
nection the Royal S. P. C. A. conducted a
children’s humane poster competition.

Our correspondent in Ireland sends us
in a clipping the following:

“The oldest donkey in Ireland is dead.
It was forty-two years, four months and
some days old, and drew hundreds of visi-
tors to Glencolumbkille, Donegal.”

By the time our magazine goes to press,
the names of nearly 50,000 on petitions to
the Fox Film Company that protest the
moving-picture known as “Jesse James”
must have convinced the moving—picture
company that it was more than a mistake
to ﬁlm that part of the picture that had to
do with the horses leaping over the
precipice.

Two bills are now pending before the
California Legislature which are intended
to “put teeth in California’s laws against
cockﬁghting.” The San Francisco S. P. C.
A. strongly urges everybody in the state
to write to Hon. D. J. Metzger, chairman
of the Senate committee on social welfare,
at the Senate Chamber, Sacramento, in
behalf of Senate Bill 536 and Senate Bill
761. Humanitarians everywhere will de-
voutly hope for the successful passage of
these measures.

How Can Satan Cast Out
Satan?

HESE are troubled days for a sad and

frightened world. We trust our readers
will not think us going too far aﬁeld in
that which follows.

The above title, “How Can Satan Cast
Out Satan?” was the theme of a sermon
preached on a Sunday in March by that
distinguished American preacher, Dr. Harry
Emerson Fosdick. There was never a day
in the history of this "country when mes-
sages like his were as much needed as
they are now. Multitudes in his audi-
ences, which reach from the Atlantic to the
Paciﬁc, must feel the inﬂuence of his meas-
ured words in the thinking and activity of
their daily life. His sanity, his greatness
as a preacher, his ability as a thinker and
scholar, his loyalty to the essentials of the
Christian faith, no intelligent man can
question.

In the sermon above referred to, the
impossibility of overcoming evil with evil
instead of overcoming evil with good was
ﬁnely illustrated in the saying of the Great
Master, “How can Satan cast out Satan?”
Can we destroy war by war, hate by hate,
revenge by revenge, poison-gas by poison-
gas, the slaughtering of unnumbered, help—
less women and children by slaughter-
ing unnumbered women and children? To
attempt this is but to establish, as Dr.
Fosdick says, a vicious circle which will
never end until that circle is broken by
men’s conviction, however impractical it
seems to the multiude, that the teachings
of Jesus are among the supreme truths of
history. Evil can no more be overcome with
evil than Satan can with Satan. Good alone
can win against evil.

The world has never dared act upon the
assumption that good will, the spirit of a
great humanity and love, are mightier
forces than all the armies and navies and
squadrons of the sky, which appear to the
nations of today as the only means by
which peace and justice can be enthroned.

It may seem wholly fanciful, but one
cannot help wondering what would happen

if the leading representatives of the nations
of the world could sit about a table, and
those with greatest wealth and power should
say to the other less blest by natural
resources and room for expansion, some-
thing like this:

“It is not because we are afraid, or doubt
our strength should war occur, but because
we have more than you, some of which we
have gained by our own greed and plunder,
that we are going to try to even things up.
We want to play fair. We want to do justly.
We are willing to give you much that we
have and that you need—room to expand,
materials that we can spare. We are will-
ing to show our desire for peace and good
will by this offer of ours, believing that
only in this way, and in this way alone,
can the hand of war be stayed and the
world be delivered from the crushing bur-
dens that rest upon the nations, wasting
the substance of their people in planning
for ever-increasing policies which in the
end mean only destruction for us all.”

That such a meeting of the nation’s
leaders might be held—is it only an idle
dream? Two thousand years ago who, then
living, would, in his wildest moments of
imagination, have dreamed that that once
accursed thing the Cross would be lifted up
on a recent Easter morning as the holiest
symbol humanity has known? “In His good
time.”

The Deseret News of Salt Lake City is
authority for the following: Meat plants
in the smaller Utah communities where
strict federal and state inspection is impos-
sible, are in a deplorable condition, reported
Commissioner David F. Smith of the Utah
State Board of Agriculture recently. Sev-
enty-ﬁve per cent of these smaller meat
plants should be closed until sanitary regu-
lations can be strictly enforced, he declared.
He stated that diseased animals are being
marketed for public consumption. The re-
port contained pictures showing that many
of the small slaughter plants were little
else but shacks. Many of them have no
running water and the meat is slaughtered
in unscreened rooms where ﬂies have access
to the carcasses.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 8!;

A Prayer

IDA TYSON WAGNER

For all Thy creatures, God, we pray
In ﬁeld and wood and meadow way:
The lark that sings at dawn of Thee;
The chipmunk playing in the tree;
The silvery ﬁsh in stream or brook;
The beetle in its chosen nook;

The woolly lambs, the gentle fawn;
The rabbit hopping on the lawn;

The bee content in wayside flower;
The cricket heard at evening hour
No one too small to know Thy care,
God, bless Thy creatures everywhere.

 

“Gargantua,” the Great

MARGUERITTE LUNGREN

RUELTY in the human race regard-
less of science, humanitarianism and
progress, continues to exist in the world.
Even in non-dictatorship nations this is so.
Take “Gargantua,” the gorilla. The old
familiar ballyhoo of “the most gigantic, the
most stupendous blood—curdling beast alive”
is shouted in print and sawdust ring. The
curious and ignorant masses are told what
a vicious, cruel, dangerous beast the ape is.
When I went to the circus, I saw the
mighty hunter and capturer of countless
wild creatures advance to the center of the
ring and hold forth on the dangers to man-
kind from this great ape, this fee-rocious
brute. Then the lights were turned out, the
sputtering exhaust of a tractor motor was
heard and through the darkness slowly
crawled a brightly lighted super-steel,
shatter-proof, air-conditioned, glass—covered
cage. While the band played creepy jungle
music the cage rolled forward slowly . . .
slowly . . . so everyone could see this awful
beast. Psychology has been well applied.
Every nerve is tense, every neck cranes,
people crowd closer, children and adults
break the rules and run over one another
in an effort to get nearer the big cage.
Then a silence grips the spectators as the
chugging motor dies and the brilliantly il-
luminated cage stops. We, lords of crea-
tion, are now privileged to see this savage
beast which menaces our safety.

Huddled in a corner, his great arms
crossed over his stomach, the giant ape
looks from his steel prison. His eyes, re-
sentful human eyes, look out at the man
things who have dared to capture him and
now exult in his captivity. The lights are
brilliant and they hurt his eyes. He passes
a hand over them. A hand that is shaped
embarrassingly like your hand or mine.
Such bright lights, too bright. In his jungle
home there are no lights like these that
hurt one’s head—only the yellow sunlight
of daytime and the shining eyes of other
wild creatures at night.

He rises at length and shambles to the
side bars to get a closer look at his curious,
gaping enemies. Many of them are little
better looking than he is and probably with
little more intelligence. His shoulders
hunch and he grips the metal bars with
powerful arms. As he rises to his full height
we get a clear picture of his awkward,
terrible body. His coat of grayish-brown
is smooth and at a distance looks like the
fur of a young police puppy. Gargantua
IS young yet. He has not attained his full

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1939

 

WINDOW DISPLAY OF MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN HYANNIS PHAR-
MACY, HYANNIS, MASS, THROUGHOUT BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

 

growth.

The engine starts, the band swells louder
and Gargantua rolls from my sight. I hope
never again to see a creature, so pitiable,
so hopeless. When we have reached the
state where we take pleasure and pay money
to see a trapped helpless creature, then
civilization takes a sickening setback.

What is the reason for catching and
caging any wild creature? Most of us
seem to be of the opinion that it is educa-
tional. What sort of education is this
imparted to your child by the sight of un-
happy animals behind bars far from their
native homes? Is it educational to teach
your child that cruelty abounds in the world
and that callousness to dumb beasts is the
proper belief in this great and free nation
of ours?

The dictionary gives the deﬁnition of
animal as “one of the lower animals, a
brute or beast, as distinguished from man.”
Just how distinguished, I wonder. With all
the horror and bestiality unleashed in the
world today, must we add to the total of
crimes that of caging and killing helpless
animals?

Dr. Axel Munthe in his “Story of San
Michele” says, “Why do not these well-
meaning lovers of animals begin by con-
centrating their efforts on putting a stop
to the exhibition of wild animals? As long
as this scandal is tolerated by our laws
there is little chance for us to be looked
upon as civilized by a future generation.
If you want to realize what a set of bar-
barians we really are, you have only to
enter the tent of a traveling menagerie.
The cruel wild! beast is not behind the bars
of the cage, he stands in front of it.”

For information about the Jack London
Club, with 742,126 members, pledge-d to try
to stOp the cruelty in trained animal per-
formances, on stage or screen, write to 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Porcupine Plentiful Again

FERN BERRY

OR several years following the exten-

sive lumbering operations in Michigan,
the porcupine was rather scarce but he has
returned to the cut—over and forested areas
in great numbers. One of the most remark—
able of American rodents, the porcupine,
is widely distributed over the forested sec-
tions of the North. Allied species with
prehensile tails are found in Mexico and
South America.

Porcupines move very deliberately when
on the ground and many are killed by
motor cars, for, like the skunk, they depend
upon their natural defense in all cases, and
have not come to realize that a speeding
automobile cares little for spines. Many a
dog has returned to his home in acute mis-
ery when he has attacked a porcupine in
the woods and had his muzzle, mouth and
tongue turned into a living pincushion. In
severe winters or when conditions make the
ﬁnding of food very difﬁcult, wolves some—
times attack and kill porcupines, and dead
wolves have been found with their heads
full of quills.

When lumberjacks or travelers become
lost in the woods for days, the porcupine is
about the only food they can capture.
These animals are very fond of salt and
know when salt is available from a great
distance. Many out—buildings have been
gnawed by the porcupine. Contrary to some
stories the porcupine cannot “throw” his
quills at all. He is a great climber and is
credited with doing considerable damage to
timber by girdling the trees. He feeds very
largely on the bark of forest trees.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

#.

.. . :-;. .
risen: »




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Page 94

6112 Earth at merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent Who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and seventy—four new
Bands of Mercy were organized during
April. Of these, 339 were in Illinois, 181 in
Maine, 145 in Texas, 87 in Florida, 62 in
Rhode Island, 60 in Virginia, 47 in South
Carolina, 35 in Pennsylvania, 14 in Georgia
and four in Massachusetts.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 240,411.

A Cat in War-torn China

REV. HENRY A. MCNULTY

E was born in Shanghai, traveled to

Soochow, and appeared in our midst as
a little ball of beautiful long tawny fur,
a present for our youngest son. This was
six years ago, and he has been a prom-
inent member of the family ever since.

We called him “Hermes,” for his quick-
ness of motion, almost uncanny, was as
ﬂeet as the winged feet of his namesake.

His Chinese friends call him the Lion
Cat. He grew to be an immense animal, 35
inches long from nose to tail-tip. He de-
veloped a great ruff and his tail is as bushy
as a fox’s.

Since this is not meant for a complete
biography, we pass over the intervening
years to the time in late summer when war
broke out. I hurried back from a holiday,
leaving my family, and for three months
Hermes and I with our faithful Chinese
house-boy kept lonely watch while the war
drew ever nearer our home in Soochow. At
ﬁrst the bombing planes were few, and
Hermes took their distant droning as part
of his life. But when they came near and
the droning became the ominous prelim-
inary to the boom and crash of death and
destruction, Hermes often lost his nerve
and would tear away to hide in his own
self-appointed bomb-shelter. He never could
stand the crash nor understand why the
house would shake and the windows rattle.
One day, the worst of all, he refused point-
blank to eat. No, he could not understand;
but then neither could we, except that we
knew, as he did not, that death was in the
air.

On the whole, he was a great companion,
especially at meal-time when he would
stretch himself, place his two great paws
on the table and lookup into my face, as
much as to say, “Here we are again, old
Pal! Share and share alike!”

This was all very well when he and I
were alone. But it did not work so well one
night in late October when I had a guest

from the outer world, a member of our mis-
sion in Changshu who had come that day
after a perilous trip from Shanghai.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“HERMES,” THE WAR CAT

It was the ﬁrst evening guest Hermes
and I had had for over a month, and 1
determined to kill the fatted calf for him,
so to speak—to open the last remaining
tin in our store-room, a can of salmon.
Our house-boy ﬁxed a table in the sitting
room and served part of the salmon to us,
placing the rest on a platter in the room
across the hall. Suddenly, as we were eat-
ing, the siren blew, spelling only too clearly,
“Bombing planes.” At once the electric
lights went out, and in dim candle—light we
ﬁnished what we had on our plates.

When the lights went on again I went
to replenish the plates, and the salmon had
disappeared. Off in one corner lay Hermes,
smiling broadly and licking his chops,
thanking us as only a contented cat can for
our gracious willingness to share with him
our precious food.

Overwhelming anxieties and worries for
us humans soon followed this interlude,
until one night and terrible day when
nearly all the people who had remained in
Soochow ﬂed the awful bombing. That
afternoon the three foreigners still in the
city went to join our refugees in their
camps at a small ﬁshing village called
Kwang Fok, some 15 miles west.

On the following day our house-boy did
a very brave and faithful thing. He got
Hermes, a very unwilling and unthankful
cat, the boy said, into a covered wicker
basket; and with him at one end of a pole
and the boy’s bedding and clothes at the
other end, he carried our hero all the 15
miles from Soochow to Kwang Fok, and
ﬁnally placed him in the refugee camp.

Both boy and cat nearly lost their lives
on the way over, for bombing planes fol-
lowed the group of refugees of which our
boy was one, and machine-gunned them as
they.walked. The boy barely escaped by
running to la near-by canal and climbing
down into it, hiding there until the planes
had passed, but all the while he never let
go the cat.

After a brief spell of nerves Hermes ac-
cepted the new situation at the refugee
camp and graciously settled down in the
emergency hospital where 200 persons were

  

June, 1939

   

crowded into a store-house meant for dry-
ing silk cocoons.

One day, at last, we learned that mili-
tary passes had been secured so that we
might go through the Japanese lines and
visit our families in Shanghai. In the one
car available three of us started, and Her- -‘,'
mes went with us, again greatly resenting
the indignity of a covered basket. On we
went, slowly, through the stricken war area,
past the walls of our own Soochow City;
past a horrible battleﬁeld where great num-
bers of dead still lay unburied; past ﬁeld
on ﬁeld of unthreshed rice that might
never be garnered, while untold thousands
starved; past the ruined outskirts of Shang- -
hai City, and at last into the International _
Settlement itself, where, after an eight- g
hour trip, Hermes and his dilapidated bas- '
ket were placed in the hands of his de-
lighted and astonished young master whom
he had not seen for four months, and had
not even heard from in two months.

Hermes has ceased his wanderings. He
kept Christmas with his united family and
he has become more than ever spoiled by his
admirers. Yes, his trouble is over. But for
you and me it is not over.

The Boston Public Library

Boston is naturally proud of its great
Public. Library and of its wise administra-
tors. For many years the Library ofﬁcials
have given ﬁne support to the annual Be
Kind to Animals Week activities of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. This year was
no exception. During all of the Week and
the one following, there were shown as
many of the prize—winning posters, made on
animal subjects by the children of the pub-
lic and parochial schools of the state, as
the exhibition room of the Fine Arts
department would hold, while in the Chil-
dren’s Room there was a display of posters
and books relating to animals. On Humane
Sunday the lecture hall of the Library was
made available for the illustrated lecture
of Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, presented
under the auspices of the Society. The
sincere thanks of our organization are ex-
tended to the ofﬁcials and attendants of
the Library for all these courtesies so
cheerfully and freely given.

Address to a Cat

“You are life’s true philosopher,
To whom all moralists are one.”

   
      
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
  
     
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
 

ll“. .. -

 

 

 

sighs a poet in the Spectator, addressing
his cat with the wistful envy of a man who
has been bored and battered by the strenu-
ous ethics of the day:

“You hold your race traditions fast.
While others toil, you simply live,

And, based upon a stable past,
Remain a sound conservative.

 

“You see the beauty of the world
Through eyes of unalloyed content,

And, in my study chair upcurled,
Move me to pensive wonderment.

“I wish I knew your trick of thought,
The perfect balance of your ways;
They seem_ an inspiration, caught
From other laws in older days.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 36

Boy and Deer
BYRON HERBERT REECE

Over the white, the frozen ground
With cautious step the deer came down.

The boy, who had come to be
Alone with cloud and rock and tree,

Alone with elemental things -
That gave his timid spirit wings,

Suddenly saw the deer and hid
To see what that proud creature did.

But the sharp snapping of a limb
Made the proud deer aware of him.

Kindred two, each watcher stood
With perfect stillness in the wood,

Each seeing each with mild surprise . . .
And each with wonder in his eyes.

A Gift of Cruelty

D O N C A R T E R
SERVICE club, famed for its work to

relieve the suffering of crippled chil-_

dren, recently made a gift of two lion cubs
to a northern city in Canada. The city
maintained a zoo in one of its parks, and
placed the cubs in a small vacant cage.
Here they were seen by thousands, and un—
doubtedly provided much pleasure for
children.

Very soon, however, the lions grew to full
stature. The zoo had no larger quarters,
so the animals remained penned in a box—
like den not large enough for dogs. One full
pace, and the giant animals would cross the
barred front, their eyes ever turned to free—
dom while the relentless walls hemmed
them in. Hundreds of citizens protested to
the authorities, but nothing was done.

Winter brought a more critical problem.
The climate is severe, and it was necessary
to conﬁne the lions to an extremely small
heated cage to prevent their catching cold.
For six long months they were hidden from
the public, giving pleasure to none and
existing in keenest misery. Twenty thou-
sand dollars was the estimated cost of a
suitable all-weather cage, and the authori-
ties refused to make the expenditure. The
service club offered to hold a tag day, but
at the last minute decided that all its funds
must go towards maintaining its children’s
hospital.

The city has offered many times to give
the lions to anyone who will pay their trans-
portation. Now it is proposed to destroy
them, since the obvious suffering of the ani—
mals detracts from what little pleasure was
to be had watching them. Their usefulness
ended, the magniﬁcent creatures are to be
shot. It was even proposed by some
wretched person that the lions be freed for
a lion hunt, for which a large fee would
be charged.

It is indeed bitterly ironical to animal
lovers to see how an organization devoted
to kindness could so thoughtlessly bring
extreme misery to helpless animals. A gift
to the children of a city was in reality
nothing but an act of intense cruelty, all
the more shocking when one considers by
whom it was done.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

THE ANTELOPE IS THE SPEED KING OF THE

WESTERN PLAINS

 

Mar. 1939

lost in the woods with—
out gun or food. The
badger can be overtaken
by a man too, but digs
himself to safety with
amazing speed. Strange—
ly enough the lynx, so
agile in the trees, is not
very ﬂeet on level
ground and has been
overtaken by woodsmen.

If these are the slow-
pokes among our fauna,
the pronghorn antelope
has been recognized as
the speed king. He is

his speed. The antelopes
have been tested by
m o t o r cars and have
maintained a rate of 40
miles per hour for short
distances, 32 or more
over long stretches. They
love to run rings around
a mounted man, some-
times passing under the
very nose of his mount,
just to prove superiority.

“Pickup,” which would
be the envy of the auto
salesman has been per—
fected by the wild folk.
To p r o t e c t themselves
against the sudden
i- spring of the stalker, the
deer, antelope and
smaller game seem to
be able to attain nearly

 

Speed in the Wilds

W. J. BANKS

HE margin of speed which spells life

for the wilderness folk may be danger-
ously small. It has been estimated that a
deer can travel about 25 miles per hour, a
gray wolf 22. But for that three-mile ad-
vantage, we might have no deer in America
today. Similarly a jack-rabbit is able to
keep a jump or two ahead of the red fox
whose 26 miles-per-hour clip is a little
better than the coyote’s 24; the latter just
eludes, in turn, the stronger gray wolf.

Any loss of running power through in-
jury or old age is likely to prove immedi-
ately fatal to the game animal. On the
other hand the beast of prey lives only be-
cause he is almost as fast as his prospective
dinner. Cunning enables him to overcome
this handicap upon occasion; when he be-
comes so slow that he is unable to do so, his
own days are numbered.

Reliable data regarding the actual rate
of travel of wild animals is rare and hard
to obtain. The speeds mentioned above have
been accepted as reasonably correct for
average animals over a course of a mile or
so. Most of them could do much better in
a short sprint. And most of them are
faster than man, whose best rate of less
than 15 miles per hour for the mile stretch
is not very impressive. The natural in—
offensiveness of animals which might prove
dangerous to him is his best defense.

A few North American animals, however,
are slower than we are. One is the porcu-
pine, adequately protected from natural
foes. He' has saved the life of many people

maximum speed with the
ﬁrst bound from a standing start. If the
killer misses on his ﬁrst spring, he may
give up the chase immediately.

Sequel to Desertion

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

Two hundred New Jersey farmers re-
cently staged a “wolf-hunt.” For months a
pack of wild dogs had been killing their
chickens, destroying more than a thousand
hens and choice pullets. The dogs had grown
bolder of late, and had begun growling
savagely when surprised at their kill. It
was rumored that they had begun to destroy
sheep and calves as well as poultry.

The hunt, held on two successive week-
ends, resulted in the destruction of the
pack, most members of which were police
dogs. Examination of the contents of their
stomachs disclosed chicken bones and feet,
so their guilt was proved.

The sad part of all this is that these
dogs, or their parents at least, were once
inoffensive pets, driven from their homes by
neglect, abuse or desertion. Dogs do not
desert homes where they are carefully fed
and kindly treated. Left to. themselves,
most dogs revert to the wild state from
necessity. When this happens, a slur is cast
upon the breed to which they belong, and
the sort of people who don’t like dogs any-
how have an opportunity of saying: “There,
I always said that dogs were dangerous
beasts to have around the house.”

The bill to exempt from license fee re-
quirements Seeing Eye dogs, won the
approval of the Massachusetts House.

always eager to show off'

Li

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

E 10 CENTS

PRIC

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY\TO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIETY N

/,../,

w

,z/
I
I

/
“MW/”9%",
,

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

- Page ’70

The Sandpeeps
MARY WILDER PEASE

All summer long the little “Sandpeeps” ran
Along the sunny beach, where children
played.

They’d scamper at a shout a small boy gave,
But it was just pretense, why be afraid
0f boys, and spades, the playtime season

brings
When one can fly at will on joyous wings!

The fall was diﬂerent, somehow each one
knew
That when the children left a menace
came,
Not from the sky, or from the changing sea,
But from a long brown rod they could not
' name.
It had a roaring voice and when it spoke
A yellow tongue shot forth and wreaths of
smoke.

The children would have grieved if they
had known
:These blithe, swift, comrades of vacation
days
Would ﬁnd no quarter when September
came;
The time of year the novice hunter strays
Along the shore, and birds, however small
Are but a handy target, that is all.

I’ve found them on the beaches by the score,
These little, broken, “Sandpeeps” that
my hand .-
Could cup and hold, and hardly feelftheir
weight.
Each seemed an ounce of joy ﬁlched from
a land
That would be desolate beyond compare
If no deer roamed and no bird winged the
air.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

r. ............. ,

‘a

 

GOOD RESTAURANTS ARE ALWAYS
WELL PATRONIZED

 

OUR DUr’VIB ANIAIALS

Wild Goose a Tame
“Wonder”

MRS. J. A. CAVANAUGH

HAVE been told by those who should

know, that a wild “honker” or Can-
adian goose cannot be domesticated, also,
that like their domestic cousins, they have
“less than no intelligence.” I claim that all
those people were mistaken—on both counts.

These Canadian geese or “honkers” as
we call them, pass over our farm in large
ﬂocks, traveling south or north, as the case
may be. One morning I ran across, a ﬁne
bird, almost grown, caught by one foot in a
small steel trap. Leaves formed a cushion
so that the honker’s leg was not broken.
Also, I found that a wing had been injured
by a bullet. He was apparently healthy and
well fed and able to ﬁght ﬁercely, but I
threw the coat I was wearing over him and
managed to free him from the trap and
get him home. I cared for the handsome
bird until he was in perfect shape again,
then turned him loose in the poultry yard
with several tame geese, expecting him to
take ﬂight at once.

Imagine my surprise when he began to
make overtures toward the tame geese and
even fraternized with the ducks and chick-
ens. He was well fed and seemed to recog—
nize where his feed came from. I called
him “Jim.” Right from the start Jim never
tried to “hog” the feed, but waited, like the
perfect gentleman he was, until the greedier
ones had dulled the edge of their appetites.
Then he ate without haste.

By the time his injured wing was healed,
he was on friendly terms with every living
thing on the farm, including poultry, dogs,
cattle, horses, and all human beings. But,
seemingly, he never tried to ﬂy, and I sus-
pected that he had forgotten he knew how.
But I was mistaken.

One day a hawk dropped onto a small
rooster, but before he could get into the
air again Jim was coming in full ﬂight from
the far end of the chicken lot. He alighted
ﬁercely on the surprised hawk. The rooster
escaped but the hawk (a big one) got
away only after a sharp battle, minus a
lot of feathers.

Jim became the best “watch-dog” we ever
had. He attended to his self-appointed job
with zest. No feathered marauder dared to
match his valor with Jim’s... After his battle
with the hawk Jim often ﬂew around the
lot and over parts of the farm, but never
very far, and he always came back. We had
a nice pond for the ducks and geese and he
seemed perfectly contented, and even when
wild honkers alighted, though he “gossiped”
with them, when they took wing Jim showed
no desire to follow. When honkers ﬂew
overhead Jim often took wing and circled
around a few times, but always returned.
Each time he returns I am more thankful,
for I certainly would hate to lose him.

As a rule, the smaller birds build the
most perfect and beautiful nests. While
the immense eagle roughly composes his
eyrie of hundreds of sticks, with no regard
for symmetry, the tiny humming-bird’s
cup is delicately woven fern felt, moss, soft
lichen, silk from milk-weed pods or spider
webs, perfectly camouﬂaged in its hidden
retreat.

M ay, 1939

The Laughing Bird

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

ID you ever hear a bird laugh? If you

lived on the Atlantic Coast you would

be able to hear these loud cries of mirth
and laughter.

If you looked for the origin of this great

merriment you would see a beautiful con—

gregation of laughing gulls, either on the

 

LAUGHING GULL AT PASSAGRILLE,
FLORIDA

seashore sunning themselves, or in the
water swimming gracefully in large ﬂocks.

The laughing gull, a member of the gull
family, of which there are about ﬁfty
species, lives on the seacoast as do most of
the gulls. They are web-footed and excellent
swimmers.

In spite of the fact that these birds swim
so well their diving skill is very poor. They
cannot dive under the water for a choice
bit of seafood, but must wait for something
to come to the surface. Sometimes the
laughing gull waits for another bird who
is a ﬁrst-rate diver, to bring up a choice
ﬁsh. Then this watchful gull will alight
on the head of the other bird and take its
ﬁsh away—snatch it right out of its bill.

The laughing gulls are about sixteen
inches long. Their general appearance is
white with a slate—gray mantle and a black
hood. The laughing gull builds its nest 10w,
often by merely making a hollow in the
sand. Sometimes the nests are hidden in
tall grasses or vines.

Centuries before America adopted the
eagle as a symbol, it was considered a
sacred bird by the Indians in our South-
west, as well as Central and South America.
Because they believed the markings on
their wings were left by the “Great Deluge”
both the Eagle and Wild Turkey were
used in their religious rites. “Prayer
feathers” from these birds were used in the
celestial head bands of the men. The ﬂesh
of neither bird was eaten.

Flesh-eating creatures do not themselves
devour other ﬂesh-eaters or carnivores.
They prefer the ﬂesh of vegetarians—rab-
bits, cattle, etc.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 44

efforts in securing radio broadcasts, ofﬁcial
appeals to teachers, and an unusual amount
of publicity in newspapers and magazmes.

In Georgia and Tennessee

Mrs. Weathersbee had a year of unusual
activities in Georgia. Outstanding was the
Be Kind to Animals Week program which,
with the Governor’s Proclamation and
radio, press and church co—operation,
carried humane education to its highest
achievement in that state. During the year
upwards of 50,000 children became identi-
ﬁed with the 1,190 Bands of Mercy that
were organized. Mrs. Weathersbee gave
21 talks and distributed literature to 2,777
teachers, and visited ﬁve summer schools.
She also gave addresses before three Fed-
erations of Women’s Clubs, promoted two
humane education forums, and altogether
visited 82 cities and towns. As State Chair-
man of Humane Education for the Parent‘
Teacher Association she was successful in
preventing the Texas Rangers’ Rodeo from
showing in Georgia.

Mr. Burton works in close co-operation
with the Parent-Teacher Associations, coun—
ty superintendents of public instruction
and church groups in rural Tennessee.
Within the year his travels amounted to
17,500 miles. He made 253 addresses,
reaching about 30,000 persons, of whom
18,000 were children, and visited nearly
200 schools. His talks were given before
Parent-Teacher groups, Sunday—school con-
ventions, meetings of public school teach-
ers, church and Bible school gatherings,
and interracial conferences.

Two Workers in Florida

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth makes use of a loud
speaker from his car as he travels about in
Florida. He places humane literature in
libraries, convict and C C C camps, police
and ﬁre stations. He visited 69 schools
where he organized more than 500 Bands of
Mercy with 17,000 members. He also
reached more than 14,000 adults. He has
received enthusiastic commendation from
prominent school ofﬁcials as to the ﬁne
results of his Work in the schools, one of
them writing, “There is much more con—
sideration for animals.”

Miss Louise H. Guyol, a former full-time
worker of the Society, gave 16 humane
talks in various schools and colleges in
Palm Beach and West Palm Beach in the
spring. Some of these were in colored
schools and before audiences of Negro
teachers. Many poems and compositions on
kindness to animals were written in these
schools.

Thousands Reached in Texas

More than 50,000 persons, in 76 cities and
towns, heard the humane message from
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, in charge of work
among Negroes, with headquarters in Fort
Worth, Texas. He traveled nearly 14,000
miles, and delivered 133 talks in schools and
129 addresses and sermons before adults.
More than 38,000 school children were
reached. He showed the ﬁlm, “The Bell of
Atri,” before the State Teachers’ Associa-
tion, and altogether addressed 61 religious,
educational, civic and social gatherings. He
distributed 6,600 pieces of literature and
secured the publication of 50 humane
articles in the press.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

0n the Paciﬁc Coast

From Palo Alto, California, Mrs. Park
conducts the Western Press Bureau, having
a mailing list of 600 periodicals and indi-
viduals. To these regular press slips are
sent, with excellent results. Several press
syndicates make use of this service. In
addition, Mrs. Park sends out a wide cor-
respondence and circulates quantities of
literature, some to foreign countries.

Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols carried on cor-
respondence with her various state chair~
men for six months, although not so active
as usual because of illness, which proved to
be fatal in September. By arrangement,
Mrs. John W. Hyslop and Miss Frances S.
Hays took over her work at the National
Parent-Teacher Convention, at Salt Lake
City in May. Mrs. Nichols had represented
our Society in the Northwest for 25 years.
Due to her untiring efforts the American
Humane Education Society became afﬁliated
with the National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, of which she served as national
chairman of humane education. Miss Marie
French of St. Joseph, Missouri, was ap-
pointed temporarily to succeed Mrs. Nichols
in this ofﬁce.

Unusual Number of New Bands

As indicated in the preceding paragraphs
an unusually large number of Bands of
Mercy, or Junior Humane Leagues, were
organized in 1938. While the most of these
were the result of the activities of our
regular ﬁeld representatives, yet many of
them came from interested volunteer work-
ers. The 8,615 new Bands represent 21
states, the Philippines, Newfoundland, Brit-
ish West Indies, Lebanon, Syria, India and
Ceylon. Since the beginning, in 1882, the
total number of Bands organized and re-
ported to us is 236,753.

40,000 New Jack London Club Members

Membership in the Jack London Club,
organized to protest against cruelty to ani-
mals used for stage or screen performances,
continues to show a lively growth. Nearly
40,000 new members during the year have
increased the total enrolment to 736,482.

Our Two Humane Films

The Society’s ﬁlms, “The Bell of Atri,”
and “In Behalf of Animals,” continue to
be in steady demand, especially around Be
Kind to Animals Week. There were about
30 rentals of each ﬁlm. In addition, ﬁlms
were placed in the custody of several ﬁeld
workers, of Boston University, and of the
First Corps Area, Army Base, Boston.

Literature Published in 1938

A pamphlet by President Rowley en-
titled, “Humane Education—an Activity of
the National Congress of Parents and
Teachers,” was published early in the year.
A second edition was soon required, making
15,000 copies in all. Of the “Humane Exer-
cises,” for use of teachers on Humane Day
in schools, 16,200 were printed. There was
also a new leaﬂet by Dr. Schneider, “Im-
portant Advice on Feeding the Dog and
Cat.” More than 2,500 Humane Calendars
were published and sold. So popular has
the “Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion” become that the ninth edition (10,000)
was brought out during the year. It was
also necessary to print two more editions
of Dr. Rowley’s “The Relation of the Home

Mar. 1939

to Character Formation,” a popular pam—
phlet for members of the Parent-Teacher
Association. Many other leaﬂets, cards, cir-
culars and blotters were reprinted.

Contacts with Many Foreign Countries

The international character of our work
is shown by our correspondence with repre—
sentatives of a score of foreign lands, many
of whom received our literature and other
supplies, while some reported the organiza—
tion of Bands of Mercy. Mr. N. B. Matta,
president of the Oriental Humane Educa—
tion Association, and his assistant, working
under our co-operation in Syria, Lebanon,
Palestine and Transjordan, visited 253 vil-
lages, lecturing before more than 27,000
people. They also did much practical work
in actual care of animals, bringing 24 cases
into court. Mr. S. C. Batra, a graduate of
Punjab University, represented our Society
in India, carrying on the work at his own
expense. Miss Leona Vasileva of the
American College in Soﬁa, Bulgaria, intro-
duced humane education into the schools
there through our co-operation, with special
attention to Be Kind to Animals Week.
Other countries where the inﬂuence of the
American Humane Education Society was
exerted, in one wayl or another, were Cuba,
Bermuda, British West Indies, Canal Zone,
Panama, England, Czechoslovakia, Philip-
pine Islands, Morocco and the Union of
South Africa. The Society sent special
supplies to the Hawaiian Humane Society.

Be Kind to Animals Week

Proclaimed by Governors of states from
Maine to California, the twenty-fourth an-
nual Be Kind to Animals Week was ob-
served by increased fervor and unprece-
dented appeals by radio, press and pulpit.
The Observances in several states have
already been mentioned. In Massachusetts
the usual Proclamation was issued by the
Governor and a program, similar to that of
former years, was carried out by the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. The school poster
contest brought 8,402 posters from 563
schools in 170 cities and towns. Nearly
2,500 medals and upwards of 1,500 honor-
able mentions were awarded. Schools ob-
served Humane Day with the help of 8,000
copies of “Humane Exercises” sent by the
Society to teachers throughout the state.
On Humane Sunday the Society presented
Mr. Thornton W. Burgess in an illustrated
lecture on “Friends I’ve Met in Fur and
Feathers” to an enthusiastic audience
which crowded the lecture hall of the Bos-
ton Public Library. Three cash prizes and
13 subscriptions to the magazine were
awarded to boys and girls under 16 who
sent in the best stories on a picture previ—
ously published in Our Dumb Animals.
Two hundred manuscripts were received.

Literature Given Away

The value of the humane literature, med-
als, etc. given away each year, in response
to requests from all parts of the world and
in connection with our Band of Mercy and
other activities, amounts to several thou—
sand dollars. In 1938 no less than 150,220
cards, blotters, leaﬂets, books, calendars
and posters were distributed free, as were
13,293 buttons, badges and medals, and ﬁve
pennants. This does not include the more

(Continued on page 46)

 




 

 

 

 

u U. s,Trade Mark, Registered \ n 1

ANGELL 1N 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society
The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—-—COWPER

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

GLORY 'ro -
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston OH‘lCQ, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 72

November, 1939

No. 11

 

What will have happened in Europe be-
fore this issue of the magazine will appear
is beyond all human ken. At the moment
nothing is more evident than that the
people of this country are practically
unanimous in the determination to keep
out of war. Where the sympathies of
America are, no one here can question, but
the demand for neutrality is insistent. .It

is Christianity and all it stands for, or"

a godless Paganism.

A resolution was passed at the meeting,
in September, of the American Humane
Association at Albany, and sent to Presi—
dent Roosevelt, urging that our horses and
mules be included among shipments for—
bidden as contraband of war. We hope, if
it is not too late when this issue reaches
our readers, that they will write to the
President, their senators and representa-
tives urging them to comply with this
resolution of the united humane societies
of the country.

In an excellent publication, The Ark,
bulletin of the Catholic Study Circle for
Animal Welfare, we are told that while
Richard Martin’s family were Catholics, he
was brought up as a Protestant that he
might be entitled to election ultimately to
the British Parliament. At that time only
Protestants were eligible for such honor.

We take it for granted that all our
readers know that it was Richard Martin
who secured the passage of theﬁrst law
for the protection of animals by any nation-
al legislature.

Secretary Langwill, of the Scottish So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, writes us of the formation of a Na-
tional Animals Committee with which the
Scottish Society is to co-operate. He says,
“Our two ambulances, several vans and a
number of inspectors will be on duty to
care for animals immediately in the event
of an air-raid.” He further says, “We have
already had to destroy large numbers of
dogs and cats belonging to those who do
not feel they should continue to have the
responsibility of pets in war time.”

The Future

E do not believe that, even should
Hitlerism for a moment triumph,
civilization will meet its doom. These are
not the only days when men have despaired
of the future. Say what we will, no matter
what the setbacks, the so-called Dark Ages
that have seemed to quench the light of
progress, this world has always, soon or
late, moved out of darkness into light.
Compare our day with the days of two
thousand years ago, days of almost uni-
versal slavery, days of the black-death, of
smallpox as a common sickness, days when
hospitals were rare and little better than
none, days when? in great cities sanitation
was unknown, days when only here and
there was a man who could read or write.
Compare such days of two thousand years
ago, of one thousand years ago, of ﬁve
hundred years ago with our day; recall the
horrors of the French Revolution less than
one hundred and ﬁfty years ago, born of
an uprising of twenty-ﬁve million people
downtrodden, starving, while a handful of
lords and ladies lived at their expense in
luxury and splendor. Who would have
dared believe that out of the mad destruc-
tion of the months of that Revolution there
would come a new birth of freedom and
equality for man? Recall these pages of
history and then dare believe that, as in
the past, so in the future, light will follow
darkness and that God’s in His Heaven-—
that righteousness and judgment are the
habitation of His throne. Clouds and dark-
ness may be round about Him, His judg—
ments unsearchable and past ﬁnding out,
but the world’s noblest and wisest and best
have never doubted right at last would
triumph and wrong be driven from its
throne.

From an editorial in the Detroit Free
Press we clipped the following: If man,
educated away from brutality toward ani-
mals in his power, could stop going to war
with his own kind, there would indeed be
progress in practising the ﬁne arts of
humanity and civilization.

Horses and Mules in War

E naturally think ﬁrst of the appall-

ing loss of human life on the battle-
ﬁeld, of the suffering of the wounded and
the dying, and of the 1:‘Jroken homes and
hearts. But we also know that the horror
of war falls, too, upon the faithful horses
and mules, wholly ignorant of all it means,
who are the victims of the mutilating shot
and shell they are forced to face where the
battle rages.

According to ofﬁcial statements obtained
from Washington, the total number of
horses exported from this country during
the six years before the world war was
158,206, and the total number of mules,
30,783. During the years from 1914 to
1919, the period of the World War, the
number of horses exported from this coun-
try was 1,061,083, and the total number
of mules, 360,606. During the ﬁve most
recent years, from 1933 to 1938, only 11,434
horses and 12,607 mules were sent abroad.

The Horse and Mule Association of
America says, in a recent bulletin:

“What will occur, now that war has
broken out, will depend on how effective
airplanes and tanks prove to be; but judg-
ing from recent experience in Ethiopia and
Spain, horses and mules will be as import—
ant as ever, and will be urgently needed
for transport, artillery and cavalry; for
they are the only units that can go wher—
ever men can.”

It is ofﬁcially stated that from Canada,
with its nearly 3,000,000 horses and but
very few mules, and the United States,
which had on January 1, 1939, a total of
10,800,000 horses and 4,382,000 mules, the
supply for present war purposes abroad
will be taken. '

The bulletin says :

“No one knows when or how many ani-
mals will be exported during this war, but
judging from past history, they will be
needed if the war lasts long, for airplanes
have made it possible to destroy roads,
forcing armies to traverse ﬁelds. When
roads are impassable and mud comes—and

l

 

i

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158
@112 Zﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and ﬁfty-nine new Bands of
Mercy were organized during August. Of
these, 124 were in Illinois, 19 in South
Carolina, and eight each in Tennessee and
Virginia.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 242,130.

Summer Work in Syria

ROM N. B. Matta, ﬁeld worker in
Syria, comes this report dated July 22:

During this and previous months I
visited 14 villages in Syria and Lebanon,
and lectured on “Effect of Humaneness on
Social Affairs,” before about 860 persons.
I distributed 200 copies of my book, “Kind-
ness to Animals.” I was pleased to note
that people, in spite of war rumors, were
paying good attention to my subject.

We shall soon announce a contest on
some humane subject, with a prize of $25.
Schools are now closed. Bands of Mercy
are now going on only in summer schools
and some villages.

Our ﬁeld lecturer in Palestine did good
work in lecturing among the villages of the
northern district, where he visited 21 vil-
lages, and reached 1,400 people.

Animals taken care of: 4 cows, 16 dogs,
9 cats, 7 horses and 3 hens. Animals hu-
manely put to sleep: 14 dogs, 9 cats, 1
horse and 1 goat. Animals restored to their
owners: 3 dogs, 3 donkeys and 2 cows.

A man overloading his ass was arrested
and ﬁned. Another was put in jail for
cruelly beating his weak donkey.

Collecting Cats 3 Hobby

A. D. K. SHURTLEFF

OW would you like to meet a proces-

sion of cats,—ﬁve hundred and eighty--
seven of them? If you would like to meet
such a procession, come where I live. I
have ﬁve hundred and eighty—seven of them
and even more. Only one of them is a
live cat, however. His name is “Timothy.”
He is a host in himself. He is a beloved
friend all over our neighborhood. He is
also the efﬁcient leader of the cat sym-
phony concerts which we occasionally en-
joy,——or should I say “endure?”

My other cats are all picture cats,—ﬁve
hundred and eighty-seven in number today,
but the number is constantly growing; for
it is my hobby to collect cat pictures. I
have been doing this for several years. It
is great fun! I have white cats and black
cats and spotted cats; tiger, Maltese, Siam-
ese cats; cats from Europe, Asia, Africa,—
from all parts of the world. Some are cats
of royal blood; some of them are of very

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“WE’RE BOTH HAPPY”

 

 

 

doubtful ancestery.

Many of my cats are restful cats, sitting
quietly to have their pictures taken, or
lying in snug furry balls, sound asleep.
Others are quarrelsome cats. I have cats
lapping milk or eating hearty meals. I
have cats climbing fences, chasing butter—
ﬂies, playing with strings and with balls.
I have cats dressed in doll-clothes; dressed
as brides, as grooms, as clowns, as dunces!
I have them in the gowns of supreme-court
judges, and in clerical attire. I have cats
busy with home duties, tending their cat
babies, doing laundry work, sweeping, dust-
ing, washing dishes, making beds, and
doing the family marketing. I have cats
enjoying ﬁshing trips, and mouse-hunts;
cats chumming with birds, with dogs, with
horses. I have cats who can make you
laugh in spite of yourself! I have others
who almost make you sad, they look so
miserable. A whole army of cats is mine;
and this army is always “on the march,”
increasing in number constantly.

Doubtless many of you who read of my
cats, already have hobbies, collecting stamps
or postmarks, or coins or china, or other
things; but others among you have never
had any hobby at all. Why not begin to
have one now? Why not begin to collect
cats today? I recommend it. You will ﬁnd
endless amusement in it.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

Oct. 1939

St. Francis of Assisi
MARY LANIGAN HEALY

H T must have been pleasing to St. Francis
of Assisi to have his feast day, October
4, set aside for universal emphasis on the
need and duty of man to be kind to all
dumb animals. But St. Francis was per-
haps as surprised at this particular honor
as he was pleased. The humble, brown-
garbed, little man would never have
thought of himself as deserving such dis-
tinction.

St. Francis of Assisi has taught kind—
ness by kindness, has left a lesson of love
by the love he shared with every created
thing.

Plodding along the dusty ways of Assisi,
Francis was familiar with all the small
creatures whose homes were close to earth.
He knew and loved them all, the lizards,
the snails and the fat old round-backed
turtles, too. And they knew him as an
understanding friend, and welcomed his
coming with no inclination to ﬂee at sight
or sound of his familiar sandaled feet.
This was true of the creatures inch high
from earth, of those who scrambled over it
as well as those who soared above. That
is why he was chosen as their patron;
that is why he can best plead their cause.

So with the humility that emulates his
own, we will seek again the trail he trod,
when there comes that special day in
October. And walking along that way we
look for creature friends in the dust as
well as in the shining sky. And we’ll pay
tribute to a well selected patron, the kindli-
est of saints, the little poor man whose
heart was so bursting with a certain kind
of wealth that there was enough for every
living creature to claim a share as its own.

Shy but Useful

WILLIS MEHANNA

The indigo bird is one of our most useful
and beautifully colored birds. It is shy of
humans and more or less so of other birds.
It comes north in May and stays till the
latter part of September. Unfortunately,
it is not very plentiful, but it never was
very much in evidence so we hope that it
will remain with us. The indigo bird is
rather slender and is about six inches in
length. In color the male is rich blue on
the head while the wings and tail are
darker. The quills of the wings and the
tail are deep blue. The female is brown
above with yellow breast turning to white
underneath and somewhat streaked. The
wings and tail are dark with a tinge of
blue. These birds nest in low bushes and
tall grass and sometimes high up in trees
in secluded places where their colors are not
unlike some tree leaves. Weed seeds, bugs
and worms are their diet, and these they
devour in great numbers. The male is a
ﬁne singer and will sing in midsummer
when the heat has silenced other birds.
Happily the female has no bright colors to
attract enemies. It is to be hoped that the
reforestation work and the making of
ponds will cause these birds to increase in
numbers.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 




 

Mar. 1989

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 37

Twenty-fifth Annual Be Kind to Animals Week
April 17-22, with Humane Sunday, April 23, 1939

Humane Exercises

For Schools

HE new edition of the Humane

Exercises, especially prepared by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. for
the use of teachers in Massachu-
setts on Humane Day in Schools,
will consist of eight pages, as usual,
but will have two pages of illustra-
tions. It will contain a message to
teachers from Mr. Walter F. Dow-
ney, newly appointed Commissioner
of Education for Massachusetts.
There will also be short selections of
prose and verse, and various sug-
gestions for a humane program.

These pamphlets will be furnished
free to all teachers in elementary
grades above the second, in Massa-
chusetts, through the various school
superintendents who indicate their
willingness to make use of them.
Sample copies will be mailed to

teachers or to Humane Society
ofﬁcials anywhere, upon request.
Those outside of Massachusetts,

wishing a quantity, may have them
for $1.50 per 100 copies, about the
bare cost of printing and delivery.
Last year 4,000 copies of a similar
pamphlet, published by us, were cir-
culated in the schools of Chicago,
while we sent out more than 8,000
copies to teachers in Massachusetts.

HUMANE DAY IN SCHOOLS
is set for Friday, April 21, to bring
it within Be Kind to Animals Week,
but owing to vacations in the schools
of Boston (and some other places)
it will be observed there a week
earlier, April 14.

Again Mr. Burgess

S0 popular have the Humane
Sunday lectures by Thornton W.
Burgess in the Boston Public Li-
brary become that the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. has arranged with
Mr. Burgess to appear for the third
successive Humane Sunday, at 3:30
P. M., April 23, in the lecture hall
of the Library at Copley Square,
Boston, (entrance from Boylston
Street). His topic this season will
be “Friendly Folks along the
Trails,” and, as formerly, he will use
lantern slides and moving pictures.
Free to all, but remember that while
the doors are open at 2 P. M. they
close as soon as the hall is ﬁlled, so
come early to get a good seat.

For Humane Sunday

A new 2-page leaﬂet, with appro-
priate selections and helps and
hints for the observance of the day,
will be issued by the American Hu-
mane Education Society for Hu-
mane Sunday, 1939. Samples free.

 

 

 

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Cash Prizes for Animal Photographs

N connection with the annual BE KIND TO ANIMALS

WEEK three cash prizes, $15, $10, and $5, and three
annual subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals, are offered
by. the Massachusetts S. P. C. A for the best original
photographs (not previously published in any periodical)
of animals or birds. Those interested are urged to read
carefully the following conditions:

1. No photographs of performing animals, or those
showing cruelty to animals, will be considered.

2. The picture may show a single animal or bird, a
group of any number of animals or birds, or a combination
of animals or birds with one or more persons.

3. No limit as to size, but glossy pictures from about
3 X 4 to 5 X 7 are preferred.

4. The contest is for photographs only. No text should
be submitted with them, except titles not to exceed ﬁfteen
words.

5. All photographs receiving prizes become the exclu-
sive property of Our Dumb Animals, and will be published
in some future issue.

6. N 0 photographs will be returned unless an envelope
of suitable size, with full return postage attached, is en-
closed.

7. The contest ends May 15, 1939, and no entries will
be considered that are received after that date.

8. Care should be exercised in addressing all photo-
graphs intended for the contest, in order that they may be
kept separate from photographs that are being offered
daily for regular publication in Our Dumb Animals.
Therefore this address should be used:

PHOTOGRAPH CONTEST EDITOR, Our Dumb Ani-
mals, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Striking New Poster
For This Year

ERE is the new poster for

1939. It is one of the happiest
of all the designs of the noted artist,
Morgan Dennis, and should be cir-
culated far and wide in connection
with the quarter-century celebration
of Be Kind to Animals Week. It is
in two colors, size 17 x. 22 inches.

Copies with the imprint of the
American Humane Education So-
ciety, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, are for sale at these prices,
postpaid: Single, 10 cts., three for
25 cts., eight for 50 cts., twenty for
$1, seventy for $3, 125 for $5, and
may be ordered from the Society.
Orders for larger quantities, how-
ever, and all others requiring special
imprints, should be sent to the
American Humane Association, 135
Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y.

Orders should be placed at once
to avoid possible disappointment.

Prizes for Children

Often children send rhymes to the
Editor of Our Dumb Animals, re-
questing that they be published.
This can seldom be done as the
space is so limited. Here, however,
is a chance for boys and girls under
12 years of age to have their verses
printed. The American Humane
Education Society offers a ﬁrst prize
of $3 cash, a second prize of $2
cash, a third prize of $1 cash, and
three additional prizes of a year’s
subscription to Our Dumb Animals,
for the best original verse of not
more than four lines, that has never
before been published in any peri-
odical.

We prefer to have the verses type-
written, but plain handwriting will
be acceptable. There is one impera-
tive condition. The full name and
address of each competitor, with a
statement of the exact age, must
appear at the top of the same sheet
of paper upon which the verse is
written. Write only one verse on
one sheet. Not more than three sep-
arate verses may be submitted by
any one writer. Do not enclose re-
turn postage as no manuscripts
will be returned.

The verses winning prizes will
be printed in future issues of Our
Dumb Animals. The contest closes
June 1, 1939, after which no entries
will be considered. Address all
verses to

VERSE EDITOR
Our Dumb Animals
180 Longwood Ave.
Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, .Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A. "MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres. ; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——-MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary —MRS. EDITH WASH-

DURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas. Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 17,542
Cases investigated ............. 402
Animals examined ............. 3,179
Animals placed in homes ....... 249
Lost animals restored to owners. . 65
Number of prosecutions ......... 5
Number of convictions .......... 5
Horses taken from work ........ 13
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 54
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,005
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 73,586
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 32

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D.
B. SCHNELLE v.M.D.
O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

. J. ROBERTSON, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

 

mQHPFF"

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
H

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. . L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 787
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,028
Operations ...................... 692
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 194
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 572
Operations ...................... 184

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered from date of opening
Oct. 14, 1938, to: Nov. 1, 1939. . . .

Totals

1,041

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 176,523
Dispensary Cases .............. 442,484

Total .............. 619,007

David A. Bolton

After more than 27 years’ service as a
faithful and efﬁcient prosecuting Oﬂicer of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., attached to
the Boston Ofﬁce, David A. Bolton was
stricken suddenly after his arrival home
from work, Thursday, November 2, and
succumbed shortly after being taken to the
Cambridge Hospital.

Mr. Bolton was a native Of Maine whence
he came as a young man to Boston, where
he held various responsible positions till he
found a place on the Somerville police
force, later becoming chief of police Of
Watertown, where he resided at 30 Oakley
Rd. From there he came to the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. He was a conscientious
and dependable prosecutor of the law, and
was Often called upon to take the place of
the Society’s chief Ofﬁcer during the latter’s
absence. His genial nature endeared him
to his colleagues and to the many friends
who mourn his passing, whose heartfelt
sympathy goes out to his wife, Annie Reece
Bolton, and to the brother who survive him.

He was a member of Pequosette Lodge
of Masons, Watertown, and Of Somerville
Lodge of Odd Fellows. Funeral services
were held at the residence at 2 O’clock Sun-
day, November 5. Interment was at New-
port, Vt.

The annual sale of the Winchester Aux-
iliary will take place at the home of Mrs.
Taylor, 137 Mt. Vernon St., Winchester,
at one o’clock, Thursday, Dec. 14.

Page 185

Features at Annual Fair

RANSFORMED by gala decorations

and artistic displays of tempting mer-
chandise for Christmas presents, the second
ﬂoor of the Hospital building at 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, on Wednesday, NO-
vember 8, was the scene Of a large gather-
ing of friends who came to assist the
Women’s Auxiliary at their annual Fair
for the beneﬁt of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A.

Besides the tables laden with candy, food,
household necessities, antiques, and litera-
ture, the chairmen Of which were named
in our notice last month, there were many
unique features, all of which were gener-
ously patronized. Fortunes were told by
Mrs. Barbara Brabrook and Mrs. Mari
Harding. Mystery packages, known as
“grabs,” were dispensed by Miss Eloise
Ordway, assisted by the English setter,
“Duke.” The Spacious mailing room was
converted into a restaurant where a large
company partOOk Of a splendid luncheon.

The attractive new club room on the
third ﬂoor was given over to bridge at
2 o’clock, with Mrs. Charles E. Staniek in
charge, assisted by Mrs. Edward C. Brown,
Mrs. Grace Lyman, Mrs. Francis G. Car-
reiro, Mrs. Ralph Dunn, Mrs. George Pree,
Mrs. Edward C. Green, Mrs. David Theall
and Mrs. Martha Herdt.

The patronesses were Mrs. Charles G.
Bancroft, Mrs. Harold Donham, Mrs.
Adnah Neyhart, all of Framingham; Mrs.
Harold Walters of Uxbridge; Mrs. William
J. Underwood of Belmont; Miss Eleanora
Sears of Beacon street; Mrs. Maurice J.
Tobin of Boston; Mrs. Leverett Saltonstall
of Newton; Mrs. Margaret Freeman of
Hyde Park; and Miss Dorothy Forbes of
Dover.

The whole affair was under the eﬁ‘icient
charge Of Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president, assisted by the other Auxiliary
Ofﬁcers: Mrs. Edward C. Brown, ﬁrst vice-
president, Mrs. Charles E. Staniek, second
vice-president and chairman of ways and
means, Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, treasurer;
Mrs. Herbert E. Prescott, corresponding
secretary, and Mrs. George D. Colpas,
chairman of the work committee.

Winchester Auxiliary

At the annual meeting of the Winchester
Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
held October 12, most encouraging reports
were given. The one thought from the be-
ginning has been to establish in Winchester
a Shelter where 10st, strayed or injured
animals might be cared for. The reports
indicated that this objective has been fully
realized and that the Shelter is ﬁlling a
very real need.

Mrs. Richard Taylor, after eight years
as president, has been granted a year’s
respite from ofﬁce. The following were
elected for the coming year: President,
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke; vice-presi-
dent, Mrs. John H. Joy; treasurer, Mrs.
John Clarke; recording secretary, Mrs.
Ambrose E. Reasoner; corresponding secre-
tary, Mrs. G. Russell Mann; directors, Mrs.
Richard Taylor, Miss Evelyn L. Parker,
Mrs. Alfred H. Hildreth, Mrs. Marshall
Symmes, Miss Gladys Marchant; chairman,
special Offering, Miss Ida Winn.

 

 




 

Dec. 1939

give the bird the age-old name of “mocker;”
the question has been often raised about
the musical notes emanating from its
throat: “Are they voice tones, or ﬂute
tones?”

One does not care to go into too tech-
nical a ‘discussion in answering the ques-
tion; sufﬁce it to say, therefore, that the
lyrical demonstration calls into play a co-
ordination of bill (the lips of which are
called “mandibles”), tongue, and trachea;
this last being a small tube extending from
the mouth of bird throatward down to the
lungs,” which are the bellows furnishing
the wind for this miniature pipe-organ on
wings;” and since it is said that the organ
is an entire orchestra in itself, so may the
mockingbird be termed a music-maker ca-
pable of producing a multiplicity of tone-s in
a variety of ways.

He may feature a ﬂute-like passage with
all the dignity and professional skill of a
symphony performer. Then, upon complet-
ing this theme of classic charm, there may
come from his mimicking beak a series of
sounds seemingly of jazz-orchestra origin.
He can be a poet and a peasant, a genius
and a jitterbug—in fact, an entire catalog
of characterization is suggested through
the modulation and manipulation of his
voice.

More than often the classical motives of
the mocker’s repertoire prevail; and his
songs of sweetness have ever won words of
praise from master-makers of art. Sydney
Lanier intimated that “this heavenly bird”
will be hailed as “brother” by Beethoven
and Keats, when he enters the “choir in-
visible of the spirit world;” and it might
be added, that it is in the land of Lanier,
the sun-kissed South, that the bird is at
its artistic best.

Here it is that you do literally have to
“stop, look, and listen to the mockingbird,”
particularly if you chance to be in the gulf
states between the months of February and
August, since the singer is “on the air,”
day and night, during this season. Here
the bird—homes of twigs, grasses and soft
rootlets are built, usually in a thicket or
hedge. The nest will contain, in time, from
four to six blue-green eggs, ﬂecked with
brown.

And here in an environment of magnolia-
scented air, moss-draped trees, with silvery
moonbeams tinting the lagoons and bayous,
one hears a voice of unparalleled beauty—a
voice so accurately described by Longfellow
in his “Evangeline.”

“Then from the neighboring thicket the
mockingbird, wildest of singers . . .

Shook from his little throat such floods
of delirious music,

That the whole air and the woods and the
waves, seemed silent to listen!”

The tiny titmouse is really so small he
can hide behind a big leaf on a maple tree,
but he is so active he will not be there
long. He can eat a full hundred insects at
one meal and lots of insects’ eggs, too. In
an hour he must have another meal of ants
and tiny bugs from the garden. So in one
day the titmouse will devour hundreds of
insect pests. The Chickadee is his cousin
and has the same kind of eating habits.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sparrows
SALVATORE MARSIGLIA

In winter ’neath the apple tree,

I, many sparrows, daily see;

A group of greedy, chirping things,
Wee feathered friends who do not bring
The robin’s springtime message sweet,
Who with gay songs the season greets.

They’re nondescript in hue and song,
They quarrel and scold the whole day long,
And pounce upon a crumb or crust

As though ’twere cake upon the dust

That lies upon our wondrous earth.

Ah! still, in all, they bring me mirth.

I gaze upon the snow-swept grass

And view their footprints small, that pass
Around the corner by the hedge

And all atop the graystone ledge

That forms the wall about the well,

(And through bare land I can not sell.)

Ah, sparrow-folk! ye homely bird!
Far better voices have I heard!
Far better plumage have I seen

In foreign lands that I have been.
But your staccato little voice
Spells home to me, and I rejoice!

Lady Hornbill at Home

ALICE LEE HALL

NE of the oddest freaks of nature is
the hornbill, a huge ungainly bird
found in most tropical countries of the
Old World. It is so called because of a
curious bony growth resembling a horn
which surmounts the bird’s enormous beak.
While there are many varieties of these
queer bulky creatures, differing greatly in
size, their habits are very similar. One of
the largest species, a native of Central
Africa, measures from four to ﬁve feet
from the head to the tip of the tail.

In color hornbills are black and white,
their necks are entirely without feathers
and their huge beaks are a vivid yellow
with scarlet and black markings. Distin-
guished features common to all members of
this great family are prominent eyelashes
which give them an odd expression, and a
long graduated tail which has two central
feathers which are nearly twice the length
of the others.

Hornbills are social, birds, living in
groups of six or eight. They make their
homes in the tops of trees, seldom coming
down except in search of food.

Richard Halliburton in one of his travel
letters, written from Ethiopia, tells us of
his train’s being stopped entirely while a
ﬂock of hornbills, awkward and cumber-
some, moving as they do on the ground
with short hops and leaps, laboriously
crossed the railroad. Neither are these
birds graceful in the air, for they ﬂy heavily
with an amazing clatter of wings, at the
same time uttering a loud discordant cry
which is described by travelers as some-
thing unearthly.

They live chieﬂy on seeds, nuts and ﬁsh,
although those of the larger species will
not hesitate to attack and devour the most
venomous serpents, while the smaller vari-
eties are great destroyers of insects. Pick-
ing up a morsel of food, all hornbills have

Page 189

 

 

THE QUEER—LOOKING HORNBILL

a peculiar habit of tossing it into the air
and then catching it in their beaks as it.
descends, before swallowing it.

They breed in hollow trees where two to-
four large white eggs are laid. As soon. as.
the mother bird enters this nesting retreat
her mate seals the opening with mud and.
clay and does not release her and her brood
until the ﬂedglings are strong enough to«
begin taking ﬂying lessons. In the mean—
time he feeds her and her little ones
through a narrow opening in the earthen].
wall which has been left for this very pur-
pose.

This peculiar nesting habit of the horn-

bill has been well known for a number of'

years, but it is only in the past three years
that more detailed information has been
gathered by an English naturalist stationed.
at an agricultural research station in Brit-
ish East Africa. He had a pair of these
curious birds under observation for two
seasons. He states that the mother bird
remained in her voluntary prison a period;
of 175 days, or practically six months...
During all this time her mate never once
shirked his duty as the bread winner of the
family.

Mr. Moreau, the naturalist, estimated.

that, from his investigation the male bird.

brought food to his Wife and their off-
springs at least 3,000 times, carrying it
securely stored in a sac or bag attached to‘
theouter portion or rim of his gizzard.

Why, all the souls that were, were forfeit‘

once;
And He that might the vantage best have-
took,
Found out the remedy.
Go to your bosom,”
Knock there; and ask your heart, what it
doth know
That’s like my brother’s fault.

SHAKESPEARE.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APARTMENT HOME OF THE GRACKLES

The picture of the bird-house was taken on a farm
at Canons, Delaware. There are two of these houses
erected on weathered poles, perhaps twenty feet high
extended above a trumpet vine arbor. They are more
than a generation old and have been repaired from time
to time. There are two rows of nests on each side of the
houses, one above the other. They always seem to be beetles
fully occupied by grackles, year after year. This picture
was taken the last of May, and the birds usually remain
until the middle of August. The slippery poles discour-
age the farm cats which show them no interest at all.
These birds have always interested me, and remind me
of the apartment dwellers of the Bronx, New York,
because of the huddled way they live, and the way they

hang their heads out of their doors.

DR. DONALD SNOW

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

hunter. But there are many
states where the farmer must,
himself, protect any bird or
animal on his farm and the
quail should be one of these by
all means. Refuse to allow
your coveys of quail to be shot
at and stand by your objection.

In one instance I know of,
the farmer was informed by
the young hunters that “All
wild game including birds
were their meat without any
interference from anyone.”
Well, this farmer acted very
decisively and the hunters left
at once. Left to himself the
poor little quail has plenty of
enemies aside from the gun.
Snakes, hawks, dogs and stray
cats get dozens each year.

No one bird is more useful
to the farmer than is the
quail. He is “death” to the
Colorado beetle, the potato
bug, and worms.

Quails are proliﬁc breeders.
Generally there are eighteen
eggs in the nest under some
immense clump of grass in
early spring. Snakes are the
worst enemy of the very young
quail and as a nest robber.
Last May I saw a mother
quail followed by sixteen ba-
bies and I knew they had been
hatched near—by. Later I saw
the same bird and she had ﬁve
young quail with her. Others
had been lost.

If there were no open sea-
son on quail for, say, three
years, the coveys might come
into their own again. Once,
on accidentally killing a sit—
ting quail, I found in her craw
42 small worms, 14 Colorado
(young) many ﬂies
(cattle stingers) and many
weed seeds. So you may see
her value as an insect de-
stroyer. Boys, the quails will
help you more in getting
potato bugs than a man can
get in a full day. They love
the baby bugs and the yellow
eggs on the underside of the
leaves. Just scatter a little

 

Don’t Shoot the Quail

RALPH FENWICK

H WANT to present this old subject again
in time to save at least a few of the old
bob whites of our boyhood days—the Eng-
lish partridge and quail of today. There
will soon be many hunters roaming our
prairies and woodlands in search of game.
If you are not careful of your coveys there
will be many quail carried away in the
capacious pockets of the hunter instead of
being free to dart under a grass clump at
suspicious approach or sing their opti-
mistic song, “Bob White, is your wheat
ripe? No, not quite.”

Some of our states have quail protection
and some have this bird on the song-bird
list thereby protecting them against the

small grain in the patch until
the covey learns what is waiting for them
and you’re ﬁxed for free helpers against
bugs.

Don’t let hunters shoot your quail this
winter. I’m sending this plea for a gentle,
harmless, little bob white that cannot plead
for himself. Instead, build some loose piles
of brush in a warm sheltered place where
these birds may hibernate, and then throw
feed there ever so often. It’s so little to do
and you will reap a big reward. Next
spring your covey of quail will be fat, dis-
ease resistant and ready for good breeding
and full nests of eggs and young birds.
Boys, make up your mind to do this thing
this winter.

Christianity and War are incompatible.
There is no such thing as a Christian
War. The REV. DR. SHEPPARD

Dec. 1939
California Mockingbird

CLARA J. GALLAGHER

A mockingbird is singing in the jacaranda
tree,

Where jacaranda blossoms make a purple
canopy;

His crystal notes are telling that the
southern lanes are sweet

With ragged-robin roses and wild clover
tapestry.

A mockingbird is singing in the sultry
heart of night,

Proclaiming that the orange-groves are
starred with perfumed white,

Acacia trees are wearing their mantillas
of gold lace,

And poppyﬁelds and lupine-ﬁelds are mead-
ows of delight.

Stop, Look, and Listen to the
Mockingbird

ALETHA M. BONNER

EPTIMUS WINNER (or, “Alice Haw-
thorne,” “Mark Mason”——call him
what you will—he had many pseudonyms)
wrote an immortal song in tribute to his
beloved “Hally,” and in this ballad he also
called affectionate attention to “the mock-
ingbird still singing o’er her grave!”
When Winner, a Pennsylvanian, by the
way, created the plaintive text and tune,
the bird he bade the world “listen to,” had
not attained such distinction in national
life, as was later gained, by being made the
oﬂicial feathered-soloist in ﬁve states,
through acts of legislation; namely, Flor-
ida (1907), Texas (1927), Arkansas and
Mississippi (1929), and Tennessee (1933).

In this particular connection it is inter-
esting to quote from one section of the
Florida Senate resolution anent the reason
for adopting the mocker: “Whereas, the
melody of its music has delighted the heart
of residents and visitors to Florida, from
the days of the rugged pioneer to the pres-
ent . . . therefore, Be it resolved . . . that
the mockingbird be hereby designated as
the state bird for Florida.”

The other states, as mentioned, are like-
wise complimentary, with the Texas legis-
lative body having this to say: “The bird
was selected because . . . it is found in all
parts of the state . . . it is a singer of
distinctive type, and a ﬁghter for the pro-
tection of its home, falling, if need be, in
its defense, like any true ‘Texan.’ ”

Today the little ten—inch, gray and white
plumaged transmitter of inimitable melody
is not only a protege of the quintet of
states, but of the nation as well, being
guarded through protective laws and
aroused public sentiment; and in turn all
members of this bird family respond to
the affection shown them, and count many
a state in the Union as their home. It
might be explained that such a family is
represented by two divisions—the Eastern
mockingbird breeds in the southeastern
states, and the Western is ever to be found
“out where the West begins.”

Having a rich, tender voice, and also
possessing rare powers of impersonation,
the latter gift being so outstanding as to

 




 

May, 1939
Riches

RUTH STIRLING BAUER

These lift my heart on sudden wings,
Yet they are such familiar things!

The crimson of a robin’s breast;

The purple of a thistle’s crest;

A fragile nest on swaying bough;
Brown horses straining at the plough;
A ﬁrefly’s lantern burning bright;

A cricket chanting in the night;

A flowery goblet lifted up

That a tiny bee might sup;

New lambs upon a quiet hill;

Bright streams where cattle drink their ﬁll—
How much of joy my heart would miss
Were there not riches such as this!

“Old Tom”

A. W.

LD TOM” was a horse. No human

friend was ever more loyal or more
appreciative of the small favors shown him
in his daily contacts. The memory of that
velvety lip lightly touching my cheek when
I brought the favorite ration of mixed
ground feed, is one of the cherished joys
of my boyhood.

Ordinary halter knots, slides for keeping
doors closed, hooks that dropped into a
staple, thereby closing the pasture lane gate
to ordinary live stock, yielded quickly to
his ingenuity. The only device which proved
effective and bafﬂed him was the chain
thrown through the gate bars and around
the post and over a spike on the other side
where his sensitive and efficient upper lip
could not reach it. After ﬁfty years the old
familiar rattle of that chain rings in my
ears as he tried to solve the mystery of the
chain’s stubbornness. Although he never
knew, I learned from him the meaning of
appreciation and that compensating reward
usually follows in the path of inﬁnite pa-
tience and perseverance.

He had a keen sense of appreciation for
music, especially band music, and could have
been easily trained as a circus attraction.
My father turned down several ﬂattering
offers for Old Tom because he was not sure
of the treatment that might be in store for
him. He sold him to a lover of horses who
bought him as a companion for his ﬁve
small children. The last time I saw Old
Tom he was a very old horse, bearing three
youngsters on his round back while two
others affectionately followed. When I spoke
to him it was hard to tell whether I was
more overjoyed at seeing him again or
whether he was happier than I at the sound
of my voice. I do remember that when he
started toward me he was very cautious
about where he placed his feet lest he
trample upon one of his young charges. He
remained in this family until the day of
his death, as much beloved by them as he
had been by us.

What lies beyond for such members of
our dumb animal family after their earth-
ly career is ended, I do not know. I do
know, however, that there lives in the mem-
ories of such as I a profound sense of grati-
tude for having been associated with one of
earth’s creatures so capable of understand-
ing that universal language of conﬁdence
and affection.

BIVANS

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 69

“Bill,” Last of the Fire Horses

IRENE BARTER HARDING

HE last ﬁre horse in New Brunswick,
Canada, was a dapple-gray Percheron
by the name of “Bill.” He was bred and
raised in Saskatchewan and was brought to
New Brunswick in 1929 to match a gray
mare named “Doll” at the Fredericton ﬁre
station. At that time there were two teams
in the station. Later, only two horses, Bill
and Doll were used.
They were a colorful sight, dashing
through the city streets when the alarm

ment, and, in February, 1938, a truck took
the place of old Bill and his mate.

Doll was sold. But the ﬁremen refused to
part with Bill. He was retired to a large
box-stall built especially for him in the back
of the ﬁre station. The front of the stall
was left open with a chain across. Bill
could see all that happened in the station.
Many children and adults came in to see
him.

When the alarm sounded and the appara-

 

“BILL” AND “DOLL” SERVED THE FIRE DEPARTMENT OF
FREDERICTON, NEW BRUNSWICK, UNTIL FEBRUARY, 1938

sounded, with the long red ladder-cart
rumbling behind them. In winter a sled re-
placed the cart.

At ﬁrst, of course, Bill had to be trained
to be a ﬁre horse. The horses were driven
from their stalls to the harness suspended
from the ceiling in front of the cart. The
harness dropped down and snapped on
them. They were freed and driven back to
their stalls.

This training took place from ten to
twelve times a day for about two weeks.
After that the ﬁremen would trip the doors
of the stalls and the horses would come up
to the harness themselves. Bill’s mate, Doll,
learned from him. She watched every move
he made and tried to imitate him.

For a good performance they always re-
ceived a treat of apples or candy. Bill,
being a mischievous horse, fond of company
and much admired for his skill in coming to
harness, always looked for candy. He would
even nose into pockets; and sometimes, for
fun, he would nip a button off a ﬁreman’s
coat.

When the alarm rang, the doors of the
stalls tripped and the horses came to har—
ness on the gallop. Bill was always anxious
to be off. On the run to a ﬁre he never had
to be urged.

One of Bill’s greatest delights at a ﬁre
was to have a crowd of children around
him. When they came close to him he would
push them gently with his nose. He never
nipped them. Everyone in town knew Bill
and loved him.

As Bill grew older his coat became pure
white.

For ten years Bill answered alarms in
the Fredericton Fire Department. But it
became necessary to mechanize the equip-

tus rolled out, Bill thought he should be
going. He would tear around his stall and
whinny and demand attention, as if to say
he wanted to know all about it.
Regularly, at ten o’clock each night, he
was bedded knee-deep in straw, watered
and given a forkful of good hay. While
this was being done, Bill was allowed to

, wander. He would walk the length of the

station to the front doors, look out, turn
and gallop down the opposite side to his
stall.

Every ﬁne day after his retirement Bill
was hooked to a light driving wagon and
exercised on the street. He was a very
proud horse, and his driver, Hugh O’Neill,
a descendant of a long line of horsemen,
had a great respect and deep affection for
this noble old pal of the smoke and ﬂame.

But a life of ease together with old age
soon affected Bill’s health. He developed an
incurable case of heaves. In the fall of
1938 his sorrowful friends found it neces-
sary to have his life painlessly ended.

Bill was buried on a hill overlooking the
city of Fredericton. The ﬁremen are hav-
ing a stone carved to mark the grave of
their faithful, mischievous, intelligent old
ﬁre horse.

Many creatures, such as mice, squirrels,
rats and beavers have front teeth that they
use as drills or Chisels. Like the tusks of
the elephant, these teeth have no roots.
They get worn down, but keep growing out
as fast as needed. If not used on hard
surfaces, such as nuts, etc., they grow so
long that the creature eventually starves
to death. Snakes carry an extra pair of
fangs, folded down behind the others, to
use in case the ﬁrst set gets pulled out.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Nov. 1939

Wood Troubadour

STANTON A. COBLENTZ

Idly I lay beneath a redwood tree,
Spinning a rhyme . . . when an unlooked-
for bird,
Out of a small dead limb peeped down at
me,
And hymned such song as I had never
heard.

A wee brown thing, of nor a ﬁnger’s length,
It trilled forth gladness in such sweet,
high streams
.Its little heart seemed vibrant with the
strength
Of the whole world’s delight, its love
and dreams.

‘Then, wonder—struck, I tossed my rhyme
aside,
Like one earth-bound, who sees the wild
dove soar.
.How pale man’s words! I listened, wistful-
eyed,
Far, far outdone by that wood—trouba-
dour!

The Superlative Bird

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

HE tiniest members of Birdland are

the hummingbirds, their babies being,
in many instances, smaller even than bum-
blebees. And there is no other group in
Birdland so brilliant in plumage as the
hummingbirds. In this respect the hum-
mingbird is the only bird whose every
change of position ﬂashes a different hue—
green replaces red, blue replaces orange,
and then all velvety black at another
instant.

But that isn’t all! The hummingbirds are
different from all other birds in their mode
of ﬂight and manner of feeding, too. In
their ﬂight the wings of these little birds
vibrate so rapidly that the birds pass
through the air before one’s eyes like so
many blurs in the sky—blurs that produce
the humming sound from which they derive
their name. This makes the hummingbirds
the quickest birds in the world. Again, in
a class by itself, the hummingbird is the
only bird who can ﬂy backward as well as
forward.

If your eyes were able to follow the ﬂight
of a little hummingbird you would see it
ﬂit from blossom to blossom, thrust its bill
inside the ﬂower, and extend its slender
tongue into this blossom. You would see a
bird feeding on the nectar of blossoms
which you knew was good food for bees,
butterﬂies and moths, and you would realize
that the hummingbird again, is in a class
by itself, for it feeds on nectar, too. How-
ever, the little birds do also eat insects.

The nest of the hummingbird is about
the size of a silver dollar. It is usually cup-
shaped and attached to a twig. It is made
of plant-downs, bits of moss, lichen, bark
and spider webs. The eggs are usually two
in number; sometimes only one. They are
immaculate white in color and broadly
elliptical in shape.

It is said that the parents tie their tiny

babies by one foot to the nest so that they
will not fall out.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 165

Will the Trumpeter Survive?

DORIS GALE

 

TRUMPETER SWAN, RED ROCK LAKES REFUGE, MONTANA

ILL the trumpeter swan, largest
North American wild fowl, manage
to survive, or will the race soon be entirely
extinct? That is one of the most interest-
ing questions which faces all those who love
either birds or beauty, or even the simple
kindness of protecting wild creatures from
destruction. Every effort has been made to
perpetuate the trumpeter swan race, and
a recent report shows that they are at the
present time just about holding their own.
It is known that thousands of these beau-
tiful birds once inhabited our continent,
but the census of 1931 showed then that
only ﬁfty of them were left! Now, due to
the great work that has been done in pro-
viding care for the trumpeter swan, there
are about one hundred and ﬁfty known to
be living in the United States. During the
past two or three years, the number has
gone up and down by just a few each time
a count was taken. The gain was made
several years ago, and the birds do not
seem to be able to go past their high mark.
The trumpeter swan usually weighs be-
tween twenty-ﬁve and thirty pounds, and
sometimes even more. It has a wing-spread
of about eight feet, gorgeous pure white
plumage, and a black bill and feet. There
is another similar appearing wild swan
which inhabits our continent, the whistling
swan. This type is a bit smaller than the
trumpeter and far more common. Possibly
the easiest method of distinguishing be-
tween the two types is by their calls. The
whistling swan cries in a high, varied pitch
but the rare trumpeter swan has a far-
reaching, loud call which has often been
compared with the sound of a French horn.
The mute swan is an entirely different
variety, and is the type usually seen in
parks and on private lakes.
During the time when the trumpeter
swan existed in great numbers, the birds

were found in Alaska, Canada and in many
of the states of the Union. Now, however,
they are known to be only in three deﬁnite
locations; the Red Rock Lakes Migratory
Waterfowl Refuge in southwestern Mon-
tana, the near-by Yellowstone National Park
in Wyoming, and probably in the wilder—
ness of Canada. No deﬁnite record can be
made of the latter section, so the census
must be made according to the known
trumpeters in Red Rock Refuge and Yel-
lowstone National Park, in both of which
places the birds are well cared for. The
government established Red Rock Lakes
Refuge in 1935 for the speciﬁc purpose of
perpetuating trumpeter swans. Since that
time many other species of wild birds have
used this 26,600 acre home. Small arti-
ﬁcial islands have been created in two main
lakes for the swans there, and a dam has
been built to keep the water at a constant
level. Vegetation has been carefully ar—
ranged on the little islands, of the kinds
with which the trumpeter is familiar. Since
some people and certain animals have in
the past disturbed this greatly decreased
race, the management of the Refuge pro-
vides every protection from this type of
danger to the birds, too, especially to the
ﬂighty young swans known as cygnets.

If you have the opportunity to view a
wild trumpeter swan, yourself unseen, a
thrilling spectacle is in store for you. This
is particularly true if the bird is about to
take ﬂight. He glides over the sheltered
water, neck curving majestically; ducks his
head and with a quick movement sprays
water over his white plumage. Then, beat—
ing his wings, the trumpeter shakes his
body free of the water bubbles and springs
swiftly and smoothly into the air.

We may well hope that the wonderful
and heroic effort to maintain these amaz-
ingly graceful birds will prove successful!

 

 

 

 

 




 

ANTELO‘PE ARE INCREASING IN NEMISKAM

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTYxTO ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
OCIETY ~

ff%/V //
. , / ,, I? ,, I

{’7 // /;Z/¢”t/

[1/ /”2 .

7%?

 

 

 

 

 




—-———' p‘ u.» ova-VI...-

I w... .—
«ﬁe—g...“

 

 

 

June, 1939

Mountain Trail
GERTRUDE RYDER BENNETT

There lies an old log with its emerald moss
At the bend in the mountain trail,

Where mushrooms grow in an impudent row
Like elves in a fairy tale.

While resting one day on the pine-scented
path
Of the forest, when all was still,
I saw three does and a fawn return
From the spring at the foot of the hill.

They nibbled, as daintily one by one
They came through the forest hush,
And, leaping the log as if they had wings,
Were lost in the underbrush.

I stood a long time like one in a spell,
Transﬁoced by their beauty and grace,

And ever since then the trail to the glen
Has become an enchanted place.

Melrose Humane Society

N Thursday evening, April 20, nearly

200 members, friends and guests of the
Melrose (Mass.) Humane Society sat down
to a banquet in honor of the twenty-ﬁfth
anniversary of the Society. After the
dinner, which was served in the Methodist
Episcopal Church, the company adjourned
to another room where President Victor A.
Friend introduced Mr. Carl W. Buchheister,
secretary-treasurer of the Massachusetts
Audubon Society, who presented a very
interesting lecture on “Wings over Mel-
rose,” illustrated by many lantern slides
of birds and by moving pictures. Scenes at
the Society’s sanctuary on Plum Island
were especially pleasing. During the even-
ing there were brief remarks by Mr. Walter
J. Dethloff, superintendent of the Wisconsin
Humane Society, Milwaukee; Mr. Robert F.
Sellar, president of the Animal Rescue
League, Boston; and Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke and Guy Richardson of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A.

At the business meeting reports were
presented which showed the Society to be
in good ﬁnancial standing. It has recently
acquired a desirable property where a suit-
able shelter for small animals will be main-
tained. With its efﬁcient leadership and
enthusiastic members the Melrose Humane
Society is to be congratulated both upon its
quarter-century accomplishments and its
promise of future usefulness.

Prize Photographs

The prize photograph contest announced
by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in the
March issue of Our Dumb Animals, closed
on May 15. Many interesting photographs
were received, from contestants represent-
ing a large number of states. Announce-
ment of the prize winners, with reproduc-
tions of the winning pictures, will appear
in the July issue.

The American Humane Association an-
nounces that its sixty-third annual meet—
ing will be held in Albany, New York, on
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday
and Friday, September 11, 12, l3, l4 and 15,
1939.

OUR DUMB

 

“GOOD MORNING, LADY”

The owner of this unique pet writes:
“This nice raccoon is the tamest and cutest
little fellow of his type. He responds to all,
like a friendly puppy. His only fault is that
he has a tendency to run away once in
a while. He lives on a ranch in a beautiful
little valley in California.

 

Trained Animals

Editorial in Evening Union, Springﬁeld, Mass.

ERHAPS some performing animals are

trained nowadays by kindness, not by
cruelty, but Albert Payson Terhune, au-
thority on dogs, says so many are subjected
to tortures that he won’t look at trained
dogs perform. The late Jack London al-
ways left a vaudeville show the moment a
trained animal act was announced. In addi-
tion, he invariably protested t0 the manage-
ment against the showing of such acts. “I
know what I am talking about,” London
said once, “when I say that if decent per-
sons in the audience knew what infernal
tortures were used in preparing these ani-
mals for exhibition they would rush onto
the stage and mob the trainer.”

Terhune, noting, that “animal acts” are
advertised by the New York World’s Fair,
protests against them. He says he has been
told that some of the more modern animal
acts are taught by patience and kindness.
Yet, he says, he has proof that many ani-
mal acts have involved torture and terror,
so he refuses to look at trained animals.

It is to be hoped that none of the animals
to be shown at the New York exposition
have been or will be subjected to cruelty of
any kind. Moreover, the world could well
spare the sight of dogs walking on their
hind legs, jumping through hoops, or doing
any of the tricks usually seen when this
type of show is put on.

The fact that cruelty is easily practised
in secret as the unfortunate animals are
trained is enough to repel many persons
and cause them to avoid this type of enter-
tainment.

ANIMALS

Page 91

Protest Against Cruelty
ELDA SPRUNGER

N a large city of the Central States a

band of men, urged on by a minority
voice, decided to rid the city’s court house
of starlings. It was claimed that the birds
soiled the walls of the building. According-
ly, under the guise of “civic beneﬁt” a band
of men one Sunday started out shooting,
using the starlings as targets. Many of
the birds, unfortunately, were not killed
outright, but wounded and left to suffer and
die over a period of several days.

Then the voice of the city’s Humane So-
ciety was heard, calling attention to the
cruelty of this campaign, and suggesting a
more humane way of getting rid of the
birds. Their plan was to use a strong
stream of water from the ﬁre hose to drive
away the birds and also to wash away
stains left by the starlings. As a result
of the Humane Society’s protest the cruelty
against the starlings was put to an end.

Stickers for Motorists

The Boston Post recently said:

Hundreds of letters leaving daily the
ofﬁces of the Massachusetts Registry of
Motor Vehicles are being sealed with a
stamp appealing to the summer motorist to
watch out for children and dogs. The
stamps were sent to Registrar of Motor
Vehicles Goodwin by the Massachusetts So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals. They are about an inch and a quar-
ter square and show a young girl racing
across a street followed by her canine
pet. The printed matter says simply
“MOTORIST WATCH OUT.”

Most of the letters on which the new
stamps appear are being issued from the
registrar’s own ofﬁce to precisely the type
of motorist most apt to need the caution.

To readers wishing to use or distribute
these stamps, the Society will send a supply
without cost upon application to the Secre-
tary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Radio Co-operation

The humane societies and all individuals
interested in the observance of Be Kind to
Animals Week owe a distinct debt of grati-
tude to the various radio stations for their
generous and hearty co-operation. How
many of these stations gave time to this
topic during the week of April 17 to April
23, we have no means of knowing, but we
believe there must have been hundreds of
them. We do know that every one of the
eight broadcasting stations in Boston re-
sponded favorably to the appeal of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., as did others in
different parts of the state, for time during
the anniversary week. One of them even
brought equipment into the Society’s build-
ing, so that the interviews given went out
direct from the clinic of the Angell Animal
Hospital. For all of this service we are
most grateful and appreciative.

Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a ken-
nel or seventy—ﬁve dollars for a stall in the
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital will in-
sure a suitable marker inscribed with the
donor’s name.

 




 

 

Jane, 1939

Be Kind to Animals Week
Generally Observed

Outstanding Activities in South Carolina

The Governor, the State Superintendent
of Education, and mayors of several cities
issued Proclamations. Radio stations in
Columbia, Spartanburg and Greenville
carried suitable programs. The Richland
County S. P. C. A., assisted by members
of the Bands of Mercy and of the Y. W.
C. A., put up many humane posters in
schools and public buildings, and offered
Be Kind to Animals buttons and member—
ships in the Society for sale. Posters made
in a contest for school children were placed
in a prominent store window. Seymour
Carroll, ﬁeld representative of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, led in
plans throughout colored churches, schools
and various organizations for an outstand-
ing celebration of the Week. Among the
school programs were those of the Carver
High School, Spartanburg, the Sterling
High School, Greenville, Howard Public
school, Columbia, Simonton school, Charles-
ton, Wilkinson High school, Orangeburg,
Union County schools at Santuck, and
Georgetown County schools at Brookgreen.
Many of these schools held poster contests
for which prizes were awarded. News-
papers throughout the state gave generous
space to feature stories and announcements
relating to the Week’s activities.

Billboards Used Freely in Georgia

Members of the Junior Leagues of the
Georgia humane societies placed large bill-
boards, 8 X 16 feet, with silhouettes of dogs
and horses, in the cities and along the
highways, telling the story, “April 17 to 22
is National BE KIND TO ANIMALS
WEEK. Support the cause.” The Procla-
mation of Governor Rivers was published
in all daily papers and many others. Su—
perintendent Willis A. Sutton of the Atlanta
public schools sent a message to teachers
through the School Bulletin asking for the
proper observance of the Week. Plays,
pageants and discussion periods by the
pupils formed the programs that were
given. Announcements and inspirational
talks were given daily over Station WGST,
while news articles, cartoons and editorials
appeared in the press. On Humane Sun—
day reference was made to the anniversary
in many pulpits.

Florida Mayor Issues Proclamation

Mayor A. C. Hatch of DeLand, Florida,
issued a Proclamation in which he urged
“the citizens of DeLand to give special
attention to the needs of animals in our
city.”

Humane Pageant in Fort Worth

Under the direction of Rev. F. Rivers
Barnwell, ﬁeld representative of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, a very suc-
cessful humane pageant, in four scenes,
was presented on Saturday at Greenway
Park, Fort Worth, Texas. The occasion
was marked by appropriate addresses by
Mr. Richard Craven of the American Hu-
mane Association and Mr. B. C. Shulkey,
assistant superintendent of Forth Worth
public schools. Mr. Barnwell gave a talk
on “The Twenty-ﬁfth Be Kind to Animals

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 93

men, best known to
us through recent
explorations, con--
tained the efﬁgies
of two mastiffs,
placed there by his
orders. About 3000
B. C. Antefa Sec-
ond had done the
same. It is recorded
that a later Pharaoh
had two packs of
hounds, one num-
bering 200, the other
400.

Herodotus, the his-
torian, informs us
that in the time of
the Babylonian
ki 11 g s four cities
were made to con-
tribute food for the
royal dogs instead
of paying their
regular taxes. Asur-
banipal, 625 B. C.,
had four famous
dogs. Alexander the
Great had a huge
dog. Before he
started on an inva-
sion of India he

tested its courage
on various wild
beasts. It paid no

attention to stag,
wild boar or bear;
but it considered a
lion a worthy foe,
and attacked it with
such fury that the
two had to be sepa-
rated. It was this

Fox Photos
LEARNING THE LESSON OF BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

 

Week” over Station ‘KFJ Z. All of the col-
ored schools in Forth Worth held humane
exercises and many of the pupils competed
in the annual humane poster contest.

Good Publicity in Salt Lake City

Through the instigation of the Salt Lake
Humane Society the Salt Lake Tribune on
Humane Sunday gave a full page of un-
usually charming pictures of animals and
bird pets and their owners.

Famous Men and Their Dogs

L. T. POWERS

ICTURES, sculptures and names of

their favorite dogs placed in the tombs
of their masters give silent testimony to
the fact that some of the great men of
very early history believed that “a man’s
best friend is his dog.” Many instances of
this love of man for his dumb companion
have come down to us. Some of the dogs
are almost as famous in history as are
their masters, and some of their deeds of
heroic devotion have been just as faith-
fully recorded.

The tombs of the Egyptian Pharaohs
reveal this ancient reverence for the dog as
a companion. Cheops, the Pharaoh who,
in 3733 B. C., began the building of the
great pyramid at Gizeh, owned many
hounds. Rameses the Second had the names
and images of four of his favorite hounds
buried with him. The tomb of Tutankha-

dog, his constant
companion, for whom he built and named
a city, Perites.

Alcibiades had a dog which killed three
of four thieves who attacked his master.
In war, when Alcibiades was wounded by
arrows, the dog, though wounded, remained
with him and tried to pull out the arrows
from his master’s body. Cambyses, who
invaded Egypt, had a large cohort of
trained war-dogs which fought and slaugh-
tered fugitives. In medieval times the
Crusaders took dogs with them to Palestine.
This is perhaps the origin of our modern
expression “the dogs of war.”

When a king of Denmark was assassi—
nated, one of his dogs led oﬂ‘icers to his
burial place, and later tracked down the
king’s murderer and attacked him, so that
he had to be rescued in order to be lawfully
executed. A Great Dane, a favorite of
Frederick the Great, saved his master’s life
when he was attacked by Cossacks. “Pom-
pey,” a spaniel, saved the life of William
of Orange.

Among famous early Americans, Wash-
ington, Franklin and Webster were lovers
of dogs, and so also were Generals Robert
E. Lee and U. S. Grant. During the Revo-
lutionary War, when General Howe’s dog
had been captured by sentinels, General
Washington sent the dog back to the Brit-
ish commander under a flag of truce, with
a note to his owner.

Please remember the Massachusetts 5. P.
C. A. when making your will.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Sept. 1939

V3.7 4 '
\ / ' .
‘l 4/", -
\

\\§”{/’/ ”‘
I

‘1 \\ I
\\\\\‘ \.

p

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
Unrted Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
FIrst National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, C'enterville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS-
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary ——MRS. RICHARD S.

TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 18,435
Cases investigated ............. 461
Animals examined ............. 6,614
Animals placed in homes ....... 280
Lost animals restored to owners. . 62
Number of prosecutions ......... 2
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ l8
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 3,190
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 47,486
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 10

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oamewm

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 770
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,130
Operations ...................... 683
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 153
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 571
Operations ...................... 174
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 173,462
Dispensary Cases ............... 433,281
Total .............. 606,743

The Work in Taunton

The Taunton Branch of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. in its report for the past
year states that 1,129 animals were han—
dled; homes were found for 33 dogs; 42
dogs were restored to owners; 423 dogs and
614 cats were humanely put to death. Free
veterinary service was supplied to needy
families and numerous calls for injured
animals were answered. Activities for
raising funds comprised two bridge parties,
a tag day, food sale and medical supply
sales. These with several donations have
enabled the Branch Society to carry on its
work of mercy. Mrs. Howard Woodward,
president of the Branch, though restricted
by ill-health much of the time, had “Be
Kind to Animals” posters placed in all the
local schools, as well as in Dighton, Rayn—
ham, Myricks, and Berkley. Such a record
of work is highly commendable. It merits
the support of all interested in humane
progress.

Work-Horse Relief

The Massachlusetts S. P. C. A. main-
tains four free watering stations for work~
horses in Boston during the hot weather.
Animals were given relief over 2,600 times
during July. While the number is much
less than in former years it is still appar-
ent that the thirst and exhaustion of
hundreds of animals were relieved many
times during a most trying season. Con—
tributions toward this needful service will
be gratefully acknowledged.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

Page 187

The Albany Convention

AN unusually strong program will be
presented at the annual meeting of the
American Humane Association, to be held
at Hotel Ten Eyck, Albany, N. Y., Sep-
tember 11-15, 1939. Monday and Tuesday
will be given to the work of child protection
societies. A feature will be the showing of
a new ﬁlm of the Massachusetts S. P. C. C.
Wednesday forenoon and both sessions
Thurday and Friday will be devoted to
animal protection work.

At 3 P.M., Wednesday, the new head-
quarters of the American Humane Associ-
ation will be dedicated as a memorial to Dr.
Wm. O. Stillman, former president of the
Association. Among the distinguished
speakers will be Governor Lehman of New
York, Mayor Thacher of Albany, Senator
Gerry of Rhode Island, President Francis
H. Rowley of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A., and President Sydney H. Coleman of
the Association. The exercises will be
followed with tea.

At the dinner meeting, Monday evening,
Sanford Bates, director of the Boys’ Clubs
of America, and Major Sir Nevile R. Wil-
kinson of the National S. P. C. 0., Eng—
land, will be the speakers. A similar dinner
meeting will be held on Wednesday eve-
ning, with distinguished speakers repre-
senting animal protection societies.

Important papers on various phases of
animal work will be presented by Robert F.
Sellar, Animal Rescue League, Boston;
August C. Orthmann, Wisconsin Humane
Society, Milwaukee; Mrs. T. Harry West,
Women’s Pa. S. P. C. A., Philadelphia;
Roland Kilbourne of the New York Sun;
Morgan Dennis, New York City; Mrs. de
Pesant, Havana, Cuba; Charles W. Fried-
richs, San Francisco S. P. C. A.; L. Wil-
lard Walker, Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
Boston; James E. Smith, 'Western Pa. Hu-
mane Society, Pittsburgh; and Robert
Coles, American S. P. A., New York
City.

Humane Education will be presented
Thursday afternoon, with papers by George
M. Wiley, Jr., associate commissioner of
education, Albany; Miss Virginia Sedge-
wick, Anti-Cruelty Society, Chicago; and
Miss Lavina Laible, Union High School,
Grand Rapids, Mich.

Outstanding in general interest will be
the report of Eric H. Hansen, general man-

‘ ager of the American Humane Association,

entitled, “Those Movies,” on Thursday
afternoon. Mr. Hansen has recently re-
turned from Hollywood where he made an
exhaustive investigation of the use of ani—
mals in ﬁlms.

Mrs. Kibbe in Vermont

Late in July Mrs. Charlene B. Kibbe of
the Springﬁeld Branch, Women’s Auxiliary
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., spoke at
the second reorganization meeting of the
Vermont Humane Society, held in Spring-
ﬁeld, Vt. Mrs. Kibbe reviewed the organ-
ization of the Massachusetts Society and
stressed its threefold work today—preven-
tion of cruelty to animals, operation of the
Angell Animal Hospital and its branches,
and the program of the American Humane
Education Society. At this meeting the
ﬁlm of the Springﬁeld Auxiliary, “Small

Peter’s Chief Adventure,” was presented.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160
On the Infamy of War

Jesus’ reply to Satan in Book III of “Paradise
Regained,” written in 1671 by John Milton.

They err, who count it glorious to subdue
By conquest far and wide, to overrun
Large countries, and in ﬁeld great battles

win,

Great cities by assault: What do these
worthies

But rob, and spoil, burn, slaughter, and
enslave

Peaceable nations, neighboring or remote,

Made captive, yet deserving freedom more

Than those their conquerors, who leave
behind

Nothing but ruin wheresoe’er they rove,

And all the flourishing works of peace
destroy;

Then swell with pride, and must be titled
gods,

Great benefactors of mankind, deliverers,

Worshipped with temple, priest, and sacri—
ﬁce.

One is the son of Jove, of Mars the other;

Till conqueror Death discovers them scarce
men,

Rolling in brutish vices, and deformed,

Violent or shameful death their due reward.

But if there be in glory aught of good,

It may by means far different be attained,

Without ambition, war, or violence;

By deeds of peace, by wisdom eminent,

By patience, temperance.

Monkey Faces

MARIE WAGNER

H OW many times have you gone to the
zoo and, watching the monkeys, ex-
claimed, “Why, they seem almost human!”

And there you have hit upon the very
reason why monkeys are so popular with
people. Their actions, manners, even their
expressions, are so much like our own that
our sense of humor is compelled to respond.
They seem exaggerated caricatures of hu-
man types—and we ﬁnd ourselves smiling,
unconsciously, in amused recognition.

The talapoin monkey, for example, with
his bushy yellow sideburns and his curious
furry chest, takes us back to the Gay Nine-
ties. His round eyes give the impression
that he is wearing spectacles, and this
whole appearance is that of a kindly, ener-
getic, old-fashioned little man.

In sharp contrast is the guereza monkey,
with his scowling, white-rimmed face. Most
striking of monkeys, it is his fur that is
sought for coats and ornaments. Because
of such exploitation, his tribe is rapidly
diminishing. Yet stalking about the jungles

 

 

of Ethiopia, he seems majestically uncon-
cerned, aloof, eccentric, superior.

The Japanese macaques—those triplets
of the “Speak No Evil, See No Evil, Hear
No Evil” fame-have the look of little
orphans caught in a storm. “This machine
age,” they imply, “is beyond us. What 1s
it all about?”

An incongruous monster at ﬁrst glance
is the black ape of Celebes, called from
his color and the slight excuse he has for
a tail. Yet closer observation betrays the
dreamer in‘him. There is a saddened qual-
ity to his heavily ridged eyes, a downcast
note to the long, ﬂat nose. But the up-
curved mouth is half-smiling with the mem—
ory of things beautiful in the misty past.

The Barbary ape, or magot, of Gibral—
tar, boasts of being Europe’s only wild
monkey. Nearly tailless, larger in size
than a good—sized dog, this monkey re-
sembles a sort of pondering scholar. Side-
burns trim his cheeks, while a type of
“Harvard Bob” rises above a most decided
“widow’s peak” at his hairline. His mouth
is long and thin, his brows arched in
thought, his eyes reﬂective.

The hamadryas, a baboon of Egypt,
wears a hooded cape of luxurious propor-
tions. Grotesque in feature, regal in mien,
this monkey looks for all the world like an
important foreign ambassador on a crucial
mission. _

Also dressed in a cape extending back
from his forehead over his shoulders is the
gelada, found in Ethiopia. His features
are not typical, perhaps, but surely his
attire suggests that of some important In-
dian Chieftain.

Smallest of monkeys is the marmoset.
He comes in different forms, but by far the
most distinctive of these is the golden or
lion marmoset. This handsome little ani-
mal strongly resembles the king of beasts,
on a miniature scale.

The little rhesus monkey, about which
Kipling has to speak in his. “Jungle Book,”
has a pouting look, which, however, he can
modify at will. The big, bland spread of
his ears, the sharp, intelligent little eyes,
and his mischievous air makes us think of
Huckleberry Finn. One instant a ﬁery
little urchin, the next a paragon of all vir-
tue, at all times this monkey is a lovable
little scamp. In fact, it is his very roguish—
ness which makes him one of the best-liked
of all the monkey clan.

The list could go on through all the ﬁve
hundred different kinds of monkeys. Keep-
ers of zoos say that the monkeys are the
most popular of all zoo exhibits. People go
to watch their near-human antics.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR F RIEND-S

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
In the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital ” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is condticted

FORM OF REQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cr
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

uelty to Animals (or

 

 

OUR DUIMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1989

Executing Your Own Will
AN ANNUITY PLAN

You give to either of our two Societies
any sum of money, and it will be used for
the humane objects for which the Society
is chartered.

The Society will pay you semi-annually
during your lifetime a fixed income on the
sum given, depending upon your age at the
time of the gift.

In other words, you receive an assured
income during your lifetime, and thereafter
your gift will be used solely for the charitable
purpose for which you made it.

ADVANTAGES
It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
No waste of your estate by a

will-contest.

CONVENIENCES

An income guaranteed to you during life
by a ﬁnancially sound corporation, the work
of which dates from the year 1868.

Your gift will not be subject to market
fluctuations, or to the necessity of reinvest-
ment at stated or unexpected periods.

Your money, given while you live, can
never be diverted to any other purpose.

The wide ﬁnancial experience and high
standing of the trustee-s, John R. Maco'mber,
Chairman of 'the Board, First Boston Cor-
poration; Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President
and Treasurer of United Shoe Machinery Cor-
poration; and Philip Stockton, Chairman of
Executive Committee, First National Bank of
Boston, to whom are entrusted the care
and management of our invested funds, are
a guaranty of the security of such an invest-
ment. Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The Societies solicit correspondence upon

this subject and will be glad to furnish all
further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part Of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUM’ANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Castor” the Beaver
”1-DON CARTER

prairie Provinces of Canada ‘ the

drought has become a serious problem.
Because of the enormous area affected, and
the fact that there are less people on the
prairies than live in one section of New
York City, the government is handicapped
in carrying out the necessary vast water
conservation scheme. Hundreds of projects
are held up because of lack of funds. But
recently a remarkable experiment was
made. A dam was built, a lake restored
and a marshy waterfowl refuge created——
all without the expenditure of a single dol—
lar. For in this case human beings turned
the work over to that patient but indefatig-
able little toiler, Castor the Beaver.

Not many years ago Western Canada
was a beaver paradise. But ruthless exter-
mination by trappers has made the busy
rodent disappear from every district except
the parks and game preserves. Now the
engineers and rehabilitation experts admit
that the beaver’s extinction has had ex-
tremely serious effects upon nature’s bal-
ance in the northwest. Excessive drainage,
once counteracted by natural dams and
watersheds, is creating a vast desert.

In the Grassy Lake district of Southern
Manitoba, lovers of ducks and geese were
concerned over the drying of the former
breeding ground. Engineers proved that
Grassy Lake could be raised to its former

g S in the mid-western State’s,’,so;in the

 

level by damming the Pembina River. The
cost, however, was quite prohibitive. And
then someone thought of beavers.

A pair of the animals was obtained and
turned loose at the most promising point.
The results are best expressed in the pic-
turesque words of a Manitou bird lover;
“To heck with you engineers!” he reported
joyfully, “We have all the water we want
now, thanks to the beaver!” The broad—
tailed woodsmen had erected a ﬁrst—class
dam, at a cost to the community of exactly
nil. The region has now been restored to
its former usefulness as a sanctuary for
waterfowl and other wild life, and the ad-
joining farmland already is experiencing
the beneﬁt of natural, controlled water
levels.

This and other similar experiments have
proved so successful that the various pro—
vincial authorities are planning a huge
beaver re-stocking campaign. One reserve,
that of Beaver Creek in Saskatchewan, is
supplying 200 of the animals annually, and
it is hoped soon to have other centers ca-
pable of supplying great numbers to the
regions most in need of water conservation.

Reckless clearing of forests and. draining
of haylands has produced a critical situa-
tion in the northwest. When the water dis—
appears, the beaver departs. Sooner or
later the farmer, too, learns the bitter
lesson of interfering with nature’s delicate
adjustments. But
the happy truth
seems to be that the
beaver is “conserva-
tion minded” as
well as industrious,
and given a chance
he will set about to
restore water levels
within the shortest
possible time. For
speed, effectiveness
and economy Castor
the Beaver certainly
cannot be excelled.
When he bids for a
job the only price
he asks is a little
protection. He feeds
himself and ﬁnds
all his supplies in
the forest. In this
age of steel and con—
crete men have dis—
covered that a hum-
ble animal, working
with teeth and tail
alone, can build
miracles of construc-
tion at a cost that
even the wilderness
can afford to pay.

. . . He is the real
friend of animals
who does most for
their welfare, not
the one who talks
the most about how
much he loves them.

Aug. 1939

Friend of Wild Life

HENRY H. GRAHAM

URING one of my woodland rambles

in the evergreen country I stumbled
upon a lonely cabin inhabited by an old
miner who worked a placer claim on a
near-by stream.

Unlike most men of the deep woods he
was an affable, talkative fellow and I soon
got him started on my favorite subject—
wild life.

“What kinds of animals and birds do
you have around here?” I asked him.

“Nearly everything—now,” he replied,
adding the word “now” signiﬁcantly and
giving me a knowing look.

“What do you mean by ‘now’ ”? I in-
quired.

“I mean since this district became a
game refuge established by the govern-
ment,” he declared with a happy twinkle
in his eye. “When I ﬁrst settled on this
claim ten years or so ago there was hardly
a thing that ran or ﬂew in this whole sec-
tion. A fellow could walk for days without
seeing a deer, beaver or grouse. Heavy
hunting had all but exterminated wild life.

“But how the picture has changed, and
for the better! Last evening I saw a whole
covey of grouse come down to the creek to
drink. It was a beautiful ,sight. The other
day ﬁve deer grazed on the hillside over
yonder and I watched them for ten min-
utes through ﬁeld glasses. Now there are
several beaver dams on the stream. Even
an elk or two graze on the upper slopes.
The snowshoe rabbits have come back and
all sorts of songbirds nest in the vicinity.”
I could see how happy he was about it all.

“That’s wonderful,” I enthused. “But
I’ll bet you do your part to keep the ani-
mals and birds staying around your place,
don’t you?”

He grinned. “I don’t shoot at ’em, you
can lay to that. I did place some rock salt
out in the timber for the deer, and I built
a few bird—houses.” He pointed to the right
at several neatly—made and nicely-painted
little structures suspended to the limbs of
a giant spruce.

“Do you stay here all winter?” I wanted
to know.

He nodded. “I’m in this spot the year
round except for an occasional trip to town

for supplies.”

“Then I suppose you feed the chickadees,

too,” I suggested, anxious to draw him out.

“Yes, I do,” he replied. “But they’d

probably get along pretty well without the
food I throw out. However, they’re friendly
little fellows. Each winter certain ones
come right up to my back door to be fed.
I learn to recognize them. They come very
regularly and some are so tame they take
food from my hand. I don’t understand it.”

“I do,” I declared. “All forms of wild

life are grateful for the helping hand.
They know their friends. And I want to
tell you what a wonderful work I think
you are doing in helping the government
bring back wild life to its former glory.”

He blushed like a schoolboy.
I left that little wilderness shack happier

than when I arrived. Somehow it made me
feel good to know that the birds and ani-
mals of that section had so true a friend
in the old miner who was never too busy
or too tired to help his friends.

  

 

  

   
  
      
       
      
   
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
    
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 116

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

In Praise of the Mule

LOIS BOYD

HE Congress of the United States

decided on May 29, 1939, that aged

army mules should pass their remain-
ing days in green pastures with food and
care provided in return for the good they
had done, thus annulling the former prac-
tice of selling worn-out army mules and
horses to the highest bidder.

Can it be that this congressional action
is a straw in the wind to show that at last
the ornery, stubborn mule is coming into
favor and good repute?

 

“LADDIE” AND “JINNY”

The American government was not the
ﬁrst to ofﬁcially pay its debt to this humble
beast. In 1937 the Italian government
erected a statue in one of the main parks
in Rome in honor of the services rendered
by the mule to the Italian forces on the
Alpine front during the World War and
for his later assistance in the tropical heat
and parched deserts of Ethiopia. The mule
on the pedestal bears a 65 millimeter anti-
aircraft gun on his back and so symbolizes
the usefulness of mules in warfare.

Army men have often extolled the mule
for his faithfulness, sure-footedness and
great strength, as well as his ability to
carry on under adverse circumstances.
General Grant was usually calm and cool
and, some thought, hard-hearted but dur-
ing the Battle of the Wilderness when he
saw a teamster beating a team of mules he
let loose a perfect tirade of wrath upon the
man and gave orders that the man himself
should be beaten with his own whip.

General Pershing pays tribute to the
army mule in these words: “You can pack
him, drive him, or ride him; you can starve
him, beat him and neglect him; you can
do all sorts of things to him that you can-
not do to an automobile, and he will be
there just as long as he has four legs to
walk on.”

As if all this praise was not enough to
tickle the vanity of the most contrary mule,

the Department of Agriculture in a recent
animal survey states that this hybrid off—
spring of an ass and a horse is the most
valuable farm animal in the United States
at the present time. The average mule is
worth $118, while his equine cousin, the
horse, averages $84; the cow $56; the hog
$11; and the chicken 70 cents. A good
work-horse may be purchased for as little
as $50, but a good mule will cost three
times that amount and a matched team of
mules often brings $500.

The horse population of the United
States in 1938 was 10,800,000, a drop of
three per cent from the preceding year and
the smallest number ever recorded. The
stubborn mule seems to cling to life more
successfully than the horse, for its numbers
declined only one per cent, to 4,383,000.
Eighty per cent of American mules are
found on southern farms.

It is often said that George, Washington
introduced the mule to this nation, but we
know now that there were already a few of
these animals in this country when Wash-
ington heard of them through some British
friends and became interested in the possi-
bility of breeding such animals on his
farms. The King of Spain sent him “Royal
Gift,” a jack, and, later, Lafayette sent
him “Knight of Malta,” a jack, and two
jennies. With these he propagated. On
December 4, 1778, he wrote: “The Spanish
jack seems calculated to breed for heavy
slow draught; the others for the saddle or
lighter carriages. From these, altogether,
I hope to secure a race of extraordinary
goodness, which will stock the country.
Their longevity and cheap keeping will be
circumstances much in their favor. I am
convinced, from the experiments I have
made with the ordinary mules (which per-
form as much labor, with vastly less feed-
ing than horses), that those of a superior
quality will be the best cattle we can em-
ploy for the harness; and indeed, in a few
years, I intend to drive no other in my
carriage.”

Perhaps the First Farmer of America
let his enthusiasm run away with him, at
least there is no record that he ever rode
behind or aback any steed of his own except
the offspring of his great Arabian stallion,
“Magnolia.” The inventory of his estate,
however, showed 60 mules included among
the live stock. Perhaps Washington would
rejoice to know that the number of mules
foaled in 1938 was the greatest in the last
ten years.

The Jack London Club acknowledges the
receipt of 411 new names of members from
Cincinnati, to be added to 600 previously
received. These enrollments are sent by
Gertrude E. M. Julian of that city.

We are glad to report that in Massachu-
setts the keeping of captured animals at
roadside stations is something rarely seen
today compared with years ago. Though we
have never been able to secure a law pro-
hibiting this practice, public opinion has
pretty largely made it of practically no
value as an advertisement.

Aug. 1939
Donkey

He carried bricks in Babylon, and corn and
wine and oil
In Egypt, Persia, China and the Thracian
Chersonese;
He followed Mongol raiders with the forage
and the spoil,
His neat black hoofs went clicking down
the mountain-ways of Greece.

The bullock, horse and elephant are famed
for mighty loads,
And famous is the camel of the shifting
desert sands;
But, servant of our servants, on the roads
that were no roads,
The little ass has packed for us the
freight of all the lands.

Along the ancient highways and across the
western plains,

Through forests,
where the
swirled,

In caravans, in multitudes, in long ear—
bobbing trains,

His patient tribe has borne for us the
burdens of the world.

and rive rs
foamed and

swamps
current

And still with wicker panniers and an

urchin on his rump
To keep the balance even and to hold his

hind legs down,

To building site, or market place, or village
water pump

He makes his endless pilgrimage, he toils
without renown.

ARTHUR GUITERMAN in Saturday Evening
Post

 

“PEGGY”

 

of April each year in Columbia, Tennessee.
Tribute to the hard—working hybrid is
given.

Pictures on this page received honorable
mention in recent photo contest conducted
by Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

 

\
Mule Day is celebrated the ﬁrst Monday

 

u




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 161;

come it will—horses and mules
needed.” .

We have little hope that Congress Wlll
hear the plea of the humane societies of
the country and declare horses and mules
contraband and so prevent their being sent
to any of the countries at war. Who can
measure the appalling burden of suffering,
torment and death that, through the un-
numbered centuries, has fallen upon the
beasts of the ﬁeld, the birds of the air, the
patient, voiceless horses and mules that
have helped man build his homes, his cities,
his highways, his libraries, his churches
and his universities!

If a sparrow’s fall cannot go unnoticed,
what about this vast world of all the crea-
tures below us? Who shall answer that
question?

will be

Migration
LOUISE DARCY

Dark wedge above the river
Flying toward southern skies,

Cleave the free air avoiding
The blind where danger lies.

The scarlet leaves are falling;
The gold are dropping fast.
Again the year is dying
As birds fly swiftly past

Upon their autumn passage
Toward land of winter sun;

But many wings will falter
Brought down by waiting gun.

Humancness in War

JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

HEN a country ﬁnds itself in a

state of war with another foreign
power there are so many details to be
worked out that only the most important
are given consideration. When Great Brit—
ain and France decided it was necessary
for them to declare that a state of war
existed between them and Germany they
immediately took steps to evacuate all
children and hospital patients to a safe
point in the country where they would be
much safer from the effects of the war.
But there were other lives, not human of
course, but still life that could feel the
horrors and destruction of war. I refer to
the various animals in the zoos of both
these countries.

These two nations found it necessary to
put to a merciful sleep those poisonous
snakes that would be too difﬁcult to handle
and who if released by possible bombing
might be unleashed on the country. How-
ever, all other animal life was removed in
cages to a safe place in the country. Both
Great Britain and France had much more
serious problems on their hands, but in the
spirit of humaneness they made sure that
the animal life in their zoos should not per-
ish or suffer from the effects of the war.
Certainly these two nations deserve the
praises of all people.

At the outbreak of the present war there
were estimated to be, in London alone,
40,000 working horses, 18,000 pigs, 9,000
sheep, 6,000 head of cattle, 400,000 dogs,
and, approximately, 1,500,000 cats.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 1939

 

THESE PIGS ENJOY THE FREEDOM OF THE FARM AT CANONS,

DELAWARE

 

 

Truth about the Cougar

L. E. EUBANKS

HOEVER ﬁrst called the cougar a
Wmountain lion laid out a lot of
trouble for all cougars. That terrifying
name has persisted, and has caused a gen-
erally inoffensive creature to be classed as
eminently dangerous.

In disposition the cougar is far more like
a kitten than like a lion. A young cougar
purrs as a kitten does, doing everything it
knows to invite a caress. Adult cougars are
likely to die soon if closely conﬁned, but
you can make a regular house pet out of the
baby—if you’ve got sufﬁcient room.

Don’t be too much inﬂuenced by the sto-
ries you hear of animals’ attacks on people;
too often our dumb friends, wholly unable
to present their sides of the reports, are
grossly misrepresented. I’m not by any
means unacquainted with cougars, and I
do not know of one case wherein this animal
committed an unprovoked attack on a per-
son, not even a child. I confess doubt about
most of the yarns I’ve heard along these
lines.

Through countless years the American
Indians got along amicably with cougars,
with no fear on either side. In fact I have
read that the Gauchos of the Pampas called
the big cat “Amigo del cristiano”——man’s
friend.

An eight—year-old girl had been bringing
the cows from pasture for some time when,
one evening, the father discovered a cougar
near the child. He was scared half to death,
but the girl only laughed, saying that the
“big dog” often had helped her drive the
cattle in.

In this connection, it is not true that
cougars attack cattle at every opportunity.
If it were, cattle raising in some sections
would be virtually impossible. There are
many smaller, more easily managed crea-
tures, and the cougar has learned that
where there are cattle there are apt to be
men—his greatest danger. Further, the
cougar doesn’t feed solely on the meat of
1&1ng animals, but consumes many small
things, even down to frogs and grass-
hoppers.

A certain man who worked in the Forest
Service can testify that cougars are not
always seeking to kill. Sleeping with the
tent open one ﬁne night, he was disturbed
by something blowing on his face. Drowsily,
he brushed at it. “Something nudged me,”
he says, “as though wanting to share my
blanket, and I cuffed that off, too.”

N ext‘ morning the tracks of a big cougar
were plainly visible on the tent ﬂoor all
around the bed.

Ruskin’s Humaneness

AMELIA WOFFORD

HERE is a story of John Ruskin’s

coming upon a badly injured buzzard
while on a ramble with friends. So threat-
ening its aspect, and so formidable its beak
and claws, Mr. Ruskin alone went to its
assistance. He took it in his arms, looked
it over to discover its hurt, then carried it
to a place where it could recover without
danger of further injury.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals had in him an active and ardent
supporter but its war against cruelty was
not sufﬁcient for him. He would supple-
ment it by promoting affection for animals.
In furtherance of this idea he founded a
Society of Friends of Living Creatures,
composed of boys and girls from seven to
ﬁfteen years of age, and they were required
to promise not to kill or hurt any animal
for sport and not to tease them. They must
study their habits and make friends of
them.

Mr. Ruskin’s ﬁrst pet dog was his Croy-
don aunt’s “Towser” who had come into
her care “a snappish, starved vagrant,” and
had been converted by her kindness into
“a brave and affectionate dog.” The one of
his last years was “Bramble.” If in that
long succession of pet dogs one was dis-
tinguished as the prime favorite it was
“Wisie,” who, for many years, made a
“bright spot” in Mr. Ruskin’s life.

Many years after Wisie’s death, speaking
in a letter of a long-gone friend, Mr. Ruskin
asks: “And my dog Wisie, was he dead too?
It seems wholly wonderful to me at this
moment that he should ever have died.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO AGGRESSION HERE

A gray squirrel raised from its earliest infancy by Rev. 0. L.
Angel, Elsberry, Mo., is everyone’s pet and even gets along
extremely well with the house cat. Here he is, munching a dry

crust of bread while the cat looks on.

, : ~ yr: ,uv 3.12;;C::{%yh-— - , ~.__- 2;; 7_—_<‘;g,:.nz : - ~ *A

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Auxiliary addressed
the pupils on “Hu—
mane Education as
a Character Builder”
and exhibited the
ﬁlm, “Small Peter’s
Chief Adventure.”
Mrs. Kibbe and Mrs.
George S. Sabin
spoke over Station
WMAS, Springﬁeld.
Several presentations
of the above-named
ﬁlm were made in
the city and suburbs,
with addresses by
Mrs. Harold S.
Treworgy and Mrs.
Kibbe. On Saturday,
April 15, the Spring-
ﬁeld Daily News de—
voted its page called,
The Junior Daily

N e w s, to cartoons,
articles, stories and
p o e m s relating to

 

Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, for the third
successive year, presented one of his in-
imitable animal and bird lectures, “Friend-
ly Folk along the Trails,” in the lecture
hall of the Boston Public Library which
was ﬁlled to its capacity with enthusiastic
men, women and children.

Among the interesting children’s features
of the celebration was the annual pet show
of the Bunker Hill Girls’ Club, Charles-
town, and the fourth annual pet show of
the Boys’ Club of Boston, also held in
Charlestown, where there were 143 entries.
Representatives of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. appeared as judges at both these
events.

Elsewhere in Massachusetts

The Kindness Club. of the Shurtleff
School, Chelsea, held its tenth anniversary
meeting with 600 members attending. The
program included vocal solos, the lighting
of candles on a large birthday cake, and
an address by Headmaster Joseph E.
Henry. The event inspired a commenda-
tory editorial in the Chelsea Record. The
Branch Auxiliary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. in Winchester distributed the
national poster in the schools and arranged
for the showing of the ﬁlm, “In Behalf of
Animals,” at the Winchester Theater dur-
ing the last three days of the Week. Litera-
ture was distributed and on Saturday
evening Mrs. Richard S. Taylor gave a
short address in the theater. The ﬁfth
grade of the Noonan school, Woburn, pre-
sented an ambitious program of stories,
songs and poems, and presented the play,
“Boots’ Day.” Radio addresses by Mr.
Howard Noble and Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke were given over Station WTAG,
Worcester. In New Bedford a radio pre-
sentation on Station WNBH, under the
auspices of the local Animal Rescue League,
was given by Mrs. John M. Hathaway,
and 600 kindness posters were displayed
in schools, homes and elsewhere. Ofﬁcer
Charles E. Brown of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. distributed 500 of the Be Kind
to Animals posters in towns and cities in
Bristol and Plymouth counties. At the
Stoneleigh-Prospect school in Greenﬁeld,
Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe of the Springﬁeld

kindness to animals.
Excellent editorials appeared during the
Week in the Hampshire Gazette, North-
ampton; the Gazette, Worcester; and the
Transcript, Dedham.

Press Features the Week in Rhode Island

The Rhode Island Humane Education
Society met with generous co-operation
from the press of Providence. The Bulletin
had a ﬁne editorial and the Journal pre-
sented an effective cartoon by Halladay.
An illustration of the map of Rhode Island
showed stars at all of the towns visited by
the Education Society’s representatives for
humane talks. The entire state was well
studded, showing the wide reach of this
work. Governor Vanderbilt, Mayor Collins
of Providence, U. S. Senator Gerry, Dr.
James F. Rockett, State director of educa-
tion and other prominent citizens endorsed
the program for the week. One of the fea-
tures was a pet show at the Providence
Boys’ Club, attended by 50 boys and girls.
Through the co-operation of the Boy Scouts
the Society placed 10,000 Be Kind to Ani-
mals posters in schools and public places.

Many Radio Talks in New York City

Under the auspices of the American S.
P. C. A., New York City, no less than 24
radio talks were given over the various
stations during the week. Included were
interviews with prominent operatic and
stage stars. From Monday to Friday the
Society’s ﬁlm, “A Day with the A. S. P.

A.,” was shown daily at 4 BM. in the
headquarters’ building, 50 Madison Avenue.

Philadelphia Societies Celebrate

This year marked greater co-operation
between the four Philadelphia humane so-
cieties, the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., Wom-
en’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., Animal
Rescue League, Morris Animal Refuge.
Large electric signs at City Hall entrances
proclaimed the event to countless passersby.
The Inquirer led off on Sunday with a ﬁne
editorial, “Reminder of a Humane Obliga-
tion.”

On Monday, the Pennsylvania Academy
of Fine Arts gave an informal reception to

June, 1939

ofﬁcials, members and friends of the region—
al S. P. C. A. groups, to view the superb
animal bronzes of Anna Hyatt Huntington.
Wednesday featured the poster tea of the
Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., and in
the evening a card and games party
given by the Auxiliary of the Pennsylvania
S. P. C. A.

Edward N. Skipper, ﬁeld secretary, em—
phasized the meaning of the Week in school
talks, and broadcast every day over WIP.
Station WCAU and KYW were generous
with time daily and, in addition, Taylor
Grant, popular air-editor of Horn and
Hardart News, WCAU, told snappy tales
of unusual experiences with animals, culled
from S. P. C. A. records. The Broad Street
window of the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
displayed all week an automatic baloptican,
with more than ﬁfty changes of slides
illustrating “Friends of Man.”

Big Poster Contest in Pittsburgh

Attorney Edmund Arthur, Chief Agent
E. M. Smith, and Secretary W. F. H.
Wentzel of the Western Pennsylvania Hu-
mane Society participated in a total of six
radio presentations over stations KDKA,
WCAE, WJAS and WWSW in Pittsburgh.
The outstanding feature was the Humane
Poster contest, judging, and exhibit in
Gimbel’s Department Store where 2,200
humane posters were exhibited, represent-
ing the work of school children, mostly in
the Pittsburgh district, where no less than
10,000 posters were prepared. Ninety prizes
were awarded and 600 honor certiﬁcates
were given to contestants.

Twenty ministers responded to the appeal
for humane sermons. National humane
posters were distributed mostly in the
schools. Secretary Wentzel gave talks before
a number of Parent-Teacher Associations,
churches, schools, and other groups. The
Street Railways Company carried three
hundred suggestions on the virtue of kind
deeds, and 50,000 pieces of literature were
distributed. Two solid bronze medals were
presented by the Western Pennsylvania
Humane Society to men who had saved the
lives of dogs at personal risk.

Successful Week in Chicago

Through the co-operation of the Illinois
Humane Society with Mrs. Jennie R.
Toomim, ﬁeld representative of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, a very suc-
cessful celebration was held in Chicago.
Governor Horner’s Proclamation is given,
in part, elsewhere. William H. Johnson,
superintendent of schools, called attention
to the Week and to Humane Day in schools
in his regular ofﬁcial Bulletin. Many of
the schools put on kindness programs.
Representatives of the Illinois Humane
Society gave instruction to school children
in giving ﬁrst aid to their pets. Many
schools were visited by Mrs. Toomim in
response to calls for appropriate talks. She
also gave a radio address as did several
other prominent persons. The Radio Coun-
cil of the Chicago schools co—operated in
making announcements. The Illinois Hu-
mane Society of’fered $125 in cash prizes
for the best stories, playlets and poems
written by pupils of the Public schools.
Altogether 87 prizes were given out, vary-
ing in amounts from $1 to $2.50. The Chi-
cago newspapers featured many pictures of
children and their pets during the Week.

4

"P!
“.5

r4 FAME”

\E U

I




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 110

6112 7.3mm of men};

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society W111 send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-oﬂice address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, spec1al Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of 11terature and

Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven. hundred and sixty-nine new Bands
of Mercy were organized during May. Of
these, 229 were in Illinois, 123 in Rhode
Island, 109 in Massachusetts, 99 in Maine,
93 in Georgia, 65 in Texas, 31 in Florida,
19 in Virginia, and one in Vermont.

Total number of Bands of" Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Speiety, 241,180.

Musical .Cats
ELIZABETH REEVES HUMPHREYS

Y husband and I were reading after

dinner while the radio played softly
and our red Persian cat, “Binth,” dozed at
his feet.

A beautiful waltz impelled me to break
into a whistling accompaniment and Binth
instantly raised his head, ears cocked for-
ward, and stared at me with his great
amber eyes.

I swept upward in a crescendo and he
leaped to his feet with a happy “urrt” and
padded over to me. Jumping upon my lap
he put his big, thick forepaws on my chest
and in a perfect ecstasy of delight rubbed
his face against my mouth.

Whistling produces such strange, wild
happiness in him that he just cannot keep
still, and his excitement increases as my
own exaltation does over particularly beau-
tiful passages. Sometimes he actually
throws himself against me in an abandon-
ment of joy.

His sister, “Stephanie,” also loved whist-
ling and it was interesting to watch her
hunt for its source. When
she ﬁnally realized that it
came from my mouth she put
a gentle paw against it as
though to feel the sound.

She had a decided prefer—
ence in music. Classical
pieces left her cold, but the
ﬁrst bars of a love song
brought her to her feet. If
I were standing she would
bunch herself up, tail in air
and back humped and start
milling around me, unable to
keep her feet still. If I were
seated she would jump upon
my lap, and, like Binth,
stand with her forepaws
against my chest, purring
and rubbing her face against
mine.

We think our cats have
contributed a great deal to
harmony.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1939

 

YOUNGER PUPILS IN NATIONAL SCHOOL AT BASSA, PALESTINE

 

 

A Pet’s Influence

And what do pets do for children? asks
Albert B. Hines, managing director of the
Madison Square Boys’ Club, New York
City, in an article in the New York Times.
Henrietta Additon, former head of the
Crime Prevention Bureau of New York
City, once urged that boys and girls be
allowed to keep them as a means to prevent
delinquency. Certainly any one who works
with boys knows that pets have a good
inﬂuence. It seems fair to assume that the
kindness and thoughtfulness they learn in
caring for an animal are carried into their
relations with human beings.

A child should be held responsible for his
pet, should learn to feed, groom and pro-
tect it. The child should be taught to give
it clean water, to feed it properly, and, if
it is a dog, to exercise it regularly. Chil-
dren should learn that in training an ani-
mal the most intelligent reactions from the
pet are gained by kindness. Parents can
help by a sympathetic attitude toward the
child’s love for his pet and by teaching the
child that if he wants other people to love
his pet, too, he will not allow the pet to
become a nuisance.

 

LISTENING

Another Band in Palestine

The group of children pictured above
are pupils in the National Episcopal Sec-
ondary school at Bassa, Palestine. They
are to be organized into Bands of Mercy by
Ibrahim Barakat Bishara, secretary of the
school, who sent for a supply of buttons
and badges. When stationed at Kafr-
Biram, also in Palestine, Mr. Bishara or-
ganized a Band there.

What the Band of Mercy
Means

A correspondent in the western part of
Massachusetts, who happened to read in the
newspaper Governor Saltonstall’s Procla-
mation for Be Kind to Animals Week last
April, was moved to write and tell us his
experience with the Band of Mercy, and to
ask for a button to replace the one which
he had received in school more than a gen-
eration ago. He says:

“Over forty years ago' when but a young
lad I attended grammar school in one of
our large Massachusetts cities. I often re-
call with a great deal of pride and pleasure
certain incidents that occurred during my
school days. Among them I think the one
that stands out the most vividly in my
memory was the occasion when our teacher
pinned a little blue button, bearing the
inscription A. H. E. S., upon my coat lapel.
That little button, though it represented
very little as far as cost was concerned,
carried with it something that never could
be measured in earthly values. With it
there was molded into my boyish being a
certain responsibility from which I am
extremely proud to state I have never
swerved in the slightest degree and know
I never will. I haven’t got that little button
now. When last I saw it many years ago
the letters were worn off and I guess
I must have laid it aside. But I have held
and always will hold steadfastly to the hu-
mane principles laid down before me when
as a boy I solemnly pledged to always pro-
tect and be kind to our dumb animals.”

We were very glad to comply with his
request.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page88
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1939

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are oﬂfered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Interesting Figures

OME evidence of growth in the work

of the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the
American Humane Education Society:

1910 1938

Number of people on pay-
roll, both Societies 21 102
Expenses $72,889 $338,308

Animals inspected (in-
cluding stock-yards) 53,598 755,061
Horses taken from work 1,485 118

Horses humanely put to
sleep 1,132 679

The large number put to sleep in 1910,
compared with that in 1938, shows how
greatly the horse has decreased in number,
and how even those that are left are better
treated and cared for than twenty-eight
years ago. Thousands of complaints annu-
ally still come to us that must be investi-
gated, and the work in connection with
small animals has largely increased and the
ofﬁcers of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
traveled last year 209,420 miles, answer-
ing complaints and looking after uncared
for or unsheltered livestock.

In 1910 we had no animal hospitals. In
1938, to our Hospitals in Boston and Spring—
ﬁeld there were brought for dispensary
treatment and hospitalization, 49,669 ani-
mals. It is worth noting that owing to the
depression and the free work necessary
because of so many who brought their
animals being out of work or on relief,
the expenses exceeded the receipts in the
Boston hospital by $43,511.88, and in the
Springﬁeld hospital, $11,714.60.

An Encouraging Letter

The following letter has come to us from
a nationally-known author and member of
our Society:
“My dear Dr. Rowley:

“Thank you very much for sending me
the Annual Reports. I thought, in all
these years of my respect and admira-
tion for the work you are doing, that
I had a pretty clear idea of its extent
and its great importance—but, until I
read the galley proof you sent me last

-mq .W...

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

week, I really had no conception of how
wonderful it is!

“When I sent my contribution to the
Community Fund, I allocated $10 of it
to your Society. I only wish it could
have been several times $10, but the
truth is that, like a great many other
people in our tax-ridden land, I have
found it impossible to contribute to
causes or organizations in which I am
deeply interested, and yet, at the same
time, meet the demands for private aid,
which constitute my ﬁrst responsibility.

“Believe me, dear Dr. Rowley, with
growing respect and admiration,

“Sincerely yours”

 

The Catholic Church and

Animals

VARIOUS statements have been made

from time to time regarding the atti—
tude of the Catholic Church toward animal
welfare. From the London Catholic Truth
Society, in a pamphlet entitled “Animal
Welfare,” we quote the following:

“Does the Holy Ofﬁce hold it to be
sinful to torture dumb animals? ‘Yes.’

“Does the Holy Ofﬁce hold such sins
to be degrading to the soul and disposi-
tion of the tormentor? ‘Yes.’ ”

Also the following:

“The list of Popes who have directly
or indirectly blessed work for animal
welfare includes Paul II (1464-71),
Pius V (1566-72), Pius IX, Leo XIII,
Pius X, Benedict XV, Pius XI and
Pius XII.”

Mention is also made of Cardinal Man-
ning and Cardinal Bourne and Cardinal
Gibbons and others who have emphatically
expressed themselves in favor of work for
animal welfare, and “no high ofﬁcial has
delivered an opinion in the contrary sense.”

In View of the above, it is rather surpris-
ing to read in Our Animals, organ of the
San Francisco Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, the following, quoted
from an address by a Catholic priest, the
Rev. Arthur V. Coghlan, S. J.:

“From experience, humans know that it
is possible to suffer from the intellect alone.
The closest the human can get to the animal
is when the intellect fails to function in
the body. It is a well-known fact that
persons in abstraction may be pained or
hurt without knowing it. Animals were
created for the use of the human being;
therefore humans have no deﬁnite principle
to guide them in their treatment of them,
for animals were created for humans to use
in any manner they wish.”

Undoubtedly, in the great organization
known as the Catholic Church, there are
differences of Opinion with regard to man’s
relation to the creatures below him. Card-
inal Bourne, we believe, must have been
speaking for the majority of faithful
Catholics when he said to the children in
Westminster Cathedral on April 19, 1931,
“There is even in kindness to animals a
Special merit in remembering that this
kindness is obligatory upon us, because God
made the animals and is therefore their
Creator.”

“ wars-“ant“ , <<~....:.- ‘-

June, 1939

A Letter from London

0 far as circuses and animal acts claim

the attention of humane societies in
England, the following extracts from a
letter from a well-known correspondent will
be of interest, we think, to our readers:

“As a matter of fact, the number of
circuses has increased since 1930. It has
now become a common practice for the
British Broadcasting Corporation to put out
television programs and broadcasts eulo-
gizing the circus and creating interest in
it. In reply to protests they say that the
majority like circuses and that they have
to cater to these people.

“The 1925 Act, known as the ‘Perform-
ing Animals Regulation Act,’ was supposed
to regulate training, but my impression is
that one of its effects was to make people
believe that all was well. We used to have
a great many turns at music halls, but
these halls are nearly all being turned into
cinemas, so that there is not very much of
this sort of thing going on now compared
to what was prevalent a good many years
ago. At the moment it seems that these
music hall turns are increasing in popular
favor, especially in regard to trained wild
animals.”

In this country the trained animal acts
have, so far as we can learn, largely dis-
appeared from our vaudeville theaters.

The Persecuted Crow

We quote the following from The Ameri-
can Botanist:

More than ﬁfteen thousand crows’ feet
were turned in to the Division of Fish and
Game of one of our mid—west States for
the month of January, 1939. This is the
beginning of the “crow contest” which is
carried on annually during the ﬁrst ﬁve
months of each year. In return for such
slaughter, the ﬁsh and game clubs receive
game birds in proportion to the number of
crows killed. The crow may or may not
be a harmless bird, but the killing of crows
during the nesting season will leave a large
number of nestlings to starve to death in
order that the game may be “protected.”
The “sportsman” who will starve even
young crows because they are not good to
eat must have a ﬁne opinion of himself.
Unfortunately the individual with the kill-
ing instinct has little use for anything in
nature that interferes in the least with his
annual forays on the woods and waters.
Anything that cannot be caught on a hook
or killed with a gun must be eliminated.
Householders must endure having their
young trees and garden crops eaten by
rabbits, squirrels and other animals to the
end that there may be plenty of game to be
slaughtered later. Laws enacted to “pro—
tect” the game are simply to make the
annual slaughter greater. We wonder why
this would not work with the crow, also.
Protect him in the nesting season so there
will be more to kill in late summer and fall.
If these mighty hunters want a foe worthy
of their efforts, let them do something to
reduce the millions of starlings that are
planning to crowd out even the game birds
and give the young crows a chance to
survive.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 190
@112 41.3mm of mercy

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See back cover for prices of literature and Band of
Mercy Supplies.

Nearly 1500 New Bands
in One Month

Fourteen hundred and ninety-two new
Bands of Mercy were organized during
October. Of these, 648 were in Illinois, 173
in Massachusetts, 119 in Maine, 117 in
Georgia, 112 in Rhode Island, 98 in South
Carolina, 88 in Pennsylvania, 83 in Florida,
44 in Virginia, seven in Tennessee, two in
New York, and one in California.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 243,894.

Just Dog
INEZ CLARK THORSON

He does not have a pedigree,
Nor soft and silky hair,

Bat love for me shines in his eyes,
And loyalty is there.

Nor does he more with. dignity,
Nor have a fancy name;

Though but a car with coarse, brown far,
I love him just the same.

He offers much; his wants are few——
A bone, a drink, a bed

Beside a freckled little boy
When evening prayers are said!

 

ONLY A YARD HIGH

This little dapple gray dwarf horse is
“Economy,” owned by J. E. Wagner of
Placentia, California, who is in the picture

with him. Economy is 36 inches high,
weighs 195 pounds, and is four years old.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1939

 

AN UNUSUAL BAND OF

MERCY IN MANILA, P. I.

 

Stop Boys Shooting Birds
FERN BERRY

LTHOUGH they are pretty well able to
Atake care of themselves, birds and ani-
mals occasionally need human champion-
ship. And when the time comes for it, let
the man or woman, boy or girl, speak and
act fearlessly. Strange as it seems, boys
with sling-shots are pretty vicious, and
given air gun or a 22 riﬂe (by unthinking
parents) boys can do a lot of damage.

The writer had to risk getting her neigh-
bor very angry recently, when this neigh-
bor’s two sons, one in High school and the
second a member of the eighth grade,
refused to listen to my plea and stop shoot—
ing song birds from my premises and from
the trees near-by.

Several boys were playing with the dan-
gerous 22 riﬂe and quite politely were asked
to refrain from shooting at birds. They
were “saucy” and smart and kept up their
evil practice. The male cedar waxwing
failed to come home to his family, in the
sweet apple tree and I knew that he had
fallen a victim to the gun. I soon had a
chance to stop the shooting and this I did.
My own two boys were out in the garden
on a beautiful mid-summer morning. They
picked up a red-eyed vireo, shot through
the breast. With the bird as evidence I
went to the village sheriff and demanded
that the shooting (which is really illegal
within village limits) be stopped. The
sheriff called on the boys and their par-
ents while I hurried to get ready for morn—
ing church service. The parents did not
remain angry for very long—and my birds
were safe.

The butcher bird is a pest himself in
many respects but he is a good destroyer
of insects and his habit of preparing for
future meals by impaling worms on thorn
bushes to dry ready for his eating, means
that he takes a good many that he never
ﬁnds again and so must get more.

That Remarkable Band of
Mercy

[[N the last issue of our magazine we told
the story of an extraordinarily interest-
ing Band of Mercy organized in the Phil-
ippines by Mr. Irving Hart, national repre-
sentative of all leper colonies of the Camp-
ﬁre Girls, Inc. We said that upon his own
initiative he had undertaken the work of
securing a large membership among the
most prominent people of Manila. Here is
a picture of Mr. Hart and his Board of
Directors: Seated—left to right: Arsenio
Tenmatay, Dr. Jose P. Bantug, Irving
Hart, Judge Henry Oswald, Sixto Ong-
changco, Ralph G. Hawkins. Standing—
left to right: Cipriano Lagunzad, Guillermo
Magsankay, Severiano Araos, Albert M.
Easthagen.

Mr. Hart’s reputation for all sorts of
good work is very high in Manila. The re-
markable thing is that in his membership
of at least seven hundred, there are such
prominent names as Paul V. McNutt, now
in this country; General Douglas Mac-
Arthur, Field Marshal, Philippine Army;
Bishop G. F. Mosher, Episcopal Bishop,
forty-ﬁve years in the Orient; Attorney
Joseph N. Wolfson, a leading member of
the Manila S. P. C. A.; Mrs. Josefa Mar-
tinez, general secretary of the Y. W. C.
A.; Dr. Juan Nolasco, Commissioner of
Public Welfare; Theodore L. Hall, gen-
eral manager of the (Manila) Telephone
Company; R. McCullough Dick, owner of
the Philippine Free Press, and many more
whose names we wish we had space enough
to print. This celebrated Band of Mercy
seems to be composed, outside of what is
done among the children in the leper col-
onies, of adults and many of the most dis-
tinguished people in the Philippines.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

l
l

 




 

7' Z .1.
5%.;

 

Apr. 1939

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston ”

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone(Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

, L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester orcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAs-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. An—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Bostom—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary —MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.
Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 14,136

Cases investigated ............... 346
Animals examined ............... 3,967
Animals placed in homes ......... 170
Lost animals restored to owners. . 71
Number of prosecutions .......... 3
Number of convictions ............ 3
Horses taken from work ........... 7
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 48

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,343

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 51,993
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 48

OUR DUllIB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and DISpensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. F. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.
.BLAKELY,MMD.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

PHPEPE
bowwm

 

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
Including Springfield Branch

Hospital Dispensary

Cases entered 694 Cases 2,040
Operations 821

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 168,920
Dispensary cases ................ 420,802
Total .............. 589,722

The Month in the Springfield Branch
Cases entered in Hospital, .......... 137
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 430
Operations ........................ 158

Taxes and Charitable
Organlzatlons

In View Of the astonishing increase in
taxes that the citizens Of the United States
are paying, one wonders What will be left
for gifts and bequests to charitable organ-
izations. It would be perfectly natural and
right if organizations particularly inter-
ested in the care of unfortunate men,
women and children, no matter what hap-
pens, should be remembered ﬁrst. What,
then, would be left for the societies inter—
ested in the welfare Of animals?

Taxes paid last year were 40% more
than in the boom year of 1929, whereas our
national income was approximately 25%
less than in that boom year. Interest
charges alone on the federal debt are now
one-quarter larger than the total federal
expenditures of 25 years ago. The total
taxes paid by all corporations in the coun-
try in 1936, the latest year in which reports
are available, were 53% of the net income.
During the past ten years the Government
has collected from corporations not far
from twice as much as have the stock-
holders. The railroads paid taxes in 1938
of more than $340,000,000, while their
deﬁcit for that same period is estimated at
$120,000,000. Total motor vehicle—user
taxes are estimated by the Automobile
Manufacturers Association at $1,158,000,000
in 1937, or more than double the total
federal expenditures in 1913. Total public
debt, including the federal, has mounted
until now it is more than $58,000,000,000,
or about $1,800 a family, as against $269
in 1913.

Mark Twain once said, every man ought
to live within his income if he had to bor-
rOW money to do it. Is that What we are
doing?

 

The Springfield Mascot

HE above is a picture Of “Jack,” the

veteran mascot of our Society’s Hospi-
tal in Springﬁeld. Jack was a stray when he
came to the Hospital, but he won everyone’s
good will and affection and for more than
seven years his duties have been divided
between guarding the animal ambulance,
by riding with the driver on the daily
errands Of mercy, and greeting newcomers
at the Hospital. The picture is a copy Of a
portrait made by Mr. Howard Proctor, a
well-known artist Of animal portraits, who
presented it to our Springﬁeld branch. To
Mr. Proctor we extend our hearty and‘sin-
cere thanks.

The Burgess Broadcast

Readers Of Our Dumb Animals probably
noticed in the last issue that Mr. Thornton
W. Burgess, the Widely-known naturalist
and lover Of birds, was going tO broadcast
in the interest of the Massachusetts SO-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals. We are quoting from a letter just
received from him after his ﬁrst broadcast,
over Station WSPR, Springﬁeld, Massachu-
setts. The letter says.

“It may interest you to know that nearly
one hundred feeders Of birds have enrolled
as ‘GOOd Neighbors’ as a result Of the
broadcast last Tuesday night. Fifty letters
and cards were in by Thursday and many
phone calls. The letter from the greatest
distance came from Albany, New York. The
State Of Connecticut was well represented,
and there was one letter from Brattleboro,
Vermont, and one from Marlboro, New
Hampshire.”

These letters, cards and telephone calls
are a genuine tribute to the ﬁne work Mr.
Burgess is doing.

Remember the free lecture by Thornton
W. Burgess, famous writer of bedtime an-
imal stories, at the lecture hall of the Bos-
ton Public Library, Copley Square, at 3:30
P. M. on Humane Sunday, April 23, 1939.
Subject, “Friendly Folks along the Trails,”
illustrated with stereopticon slides and
moving pictures taken by Mr. Burgess.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sept.1939 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Pagel35

Jane Withers and a Few of Her Animal Pets

See text, “A True Animal Lover," by Louise Price Bell, on opposite page

“REX” AND “HORNY” PROBABLY ARE NOT HAVING AS “BLUE BOY,” AN ENGLISH SHEEP DOG, AND
MUCH FUN AS JANE, EVEN IF THEY OBJECT TO BIBS “CACTUS,” A SICILIAN PONY, A GIFT FROM LEO
AND PLATES CARILLO

 

ONE OF JANE’S DOGS OFTEN AC- TO JANE THE PLEBIAN BUNNIES OF COURSE KITTENS FORM A CON-

COMPANIES HER TO SCHOOL. ONCE GIVE AS MUCH PLEASURE AS DO SPICUOUS PART OF THE COLLEC-

SHE TRIED TAKING A KID BUT IT THE PRICELESS ANIMALS FOUND TION. THIS IS “SNOW WHITE,” AN
DIDN’T WORK IN HER “MENAGERIE” INVALUABLE PERSIAN

 

Lo

“CACTUS,” THE SICILIAN PONY, LOVES TO BE FED FEEDING “LADY BESS,” THE HEREFORD CALF PRE
FROM THE HANDS OF HER DISTINGUISHED OWNER SENTED TO JANE BY JACK TRENT, HER BODYGUARD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

M an". 1939

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

II

The American Humane Education Society

ARCH 19, 1939, will be a red-letter

day in the history of humane work

not only in the United States but
throughout the world. That date will mark
the ﬁftieth anniversary of the incorporation
by the Massachusetts Legislature of The
American Humane Education Society. For
twenty years its founder, George Thorndike
Angell, survived to steer its activities and
to carry its message into every state and
into practically every civilized foreign land
for, despite its name, the Society has ever
been international in its work and in its
inﬂuence.

In the thirty years since Mr. Angell left
this favorite organization of his to the
care of others, its scope has expanded, the
number of its paid employees and voluntary
workers has been greatly increased, and its
mission to “glorify God” by promoting
“peace on earth, kindness, justice and
mercy to every living creature” has been
carried on through well—directed and en-
thusiastic efforts which have brought really
wonderful results. As proof of this rather
sweeping statement, one has only to read
the annual reports as they have been com-
piled and published, now' for ﬁfty years, in
Our Dumb Animals. Following we present
a summary, necessarily incomplete, of the
work of the last year of this half century of
humane service.

Thirteen Field Workers

Thirteen ﬁeld workers, the most of them
giving their entire time, were employed by
the Society to sow the seed of humane edu-
cation from Maine to California.

For about six months of the year Miss
Lucia F. Gilbert engaged in strenuous work
in the schools of Maine, where she won en-
thusiastic praise from the Commissioner of
Education. She gave 465 talks in 326
schools, the most of them in rural districts,
and organized 584 Bands of Mercy with
nearly 20,000 members. She circulated
about 5,000 pieces of literature, had 15 hu~

mane articles printed in newspapers, placed
window displays in ten towns, and spoke
before several Granges and church groups.

Miss Maryott gave 171 talks, usually il-
lustrated with lantern slides, in schools
representing 18 cities and towns in Massa-
chusetts. About 40,000 children listened to
these addresses, with the result that more
than 1,000 Bands of Mercy were organized.

Humane Education Bureau

As chairman of the Humane Education
Bureau, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke at—
tended the Annual Federation Meeting of
Massachusetts Women’s Clubs in Swamp-
scott with a display of posters, leaﬂets and
cards; made nine radio broadcasts, two out-
side of the state; attended eleven Parent—
Teacher Association board meetings, one
Parent-Teacher conference in Amherst and
one in Greenﬁeld. Also spoke in three
schools for Parent-Teacher Association,
attended 122 club meetings, gave 78 talks
at schools and clubs, sent out 11,042 press
leaﬂets and cards.

In Pittsburgh and Chicago

Dr. Wentzel, with headquarters in Pitts-
burgh, reached 2,100 teachers either in
Institute Lectures or in promoting Band of
Mercy activities, organized more than 500
Bands, and circulated 300,000 pieces of- hu—
mane literature. He gave addresses at 35
churches, 22 clubs, 14 Parent-Teacher
groups, and several colleges and conven-
tions. His message was heard by a total
of 39,000 children and adults.

Mrs. Toomim’s talks in the schools of
Chicago averaged one for every day of the
calendar year. They were given in 120
schools where more than 2,000 adults and
83,000 pupils were reached. No less than
2,166 Bands of Mercy were reported. Mrs.
Toomim held 400 interviews relating to
school work. She was responsible for a
notable Be Kind to Animals Week observ-
ance, including a Proclamation by the Gov-

ernor of Illinois, radio addresses by dis--
tinguished citizens, and notable press pub-
licity. Prizes were given for the best stories,
playlets and poems in a widely-advertised
school contest, and 4,000 copies of “Humane
Exercises” were distributed in the schools,
these and the 68 prizes being contributed
by the Illinois Humane Society.

Because of its close association with our
work, a brief notice of the Chicago Humane
Education Society, of which Mrs. E. C. Dow
is the president, seems appropriate here.
The Society constantly watches conditions
and seeks improvement in the dog pounds
both in Chicago and in Oak Park. It has
placed throughout the city 81 galvanized
iron troughs, lettered “Water Your Dog—
Chicago Humane Education Society.” It
has obtained ordinances regulating the use
of toy guns, sent out rules for the care of
poultry, and protested to stores against the
sale of Easter bunnies and chicks.

In Virginia and South Carolina

Mr. Lemon traveled more than 12,000
miles in carrying the humane message to
Negro audiences in the rural districts of
Virginia. He gave 45 sermons and ad-
dresses in churches and colleges, and 245
talks in schools, before audiences aggregat-
ing more than 30,000 persons. Nearly 400
Bands were formed.

Mr. Carroll, operating from Columbia,
South Carolina, journeyed more than 20,000
miles to visit 356 schools and. to deliver a
hundred addresses to adult Negro audi-
ences in ﬁve states. On these tours he was
often accompanied by county supervisors.
He distributed 10,000 pieces of literature,
formed 300 Bands of Mercy, and reached
more than 80,000 persons, half of whom
were children. He displayed exhibits at
teachers’ conventions and at the State Fair.
He gave courses of lectures at 11 summer
schools. The Governor of South Carolina
issued a Proclamation for Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week, the widely observed celebration
of which was greatly aided by Mr. Carroll’s

 

Financial Report

From the Treasurer’s ofﬁce we have the
following ﬁgures:

Total receipts from income from
the Trustees of Permanent
Funds, and also other sources,
save bequests ............ $317,050.10
Expenses .................. 319,488.82
(not including depreciation)
In addition, unusual eXpenses
such as purchase of real estate
connected with the Shelters
at Attleboro, Wenham, re-
placement of automobiles and

ambulance ............... 18,819.20
Total expenses ........... 338,308.02
This makes a deficit of ...... 21,257.92

This deﬁcit was taken care of by bequests
which were not limited. to income only.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

REPORT OF CHIEF OFFICER

The statistical summary of the work of
the Society’s humane ofﬁcers during the
past year will be noted above.

The number of inspections and investiga-
tions shows an increase in reference to
small animals. Prosecutions for the viola-
tion of the anti-cruelty laws have been
made only in ﬂagrant cases, and when cor-
rective inﬂuences failed to accomplish im-
mediate results. Cognizance has been taken
of the prevailing conditions affecting hu-
mankind toward whom the “quality of
mercy” has been many times shown, as it
must be. The measure of our work is de-
termined by its educational, advisory and
preventive results and not by the actual
number of its prosecutions for cruelty.

Among the thirty—ﬁve cases in which
court action was indicated were the follow-
ing. Shooting a neighbor’s horse resulted
in $15 ﬁne. A sick horse was denied all
treatment and the owner paid $10. Similar

ﬁnes were imposed for selling unﬁt horses
and the working of those with gall-sores or
lameness. Having his dog’s ears trimmed
cost the owner $50. A dog suffered injuries
by a hit-and-run driver; the motorist paid
$15. There were other convictions in which
dogs were involved, such as shooting and
underfeeding. For cruelly shooting a hog
the ﬁne was $50. For not sheltering hogs
the owner paid $10. There were convictions
for shooting cats with air-guns, for under—
feeding cattle. In one case hens were found
to be underfed; the ﬁne was $50, payment
suspended.

Our humane ofﬁcers have invariably ad—
hered to the principle that it is better to
convert men from cruelty than to convict
them in the courts, and that the test of a
Society’s usefulness is not the number of
its prosecutions, but the number of acts of
cruelty it is able to prevent.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GOD,

PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
\
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representatives
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR APRIL, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 900
Number of addresses made, 435
Number of persons in audiences, 59,840

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the, interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

 

June, 1939

 

WHAT A FEZ FONDOUK LOOKS LIKE

 

Guns—Air-Guns—and Other
Weapons

UR readers may be glad to know
something about the State law in
Massachusetts with regard to various
weapons. The State law forbids any per-
son selling or furnishing to a minor under
ﬁfteen or to an alien, any ﬁrearm, air-gun
or other dangerous weapon or ammunition
therefore. A city ordinance forbids any
person ﬁring or discharging guns or ﬁre-
arms Within limits of the city, except in
lawful defense of person, family or property.
Another ordinance forbids any person
throwing stones, snowballs or other mis-
siles, or shooting with or using bow and
arrow or slingshot. It would be well if
such ordinances were true of every city in
the land.

A Veterinarian’s Advice

Licensing of cats, which has often been
urged, is impracticable, for several reasons,
writes Dr. Kinemond in Animaldom. There
is no known way of attaching a tag without
danger to the animal. A harness fastened to
a long rope with swivel, leading to an up-
right in the yard will give it exercise, keep
it from molesting birds, running away.
This has been successfully tested. Some
people take their pets walking as you would
a dog, with leash fastened to harness.
Never abandon a cat at the shore or in
country at end of vacation, thinking it will
take care of itself, or turn it loose in town
when closing house for the summer. If you
cannot board it, take it to any S. P. C. A.
The late Dr. James H. Penniman, of the
University of Pennsylvania, wrote in his
book, “The Alley Rabbit,” “There are to
me few sadder passages in literature than
that in which a great man of letters, whom
I love and admire too much to name in this
connection, tells of permanently leaving his
home in the country. As the carriage drove
away it was pursued by their ﬁve cats who
followed as far as they were able and then
sat down on top of a hill, outlined against
the wintry sky and mournfully watched
their owners disappear in the distance.
What became of those cats?”

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for March—31 Days

Daily average large animals 51.5
Forage for same 33 58,74
Put to sleep 19 1.79
Transportation 2. 16
Daily average dogs 5.5
Forage for same 2.77
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 55-70
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 11.93
Motor ambulance upkeep 9.09
Motor bicycles upkeep 0.48
Sundries 37.42
Actual operating expenses $280-08

Entries: 1 horse, 11 mules, 71 donkeys.

Exits: 1 horse, 10 mules, 53 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 111 horses, 60 mules, 211 don-
keys, 4 dogs, 2 cats.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 578 cases investi-
gated, 6,178 animals seen, 652 animals treated, 50
animals hospitalized by us from above, 97 Arab bits
and pack-saddles (infected) destroyed.

One Day’s Work

FRIDAY, 24th. 7 a.m. usual work. Treated many
outpatients. 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. Bou Jeloud-Telaa
inspection. Sent 3 donkeys to Hospital, destroyed 2
Arab bits. 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Vet. visit, Dr. Bou-
guereau reporting all well. 12 noon. Police Bab Ftouh
sent 1 donkey to Hospital. 1.15 p.m. Fondouk. 1.30
p.m. to 2.45 p.m. Bab Ftouh inspection. Sent 2
donkeys to Hospital. 3.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. With
Mme. d’Osmoy to Moulay Yacoub, Bahlil and Safrou.
During my absence from Fondouk, Dr. Larrouy,
Municipal Vet. inspected some horses of public
carriages. Police Bou Jeloud sent 1 donkey to Hos-
pital. Men Gardening. Animals in Hospital: 56.

Tribute to Richard Carroll

The older readers of Our Dumb Animals
will recall the name of Richard Carroll,
long a colored ﬁeld worker of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, and the
father of Mr. Seymour Carroll who has
since occupied that position. The colored
school in Bamberg, South Carolina, has
just been named, in his honor, the Richard
Carroll Memorial School. The elder Mr.
Carroll, who died several years ago, he-
came a nationally recognized leader among
the Negroes. He was born and reared in
Bamberg. He was a man of unusual
mental faculty, tact, and diplomacy, and
his work in behalf of better relations
among the races was outstanding. He Was
also a prominent educator, and worked un-
tiringly for the better educational interests
of his people.

-———’ Pin.“ mumm-

_.-—'_.-.u—— H.” —‘

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1939

In a Pet Shop Window_

MABEL EDGCOMB

I saw you [ﬁrst through a windowpane
In a store on a little back street;

You were white and fluffy and full. of life
And you danced on your four little feet.

. You wagged your tail and you blinked your

eyes,
And you wiggled from end to end;
You rolled about like a rubber ball,
So eager you were to be my friend.

I had saved my money to buy a new hat—
A bonnet with flowers of blue—-

But I couldn’t resist the pleading eyes
Of a dear little puppy like you.

I paid for? you and I took you up,
An armful of ecstasy.

You were soft and woolly and all my own—
And what was a hat to me!

Unusual Spider Industry
LILLIAN TEPEL

EW persons stop to think how really

valuable spiders are. It has been said
that they are smart and quick, also really
have a mind of their own, being obstinate
at times.

A golden dinner jubilee was given by
fellow-employees and the company’s di-
rectors of a ﬁrm in honor of The Lady of
the Spider, who worked for that ﬁrm ﬁfty-
one years. She had hundreds and thou-
sands of spiders under her care, her nimble
ﬁngers guided by bright eyes, followed
swiftly the web—spinning of one spider
after another; she spools the threads with
brisk efﬁciency. It is the Spider Lady’s job
to obtain gossamer for insertion in the
diaphragms of surveying telescopes.

The little Spider Lady is very proud of
her job which includes acquisition of the
spiders, making them spin, spooling the
thread as fast as they spin it, and insert-
ing ﬁlament in diaphragms of the instru-
ments. A spry little woman does all this
work, and has come to know a lot about
spiders.

Ordinary spiders that we ﬁnd in our
homes very seldom spin ﬁne enough webs
for telescopes. The spiders that are cap-
tured in ﬁelds, barns, and pig-stys, they
are the spiders that spin the ﬁnest, strong-
est, and most elastic thread. While in
captivity they won’t eat, and usually are
released after one spinning. New batches
are obtained from boys who capture most
of them in the meadowland section of Hud-
son County. The Spider Lady obtains the
thread by releasing one spider at a time
from a community cage and allowing'it
to bolt for a window. Sometimes the spider
sees it is being followed and quits cold.
A more co-operative one replaces it.

Once in awhile the Spider Lady gets
bitten but has never been injured seriously.

Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a ken-
nel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall in the
Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital will in-
sure a suitable marker inscribed with the
donor’s name.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 183

 

WHAT A GOOD HOME WE’VE FOUND!

 

Sea-Dog
BLANCHE FEWSTER

INA,” German shepherd dog, serves
N as mascot aboard the Norwegian ship
“Moldanger.” Captain Bjorn-Hansen ob-
tained Nina in Belgium when she was three
weeks old, seven years ago. Since that time
she has been on the Moldanger, literally
“on” for Nina has never been off the
vessel. In fact she has never been below
the bridge deck. But this isn’t as restrict-
ing as it sounds for the Moldanger is
roomy. She has plenty of roaming space
on the bridge deck, bridge, ﬂying bridge
and Captain’s quarters.

Nina’s favorite station is on the ship’s
bridge alongside her master, Captain
Bjorn-Hansen. She is indispensable as a
navigational aid in foggy weather, her
master maintains.

When the ship is sailing in a fog, Nina
keeps her station on the bridge. Long
before the warning whistles from other
vessels can be heard by ofﬁcers, Nina has
picked up the sound in her sensitive ears
and cocks her head in the direction of the
sound.

But Nina’s accomplishments don’t end
with her fog protecting. She extinguishes
lighted matches by placing a paw on them
after Captain Bjorn-Hansen has lit his
pipe. She never eats standing on four
feet, but sits down before munching, which
is just part of her table etiquette. She is a
linguist, obeying commands given in Nor-
wegian, French, English and German. She
won’t touch food placed before her unless
her master says “versaagod” which means
“be so good.”

And Nina is a good sea-dog—the heavi-
est seas don’t make her seasick.

Please remember the Massachusetts 5. P.
C. A. when making your will. ,

/

A Suitable Gift

JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

HAT shall I give my boy or girl

for Christmas?” This question will
soon be faced by many parents who will
ﬁnd themselves puzzled as to what will
make a suitable gift for their children.

The counters of toy stores are laden with
toys that would brighten the eyes of any
child on Christmas morning. But there is
another type of gift that will endure for
many years to come—a dog. Here is a gift
that will make any child happy. For unlike
toys, the dog is a part of life itself. He
does not have to be pulled or wound up in
order to give pleasure. He will supply his
own locomotion and his many comical
antics will bring smiles to his new owner.
As the years roll on the child and dog will
form a friendship that will be lasting.

However, before the dog is turned over
to the child, a little lesson in kindness to
the animal should be given by the parents.
Too many children regard a dog as just
another plaything and as a result the ani-
mal is often mistreated. Children should
be given to understand that a dog is human
in its feelings, that it, too, can be hurt
both mentally and physically by constantly
being annoyed. The child should be given
complete charge of his dog in every way so
that he will feel that the responsibility of
caring for his dog is his alone. However,
the parents should see that the dog is given
this necessary care and attention.

So here is hoping that next Christmas
morning will ﬁnd many children happy over
their new-found friend and Christmas
present—their dog.

“To have a friend at each day’s end,
When tasks are done and pay is ours;
To hold faith high, and not ask why;
To love someone—this day is ours.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR TH
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
OCIETY ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

      
 

    

CAPSULEST .-
EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE

Nema Booklet tells you about worms

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N_,58_H
PARKE, DAVIS & C0., DETROIT, MICH-

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

 

 

THE SHOP IN THE WOODS
Oﬂ" the beaten path
North Conway, N. H.

A beautiful shop in a beautiful
setting

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTHEED.UMFURTED _

 

 
  
 

aerHArIN,

a,
°°°°°°°°°°°

SOAP and'OlNTMENT

   

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

FOR ONLY ONE DOLLAR

Postpaid to any part of the world, “OUR
DUMB ANIMALS,” bound volume for 1938,
with 192 pp. and 150 illustrations.

180 LONGWOOD AVE. BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and land of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume . 5
Humane Calendar for 1939 ............ each, 20 cts.

two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set ............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% X 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
The Horse—~Treatment of Sores, etc. . $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “

The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card $1.00 per 1 0
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.
Schneider 2.00 “ “

Important A'déi‘c‘é 'Oh' Feeding the. bag
and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
I Knew She Was a Lady ............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . . . .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00‘ “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

ays of Kindness ..

.................. .50 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals .............. . ............. .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club ? ...... .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of J erry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. . . . . ......................... $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. .....................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.

he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use) Sarah J. dy .......... cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each;ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Sunday ............................ 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 .......... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

arly Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty.. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.

“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ .35 cts.

Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
J. Edd ............................

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) .............................. $3.00 per 100

Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “

How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

50 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood A_ve., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Low rates for summer rentals of the Films

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

"IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital, two reels
Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Address SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,

and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.4

. A.




'2

 

 

Sept. 1939

Horse-Poor
EDWARD PACHUTA

HAVE often watched the well-dressed

horsemen who ride through the park on
Sunday mornings. From the very ﬁrst time
I saw one of their proud horses, I resolved
that one day I, too, would ride. As yet, that
ambition has not been fulﬁlled. However,
my interest in horses has not lessened one
bit.

One day I went around to a near—by rid-
ing academy to admire the horses. As I
loafed around the stable, the owner ap~
proached. He was a bright-eyed, ruddy-faced
old man. Immediately I sensed an air of un-
usual friendliness about him. Maybe you
have noticed it—it is commOn with all ani-
mal lovers. Evidently their love for animals
gives them a better understanding of hu-
man nature. It gives them that priceless
virtue of being able to make friends quick—
ly. Books have been written on the art of
winning friends. Business men go to all
extremes to win friends. And an animal
lover with his keen sense of nature can
make them without effort. Call it What you
will. But it is there.

Well, within a few minutes, the owner
of the stable had invited me into the tack
room which was literally covered with
trophies his horses had won at fairs. I
asked him about several of the large awards
and he took me back ten or ﬁfteen years
and painted pictures of fairs and his prize-
winning horses. I asked many more ques-
tions and I want to tell you his answer to
one of them. It surprised me and. I’m sure
it will interest you.

My question was, “Is there a lot of money
to be made in running a riding academy?”

The owner gave me a broad smile, “I
don’t know, son. I’ve been in the business
for ﬁfteen years and I have always been
horse-poor. I suppose I shall always be.”

The answer was a disappointing one to
me for I had imagined that this was a real
money-making business. The horse lover
then went into a detailed explanation,
which, to my surprise, did not cover feed
costs or wages or other factors common to
business. The sum and substance of his
being horse-poor is that he retires too many
animals! He refuses to sell them because
they served him faithfully and he fears that
they might not get decent masters if he
sold them. He told me the story of one
particular animal. The depression was at
its worst. Expenses were running far
ahead of income. He decided to sell some
of his retired horses which was something
he loathed doing. He took the animal to
an auction sale but didn’t'reveal his iden-
tity to the purchaser. That night a storm
blew up. His thoughts turned to the ani-
mal. He wondered where it was now. Was
it being fed properly? Was it warm on this
chilly night? The next morning found the
horse lover up early and on his way to
locate the purchaser. He found the horse
in a tiny shack, hardly big enough to house
the animal. The roof leaked, and the horse
was drenched. My friend was annoyed.
There was only one thing to do, buy the
animal back. This he managed to do, at a
loss.

He’s never sold another animal since, un—
less he personally knew the purchaser.
When his horses grow old, he does what
may seem a heartless thing. Yet, I can’t

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 141

 

READY FOR A RIDE ON HIS STURDY MOUNT

 

believe it is. He shoots them! Sell the
bodies to the glue factory, does he? No, not
on your life. They receive a burial, such as
a real friend deserves.

The old man is horse-poor. But he has
found something in life that all of us are
not able to attain. So many people go into
business for success alone. We measure
success in terms of dollars and cents. Yet
here is a man who has worked on an en-
tirely different principle. He has won a
success far greater than all the money in
the world. He has found a true happiness.

The Force of Habit

RALPH FENWICK

ENERAL BEAUREGARD was one

of the principal Generals in the South-
ern army under Jeff Davis. He was a great
lover of horse ﬂesh and took pride in his
two special mounts.

One of these was a coal-black mare that
he had named “Dixie.” He could call her
to him at any time by whistling the song,
“Away Down South in Dixie,” and often did
this to surprise and entertain his friends.

As was the case with many ﬁne horses
during the war, this mare was stolen and
could not be found even by determined
effort. Some months later, General Beau-
regard was riding his other mount, called
“Dare Devil” because it was afraid of
nothing and could be trusted to carry him
along the roughest roads and in the blackest
night just as surefooted as through the day.

On this ride the General was lonely and
began whistling the song, “Dixie.” The
night was very dark. Suddenly there was
a sound of galloping hoofs, the mad leap of
a corral fence, and then a horse was com-
ing in a run to him. Instantly the General
knew it was his mare, Dixie. He dis-
mounted and patted her sleek neck to be
met with a loving whinny from her.

Quick action was needed as she would be
missed by those who had stolen her. He
took the saddle from his white horse and
put it on Dixie and, mounting her, he rode
without a bridle and led the other horse
home. The General loved to tell this story
along with others of war times.

New York’s Vanishing
Milk Horses

VERDE M. WHITING

HE last of the thrilling ﬁre horses,

even from the smallest town’s volun-
teer ﬁre department, has been put out to
pasture to spend his remaining years in
ease and contemplation of past valor, and
the milk—wagon horse who is famous for
always knowing his way around, is fast
following suit.

The faithful milk horses who wend their
practically automatic and noiseless way
through the city, bringing the milk to its
slumbering millions, are being used by the
big dairy companies in decreasing numbers.

Sheﬂﬁeld Farms Company, one of New
York’s largest dairies, still has a few
stables, but is rapidly motorizing all its
vehicles. The Borden Company’s lovely
white “rubber-tired” horses that so pleas-
ingly match the white rubber-tired wagons,
still pursue their noiseless rounds in the
early morning hours, but their days are
numbered, too, and one sees more and more
of the white motors instead.

The rubber shoes that insure the noise-
less delivery that we have become accus-
tomed to, have been largely instrumental
in this move. They have not been as bene-
ﬁcial to the horses as to our slumbers, for
the soft rubber that makes up most of the
shoe, does not afford the proper support to
the foot. They also require such frequent
renewal that the dairies have been obliged
to do away with them as impractical.

Although the dairies have about com-
pleted the motorizing of their delivery
wagons in Manhattan, they are still using
the horse-drawn vehicles in the Bronx,
Brooklyn and the outlying districts. Up in
the Bronx is an immaculate white stable
Where reside, at present, 248 of Sheﬂield’s
horses, but eventually these will all go.
It is rather an economic problem to change
them all at once as the wagons are of no
further use without the horses.

Apparently, soon the horse will be as
much of a curiosity to the average city
child as the cow is at present.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
       
 

\
.7
‘ 9
m
PEACE ON EARTH, :0
.‘Kmomess, Jusnce 0
AND MERCY 'ro
, EVERY LIVING
\ CREATURE.

    
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR OCTOBER, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 1,357
Number of addresses made, 384
Number of persons in audiences, 71,379

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri—

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

Clllli .[lllA119

 

A Peaceful Scene

T HE above picture is taken in the garden
of Colonel Leonard Noble whose estate
is at Henley-on—Thames, England. Colonel
Noble is one of the leading councilors of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, to whose estate during this
war-threatening period the entire force of
that Society has been transferred—some
forty ofﬁcials and clerks. The canopy over
the statue of St. Francis is the work of the
ﬁfteenth century and was brought from St.
George’s Chapel at Windsor during its
repairs about eight years ago.

James D. Burton

James D. Burton, who for more than 20
years represented the American Humane
Education Society in Tennessee, especially
in the mountain regions where he spoke
in schools and churches, died October 3.
Mr. Burton was connected with one of the
large denominational Sunday school organ-
izations and wherever he went he carried
also the gospel of humane education. His
travels covered many thousands of miles
each year. He worked in close co-operation
with the Parent Teacher Association of
which Mrs. Burton is a district ofﬁcer. To
her, who was a great helpmeet to her hus-
band in his humane work, our sincerest
sympathy is extended.

rllV.IlM'rllLS

1960.1939
India and its Band of Mercy

OME two years ago we had an unusu-

ally interesting letter from a young
man by the name of S. C. Batra, Khalsa
College, Amritsar, India. He had received
his degree of B. A. from the Punja Uni-7
versity. He said in his letter, “My mind
at present is concentrated toward your
Society. I am convinced I can do the best
service to humanity only by working among
children, and the Band of Mercy is the
seed of that plant which bears the fruits
of all those ideals for which we, the social
workers, are striving.”

At the time Mr. Batra wrote us, Pro-
fessor John Clark Archer, of Yale Univer-
sity, was in India and had become very well
acquainted with Mr. Batra who, at his own
expense, is carrying on this work as our
representative. We wrote to Professor
Archer and his letter to us was most com-
plimentary to this ﬁne young worker.

His organization is known as the Cam-
bridge Band of Mercy. We have just re-
ceived some leaﬂets published by the Band,
from which we quote:

“The great enthusiasm evinced by its
organizers, the occasional visits and dis-
courses by some of the distinguished per-
sons and the various kinds of encourage-
ment offered have all produced feelings of
great tenderness and affection in the hearts
of our young members. On many occasions
during the Band of Mercy meetings, stu-
dents have reported acts of kindness they
have done to rescue dogs and little birds
from wanton cruelty.”

D. C. Ahluwalia, principal of Cambridge
College, Amritsar, says, “I am sure the
credit for all this goes to the organizers
who have taken great pains to sow the
seeds of this highly ennobling movement
andfor placing the same on a very sound
footing.”

One of the leaﬂets published contains
part of an address delivered by Bishop
Bannerji on the occasion of the Humane
Day celebrated on the 26th of July, 1939,
at the Cambridge College. The Bishop said,

“I am greatly pleased to see that there
is a branch of the Band of Mercy in your
school and that your teachers are so whole-
heartedly interested in the project.

“I have also been greatly impressed the
way Mr. S. C. Batra, the organizer of the
Band of Mercy, has captured your heart.
He makes the demonstration real in the
way he makes his appeal to you.

“You have my best wishes.”

Mr. Batra is a ﬁne illustration of a
young man, by training and education,
ﬁtted for a life work in almost any busi-
ness or profession who has devoted himself
to the interests of that wider humanity
which means justice, good will, compassion,
helpfulness toward all life, whether it be
the life of his human fellows or the life
of the creatures below him.

Safety Signs
NIXON WATERMAN

Disturbing fears our thoughts assail
Whene’er we meet the while

A dog that will not wag his tail
Or a man who will not smile.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

Page 138

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
 
       
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. 'J. H. Escobar ................ Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JULY, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 7
Number of addresses made, 103
Number of persons in audiences, 17,692

For Retired Workers

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a

trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome 0 '
. ur cont" b -
tlon to this fund. y 11 u

Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu—
mane Education Trust Fund.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 
 

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for June—30 Days

Daily average large animals 53
Forage for same $ 41.77
Put to sleep 8 1.85
Transportation .7 8
Daily average dogs 4.6
Forage for same 2.77
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 61.00
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 19.89
Motor ambulance upkeep 5.97
Motor bicycles upkeep 2.12
Sundries 45.83
Actual operating expenses $281.98

Entries: 4 horses, 12 mules, 92 donkeys.

Exits: 4 horses, 9 mules, 51 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 88 horses, 65 mules, 117 don-
keys, 3 dogs.

Other fondouks Visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 345 cases investi—
gated, 4,553 animals seen, 433 animals treated, 41
animals hospitalized by us from above, 9 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed, 73 Arab bits destroyed,
13 animals transported in motor ambulance, 24 ani-
mals sent by police dept.

G. DELON, Superintendent

And Again, Mr. Burgess

HIS is what Thornton W. Burgess

wrote to us when we asked him to give
our Humane Sunday public lecture for the
fourth consecutive time: “Who changed the
rules? It always used to be three strikes and
out. This is extraordinary ﬂattery. If the
Boston public can stand it I suppose I ought
to. Anyway I’ll do my best.” We replied
that if we had known anybody else who
could ﬁll the bill so well as Mr. Burgess,
he probably would not have heard from us
the fourth time. We are conﬁdent that no
writer or public speaker on animals can
command so enthusiastic and large an
audience as does Mr. Burgess, and so we
are pleased to announce that he will give
another of his incomparable illustrated
talks in the lecture room of the Boston
Public Library, Copley Square, on the af-
ternoon of Humane Sunday, April 14, 1940.
The subject will be: “Friendly Folk Who
Run and Fly.”

News from Australia

An exchange tells us that Australia has
evolved a new and more humane way of
slaughtering animals for market. It is an
electric stunner. The statement is made
that so far it has been used for swine and
has proved more economical and humane.
than killing by hand.

We hope this is all true. The electric
stunner for swine has been used in other
lands. Here in our country, where swine
are killed by many thousands a day in
some of the great abattoirs, it is a very
different situation with which to deal from
that in countries like Australia or some of
the European countries where animals are
killed in very small numbers—are more or
less domesticated and brought in from
near-by farms.

The majority of people think of butter-
ﬂies as delicate, short-lived creatures, ﬂut-
tering around a limited area. The truth
is that at least 290 varieties, many of them
common, live for months and migrate thou-
sands of miles.

Any effort to increase kindness and hu-
manity deserves the highest commendation.

    

     

Sept. 1939

The Neighbor’s Cat

L. E. EUBANKS

HEN one person wants a pet, while

other members of the family are
opposed to the proposition, any animal
joining that household is apt to have
trouble—and so is its protector, usually.

A stray cat decided to make its home
with our neighbors. He’s about half Per—
sian, a big fellow, and nicely colored. I
could see that if cared for he would be a
lovable and admirable pet. The lady was
delighted, but her husband is a cat hater.
He said that he’d “endure the thing” for
his wife’s sake, but I saw that both woman
and cat were going to have a miserable
time.

I was sure that the cat had been some—
one’s pet, but he protested if that man
touched him. And no wonder, for the
“caress” was too rough, and accompanied
by a harsh, growling voice. The woman
could pet the animal, but knew little about
cats and was making very poor progress
in restoring “Sport” to health and appear-
ance.

“I don’t know why we call the fool
‘Sport’,” said Mr. Blank; “all he does is
lie around and sleep; no fun in him, and
he’s got no sense. He needs medicine, but
I’d like to see anybody give it to him. He
knocked the castor oil out of my hand three
times—regular tiger when we try to do
anything for him.”

“Let me see the ‘tiger’,” I suggested. We
went to the basement, where the cat lay
in the basket his mistress had prepared.
Getting down close, I talked to him in low,
kind tones, while he looked me over care-
fully. After a while I stroked his jaws and
gently massaged his neck. Then I picked
him up and he nestled on my forearm,
purring!

The man was astonished. “Why, he likes
you!”

“Not me particularly,” I replied; “he
likes kindness.”

The woman had joined us by then.
“Could you get him to take the castor oil?”
she asked.

“It’s too severe for cats,” I told them.
“Step over and tell my wife the situation;
she’ll bring some milk of magnesia. We
keep it for our cats.”

“Nobody’ll ever get any medicine down
that fool!” stormed Mr. Blank.

“You stay in the background and keep
quiet,” I replied. “Mrs. Eubanks can do
anything with cats.”

What followed was a lesson to Mr. Blank.
My wife took the cat on her lap, petted him
a while, then held his head up, by taking
hold of the fur just below the top of his
head, and poured the medicine down with
almost no resistance. Sport didn’t even
leave her lap.

Three months have passed, and you
should see that cat now! Mr. Blank still
doesn’t care for cats, but he lets Sport
alone. Rested now, well fed and groomed.
the cat is a beauty. His mistress has
learned how to care for him, and the re-
sponse has been what it always is when
relations rest on the basis of kindness and
mutual undertanding.

There were 361 Seeing-Eye dogs in ser-
vice in this country in 1938.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

v»

“"549..-

 

4 ear?“

Page 68
Pet Shop

AGNES FOLLANSBEE CHASE

Tiers and tiers of cages down a stuffy room;

Wistful little faces peering through the
gloom;

Little tails that wig-wag a message of
appeal;

Hearts that beat with all the hope that a
pup may feel.

Tiny wooden boxes piled just here by
chance,

VVherein feathered singers wait deliverance;

Over there a monkey claSps his prison bar

thile his sad eyes mournfully seem to gaze
afar.

Here a bunch of kittens cuddled in a heap,
Little wise philosophers, spend their time in

sleep;

One, a wakeful brother, chews his tiny
tail—-

There a lonely puppy-dog lifts a piteous
wail.

Small, dependent atoms, helplessly in thrall,
Would that I were able to buy and free
them all!

Return of the Antelope and
Curlew

EDITHA L. WATSON

0 longer than thirty-ﬁve years ago,

the western plains were well stocked
with numerous herds of antelope and large
ﬂocks of long-billed curlew, upon which the
farmers depended partly for food.

With the closer settlement of the country,
both antelope and curlew rapidly vanished
from the scene. The only place in the world
in which this variety of curlew could still
be found was the sandhill region of Ne-
braska, land impossible to plow, which
became the last refuge of these birds. A
few herds of antelope were scattered about
in remote sections of the region.

Then came the dust storms, and many of
the farmers moved away from the western
plains, abandoning their land, which rapid—
ly grew over with weeds. The antelope and
the long-billed curlew became aware of this
fact in some manner and, during the past
few years, have increased remarkably.
Larger and more numerous antelope herds
are to be seen, and the land in ﬁve states,
which for thirty years was completely bar-
ren of curlew, now harbors a considerable
number of them. Unless poachers again
decimate them, there is a good possibility
of their return in large numbers.

It is interesting to note how rapidly these
species regained the abandoned lands and
began to increase in numbers. If some dis-
aster should remove all human beings from
the western hemisphere, it would probably
soon became inhabited by animals and birds,
many of which are now threatened with
extinction.

Join the Jack London Club and add your
protest to thousands of others against
such cruelty as has been proved in the
ﬁlming of “Jesse James,” when one horse
was killed and another was in danger of a
similar fate.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage”—

PERHAPS NOT FOR HUMANS, BUT
THEY ALWAYS DO FOR ANIMALS

 

The Rights of Animals

JOHN P. ADINNENY

AVE wild or domestic animals any

inherent or natural rights that we as
human beings are bound to respect? The
answer is, of course, an emphatic “Yes,”
but how often does it happen that these
rights are ruthlessly trampled upon?

Man has been given “dominion over the
beasts of the ﬁeld.” That dominion, or trust,
implies a rule of reason, of fair and hon-
orable treatment which we ourselves hold
as a natural human prerogative in dealing
with our fellow beings. We have previously
violated this trust imposed upon us. We do
so, for instance, when we cruelly cage up
animals whose natural right it is to roam
the woods and ﬁelds as Nature intended.
We abuse those rights when we condone, by
act or implication, rodeos, bullﬁghts, cock-
ﬁghts, or other such “amusements” which
have as their motif the torture of helpless
animals. We kill and maim and wound
inoffensive creatures for “fun” or “sport,”
which constitutes one of the most scathing
indictments to which we as trustees must
answer some day. In toto it is a long sad
tale of breach of faith.

The animal world has an inalienable right
for a Constitution, a Bill of Rights or a
Magna Carta. In the ﬁnal analysis it can
only be engraved in the hearts of all man-
kind, the result of love, understanding and
appreciation of our dumb fellow creatures.
That grand command of the Bible, “Do unto
others as you would have done unto you,”
has a distinct application to all other forms
of life, and not until that millennium has
been reached can we justly say, “I have
kept the faith.”

May, 1939

Tragedy at the Zoo

M I N A M . T I T U S

ICKEY MOUSE is frightened, Mom-

my, why don’t you get him out?”

The six-year-old whose hand clasped

mine, looked up with mingled pity, horror
and beseeching in her tear-ﬁlling, brown
eyes. I knew how she felt . . . I felt the
same, and I couldn’t cry. Everything warm
and happy and living seemed suddenly to
have gone cold and dead within me.

“Let Mickey out, Mommy, oh, quick.”

The biting grip on my hand tightened
until her tiny nails cut my palm . . . I
scarcely felt the sting. “Must I fail her,
must I fail her?” Over and over the thought
sang itself in my numbed brain. Always
she had looked to me for help and I was
this time helpless. Her ten-year-old sister,
standing beside me, gasped “Oh!” in a
dazed, half-gutteral tone and, clapping both
hands over her eyes, raced down the path
to the entrance gate of the zoo. Steadying
my own breaking voice, I, too, turned away
and pityingly led the younger child toward
the far-off rabbit cage, saying, “Mickey
can run very fast, dear, and squeeze
through tiny, tiny holes.”

We had stood before the cage of reptiles
at a Maine zoo. It was feeding time. A
live mouse had» just been liberated for the
evening meal of the writhing, squirming
snakes. Coiling, rearing and sliding from
shelf to cage ﬂoor, they surrounded the
timid, trembling furry, gray ball, so weak
and defenseless in their midst.

With tail and inﬁnitesimal baby paws
curled protectively under him, the little
mouse stared in wide-eyed fear and ter-
ror . . . he knew (even as I) there was no
possible means of escape . . . We had both
already searched for some way out. He,
with the one idea which God places in every
created heart as He starts it beating—
self-preservation; I, because I had taught
my children to be, like myself, always
mercy-minded and now I stood powerless
to keep the faith with them.

As the big serpent had reared its head
and waved nearer and nearer, the trapped
and shivering Mickey had slowly raised
himself on his haunches and lifted his wee
forepaws just as a dog sits up to beg. His
beady, black eyes stared straight ahead and
the tiny, light gray vest below his beating
throat throbbed visibly above his fear-
pounding heart. His pink nostrils dilated
at the enemy odor of the reptiles and his
tiny, white whiskers trembled with rapid
breathing. Perhaps he was in that last
moment of despair really praying to a
little God of all wild and defenseless crea-
tures. That, even the wisest of us humans
can never know.

And to see this my girls had saved
pennies for admission to the zoo. The caged
wild life is sufﬁciently heart-rending at its
best and that day I had meant to show both
children how unhappy conﬁned creatures
always are. But I had not expected any-
thing like this to happen. Mickey Mouse—
every child’s toy and picture-book pet. Still
alive in the jaws of a writhing reptile with
not a single sporting chance to escape . . .

Ah! there was the shudder-provoking
thought . . . Not one sporting chance to
escape.

 




 

June, 1939

Horse-Lovers’ Song

Every Englishman loves a horse. I think
a horse is a more beautiful creature than
any ﬁlm-star. But some of my pals think
I must be crackers, because I’m not mad
about racing results. I like all horses so
much I forget to pick the winner!

There’s something grand in horses,
Be they chestnut, black or gray,
From the horse that wins the Lincoln
To the horse that pulls a dray.
There is something always gets me,
And I’ll stop to watch their paces,
From the old greengrocer’s pony
To the stars of classic races.

CHORUS:

Yes, I’m rather cracked on horses, and I’ve
often been on courses,
But I seldom join in all the cheery strife.
My friends all think my attitude is foolish
and benighted,
But it’s just to see them going makes me
happy and delighted,
And when I know who’s won I just forget
to get excited,
So I’ve never won a shilling in my life.

There are lots of things in racing——
There’s excitement, thrills and luck,
But I raise my hat to horses
For their patience, strength and pluck.
Any horse is ﬁne and handsome,
Swift and eager on his job,
And I feel he’s done me honor
Even if I’ve lost my bob!

Mankind the Most Cruel

Our species is the most cruel and de-
structive of all that inhabit this planet.
If the lower animals, as we call them, were
to formulate a religion, they might differ
greatly as to the shape of the beneﬁcent
Creator, but they would nearly all agree
that the devil must be very like a big white
man. DR. W. R. INGE

OUR DUMB

AN 1M ALS

Page 8’7

From the Governors’ Proclamations

AST month we published in these

columns the full text of the admir-

able BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK
Proclamation by Governor Saltonstall of
Massachusetts. Below are given extracts
from similar Proclamations issued by other
Governors throughout the country:

Rhode Island

Governor Vanderbilt

Everyone must, of course, be in accord
with the efforts of the Rhode Island Hu-
mane Education Society to emphasize for
one week the necessity for kindness and
humanity. It is to be sincerely hoped that
the spirit of this week can be carried
throughout the year.

Illinois Governor Horner

Each year the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, the Anti—Cruelty Society,
and similar organizations sponsor a nation-
ally-observed period known as “Be Kind To
Animals Week.” This year the Week dates
from April 1'7 to 23, with the closing day
designated as Humane Sunday.

Special publicity and programs appropri-
ate to the animal protective movement will
be provided by organized groups of animal
lovers.

Following a custom of former years, I
am glad to endorse the purposes of this
period, and to commend the occasion to the
citizens of our State as worthy of general
observance.

Georgia Governor Rivers

Whereas: The Georgia Congress of Par-
ents and Teachers through its humane edu-
cation committee is endeavoring to foster a
spirit of human sympathy for all living
creatures; and

Whereas: Humane Societies of various
cities of this State are attempting to de-
velop a public consciousness of the impor-

 

MODERN TRANSPORTATION IN BANGOR, MAINE

“Jim,” this two-year-old grade Guernsey bull, takes the place of a horse on the
farm of Bert J enkms, 1n the Stillwater Park section of Bangor, Maine. Jim can do any
ordinary farm task as well as any single horse, and he is so well trained that even a

small child can drive him.

tance of animal protection and considera-
tion; now therefore it is

Ordered: That the week beginning April
17 through the 22nd of April be and is
hereby designated HUMANE WEEK, and
the citizens of Georgia are requested and
urged to observe this period ﬁttingly with
the objective of implanting further lessons
of thoughtfulness toward the animal king-
dom.

South Carolina
Governor Maybank

In co-operation with the Humane Soci-
eties which have been and are doing such
splendid work in the protection and care
of animals, I ask and earnestly urge that
the people of South Carolina aid in every
way possible and lend every assistance to
these organizations in protecting and car-
ing for every form of animal life.

As Governor of South Carolina I do set
aside the period from April seventeenth to
April twenty-third, 1939, as “BE KIND
TO ANIMALS WEEK.”

New Mexico Governor Miles

This crusade of kindness, tolerance and
mercy to animals also carries the same
spiritual values into human relationship
in family and community life. It is there-
fore vitally important that education along
these lines be included in our school work,
so the children may begin life imbued with
these high and fundamental principles.

NOW, THEREFORE, 1, JOHN E.
MILES, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE
OF NEW MEXICO, do hereby proclaim
April 17 to 23, 1939, as

“KINDNESS TO ANIMALS WEEK”
in.» the State of New Mexico, and I respect—
fully suggest that people in the various
communities of the State give every co-
operation and assistance possible to the
Society in carrying out its program for the
week. I especially urge all school authori-
ties and teachers in public and private
schools and institutions to assist the So-
ciety in its program for this week, and to
include in their educational work the sub-
ject of kindness to animals, not only during
the week referred to, but during every
week of the entire school year.

Our attention has been called, by evi-
dently a rather close observer, to the fact
that drivers of horses in our cities, caught
in more or less congested trafﬁc, are apt to
drive up very close to the automobile or
truck ahead of them, where the discharge
from the exhaust is certainly not a pleas-
ant odor and not too good for the horse.
We hope this brief paragraph may be read
by some drivers, at least, and their atten-
tion called to it by those interested in the
welfare of the horse.

The tip of a chicken’s wing shows rudi-
ments of bones said to have once been ﬁve
ﬁngers. The spur is a chicken’s thumb.

“Do you think the candidate put enough
ﬁre into his speech?”

“Oh, yes! The trouble was, he didn’t put
enough of his speech in the ﬁre.”

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1939

I Heard 3 Robin Sing

SALVATORE- MARSIGLIA

This .beautiful poem was written for a friend
whose life had been an almost continual round of
sorrow. We learn from the author that his friend
ﬁrst lost his Wife, then his only two children. Some-
time later, his home, and his position. From then
on, he seemed to have drOpped to a point where
bitterness. and hatred had taken the place of his
former blitheness and happiness. Some time later the
author met his friend who said to him: “I heard a
song the other day . . a song of almost incom-
parable loveline'ss. It made me realize how foolish
I’ve been all this time. I know I lost practically
everything I had. I had even lost my faith in the
world. Well, I regained that faith, and I’m starting
all over again with a smile on my lips . . . not a
curse. And I think I owe it all to that song.”
(EDITOR).

I heard a robin sing,
I know not where:

But suddenly there went
All mortal care.

And I was left alone
With joy so great

To wonder at the song
That bested hate.

Oh, Lord, I cried aloud
To earth and sky,
That such can conquer strife,
A bird’s gay cry . . .
In all these many years,
Of woe and grief,
I ne’er have truly found
Joy or relief.

The birds that fly aloft
And ﬁll the air

With angelic voices
Of beauty fair.

They are the balm I need
To light my way;

A robin’s song has changed
My life, today.

Friends in Need

M. H. MORGAN

RECENT Commentator Magazine de-
A clares that insect pests in this country
cause millions of dollars in loss every year.
The Mexican boll weevil, it says, costs cot-
ton-growing sections from 100 million to 150
million dollars annually; the codling moth
destroys over 12 million dollars’ worth of
fruit trees yearly; while the “aggregate
loss from other insect pests to farm crops
alone in the United States totals a sum
greater than the entire cost of education.”

This loss would be magniﬁed many times
if it were not for the birds. It may seem
strange to the casual observer that the
various kinds of birds have each their
especial duties in keeping down these pests;
and perhaps if farmers understood this
better, they might not begrudge them their
grubstake; for, after all, “a laborer is
worthy of his hire.”

Discounting a little overlapping, we dis-
cover that swallows and whippoorwills
sweep the air of small, gauzy-winged pests
such as mosquitoes, gnats and midges;
while martins, phoebes, kingbirds and ﬂy-
catchers clear it of larger ones. The warb-
lers, some of the sparrow family and the
Vireos clean the foliage at the ends of
branches where plant lice, tree ants, cank-
erworms, leaf-hoppers, ﬂies, etc., thrive.
Thrushes, blue-birds, robins, the mockers,
orioles, catbirds, tanagers and thrashers
clear the foliage of trees and shrubbery.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 117

 

THE BLACK TERN HAS A UNIQUE PERSONALITY

Photo by Biological Survey

Fuzzy caterpillars, bagworms and gypsy
moths fall to the lot of the cuckoos and
orioles, who also devour click beetles, wire-
worms, grasshoppers, locusts and spiders
that live on the branches. The woodpecker
family police the trunks with their bills,
drills and barbs. Meadowlarks, bob-whites,
bluebirds, robins, sparrows, brown thrash-
ers, ground warblers, grouse—all of these
and a few others—work on the ground
floor, clearing it of maggots, borers, chinch
bugs, cutworms and army worms; and
sparrows and ﬁnches eat weed seeds.

So the farmer, instead of looking upon
the bird family as inimical, with its large
spring crop of babies to feed, would do well
to watch a few of them at work, and note
the continual busy-ness of distracted par-
ent birds as they ﬂy from garden to nest
with beaks dripping with worms, cater-
pillars and fuzzy wuzzies that would soon
devour every green thing he might plant;
or note the sparrows, as I have, trotting up
and down pea Vines eating plant lice by the
thousands, and never molesting the vines
themselves or their products.

So, from the topmost branch of the high-
est cornstalk or tree or bush, down to the
very earth itself, there are crowds of well-
regulated helpers, each with its prescribed
line of duty; and even below the ground
there are miners opening tunnels for air
and moisture; devouring pests that germin-
ate in the earth, or, like the blind worm
with its innumerable shafts, fertilizing the
soil all summer long and injuring nothing.
Toads and worms are of incalculable bene-
ﬁt to a farmer every season. Many of
these creatures help in fertilization by
carrying into their tunnels materials for
winter nests; and in reforestation through
their supply of nuts, acorns, etc.

Bees, butterﬂies, moths and others assist
in the pollinization of fruits, ﬂowers and
vegetables. Beetles prey on plant lice, de-
caying vegetable or animal matter, becom-
ing public scavengers.

Now that the time of bird-nesting is upon
us in earnest, let us appreciate those which
are our friends and offer them sanctuary,
and not put them all in the category of the
ruthless destroyers.

Aquatic Birds
DOROTHEA K. GOULD

HERE is no bird more solicitous of its

home and babies than the black tern.
If you should be unfortunate enough to get
too near the nest of this bird you might
get hit on the head. You would see these
birds darting at you screamingly, and‘ they
would swoop at your head without mercy.

The black tern has a unique personality.
It is aquatic in its tastes and habits, and
builds its nests so near the water that most
always they are partly on the water.

Picture a carelessly made bird’s nest on
the water—a small depression of a few wet
stems and some mud. If the heavy rains
are good to this nest and let it alone, there
might be three pale brownish-olive eggs,
heavily marked with blotches, in it. If the
heavy rains are very, very good to the frail
craft, there might be three little birds in it.

But the baby birds do not remain long in
such a nest! It is too unsafe. They take
to the water and swim about through the
vegetation on the water while their parents
watch them.

The head and underparts of the tern are
black, and the back and wings are gray.
This bird has webbed feet only to the mid-
dle of the toes. Its beak is long and pointed.

The black terns inhabit North and South
America. However, they are rare in the
eastern part of the United States. They
have been found in Alaska, Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick, the West Indies and
the Bahamas.

Among the few animals that can run
faster than the greyhound are Gobi Desert
gazelles and pronghorn antelopes, both of
which are capable of a top speed of sixty
miles an hour.

Thousands of songbirds breed in the
Hawaiian Islands through the efforts of
one woman who began to import them
forty years ago in celebration of Hawaii
joining the United States.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

July, 1939

 

 

3337

 

 

 

 

Verse Contest Winners

First Prize, $3, Crystal V. Young, Age 7 years, Madison,
Maine.
We built a shelter for the birds,
All glass-enclosed and warm.
With them we share our store of food
On winter days of storm.

Second Prize, $2, Catherine Hannon, Age 11 years, Rox-
bury, Mass.
When sore-oppressed, or down and out,
Without a human friend,
Your understanding Rover comes
His sympathy to lend.

Third Prize, $1, Cornelia Pratt, Age 9 years, Lancaster,
Mass.
Your eyes looked up, adoring,
Your soft paw sought my knee;
Yes, Rover is the best pal
That ever roamed with me.

The following received Honorable Mention and were awarded
a year’s subscription to Our Dumb Animals:

Janet Boyd Motten, Rutherford, New Jersey; Miriam Shee-
han, Roxbury, Mass.; and Jaime Sol Hecht, Rutherford, New
Jersey.

The Wool-Bearing Alpaca

DOROTHEA K.GOULD

HEN we see a lovely wool sweater or robe we immedi-

think of that little woolly animal, the lamb. There
are several other sources of wool, too, and one of these is the
alpaca.

The alpaca is a South American domesticated breed, which
resembles a sheep, except that it has a long head and neck
which it carries high in the air at all times. Its shape is
similar to a camel, although it has no hump. When the alpaca
is tired it lies down on the ground with its load and no
amount of coaxing can make it get up until it is ready.

These animals are raised for their wool, in large ﬂocks
on the high tablelands, 16,000 feet above the sea, chieﬂy in
Bolivia and South Peru. Their long, thick ﬂeece is cut off
annually. It is strong and silky and used to make alpaca cloth
which is so beautiful.

The ﬂeeces are sorted for quality and color by skilled native
women. There are two qualities, ﬁne and coarse. The colors
are black, brown, white, gray and fawn, and the ﬁbre is some-
what like a mixture of hair and wool.

It is said that the alpaca can carry heavy loads and travel
quite a distance in one day. It can go without water for three
or four days, if necessary. a characteristic of the camel, and
it requires very little food. It can get along with a handful
of maize at one time, and call it a meal.

Alpaca cloth was used by the Peruvian Indians many years
ago, before it was introduced generally on a commercial basis.

DUMB ANIMALS

  
   
  

 

A
; my
. I; l \

g‘ :‘E/ g"

 
 

 

 

 

 

A PROUD AND JOYFUL GREETING

 

The Seeing-Eye Dog

BERTHA PRITCHARD

ITTLE Jackie, eight years old, had been blind since in-

fancy, but his life was brightened the day before Easter
by a seeing-eye dog from his neighbors and friends. Last
September Jackie knew the real loss of his eyes, as his sister,
who had been his constant companion, passed on by death, and
he was left alone in darkness.

Then, the joy of having a seeing-eye dog! He spent the
days after Easter going from neighbor to neighbor, and from
friend to friend, thanking those who contributed to buying
the dog. He now looks forward with pleasure to the days as
he walks from place to place led by his dog, “Don,” as he calls
him, and the dog seems to feel the responsibility of looking
after him. Before, he had sat lonely and alone, thinking of the
pleasure he was missing.

There were two business men in Los Angeles who heard
about the lad and took a deep interest in him and started
a campaign to buy the dog. There were about a thousand who
took part in the presentation, all happy to greet Jackie and
his new dog, Don, of the Seeing Eye.

Answers to Hidden Animals and Birds puzzle last month:
1. Lemur, thrush. 2. Swan, camel. 3. Ostrich, ferret. 4. Martin,
rabbit. 5. Teal, bear. 6. Phoebe, bison. 7. Lark, beaver. 8. Owl,
goat. 9. Panther, dove.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

Why Do We Have Turkey
for Thanksgiving?

LAURA A. BOYD

HY do we have turkey for Thanks-

giving? The usual answer to such a
question is because the New England col-
onists ate turkey on the ﬁrst Thanksgiving
Day. There is much of truth in that
answer for certainly the tradition of
Thanksgiving Day goes back to that co—
lonial beginning, but the Pilgrim Fathers
were not the ﬁrst persons on this continent
to ﬁnd out how good turkey was to eat.

Long before the white men had come to
live in America the Indians had learned
that turkey is a ﬁne dish for a gala occa—
sion. In the southwestern part of the
present United States and in Mexico the
cliff dwellers and other aboriginal tribes
used the meat of the turkey for their cere-
monial feasts. The birds were wild but
the Indians learned to catch and tame them
so they could be fattened before they were
killed. The wild turkeys roamed over Ari-
zona, western New Mexico and southern
Colorado, as well as Mexico.

After the coming of the Spaniards tur—
keys were sent to European markets and
that is where they gained their name. The
merchants, who were mostly Hebrews,
thought that this new bird was a kind of
peacock and so called it by their name for
the peacock which was “tukki.” More or
less constant use of this term resulted in
the English word turkey.

The turkey is peculiarly an American
bird. No other country has a similar fowl.
Wherever turkeys are raised today, and
they have been introduced into many coun-
tries, the ancestral stock came from Ameri—
ca. This is one reason why it is ﬁtting that
the turkey should be associated with
Thanksgiving which is a distinctive Ameri-
can feast. Like the cliff' dwellers we too
use domesticated fowls and our feast has
also a certain ceremonial signiﬁcance.

When the Puritans desired to celebrate
their ﬁrst abundant harvest in Plymouth
in 1621 hunters were sent into the woods
to secure turkeys for the dinner. The co—
lonial record says: “That year there was
also a great store of wild turkies.” At ﬁrst
these beautiful birds were plentiful every-
where but they were timid and ﬂed inland
so that after 1690 no more records are
found of them in New England, but they
were still so plentiful in Georgia in 1733
that they sold for fourpence apiece.

These wild turkeys were gold and purple
bronze and much larger than our domestic
birds. They could easily outrun a man and
when ﬂying traveled at a rate of ﬁfty miles
an hour. They were awkward in ﬂight but
ran with an easy graceful motion. One co-
lonial writer tells of seeing a ﬂock of three
hundred near the Chesapeake which weighed
thirty or forty pounds each and no less an
authority than William Penn says that
turkeys weighing thirty pounds sold in his
colony for a shilling. Ornithologists say
that wild turkeys were plentiful around the
Great Lakes until 1875. These wild birds
were easily distinguished from the tame
fowl by the rich chestnut brown tips on
their tail feathers.

EDITOR’S NOTE :—One cannot help but admire the

self~restraint of our vegetarian friends who deny

themselves on Thanksgiving Day from conscientious
conv1ctions.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Good Investment
HARRY ELMORE HURD

I am b‘ankrupt buying suet—

Neighbors say that I will rue it,

But Mrs. Bluejay and her mate
Beseech me from the garden gate.

I slave and save to purchase seed

For all the birds that come to feed
Each morning at our windowsill:

They come from swamp and near-by hill
From ﬁelds of ice and forest shade,

To claim our bounty, unafraid.

Tree sparrows, fresh from Arctic zones,
Trill their thanks in dulcet tones:
Nuthatch and black-capped chickadee
Wage feathered battle, endlessly.
Though I am bankrupt buying suct—
And flower seeds—I do not rue it,

For a lady, prone to roam,

Now entertains the world at home:

She sings at work and winter-long
Whistles notes of woodland song.

Spring Shooting

MYRTLE J. BROLEY

HOSE of us who love our wild animals

and birds deplore fall shooting, licensed
as it is, but spring shooting is a slaughter
indeed. True it is unlawful and our gov-
ernment does what it can to prevent it.
Nevertheless, it goes on every year especi-
ally in places where birds migrate North
in large ﬂocks.

Among the greatest sufferers from this
cruel and inhumane practice are the snow
and blue geese. These birds leave their
winter home in Louisiana to ﬂy in ﬂocks of
thousands to the tundras of Baﬂin Land
where they nest, stopping in Minnesota and
Manitoba to feed for some weeks.

We have seen them on the ground so
thick they seemed a drift of snow across a
ﬁeld. Flocks of them in the air, moving
along swiftly, their “Wa, Wa” cry so
unlike the honk of the gray Canada, etch
the skies in spring and swirl in clouds over
lakes and ponds.

Just as the ﬂocking together in numbers
was a factor in wiping out the passenger
pigeons so this friendly habit of the blue
and snow geese would have led to their
extinction had not the governments of
Canada and the United States passed laws
to protect them. Indeed the blues were
dwindling rapidly, now they have gained
in numbers again.

Spring shooting just at the time when
they most need protection would certainly
put an end to them. These geese as a rule
are already mated when they come North
and if one of a pair is killed it means no
young that year for the survivor will not
choose a new mate.

With my husband, an honorary game
guardian, I have traveled many miles over
rough country roads in an effort to protect
these ﬂocks; On one occasion the sound of
shots sent us hurrying to discover the cul-
prits. We found three men running after
some wounded snows.

We called to them to halt but they paid
no attention. Then my husband showed the
badge he wears. At once a big fellow began
to bluster. He was a county policeman, he
said, and we had no authority over him.

Nov. 1939

 

WOUNDED SNOW GEESE

Next he tried to bribe us by offering some
of the geese he had shot. His face reﬂect-
ing his thoughts of this man, my husband
went on writing down names and addresses.

We reported him to his superior ofﬁcer
and he was discharged. In his anxiety to
reinstate himself he informed on a number
of others in the district who were raiding
the ﬂocks. In all some twenty were appre-
hended so we felt we had done a good day’s
work.

Killing the geese is not the worst. A
great many are wounded and suffer miser-
ably until they fall prey to some of their
enemies. We have seen as many as thirty
at a time half running, half ﬂuttering
across ﬁelds, crippled by gunshots. We
have picked up numbers of these and taken
them to sanctuaries where they were nursed
back to health but seldom do they recover
sufﬁciently to be able to rejoin their fellows
in the wild free sky world.

Birds in Shakespeare

Henry Dyer Fruit of Washington, D. C.,
president of the National Shakespeare
Federation, has recently compiled a check
list of birds mentioned by Shakespeare in
his plays and poems.

In “Midsummer Night’s Dream” Mr.
Fruit ﬁnds 27 references to birds. There
are 26 in “Romeo and Juliet,” 24 in “Ham-
let,” 23 in “Macbeth,” 17 in “King Lear,”
and 11 in “The Merchant of Venice.”
Twenty-six other plays, ﬁve poems and the
sonnets are also named as containing fre-
quent mention of birds, the roster includ-
ing: Hedge-sparrow, cuckoo, kite, wagtail,
goose, vulture, owl, pelican, wren, lark,
raven, falcon, throstle, dove, nightingale,
swan, pigeon, loon, ﬁnch, crow, daw, snipe,
parrot, ostrich, gull, eagle, buzzard, pea-
cock, jay, swallow, hawk, cormorant, quail,
woodcock, thrush, pheasant, etc.

 

 

 




  
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
     
 
 
    
  
   
   
       
      
 
 
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ducks-or Dollars

LEE G. CRUTCHFIELD,

HOSE of us who have admired the

Wild ducks, as they quack and gabble
in the ponds of parks and sanctuaries, can
scarcely believe that some men are not
moved by the beauty, the grace, the alert-
ness of the live wild duck, but are willing
to trade his life for a dollar or two, but such
is the case. There are men at work in this
country, now, who make the better part of
their living by trapping and selling wild

JR.

make a trap of wire so cunningly con-
structed that the ducks can get in to eat
the bait of corn, but cannot get out so
easily. Sometimes as many as ﬁfty ducks
are taken in a single night in one of the
wire traps. The trapper comes around,
ﬁnds the trap full of screeching, frantic
ducks; and wrings their necks. Then he
sells them, for as little as ﬁfty cents each.

Of course, the men who kill and torture

 

LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS OF THE U. S. BIOLOGICAL SURVEY
EXAMINING ONE OF THE DUCK TRAPS FOUND ON CHESCON—
NESSEX MARSH IN VIRGINIA

ducks under conditions of the utmost cruel-
ty and furtiveness.

All up and down the Atlantic and Paciﬁc
Coasts, and far into the interior, Whenever
the ducks are ﬂying north or south, there
are men watching for them. They select
the best marshes and ponds where the
weary travelers will alight to ﬁnd food and
rest. Not only do they do that—they
invade the marshes Where the ducks breed,
Where they have come to make their nests.
There they lay their snares and traps.

There are two kinds of traps which these
lawless men use. One is the ordinary steel
trap, such as is used by fur trappers to
catch small animals. Wherever this instru-
ment is found in use, suffering is bound to

follow. There is no exception for the mal-
lard or pintail.

Suppose the duck has reached his marsh
at last, after ﬂying hundreds of miles. He
is wing-weary and hungry. He glides down
to the little pond, where somebody, appar-
ently, has thoughtfully scattered grains of
corn for him. He quacks his satisfaction.
Then he sees a pile of the yellow grain.
Up goes his tail; down goes his neck, and
he plunges. Then there is a vicious, steely
click—and a steel trap has him by the bill.

And there, held to the bottom by the
cruel trap, he drowns. The poacher comes
around in the morning, throws him into a
sack, and sells him, after dark, to towns-
people who are more greedy for roast wild
duck than respectful of the laws of our
country.

Another method, scarcely less cruel, is to

ducks in this way are lawbreakers, just as
much gangsters as men who blow up
bridges. The people who buy their ducks
are even more guilty, for they keep the
evil practice alive.

Fortunately, the men of the Biological
Survey are always searching for these
ruthless ruﬂians who cause so much suf-
fering and death for the sake of a few
dollars. They are forever conﬁscating and
destroying traps, and prosecuting the of-
fenders in the Federal Courts. But some
men always escape and keep up the ﬁendish
work. Spring and fall this cruel trade goes
on. It will be a happy day for bird lovers
when the last trap, whether for drowning
ducks or taking them alive, is destroyed
and the last duck trapper chased from
United States marshes.

Films and Kindness Week

There are those who say that the day
of the silent ﬁlm is over. Well, is it? This
is the answer so far as the Massachuetts
S. P. C. A. is concerned, in connection with
Be Kind to Animals Week. Our “Bell of
Atri” was shown in ten different places,
and “In Behalf of Animals” in eleven dif-
ferent places, ranging from Massachusetts
to Florida and Arkansas. In some of these
towns the ﬁlms were shown several times.

And out of war and after all,

What is it people get?
Just widows, wounds and wooden legs—
And lots and lots of debt.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  

 

June, 1989

San Capistrano Swallows
J. E. ELLIOTT

The swallows all are gone today.
They took their old familiar way.
Far off to southward they have flown
And Capistrano stands alone.

Onlookers line the way, and crowd

To see that swift-departing cloud,

Which wings a southward way each year,
Returning when the spring draws near.
The Mission has deserted look,

Like some well-loved abandoned book
Since like the falling autumn leaves
The swallows left their ancient eaves.

9

Soon other birds will take their nest
While in the south the swallows rest;
.But in the spring, by some great plan,
You ﬁnd the swallows back again.

No Hunting: Bobwhite
Lives Here

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

ARMERS need not wince under the

caustic criticism of hunters for posting
their farms as protection for the familiar
Bobwhite whose cheery call is known to
all Nature lovers. Indeed, it is the sports—
man who should feel the righteous wrath of
the farmer for invading the premises with
a determination to bag as many of the little
scratchers as possible. The farmer can well
afford to protect this feathered friend. Bob-
white is one of the farmer’s most useful
birds of ﬁeld and garden, paying his board
every day by helping the farmer rid his

place of destructive pests and obnoxious
weeds.

During the spring and summer the Bob-
white family feed on such pests as the
Rocky Mountain locust, chinch bug, cotton
worm, Colorado potato beetle, striped cu-
cumber beetle, Mexican cotton boll weevil,
army worm, May beetle, grasshoppers, cut—
worms, ﬂies, and spiders. Authoritities have
estimated that young Whites eat their own
weight of insects daily. In the fall and
winter the gang eat great numbers of the
seeds of obnoxious weeds. Their vegetable
food is largely seeds—seeds from more than
sixty species of weeds. Ragweed is a favor-
ite. They also eat the seeds of smartweed,
red sorrel, green foxtail, pigweeds, and many
others. As winter comes on they resort to
acorns, pine seed, and wild fruit.

Mr. and Mrs. Bobwhite and the chil-
dren take little grain or fruit from the
farmer or gardener. Occasionlly they help
themselves to ears of corn or waste grain
in the stubble of oats and wheat but honest
farmers do not mind because they are used
to giving the hired man a lift now and then
anyway. Farmers know that the Bobwhite
family are worth their weight in gold as
tenants on their farms. All the family asks
is some protection from hunters and a little
buckwheat or other grain scattered about
for them in the bitterly cold weather when
snow covers their food supply. They are
not annual movers nor thankless tenants,
but prefer to live year after year on the
farm Where they were born. It is no
wonder, therefore, that most farmers post
“NO HUNTING” signs on their farms.

   

 

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

The Finest of a
Great Anthology Series

WILD ANIMALS

GREAT WILD ANIMAL
STORIES OF OUR DAY
Compiled by

Frances E. Clarke

Twenty-ﬁve selected stories and
articles by as many famous writers,
about various animals.

$2.50 all bookstores

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
60 Fifth Avenue, New York

 

 

 

 

 

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

N E-MA'
WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE .\ .. .

ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS

OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk \ .Q I,

PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, M ICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

      
 

   
 
   
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEAR DADDY—

Since you’ve been away, mother started
using Cuticura Soap on baby brother.
He loves it- and Ohl-ldoes he smell
good! Mother says it’s the purest,
sweetest soap she’s ever used — and
We’re all using it now. Love, Mary-Ann.
Soap 25¢. Ointment 25¢. FREE sample.
Write “Cuticura”, Dept. 41, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mnoertakets

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“THEY KNOW NOT”

An impressive novel with a New England set-
ting, by DR. GEORGE SANFORD FOSTER,
a well-known surgeon. From every sale the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will derive a sub-
stantial proﬁt. Price, $2.50 per copy, postpaid
to any address. Use this form in ordering:

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Please send ...... copies of “They Know
Not” to

Name ......................................

Address ....................................

Check or money order for $ ........ enclosed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

China and back.

the world.

read it yourself.”

homes by Christmas.

 

“THE BEEPS,” by Virginia Hollon

The Flights and Cruises of Three Missouri Tree Sparrows

A TRUE account Of the friendship between the birds and the man and
woman whom they followed for nearly 50,000 miles, even to the interior Of

PART of The Beeps’ story has been told by Dr. Francis H. Rowley, Presi-
dent Of The American Humane Education Society; by Mr. Robert Ripley in
BELIEVE IT OR NOT; by Mr. John HiX in STRANGE AS IT SEEMS; by
the Associated Press; by the North American Newspaper Alliance; by the
American Weekly; and many other publications. The Beeps are known all over

THE PRICE of THE BEEPS is $2.00 at all bookstores or byomail to the
publisher, The John Day Company, 40 E. 49th Street, New York City.

THE Westchester Syndicate Reviewer writes of THE BEEPS: “The narra-

tive is as fascinating as it is incredible, and numerous photographs included by

. the author testify to its actuality. Get it for your youngsters, but certainly

EFFORTS are being made to place THE BEEPS, .a beautiful story of
kindness, affection, courage, loyalty, and love of peace, in a million American

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set . . . . . . . ........ $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ........

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc.

Humane Education. Leaﬂet, N0. 5 ......

The Horse’s Prayer .. ,. .......... .30

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog

50 cts.
. . $0.60 per 100
.50 “ “

“ “

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider . . . . . . . . ........... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider . 1.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.3andl4 50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ......... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry ............ .30 “ “

Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........... Free
About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus.. . ...... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. . ..
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2
How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air-Gun and the Birds .......

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ................ 50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ..............

$2.00 per 100
.50 “ “

.50 “ (‘
.50 “ “

.50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. . .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat.” post-card. 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special . . . .boards. 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . . paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Se ke . paper. 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth. 75 cts.
The Great Crmrlty Again. Dr. Rowley Free
First Aid to Animals. Dr. Schneider. 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
tripped in the Teeth of Steel. 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .. .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals . . . . . . . .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? .. .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
pp. . ............ $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. .......... , _ . . . . . .50
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50

‘6 ‘6

“ ‘l

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child. Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ...... 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00

Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 1.") cts. ; seven fol'$1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 p. .. . , .
An Early Start to Kindness. Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .. ........
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H-

Rowley . . . ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Ed-dy ........ cloth. $1.00
essons on Kindness to Animals ..... $3.00 per 100
The R—K—T—A—Club, play. 3 cts. each : ten for 25¢.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each : ﬁve for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises for 1939 $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need. Dr.

Rowley. short radio address. 2 cts. each;.75 “ “
Humane Eduration, What to Teach and

How to Teach it .. .50 “ “
Out'ines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty. .50 “ “
A Talk With the Teacher . .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

each, 10 cts.

each. 10 cts.
each. 25 cts.

address . . . . . . 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark. with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
Styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety. or S. P. . A. .. . .

Buttons—white star on blue ground With
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

Badges gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.

$1.00 per 100

“ “

“Band of Mercy” pennant .. . .. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with musrc, S.

J. Eddy . . (56 d 50cts.
Songs of Ha Life pages, wor s

only) ppy . ........ $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “

“ 6‘

How, to Form Bands of Mercy .50 ‘
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 ‘ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1939 OUR DUMB

 

    
 

i

_\. “.7:

: . T:\\‘

\

§i

(
§x‘.
1k

 

\ ”.1“

ls
as
L9

\
i \
. \\
" ~‘.:‘:“§\\\\\\‘ \\

 

 

LIFE-LONG FRIENDS

 

Mistaken Identity
MARGARET TYRRELL GRIFFIN

H E appeared one day outside my kitchen window. Whether
he smelled the doughnuts I was frying or was just curi-
ous to look in I don’t know, but he made such a pretty picture
sitting there with his front paws up and his little nose pressed
against the screen, that I had to give him a welcome. There
were several red squirrels in the vicinity but this was the ﬁrst
gray one I had seen, and with only the screen between us his
soft dark eyes looked at me with perfect trust. I raised the
screen and laid a piece of doughnut on the sill. He picked it
up in his little paws and ate it daintily.

This was the beginning of our friendship. I called him
“Trotwood.” (I had been reading “David Copperﬁeld” again.)
And every morning at the same time Trotwood appeared at
the window. If I did not happen to see him, I would hear a
scratching sound and, sure enough, the little face would be
ﬂattened against the screen. Every morning I had some choice
tidbit for him.

Then one morning he gave me a surprise! I heard the
scratching and when I turned there he was surrounded by the
sweetest little family ever! So “Trotwood” had to be changed.
And what more appropriate than to “Betsy”——“Betsy Trot-
wood.” After that I had the family every day, and how I did
enjoy watching the antics of the babies! They seemed con-
scious of entertaining and Betsy would sit quietly, turning
from them to me, as if to say, “Well, what do you think of
them?”

I discovered later that their home was in the old barn.
There was a hole in the roof and in they went from the elm
that hung over it. Many times I saw Betsy lying out on the
ﬂat limb of that elm, contentedly nursing her little brood.

 

ANIMALS

Page 159

 

 

 

 

To an English Bulldog

ELMA BAILS

I know the cutest fellow
That ever you did see;
His coat is sort of yellow,
His teeth?—Oh dear, dear me.

I think he’s very pretty,
He looks so sweet and sad;
But people seem to fear him,—
Now isn’t that too bad?

As gentle as .a lamb, yet
A lion he appears,—
I f people only knew him
They’d laugh at all their fears.

“Jiggs,” a diminutive bulldog, is a familiar ﬁgure in the
post ofﬁce at Stacyville, Iowa. He gets a ﬁrm grip on letters
or papers and dashes the length of Main Street to deliver
them. Sometimes he carries ice cream home by gripping the
wire handle.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

000C
O>XOEUI

 

O-lzmr‘m
moo—21:0
ﬁll—X3000

H

 

Inc—IJ>Z

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

How Many “C” Birds?

ALFRED I. TOOKE

OW many birds’ names beginning with the letter “C” do

you know? There are quite a number, and in the diagram
you may be able to spell out sixteen. Start at any C and move
one letter at a time, in any direction, until you have spelled
out the name, but do not move to the same square twice in
any one name. Answers next month.

 

 

 

 

 




