__ ,..~.—_—.—..v «—

 

 

T HE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRIIELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, 1866.

 

THIRTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1901.

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT.

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NEW’YORK

1902

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

OFFICERS AND BOARD OF MANAGERS

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS

I 9 O 2
President.

JOHN P. HAINES.

Vice-Presidents.

 

 

BENJAMIN D. HICKS.
REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D.
FREDERIC GALLATIN.
ALFRED WAGSTAFF.

JOHN CLAFLIN.

JOSEPH H. CHOATE.
JAMES GRANT WILSON.
FREDERIC R. COUDERT.

WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK.

Executive Committee.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS.

JOSEPH H. CHOATE.

JAMES GRANT WILSON.
FREDERIC R. COUDERT.
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK.

REV. DAVID H. GREER, D.D.
JOEL B. ERHARDT.

WILLIAM H. PARSONS.
JOHN MASON KNOX.

REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D.
JOHN CLAFLIN.

FREDERIC GALLATIN.

REV. PERCY S. GRANT.
GORDON KNox BELL.

Secretary and Treasurer.
JOHN MASON KNOX.

 

Counsel.
STRONG & CADWALADER.

Superintendent.
CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

BROOKLYN

Attorney.

J. MAYHEW WAINWRIGHT.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

OFFICE:

I 3 Willoughby Street.

Inspector.
FRANK O. CLARK.

Attorney.
GEORGE F. ELLIOTT.

 




 

 

 

'ﬂmeuW.w-._-

 




 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

In entering upon the new year it is a cause of satisfaction
to know that the members of our Society, few though they
still are, are nevertheless more numerous than they ever
were before. If we look back only twelve years, The
American Society for the Prevention .of Cruelty to Animals
in 1889 had only 200 fully qualiﬁed members. During the
past year alone, 304 new members were enrolled, and at the
present day our total membership amounts to 1,320. Gratify-
ing, however, though it is to record this increase, I must
confess a certain feeling of humiliation at the thought that
such a Society as ours, with a motive so humane, and actually
doing a work which is greater in some respects than that
of any other similar society in the world, should even now
have no more than 1,320 enrolled members in a population of
75,000,000. There must be something wrong in our methods,
or something lacking in our machinery, to account for such
a disparity between the many thousands who approve and
even acclaim the work of the Society, and the few hundreds
who are enrolled as its supporters. In my opinion, the
wrong, if any there be, lies in the supposition that the active
work of increasing our membership can be done from our
headquarters. That is simply not possible. The oﬂicers and
employees of the Society are appointed for the purpose of
transacting its business; the maintenance and extension of
the Society itself more properly belongs to its unofﬁcial mem-

 




 

 

l
l . i
l

‘ l

l

3

ll"memgnzmmazamusm...“ ._

  

6

bers; and because this has not been borne in mind, there

' has been, and there still is, a serious lack of the activity and

energy required to recruit new members and so to bring new
life and energy into our organization. If one-ﬁftieth part of
the zealous activity of other societies were devoted to this
necessary work in our own, I am conﬁdent that the position of
the Society would be immensely strengthened within a very
few years. To become a member of the Society is not a
costly privilege. A life member pays only one hundred
dollars and no more unless at his own discretion. “Annual
members pay only ﬁve dollars. Among the many thousands
of persons who speak and write in strong terms of sympathy
for our work, I am conﬁdent that very few would be deterred
from joining our ranks by the consideration of so small a
contribution. All that is needed to secure both them and
their contributions is that they should be asked by our pres-
ent members to join their ranks. Of the moral strength
which such an accession would bring to us it is needless to
speak; but the pecuniary addition to our resources by the
aggregation of many small annual contributions might be
much larger than one would suppose. If every one of our
present members were to induce a friend or acquaintance to
become an annual member, the amount received from mem-
bership fees would at once be raised from $6,600 to $13,200,
and there is no reason why that source of revenue might
not be brought to a much larger-ﬁgure if new members and
old were to unite their efforts in securing a further increase.
I beg to urge this thought upon you and upon every one
of the present members of our Society, because there is great
need for an increase of our income. .Every society like our
own which is engaged in the propagation and application
of sound moral principles passes through successive stages of
progress, each of which has its peculiar difﬁculties. First of _
all, there is a time of struggle, during which the possibility
of defeat is never very far off. Next follows a time of tolera-

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

    

 




 

 

7

tion mingled with contemptuous indifference. Then comes
the dangerous period of success, when Charlatans and self-
interested pretenders seek notoriety, and even pecuniary
proﬁt, by thrusting themselves forward as champions of a
cause that no longer needs champions. And then, at length,
comes a period like the present, when the public, which does
nothing for the cause, expects and vociferously demands that
its representatives shall perform the hard task of making
bricks without straw.

That is very nearly our position in the present period. We
have no longer to win public favor for the cause of animal
protection. The best representatives of public opinion in the
pulpit, in the press, and on the bench, are our staunchest
friends. But these same persons are also the staunchest
friends of virtue and the most principled enemies of vice in
all forms; and it is somewhat singular that, while no one
expects vice and crime to cease, and no one expects the
vicious and criminal classes to be entirely suppressed, even
when the whole police power of the State is exerted at
enormous expense to that end, there are many thoughtless
persons in the community who take it for granted that, if
any case of cruelty to animals occurs without instant detec—
tion and punishment by a society of limited means and
agencies, there must be something egregiously wrong in the
society. I think you will allow that a higher tribute to the
efﬁciency of our service could hardly be conceived than this
remarkable, but very prevalent, opinion. And yet I frankly
confess that there is something wrong in our Society. It is
simply this, that our revenue is not sufﬁcient to enable us to
do all, or nearly all, that we might do, and should do, with
larger means at our disposal. So, the remedy is plain. I
repeat that it lies in the hands of the 1,320 members of the
Society to provide that remedy; and I would urge each and
every one of them to consider how easily they might increase
our resources by the simple method of inducing their friends

 




 

9

that, in a city like this, three hundred additional would be a'
much more reasonable number than three. _

In our present stage of progress, a vast amount of work
has to be done, steadily and persistently, and yet in a way
monotonously. Year by year the statistics of our regular
work continue to rise or fall more or less unaccountably;
and the reasons which might be assigned in one year for
the increase or decrease of particular items often fail to
account for similar phenomena in other years. In short, our
operations, like all other operations in nature and society,
follow a law of averages which it is not always easy to trace,
but which is at least a proof of substantial regularity. I
shall not, therefore, invite your attention this year to any
special examination of the statistics which you will ﬁnd in
the report of the secretary. I trust, nevertheless, that you
will give them a careful perusal.

During the past year there was a sudden recrudescence of
a form of cruelty to horses which I had supposed to have
been driven forever from civilized society. Bit-burrs were
lately found again in use among the equipages of our wealth-
iest citizens. I do not believe that this senseless form of
cruelty was approved or permitted by all the owners of the
horses which were thus tortured. I take it to have been a
whim of the stables for which grooms and drivers were
responsible. Had it been otherwise, there might have been
more difﬁculty than there was in the almost instantaneous
stamping out of the bad practice. I would suggest, however,
that the owners of valuable horses might learn from this
unpleasing incident that their grooms and coachmen ought
not to have unlimited control over the animals under their
care. Ownership implies responsibility; and the owners of
sensitive creatures are morally bound to give personal atten-
tion to their well-being.

The mention of bit-burrs reminds me of the museum which
we have been ﬁtting up at our headquarters, and in which

 




 

IO

 

 

our numerous visitors will ﬁnd specimens of those instru-«
ments of torture. Many other instruments of cruelty will
also be found there, and some of our critics might be turned
into friends by an inspection of the dreadful things which
once were common, but which it has been the work of our
Society to abolish. Our museum, however, is by no means
altogether a chamber of horrors. It is to contain many con-
trivances, and particularly all new inventions, for the pre-
vention of animal suffering and the increase of animal com-
fort. Among other things our visitors will ﬁnd various
patterns of horseshoes, expressly made to prevent slipping on
the snow in winter, and on the half wet, greasy asphalt in
summer; hats to protect the heads of horses during the heat
of the day; bits of many forms, specially adapted to give
entire control of the horse, while causing no pain or incon-
venience in ordinary use; scientiﬁc harness, easily adjustable
to the horse’s body, so as to prevent sores on the back and
sides, and at the same time to enable the animal to have the
most complete purchase in drawing his load; practical and
visible suggestions for the construction of wagons-and car-
riages, so that the weight to be hauled may be most per-
fectly distributed and waste of power prevented in hauling the
load. Pictures, too, we shall have for the illustration and
description of our work; and I may add‘ that I hope to have
lectures delivered more or less regularly to children and
others whose interest in our cause we desire to engage.

I cannot deny that a large part of our work has now come
to be regular, steady, and even monotonous routine. But it
is not all of that kind. There are occasional outbreaks of
barbarism which have to be met and fought with resolution.
One such outbreak there was last spring at Inter-State Park,
Long Island, where the public butchery of 20,000 pigeons
was attended with scenes of such exceptional atrocity as
justly t0 rouse the indignation of the public. In the exposure
of that detestable performance, the press of this city did

'i'ivl’iesii’dgsy’iﬁfm‘m “ ‘4 ,-..¢ -.

 

 




 

     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

II

immense service, and relying on the public sentiment which
unequivocally condemned the whole exhibition, an attempt
was made to obtain from the legislature a repeal of the act
by which the horrors of pigeon-shooting are exempted from
the general law against cruelty to animals. In form our
effort was a failure; in fact it was a great moral sucCess. A
bill to repeal the obnoxious law actually passed the Senate
and actually received a majority of votes in the Assembly.
It failed of passage, however, only because it lacked three
votes in the Assembly, which were required to constitute
a majority of the whole number of Assemblymen. Thus the
majority by which pigeon-shooting was legalized in spite of
Mr. Bergh’s most strenuous endeavors was almost reversed;
and I sincerely trust and conﬁdently believe that the legisla-
ture of 1902 will give us a legal as well as a moral victory
in a contest which we stand pledged to renew until our efforts
shall be crowned with ﬁnal success. We are well aware of the
odds against us, and it may become our duty some day to
tell the messages of intimidation that we have received from
men of whom something better might have been expected.
We trust that this may not be necessary; because we believe
in the omnipotence of public opinion when public opinion is
right, and because we know that in this matter public opinion
is so overwhelmingly with us that it cannot be permanently
thwarted. We hope, therefore, that the year 1902 may be
made memorable in the annals of humane legislation by the
repeal of the outrageous act by which the cruelties of pigeon-
shooting are made lawful in the State of New York.

While the steady work goes on, and the exceptional battle
has to be fought at home, the good work continues to be
spread abroad by various agencies in other lands. From
Porto Rico, South America,and Spain we have good accounts
of the formation of societies for the protection of animals,
and the judiciousness with which their work is done gives
ample ground of h0pe that rapid progress may be made.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

On the Whole, and taking a candid view of our Whole work
during the past year, I am glad to be able to say that we have
large cause of encouragement and good prospects of sub-
stantial progress in the new year, 1902.

JOHN P. HA'INES,
President.
December 31, 1901.

 

 




 

  

 

 

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

 

During the year 1901 changes were occasioned in the
Board of Managers by the death of Mr. Edward A. Ham—
mond, by the resignation of Mr. Fahnestock as Treasurer and
the appointment of the undersigned as his successor, and by
the election of the Rev. Percy S. Grant and Mr. Gordon
Knox Bell as members of the Board. '

A steady growth in the roll of members of the Society is
~ one of the most encouraging signs of the interest being taken
in the work. During the past year three hundred and three
new members have been elected, by far the largest acquisi-
tion in any one year of the Society’s history.

The protecting inﬂuence of the Society has been extended
to many new ﬁelds, and during the year under review addi-
tional Special Agents to the number of thirty were appointed
with full powers to enforce the humane laws in rural districts
heretofore not ofﬁcially represented.

Through the courtesy and generosity of some of the mem-
bers of the Society having summer residences at Far
Rockaway, Lawrence, and vicinity, the Society was placed in
a position to detail a salaried Special Agent for those places
during the past summer. A marked improvement in the
condition and treatment of the animals of that locality has
resulted.

The Obituary Record, printed elsewhere in this repOrt,
contains the names of eighteen members, workers in the
cause of animal protection, whose loss the Society has been
called on to mourn during the year.




  
  
     
     
   
   
   

 

 

 

I4

Following is a summary of the Work accomplished dur-
ing the year 1901 :

 

Arrests and Prosecutions........................ 606

Animals Suspended from Labor. . . . g . . . . . . ....... 4,626
Horses, mules, and other large animals, disabled

past recovery, humanely destroyed ..... . . . . . 3,348
Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery,

humanely destroyed. . . . . . ........ . . . . . . . . . 90,480
Disabled horses and other large animals removed

from the streets in ambulances ....... . . ..... 541
Cases Investigated .............. ............. 54,712

Further details of the work of the Society for the year 1901
will be found in the reports of the President, Treasurer,
and Superintendent.

JOHN MASON KNOX,

Secretary.

 

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

 

NEW YORK, January I, 1902.

To The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals:

The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1901, showing a Cash Balance
on hand of $2,274.78.

Respectfully,

JOHN MASON KNOX,
Treasurer.

 




 

 

I7

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1901.

 

 

CR.

By Disbursements from January 1, 1901, to date: General
Maintenance, including Light, Fuel, Postage, Sal-5

aries, etc. . . . . . . .»$26,460 21
“ Equipment and Maintenance of New York Shelter . 24,908 96
Brooklyn “ . 15,840 46
Richmond “ . 5,380 26
“ Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance . . . . . . . . . 7,127 78

“ Ambulance House, New York: Maintenance, including

Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-

doned Animals . . . . . . . . . . . 926 72
“ Ambulance House, Brooklyn: Maintenance, including

Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-

 

doned Animals. . . . . 1,020 95
“ Repairs to Real Estate, Rent, Interest, Taxes, and In-
surance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,121 66
“ Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,842 80
“ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 09
“ Humane Literature . . . . . . . . 4,207 07
“ Stationery, Printing, Annual Report, etc. . . . . . 1,860 57
“ Ullmann Estate. Mrs. Thayer . . . . . . . . . 700 00
“ Young Defenders’ League, Debit Balance . . . . . 34 37
“ Deposits on Badges Returned . . . . . . . . . ' 25 00
“ LibIary Account . . . . . . . . . . .l . 395 30
“ Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1901.
On deposit 1n Union Trust Company . . $369 28
Second National Bank and Checks on
hand. . . . . . . . . . . . 1,115 88
Cash in Drawer . . . . . . . . . 789 62 2,274 78
$108,170 98

 

 

of the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention

Society’s books and vouchers.
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK
GORDON KNOX BELL,

2

’ } Auditing Committee.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

3‘

 

It may be conceded that indifference to animal suffering
is, to a great extent, passing away, and that a more general
interest is being evinced in the cause of animal protection by
the public at large, yet it must not be assumed that abuse of
animals is a thing of the past. It is true, wanton acts of
cruelty are of less occurrence within the public view than
heretofore, yet. there is an element in the community which,
either prompted by environment or instinct, disregards all
laws, whether enacted to punish acts of cruelty to animals or
for personal assault; hence the need of constant vigilance on
the part of the Society. '

I again call attention to the numerous complaints received
of alleged acts of cruelty to animals, which, upon investiga-
tion, prove to have been instigated by malice or a kindred
motive. The time consumed in such investigatiOns is an

and the results are unsatisfactory.
s from those who

\

important item,

Another class of complaints emanate
imagine that the Society possesses arbitrary powers to con-
ﬁscate every animal which, in their judgment, should be
destroyed, and it is hard to convince many that such is not
While the Society is empowered to enforce the

the case.
it is required

laws for the prevention of cruelty to animals,
to do so with due regard for the people’s rights. Our Agents
have had many years’ experience in the work of animal pro—
tection, and their judgment as to what constitutes an act of .
cruelty should take preference before that of one whose feel-
ings are inﬂuenced by motives of sentiment.

Only those empowered to enforce the laws realize the

 




 

I9

difﬁculties which beset the investigator in his pursuit of the
legal evidence required to secure the punishment of willful
violators of the humane statutes. ‘

A new feature of our work was the free baths given to
horses during the unusual heat of the past summer at our
Ambulance House, Ioo East 22d Street, where over three
thousand were unharnessed and given a cooling spray, and
at our Headquarters as many more were treated to a re-
freshing bath, as well as provided with straw hats that
afforded protection to the head from the sun, while in every
direction the Society’s Agents were seen administering suc-
cor to overheated horses. Night and day our ambulances
were in use—the terrible heat affecting all species of animals,
and the Shelter assistants were kept busily engaged admin-
istering relief to dogs and cats found suffering from various
causes in the streets.

It was a season of much suffering to animals, and the
Society’s facilities and force were employed unceas’ingly
until relief came with a cooling temperature. To further
complicate the distressing state of affairs, a sickness,unknown
to veterinary surgeons, broke out among horses, and lasted
for several weeks. It was ﬁnally controlled without much
loss of equine life.

Several contemplated dog ﬁghts, cock ﬁghts, and kindred
brutalities have been prevented, and the promoters of such
so-called sports have deemed it wise to keep out of the reach
of the Society and the police. In the upper part of the State
our Agents were instructed to be extra vigilant, as it was
known that dog and cock ﬁghts were carried on in isolated
districts, and several of these affairs were raided and many
spectators, along with the ﬁghting animals, captured. All
of the human brutes were convicted and ﬁned, While their
victims were cared for by the Society. The maximum pen-
alty prescribed by law upon conviction of having been pres—
ent as witnesses to ﬁghts between animals is a ﬁne of one
- thousand dollars, or one year’s imprisonment, or both ﬁne

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

and imprisonment, within the discretion of the Court, and
there is no doubt that the Judges of the Courts of Crimi-
nal Jurisdiction of the Greater City would, upon conviction,
inﬂict the full penalty of the law. ‘

A few new phases of cruelty have been detected, the
nature of which it is unnecessary to explain in detail; let it
sufﬁce to say that everything is being done within the power
and scope of the Society to mitigate animal suffering and
enforce the humane statutes of the State. Time and space
will not permit of a complete detailed report of what has
been accomplished during the past year, but a few cases of
extreme cruelty will be found in a condensed form hereafter,
which will give some idea of the magnitude of the service.

Justices of the Courts of Special Sessions, likewise of the
higher courts of criminal jurisdiction, have, by their verdicts,
greatly aided the Society in its work, and have repeat-
edly announced from the bench that the laws for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals must be respected, and that all
violations of such laws will be punished according to the

gravity of the offence.

LOCAL AGENTS

It will be seen by the following brief extracts, taken from
the reports of Special Agents residing in different parts of
the State, that the Work of the Society is being carried on

by capable and energetic ofﬁcials:

“ I can say with conﬁdence and pleasure that an effective
work has been done in this place, and that those who had
assumed to be a law unto themselves have come to realize
that there is a law of humanity that prevails and which must

be obeyed.”

“ Cruelty to animals has been reduced to a minimum;
bodily injury has been threatened to tlie Agents of this place,
but we shall perform our duty regardless of threats.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AT NE\V YORK AMBULANCE HOUSE DURING HOT \VEATHER

COOLING OVER-HEATED HORSES

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i
i
E
i
i

 

ARRESI‘ AM) l‘RUb‘ECU’l‘ION V0. 24,669. (ScepugtiBJrJ

 




 

23

“ It is surprising to ﬁnd that at least 90 per cent. of com—
plaints investigated are actuated by malice, in the form of
personal spite. Where cruelty does exist I have little trouble
to secure its cessation.”

“ While having nothing official to report, I might mention
that I have carefully watched all the roads in this Vicinity,
and when places have been washed out by heavy rains,
making it dangerous for horses, I have notiﬁed the commis—
sioners and have seen that such places were repaired. Here—
' tofore the custom has been to leave such places, in the less
frequented roads, for many weeks without repairs.”

“ I have found it necessary to visit a number of farms in
the outlying districts and compel the owners of live stock
to provide proper food and shelter for same.”

“ So far, good work has been accomplished. The large
number of calves brought to this place, the transportation
of which was formerly attended with much cruelty, are now
brought without brutality; a wholesome respect for the law
has, therefore, been achieved.”

“ A victory has been won in the way of bringing calves
for shipment and slaughter to this place. They are no
longer brought in a manner which causes suffering, and are
not tied up by the hind legs before being killed. It was a
hard ﬁght to bring about this humane work, but it has
been accomplished, notwithstanding the abuse and threats
directed towards your Agent.”

PATROL SERVICE

This branch of the work has rendered prompt aid to in—
numerable animals, found in the streets and elsewhere, in
every condition of physical suffering. Being supplied with

 




 

ARREST AND PROSECUTION NO. 24,635. (See page 33.)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
     

 

C. m. ZWHF z/‘WOOZ ZOWmﬁ

SEE 5.: E82332 29. 3.2:. $8 3% R3

 




 

27

mules were found, several animals were suspended from
labor, owing to lameness, sores, overwork, etc.

LIVE POULTRY

In unison with kindred societies of other States, we have
diminished the instances of cruelty practised upon live
' poultry while in transit from points of shipment to terminal
depots. When once within the jurisdiction of the Society,
the laws of the State are vigorously enforced.

POISONING ANIMALS

This cowardly form of cruelty still prevails, but, unfor-
tunately, it is almost impossible to punish the perpetrators.
Several have been arrested on suspicion, but, owing to tech-
nicalities of the law, they have escaped, even where the cir-
cumstances pointed directly to the party suspected. -Two,
however, were convicted, and the prisoners were promptly
punished by ﬁne and imprisonment.

GENERAL WORK

Agents of the Society have attended exhibitions, places of
amusement, markets, excavations, and other places where
animals are employed or used, with a view of preventing
abuse if such should occur. They have also seized and
destroyed paraphernalia, used for the purpose of snaring
song—birds, which they found in public parks, private
grounds, and vacant lots in the suburbs of the city. Atten-
tion has been particularly directed to the animals used in the
subways by contractors as well as those employed in the
many other excavations now being made. Our work is car-
ried on night and day, and everything is being done within

 

 




28

the power and means of the Society to alleviate animal suf-
fering and enforce the humane laws of the State.

The Brooklyn department of our work, under the manage—
ment of Inspector Clark, has been most efﬁciently conducted.

In conclusion, the undersigned refers with pleasure to the
neat appearance of the Agents under his command, as well
as to the intelligence'they have exercised in matte-rs requir-
ing their ofﬁcial attention.

Respectfully submitted,

CHARLES H. HANKINSON,
Superintendent.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE
IMPORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING
THE YEAR 1901:

Jan. 5.

Jan. 7.

Jan. IO.

Jan. I5.

 

James Pendergast got angry at his horse, kicked it several
times in the stomach, then struck the animal several times
in the face with his closed ﬁst, and ﬁnally ended by beating
it in a cruel manner with a strap. On being arraigned before
the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge For-
ker presiding, the defendant claimed that the horse was un-
ruly and he was simply disciplining the animal. This defence
did not satisfy the Court, and a ﬁne of ten dollars was im-
posed, with an alternative of ten days in the City Prison.

For beating his horse over the head and body with a
whip, Samuel Napthal was arrested by one of the Society’s
agents. When arraigned for trial before the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, he stated
that the horse had moved a few steps further on than where
he (Napthal) intended to stop. That was all the excuse he
offered. The moving of the horse made him angry, and
he resorted to the whip. Upon this statement he was ﬁned
thirty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ﬁfteen days in the
City Prison.

For cruelly beating and otherwise maltreating a sick
horse, Richard Clements, of Wappinger’s Falls, N. Y., was
convicted by a jury and sentenced by Justice W. Orkman
to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars. The complainant, a resident
of the town of New Harrisburg, testiﬁed that the horse was
in pretty bad physical condition, and his evidence was cor-
roborated by other well—known residents of the town.

Tony Ventola was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days, by Judges Jerome,
Jacobs, and McKean, of the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, upon his plea of guilty of having beaten a team
of horses in a cruel manner over the head with the butt

 




 

Jan. 16.

 

Jan. 24.

l Jan. 25.

 

 

I M l Jan. 31.

 

 

 

 

Feb. 4.

  

30

end of the whip. F tom the evidence presented, it appeared
that the horses got stalled in the road and could not budge
the heavily-loaded vehicle to which they were attached. This
made the defendant angry, and he got down from the truck
and beat the horses as described above.

For cruelly beating and otherwise ill-treating his dog,
Jacob Piroth, of Pleasant Plains, was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, Second
Division, Judge Fitzgerald presiding. ‘

The lame and feeble horse which Frederick Seeyferth was
urging with whip and voice to haul a heavily-loaded wagon
up a steep incline, against the remonstrance of several citi-
zens, fell in the shafts, owing to its inﬁrmities. The defendant
was convicted in the Court of Special Sessions, Second Divi-
sion, Judge Keady presiding, ‘and sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ten dollars.

Frank Newton, of Newark Valley, N. Y., for failing to
provide proper food, drink, and shelter for a team of horses,
was convicted by a jury and sentenced to the County Jail
for thirty days, by Justice of the Peace W. H. Howard.

Henry Taylor, of Mount Morris, N. Y., was prosecuted
by the Society’s Special Agent, Walter D. Shults, for neglect-
ing to provide necessary food and drink for two horses, one
cow, and a dog. The defendant demanded a trial by jury.
The testimony of the witnesses for the people showed that
the animals had been sadly neglected and had been without
sufﬁcient sustenance for several days. The evidence con-
vinced the jury of the guilt of the defendant, and a verdict of
guilty was rendered. Justice C. W. Gamble thereupon sen-
tenced Taylor to be imprisoned for six months in the County
Penitentiary.

Terence Mullen was charged before the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Justices Jacobs, McKean, and H01-
brook, with having compelled a horse to haul a loaded cart
while suffering from sores (measuring 3 x 3, 3 x 2, 2 x 2
inches) on its back unprotected from the harness. The
constant rubbing of the saddle against the open wound
caused the animal great physical pain and suffering. Upon

 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

W
A»...

QBQuRu: H:£9.‘.-"”"- “ﬂ'ﬂu "““W' "in

.“_W.A.AW...WM.MW , aunt"

‘uﬂilﬂﬂilltﬂﬂﬁ‘llt

 

 

. w“ “Fl?
QQOQ THE 06‘ v

' AMERICA}; 50(2me

FOR THE

PREVENTION

doom P. HAINES-
Pmsidcm

WERER

H“: WE}?

TRICYCLE CARRIER FOR TRANSPORTING SMALL ANIMALS

BROOKLYN AMBULANCE SERVICE

 

 




NT A'l‘ l“:\l{ RUCKAWAY

\
ll
1

Q
I

. UUUJDllb SI’ICCIAI. /\(

 

Feb. 6.
Feb. 7.
Feb. II.

 

33

conviction the defendant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days.

Robert Abenethy was convicted in the Court’of Special
Sessions, Second Division, before Judges Keady, Forker,
and Courtney, of having cut a fox terrier on the left side
of its breast with a razor, inﬂicting a wound that measured
4 inches long, 1%, inches wide, and I inch deep. Abenethy
pleaded that the dog had attempted to bite him, but the
evidence for the people disclosed the fact that the defendant
picked up the dog and deliberately inﬂicted the wound;
it was also proven that the dog was kindly disposed and
never annoyed any one. Defendant was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for twenty days.
See page 26.

Twenty—ﬁve dollars’ ﬁne, or ﬁfty-nine days in the County
Jail, was the sentence imposed upon Thomas McGraw, of
Leroy, N. Y‘., who was charged by the local Special Agent
of the Society with throwing boiling water on a neighbor’s
dog. The animal was badly scalded, one eye being totally
destroyed. The poor creature’s sufferings were humanely

ended by the Society’s agent.

George Reade, a driver employed by the United States
mail contractor, was arrested for driving a horse attached
to U. S. Mail Wagon No. 93, suffering on each side of the
body, as well as on the back, from sores which were unpro-
tected from the harness. Its condition was pitiful. The
parts of the harness resting on the sores were thick with
blood and pus which had issued from the wound. The horse
was also weak and feeble. Reade stated that it had been in
harness since ten o’clock the night previous; the time of his
arreSt being ten o’clock A.M. Before City Magistrate
Crane, Reade stated that prior to leaving the stable the night
preceding his apprehension he had called the attention of
George McGovern, the foreman, to the condition of the
horse, stating that he was in constant danger of being ar-
rested upon a charge of cruelty to animals. McGovern,
however, ordered him to drive the horse. Upon this state-
ment of facts, the magistrate issued a warrant for the arrest
of McGovern, who, with Reade, was subsequently arraigned
in the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, before Jus—
tices Jacobs, Holbrook, and McKean. The Society pro-

3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feb. 13.

Feb. I 3.

Feb. 16.

Feb. 20.

w" "h

 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

34

duced the bloodstained harness as a silent witness against
the defendants. They were both convicted. Presiding Jus—
tice Jacobs, in imposing the sentence, said that it was a case
of unusual cruelty: one of the worst that had ever been
presented to that Court. He regretted very much that the
owners of the horse had not been arrested instead of the
employees. Reade, the driver, was not responsible, and in
his case sentence was suspended. But McGovern was ﬁned
$150, or, in default of payment, to be imprisoned for sixty

days in the City Prison.
For failing to provide food

cattle, J. B. Edwards, of Catskill,
pay a ﬁne of ten dollars, or imprison

Justice Oliver Bourke.

and drink for his horse and
N. Y., was sentenced to
ment for ten days, by

cted in the Court of Special Ses-
fore Judges Keady, Forker, and
a horse to haul a loaded

Harry Levine was convi
sions, Second Division, be
Courtney, of having compelled
truck while the animal was sore, lame, and suffering in

its body and limbs. Levine was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁfty dollars, or, in default of payment, to be imprisoned.

See page 22.

A farmer of Clean, named Hubert Drayer, was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars, or be imprisoned for thirty
days, by Justice W. B. Fields, of Machias, Cattaraugus
County, for neglecting to provide food and drink for his

horses and cattle.

Upon the complaint of a citizen, Peter H. Farley was
arrested for compelling a weak horse—one of a team—to
haul a heavily-loaded vehicle. At the trial in the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Justice Jacobs presiding,
the evidence showed that the horse had fallen in the street,
and the defendant thereupon had employed severe means to
get the animal up, but his efforts being unsuccessful, he
abused the horse in a cruel manner. He treated the remon-
strances of several citizens, who condemned his brutality,
with utter indifference. Subsequently, the animal was found
to have a fractured leg. The testimony of the complainant
as to the cruelty was corroborated by six other witnesses-—
representative merchants. Farley was found guilty, and was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned for

twenty days.

 

 




35

March 4. Jacob Kelly was put on trial for compelling a feeble old
horse to haul a truck on which were ninety pieces of iron
weighing ﬁfty pounds each, a total weight of forty-ﬁve hun-
dred pounds, not including the weight of the truck. The
horse was completely exhausted. The defendant pleaded
guilty to the charge, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of)
thirty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days, by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Justice Holbrook
presiding.

March 6. Malcolm Colby, of Little Falls, N. Y., was, upon the
complaint of the Assistant Chief of Police of that town,
arraigned before Police Justice Gay Cretzer, charged with
having cruelly and unjustiﬁably beaten a horse then and
there attached to a carriage. The defendant pleaded guilty,
and was ﬁned ten dollars, or, in default of payment, to be
imprisoned ten days.’

March 6. A ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, ﬁf-
teen days in the City Prison, was imposed by presiding Jus-
tice Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
upon Patrick Gaetens, who was convicted of overloading a
decrepit horse. The complainant, a well-known citizen, tes-
tiﬁed that the load consisted of about one and one-half tons
of old iron, which the horse could only haul a short distance,
when it had to stop from complete exhaustion.

March 7. Frank Boesch struck a horse several times in the mouth
with his ﬁst, notwithstanding the remonstrance of a detec-
tive sergeant who witnessed the act. Boesch ignored the
ofﬁcer’s admonitions and used very insulting language in
reply. He was told that a repetition of his offence would

. lead to his arrest, and he answered the warning by con—
temptuously striking the horse again. He struck with his
ﬁst and resisted the ofﬁcer, who was ordered to place him
in custody. When arraigned at the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Justice Jacobs presiding, the defendant
was charged with cruelty to animals. The evidence was
strongly against him, and he was convicted and sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars, or to serve ﬁfteen days in the
City Prison.

March 12. Inez C. Youmans, of Butternuts, N. Y., was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne and costs of the prosecution, amounting in the

 

   




  

 

 
 
 
  

36

aggregate to twent
a charge of having
for several animal
farm.

y-seven dollars and eighty-
neglected to provide neces

 

  

 
 
  

 

 

 
  
 
 
  
  

 

 
 
 
  

March 13.

  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 

 

  

March 15. Wm. J. Canavan, emp

 

  
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

  
 
 

 

ﬁve cents, upon

sary sustenance
s belonging to her that she kept on the

 

March 12. Joseph Metzger was
Sessions, of '

and back, unp

loaded wagon. “ The wounds cause
cal pain,” testiﬁed the veterinary
The collar, stained with blood, wa
the trial. The defe
pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty d

by Judges Holbrook, Hinsdale, and McKean.

Charles Meyer was convicted
Sessions, of the First Division, of

the head with an iron bar, the animal at the time being lame
and sore, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars,

or serve ten days in the City Prison, by Judges Jacobs,
Hinsdale, and Holbrook.

 

, while sulfering from sores on the breast
rotected from the harness, to haul a heavily-
d the animal great physi-
surgeon of the Society.
5 exhibited in Court at
ndant was convicted, and sentenced to

ollars, or be imprisoned for thirty dayS,

by the Court of Special
having beaten a horse on

 

 

loyed by Wm. J. Finn, a veter-

yn, was arrested while leading a
horse diseased with glanders through the public streets.

This disease is of a contagious and infectious nature and
dangerous to human and animal life. On being arraigned
before Magistrate Teale, Canavan stated that he was acting

inary surgeon of Brookl

point where it was
Upon this statement a

warrant for the arrest of Dr. Finn was issued, and he was

subsequently arrested, arraigned, and

Archie E. Wheeler, of Oak
pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars, or,
days in jail, by George A. Whi

ville, N. Y., was sentenced to
in default of payment, twenty
te, Justice of the Peace, upon

  




37

conviction of having overdriven, tortured, and cruelly beaten
a horse. This occurred on the public highway, and many
witnesses testiﬁed to the cruelty to which the horse was sub-
jected.

March 25. George Read, of Bath, N. Y., was arraigned before S. G.
Lewis, a Justice of the Peace, charged with having neglected
to supply sufﬁcient food and drink to his horse. It was al—
leged that the horse was almost starved to death when found
by the complaining witness. The defendant pleaded guilty
to the charge of cruelty, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, to work thirty
days in the chain gang.

March 25. Louis Bauer, of Phillipsburg, N. Y., upon his plea of
guilty, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars for keeping a place for
the purpose of dog ﬁghting; such a ﬁght did occur on
Bauer’s premises in February last, at which twenty—ﬁve or
more persons were present. In connection with the above,
James Ballard and George Churchill, both of Goshen, were
each ﬁned ten dollars upon the charge of aiding and abetting
the said ﬁght.

March 28. For beating a horse on the head in a cruel manner with
a Whip, and yanking and jerking the reins, causing the ani—
mal’s mouth to bleed, Joseph McGrath was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned ﬁfteen days,
by Judges Holbrook, Hinsdale, and McKean, of the Court
of Special Sessions, of the First Division.

April I. For overdriving a horse harnessed to a baker’s wagon,
the animal at the time being very lame from an incurable
disease of the leg, Michelo Costello was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of ten dollars, by Justices Forker, Keady, and Fleming,
of the Court of Special Sessions, of the Second Division.
The owner of the horse was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars for having permitted the animal to be driven while
in the condition above described.

April 4. Martin Gibbin pleaded guilty to having compelled a horse,
while the animal was suffering from sores on the body, un-
protected from the harness, to draw a heavily-laden vehicle,
and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 5.

April II.-

April‘ I 7.

April 17.

 

 

  

38

spend ten days in the City Prison, by presiding Judge Hol-
brook, of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division. In
sentencing the defendant the Justice took occasion to warn

- him that if he ever was brought into Court again under a

similar charge, the penalty would be much more severe.

“ You are charged with having cruelly beaten a team of
horses that were in your care and custody,” said Judge H01-
brook to Thomas Duiri, who was on trial before the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, for cruelty to animals. The
defendant said that the horses “ were lazy,” but it was shown
by witnesses that they were weak and exhausted. The de-
fendant was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned ten

days.

Harlan P. Hale was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve
dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days, by presiding Judge
Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
upon a charge of cruelty to animals in that he compelled a
horse, one of a team, while lame and suffering, to pull a
wagon loaded With ice. An eye—Witness testiﬁed at the trial
that “ the animal was in a most pitiful condition and greatly

overloaded.”

Charles Canﬁeld, of Newark, N. J., was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days,
by presiding Judge Holbrook, of the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, for having compelled a lame horse to
haul an express wagon from Newark to New York. The
veterinary surgeon testiﬁed that the horse was so lame that
it could scarcely stand up after being released from the

wagon.

For driving a team of horses that were suffering from
sores and were otherwise in a feeble condition, John H.
Grosberger was sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars, or be imprisoned ten days, by Judges Holbrook, Hins-
dale, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division. One of the horses was suffering from what is
called “rotten heel” on the off forefoot, and blood was
running from same. The animal was extremely lame, and
the other horse was also suffering from a painful wound on

the knee.

 

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARREST AND PROSECUTION No. 24,789. (See page 43.)

 




we: page 44..)

L‘ U. AL*,UVX+.

* away/‘1

April 18.

41

Jacob Van Alstyne, of Stuyvesant Falls, N. Y., was sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned‘ﬁve' days
in the County Jail, by Justice Milton M. Hall, upon his

_ conviction of having left a team of horses under a shed over

April 20.

April 26.

April 29.

night unprotected and without food or water. It is stated
that the animals when found were in a most pitiable con—
dition.

Wm. F. Twillger, of Dresden, N. Y., was ﬁned ﬁve dollars
and costs of prosecution by Judge Geo. F. Ingalls, on the
defendant pleading guilty to having treated a neighbor’s cat
in a cruel manner. Witnesses testiﬁed that the defendant
seized the cat by the back of the neck and, after kicking it
several times, threw the animal violently against a stone
wall, where it lay for some time until humanely destroyed.

William 'Knapp, of Brooklyn, was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned for thirty days, by
Judges Fleming, Fitzgerald, and Courtney, of the Court of
Special Sessions, Second Division, upon conviction of a
charge of cruelty to animals. The evidence showed that the
defendant drove a horse attached to a licensed vendor’s
wagon while the animal was in a weak, feeble, and crippled
condition; in addition to which it was suffering from ﬁstula
on withers. The latter is a disease of the bone of the back,
and causes great physical pain, which was aggravated by
the saddle pressing on the Wound.

Max Greenfeder was on trial before the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, upon a charge of having poisoned
to death a black mare belonging to a rival expressman. The
evidence at the trial showed that the animal was poisoned
by a mixture of strychnine and meal, made up in the form
of a ball, and administered to the horse while it was har— .
nessed to a truck standing before the owner’s residence.
Eye—witnesses testiﬁed that they saw the defendant give the
horse the poisonous substance, which was subsequently ana—
lyzed by the Board of Health and found to contain the poison,
in large quantities. The testimony of the people’s witnesses
appeared to be most conclusive; but the defendant produced
in his evidence persons who swore positively that, at the
time it was alleged he was seen to give the horse~the poison-
ous substance, he was at a place three miles distant, and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 29.

May I.

May 3.

42

was engaged in purchasing merchandise. Finally, one of the
people’s witnesses testiﬁed that he was not positive whether
it was Greenfeder or some one else that he saw give the
horse the poison, although he had previously sworn to being
positive such was the fact. Presiding Judge Holbrook be—
came thoroughly disgusted with what he termed “ perjured
testimony,” and said that if it was proven to the satisfaction
of the Courtwhich of the witnesses had given false evidence

the offender would certainly be committed to await the action .

of the Grand Jury. Owing, there-fore, to the character of
the conﬂicting testimony, the Court would have to give the
defendant the beneﬁt of the doubt, and he was acquitted.
Judge Holbrook further stated that, While the Court had its
own opinion with regard to the guilt or innocence of the
defendant, if the former had been proven, the defendant
would have received the full penalty prescribed by the statute
for such offences. ‘

Adolph Schwartz, for beating a horse in a cruel manner
and jerking the lines, thereby cutting the animal’s mouth,
and kicking the horse in the stomach, was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days.
When the defendant was asked what he had to say why
sentence should not be pronounced upon him, he declared
that’the horse was balky and would not go, whereas it was
shown that the animal was willing, but was overloaded.

Guispie Sentein was charged with torturing a horse by
the use of a device known as a twitch. A twitch is an in-
strument used by horse clippers, and is usually of home
manufacture. It consists of a stick of wood, on the end
of which is a piece of rope fastened in the shape of a loop,
and this loop is put around the upper lip of a horse and
twisted in such a way as to hold the lip in a vice-like grasp.
The defendant pulled and jerked at the twitch, thereby
lacerating the animal’s mouth and causing extreme pain,
and for this cruelty was convicted and sentenced to pay ﬁfty
dollars, or be imprisoned for twenty days, by Judges Hins-
dale, Holbrook, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division.

Michael Green, of Maspeth, L. I., was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of $100, .or, in default of payment, to be imprisoned for

.,, :1 ‘45:. ‘

 




 

    

May 6.

May II.

May 16.

May 18.

    

43

three months, by Judges Keady, Forker, and Courtney, of
the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, upon his
conviction of having exposed and sold a horse diseased with
glanders. Veterinary surgeons testiﬁed that the disease
was most apparent, having manifested itself through the
external skin in the form of farcy. When it is known that
glanders and farcy are diseases of a contagious character,
dangerous to human beings as well as animals, the enormity
of Green’s offence can be duly realized.

Slcipio Tait was arraigned at the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding, charged
with compelling a horse, while in a weak and exhausted
condition, also lame and sore, to haul a loaded express
wagon. Tait was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days in the City Prison.
The horse was in a famished and emaciated condition, show~
ing evidence of deprivation and neglect.

Jacob Adler was arrested for driving a lame, sore, and
emaciated horse attached to a loaded wagon; at his trial on
the 22d of the same month, before Judges Hinsdale, Hol-
brook, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, Adler was found guilty and sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days. See
page 39-

John Shaw was charged in Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding, with having cruelly
beaten a horse on the head and body with a whip. Several
witnesses for the people testiﬁed that the defendant appeared
to have lost his temper at something the horse had done.
There were numerous marks of the beating upon the animal’s
body, all of which was explained to the Court. The de-
fendant had nothing to say in his defence, and he was sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned
for ten days.

Louis T‘hron, of New Rochelle, was urging a weak and
lame horse to pull a heavily-loaded wagon. A sympathetic
lady requested him to give the horse a rest, or to unharness
it and take it to the stable, but this he refused to do. An
ofﬁcer of the Society arrested the offender, who was subse-
quently convicted in the Court of Special Sessions of the




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 18.

May 20.

   
 
 
 

May 20.

   
 

May 21.

    

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

44

charge of cruelty to the horse, and was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of thirty—ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days
in the City Prison.

Driving a horse while in a weak, sore, and lame condition
was the charge against James A. Begg. The evidence at the
trial of the defendant showed that there was a sore on the

:back of the animal that measured six by twelve inches, unpro—

tected from the harness; the horse was otherwise in a
wretched condition, but was forced to haul a loaded express
wagon. The defendant was found guilty of cruelty to the
horse by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge
Hinsdale presiding, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars, or be imprisoned for twenty days. See page 40.

Thomas Hamill was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve
dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days, by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding,
upon his conviction of having caused, procured, and per-
mitted a horse belonging to him to be driven by one Patrick
Nolan while the animal was suffering from sores on the
body unprotected from the harness. The horse was other-
wise in poor physical condition, and totally unﬁt for the
work required of him.

Abraham Kaufman was convicted in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, of having
compelled a horse belonging to him to haul an express
wagon While the animal was suffering from an abscess on
the neck, into which the collar was pressing. There were
also other sores on the animal’s body, and it was, besides,
diseased with farcy, the latter being contagious and dan—
gerous to the life and health of human beings as well as
horses. All the allegations before mentioned were proven,

‘ and the defendant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve

dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days.

Daniel Prentice was arrested on complaint of a lady, who
charged him with cruelly beating a horse over the head and
body with a heavy whip. The defendant is a resident of
Brooklyn, and took offence at interference with What he
considered his right to do as he pleased with his own prop—
erty. He knows better now, for he was given to understand

 

 




    

May 22.

May 24.

June 7.

June 9.

June II.

    

45

that animals have rights which must be respected. The
defendant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars,
or be imprisoned for ten days.

John F. Berg was charged in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, with having
set a St. Bernard dog to worry a cat. The dog, upon being
urged on by the‘defendant, seized the cat by the back and
crushed it to death. The evidence of eye-witnesses to the
act convinced the Court of the guilt of the defendant, who
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be im-
prisoned ten days in the City Prison.

Max Adler, of Brooklyn, abandoned a sick and helpless
horse to die on the public highway, and the circumstance
being telephoned to the Society, an ofﬁcer was immediately
sent to Ralph Avenue and Sumpter Street, where he found
the horse in the condition described. The poor creature’s suf—
ferings were at once ended and search made for Adler, who
was arrested, and, upon being arraigned before the Court
of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Courtney pre-
siding, Was convicted and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten
dollars.

James Burke, of Jersey City, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfty dollars, with the alternative of twenty days’ imprison—
ment, upon 'his conviction of having compelled a very lame
horse, one of a team, to haul a truck loaded with coal. A
witness for the people testiﬁed that the poor beast was heav-
ily overloaded, and was “ going on three legs.” Sentence
was imposed by Judge Jerome, presiding at the Court of
Special Session-s, First Division.

Rosa Farrar, of New Rochelle, was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ﬁve dollars, by Judge Van Zelm, upon her conviction
of having killed several rabbits and a chicken in a cruel and
inhuman manner. It was testiﬁed that the defendant seized
the animals by the legs and pounded their bodies against the
pavement until they were dead, merely because they tres—
passed upon her premises.

Charles Tompkins, of Ashland, Greene County, N. Y.,
was convicted and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars, or to be imprisoned in the County Jail, for thrusting




 

 

 

 

 
   

« g . , _. VV < j
". '.-a~:;.-A .. f4. -A‘-‘. :1
"‘¢"-‘_;..’ N. ~ .- . .s, . .

‘__.___.’

. 5.
. ...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

July 9.

July I7.

   
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
      

46

a wire about four feet long through the scrotum of a bull
and tying thereto a tin pan, then letting the animal run at
large in that condition. It was an exceedingly cruel act.

A wanton act of cruelty to a dog was committed by a
valet named Bernard Y. Smith. The animal, a playful little
creature, ran into a store where Smith happened to be at
the time, when he took a penknife from his pocket and cut
off the dog’s tail close to its body. The inhuman fellow was
promptly arrested and, pleading guilty to the charge of
cruelty, was sentenced by the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars.

An Arabian itinerant fruit vender was driving a horse
from town to town through the upper part of the State.
The animal, described as “a walking skeleton,” was sore,
lame, weak, and feeble, and excited the pity of all who saw
its wretched condition. The Society’s local Agent took the
animal to a barn, where it was kept for ﬁfteen days under
a veterinary surgeon’s care, and a kind lady, a resident of
the town, on learning of the case, purchased the horse from
the Arabian and turned it out to pasture.

A more ﬂagrant case of cruelty to an unoffending, helpless
animal can scarcely be imagined'than the following: A
stallion colt, when three years old, was put into a ram-

”shackle outhouse, and for over two years was never exer-

cised. Its food consisted of small quantities of grass fur—
nished by a sympathetic neighbor. Its bed was the ground,
and its drink was furnished only when it was convenient for
the owner to supply it. By reason of such conﬁnement and
want of food, the animal was dwarfed and reduced to skin
and bone. The woodwork of the shed in front of the horse
had been eaten away, and the surroundings showed every
evidence of the animal’s sufferings. The owner was prose-
cuted by the Society’s Agent, and'upon conviction was ﬁned
ten dollars and costs. The colt was sold to a neighbor, who
will see that it has the best of care. The place where this
cruelty occurred is somewhat isolated, which accounts for
the case not being sooner discovered by our Agent.

Harry Nowalk and Nathan Jaffe, both of Brooklyn, were
ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars each by presiding Judge Forker, of




July 26.

July 30-.

Aug. 2.

47

the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, for beating
a horse on the body with the lash and butt end of a whip.
It appeared from the testimony that the defendants took
turns in abusing the horse. ‘

Frank Griffo, an employee of the People’s Cooperative Ice
Company, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars by
presiding Judge Holbrook, of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, or be imprisoned for twenty days, for driving
a team of horses, one of which was suffering from a sore
on its breast, eleven by two inches, unprotected from the
harness; the other being sore in the nigh forefoot and very
lame. Both horses were unﬁt for labor.

Daniel Broughton was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dol-
lars, or be imprisoned for twenty days, by Judges Hinsdale,
Holbrook, and Wyatt, of the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, for having compelled a team of horses to haul a
wagon loaded with ice, while one horse was suffering from
sores on breast, 5 x 2 inches and 2 x 1% inches; the other
horse having sores on neck, 3 X 3 inches and 2 x 1% inches,
unprotected from the harness. The animals were suffering
great physical pain.

Lipman Baum, for compelling an old, sore, and emaciated
horse to haul a wagon loaded with almost four times the

. animal’s weight, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve

dollars, or be imprisoned ten days, by Judge's McKevan,
Jerome, and Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division. The horse fell in the street from weakness,
and defendant was requested by several humane persons to
unharness it, but he continued abusing the animal, with the
result above mentioned.

John M. Schubert, of Yonkers, was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ten dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days, by Justice
McCutchen, upon conviction of having carried six live
calves in a cruel and inhuman manner; namely, tied down
in the bottom of a box 2 ft. 6 in. x 6 ft., with the driver’s
seat on two of them. The animals were covered with two
heavy horse blankets, and were almost smothered when
found.

 




Sept. 9.

Sept. 9.

Sept. 20.

‘9

ing, for having violated the provisions of Section 660 of the
laws for the prevention of cruelty to animals, in that he
unjustiﬁably administered oil-meal mixed with a certain
poison to a horse belonging to a rival truckman. For-
tunately, Feinstein was discovered in time to prevent the
horse from partaking of the poisonous mixture. The de-
fendant was sentenced to be imprisoned for one year in the
Penitentiary.

James Digan, of Brooklyn, was arrested for compelling
a team of horses in a lame and exhausted condition to haul
a heavily-loaded truck. The veterinary surgeon testiﬁed
that the horses were totally unﬁt for work at the time.
Digan, on being arraigned before the City Magistrate, said
that he was compelled to drive the horses by his employer,
John Harrison, upon which statement a warrant was issued
for the arrest of the latter, and, on September 12th, he was
convicted in the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division,
Judge Fleming presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $150,
or be imprisoned for thirty days. In the case of D'igan,
sentence was suspended.

Robert E. \Nortman, of Ocean Parkway, Brooklyn, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned for

'twenty days by Judges Keady, Fleming, and Fitzgerald, of

the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, upon his
conviction of having cruelly beaten a horse upon the head
and body and then stabbing the animal in the leg with a
pitchfork, inﬂicting a very painful wound.

James Hogan neglected to provide food, drink, or surgical
treatment for a poor old horse that had been without sus-
tenance for several days, excepting such as was furnished
though the efforts of a kind—hearted watchman by begging
from truckmen. The animal was also suffering from a dis-
eased hoof that had received no attention for many days.
After caring for the horse, search was made for Hogan, who
was found in the rear of a liquor saloon drinking with boon
companions. On being charged with his neglect, he replied
that he had “no money to buy feed,” and that the horse
“ must take care of itself.” The Society’s veterinary surgeon
pronounced the animal past recovery, and it was humanely
destroyed. Hogan was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve

4

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 23.

Sept. 25.

Oct. 5.

Oct. 17.

50

dollars, or be imprisoned for thirty days, by the Court of
SpeCial Sessions.

Willis Chamberlain, of Constable, N. Y., was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars and three dollars costs by Justice
of the Peace O. E. Earl, upon his conviction of having car-
ried several lambs in a cruel and inhuman manner; namely,
with their feet tied in such a way as to cause great physical
pain.

Timothy Shea was arrested for driving a horse to a loaded
vehicle while the animal was suffering from what is known
as “cutaneous glanders,” as well as being lame and sore,
and M. J. Toughey, the owner of Said horse, was arrested
for causing and permitting it to be driven. On being ar—
raigned before Magistrate Joseph M. Deuel, the driver,
Timothy Shea, was discharged, on the ground that he did
not know the condition of the horse when he harnessed it
up. Toughey, the owner, was held for trial on the same
day, and when arraigned before Judges Holbrook, Hinsdale,
and Jerome, at the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,

[pleaded ignorance as to knowing that the horse had any

cutaneous disease, but pleaded guilty to having caused the
animal to be driven by Shea. The Court believed his state-
ment and suspended sentence. See page 73.

William Lyons was charged in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, before Judges Hinsdale, Holbrook,
and Wyatt, with having set a bull-dog upon a cat, which it
mutilated. The defendant was requested by a lady to desist,
but he refused, and upon his being found guilty was sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars, or be imprisoned for
ﬁve days. -

But for the vigilance and prompt action of the Society,
Isaac Fromer would have escaped punishment for having
committed a most atrocious act of cruelty. Fromer caught
a live rat in a wire trap, saturated the animal with oil, and
set it on ﬁre. He then opened the trap door and let the
burning animal escape to the street. The brutal act was
witnessed by several people, who denounced the offender
and telephoned to the Society. The same day F romer was

 




51

arrested and held for trial on complaint of a citizen who
had witnessed the deed. On being arraigned before the Court
of Special Sessions, Judge Wyatt presiding, F romer denied
the charge in'toto, and even had his daughter, aged twelve
years, go to the witness stand in his behalf; but it was shown
by the people that the child was at school at the time the
offence was committed. Eye—witnesses to the act swore
that they saw the defendant pour the oil on the animal, then
deliberately strike a match and set it on ﬁre. Fromer was
convicted, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or be
imprisoned for thirty days. The lawyer for the defence, in
pleading for the discharge of his client, urged that the rat,
being an obnoxious creature, is unprotected by the law,
and to kill such animals, no matter how, is justiﬁable. Now,
the legal deﬁnition of the word “ animal,” Section 669, Title
XVI of the Penal Code, is “every living creature except
the human race,” and “ cruelty” is deﬁned as “every act,
omission, or neglect, whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suf-
fering, or death is caused or permitted.” No animal is too
insigniﬁcant or obnoxious to be denied the protection of

. the humane laws of the State, and, if animals must be killed,
the act must be done in a humane manner. Judge Wyatt,
when imposing sentence, said that the defendant had “ com-
mitted a most atrocious act of cruelty.”

 

Oct. 31. Joseph Milovsky, a lad about fourteen years of age, came
to the headquarters of the Society and told a story which
seemed almost incredible. He said in substance: “I was
employed in an artiﬁcial ﬂower manufactory on the west
side of the city and had to" do various jobs around the
premises. On the afternoon of the 25th of October a home-
less cat strayed into the building and was chased by some
of the employees up and down, from one room to another;
it was_ﬁnally captured, beaten, and turned loose. Ap-
parently it had got away, but on the following day it ap-
peared again, and this time it was chased into the basement,
where the engine and boiler were located. Employed there,
as ﬁreman and engineer, were Virginia Travangeld and
Peter Mo-mi; I saw Peter pick up the little animal and put
it in a paper bag and give it to Travangeld to throw into the
furnace; both of the men seemed to take a delight in what
they were doing; they opened the door several times and
looked into the ﬁre. I saw the cat moving about, and at

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov. I.

Nov. 7.

Nov. 20.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 

52

last they shut the door, and I, being afraid they would do
the same thing to the, left the premises and came here.”
The boy’s story was believed, and the same afternoon war—
rants of arrests were obtained for the two men above named,
and they were taken into custody and arraigned [before
Magistrate Willard H. Olmstead, who placed each of them
under ﬁfty dollars bond to appear for trial before the Court
of Special Sessions, First Division, Judges Wyatt, Hol-
brook, and McKean. Young Milovsky was the only wit-
ness, but he narrated the circumstance of their brutality
in such a convincing mannerthat the lawyers and others in
attendance listened most intently to his story. The defend-
ants denied the charge, but it was done in such a manner
that their denial only augmented the hide-ousness of their
act. The Court believed the testimony of the boy and found
the defendants guilty, sentencing each to pay a ﬁne of
twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days. Judge
Wyatt, who presided, declared that it was one of the worst
cases that had ever come under his notice.

 

Charles McCauley, of Richmond Hill, Kings County, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars, or be imprisoned for
ten days, by Justice of the Peace Van Zelm, for unmercifully
beating a team of horses that were attached to a heavily—
loaded furniture van. The bodies of the horses were covered
with ridges, showing the result of their inhuman treatment.

    
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   

  

Stephen Gerber was arraigned in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Wyatt presiding, charged
with having compelled a team of horses that were in a weak
and emaCiated condition, and with sores on tneir shoulders,
to haul a heavily—loaded truck. The defendant was con-
victed and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or
be imprisoned for ten days.

  

A horse with a sore under saddle, 3 x 3 inches in size.
and attached to a U. 5'. mail wagon carrying mail through
Westchester County, was stopped by the Society’s Agent
resident at New Rochelle, and the driver placed under arrest.
Judge Deuel, of the Seventh District Magistrates’ Court.
held the driver for trial and ﬁxed bail at $200. See page 27.




    

Nov. 22.

Dec. 12.

 

53

George W. Rollins was convicted at, the Court of Special
Sessions, Second Division, Judge Keady presiding, for hav-
ing caused a horse belonging to him that was in a‘weak and
emaciated condition to be driven by one Charles A. Geoghe—
gan. The defendant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-
ﬁve dollars.

Guispie Giavano was arraigned in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Wyatt presiding, charged
with having cruelly beaten 3 horse that was suffering from
lameness caused by a quittor on the animal’s off hindfoot.
The horse was in a pitiable condition and could scarcely
put the sore foot to the ground, yet it was compelled to haul
a wagon loaded with merchandise. Giavano was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten
days. .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BNEWYORK-

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY MAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

    
     

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and
Twenty-sixth Street, New York

 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   




 

  

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
Families.

 

“ Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”—Nezo York Trz'ozme.

“ It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel
‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”

—New Y oré Herald.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”——sz'rz°t of the Times.

“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most
useful career.”-—— The Rider and Driver.

“It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in need of.”—1Vew York World.

“ The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement.”——.Plzz'lao’e@/zz'a Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society. Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York

   

 

 




 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND
BEAST.

There is great need for additional drinking fountains for man

and beast. The Society has already erected many and is increas-

ing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most appropri-

ate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the erection

of fountains under the direction of the Society, and bearing the

names of the donors. The cost of erecting a fountain similar to

that represented in the above illustration, including plate with

name of donor, is, in the City of New York, about two hundred
and ﬁfty dollars.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

 

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Incorporated April IO, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS:
M odison Ave. and 26th S t., NEW YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. JOHN MASON KNOX, Sec.
BROOKLYN OFFICE:

13 Willonghby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

————-—

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
16 S onth Royal Street, M obile.-

W. A. ALEXANDER, Pres. - MAJOR E. R. QUATTLEBAUM,
Secretary.

Birmingham Humane Society.

715 Eighteenth Street, Birmingham.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

ARIZONA .
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Tucson, Ariz.

 

Tucson.
WM. HERRING, President. ‘ ROCHESTER FORD, Sec.

 




-: '7 . , .
f ...-V, .. 149v? ~1uw .
'- ~- "‘7" 1’ """1:'..‘I:‘?”.“°P‘iv'FWW__.. _ ,7
..._ A ,
MW

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
    
    
 
     

6o

ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Humane Society.
, Little Rock.
CHAS. F. PENZEL, President. R. W. PORTER, Secretary.

 

 

CALIFORNIA.
iety for the Prevention of. Cruelty to

Animals.
403 Parrott Building, San Francisco.
N. P. COLE, President. C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
The‘Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Los Angeles.

\ DR. T. A. SEYMOUR, Pres. MRS. ELIZABETH MILLS
MILLARD, Secretary.

elty to

The San Francisco Soc

 

Santa Clar
Animals.

24 West Santa Clara Street, San Jose.
DR. M.-A. SOUTHWORTH, Pres. L. A. HOWE, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, Pres. H. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.

424 “ K ” Street, Sacramento.

I. SCHAD, Secretary.
Animals.

1 ,1 .
\ a County Society for the Prevention of Cru

 

R. C. IREVIN, President.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

58 San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.

BEN]. F. MILLS, Pres. FRED JOHNS, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino

‘”“ A. . County, Cal.
l

 

 

 

 

Redlands.
“ﬂ EZRA CROSSMAN, President. , Sec.
‘ 1w ' 1 . ‘ Santa Barbara Humane Society.
hf,” \“ y 1003 Stall Street, Santa Barbara.
1‘ RONALD THOMAS, President. EDWARD T. BALCH, Sec.

 

 

 

   




61

Santa Cruz County Humane Society.
Santa Cruz.
DR. C. L. ANDERSON, Pres. MISS ANNA DIXON, Sec.
Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fresno.
W. B. PARSONS, President. WM. HARVEY, Secretary.
Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sansalito.
A. SYLVA, President. DR. C. E. CASE, Secretary.
COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.
5 Jacobson Building, Denver.

WALTER S. CHEESMAN, E. K. WHITEHEAD, Secretary.
President.

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. F. B. HILL, Secretary.

——

CONNECTICUT.

The Connecticut Humane Society.

Hartford.

REV. WM. DE LOSS LOVE, CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec.
President.

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
New H aven
PROF. WM. H. BREWER, Pres. EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.
Meriden Humane Society.

M eriden.
Mns. MARY J. ROGERS, Pres. MRS. FRANCES W. HAM—
MOND, Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Street, Wilmington.

DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, WILLARD H. PORTER, Sec.
President.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.
— i 4 l
_ ~ v‘ I,
c' .. _ ’ . *z 2 '

a. i‘72._4 \g. - .V . a .5 -.
x. .. was, - "aﬂ‘f‘? ’,. ":A -‘7 3‘

‘ ~ .. ;‘.-.
4 A A i}.
_ . . # A _ . ‘. A A ”an“ .4 :2- ”i
W A a 4 . AA, _. .44, . ..- _ ““44 A. _ EMA! ”<44 .4“. ’44 . . .

. 5‘

.

l _..

.
a
.

 

 

62

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
1430 F Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
CHESTER A. SNOW, Pres. HERBERT E. MARTYN, Sec.

_—————

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
5 t. Augustine.

WARD G. FOSTER, President. LOUIS LARSEN, Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Jacksonville.

0. PIERRE HAVENS, Pres. B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.
The Pensacola Humane Society.
Pensacola.
THOS. C. WATSON, President. D. HALE WILSON, Sec.
Hillsborough County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

. Tampa.
E. M. GREESON, President. R. H. PLATT, Secretary.

GEORGIA.
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I McIntosh Street, Augusta.
HON. HENRY B. KING, Pres. S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta. ‘
J. F. BARCLAY, President. ORVILLE H. HALL, Sec.
Brunswick Humane Society.

Brunswick.
WM. C. DOWNING, President. MRS. I. E. DU BIGNON, Sec.

 

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society..
. 56o Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL, Pres. BELDEN F. CULVER, Sec.

 

 




 

mum/CV 79/.33 .nA/JAHVJN 444730
”VI/i; ./._ map 1:; Zm:zz4.v SAQAQHZH :3 741,_.4;_v:q;.f../.<Z,__ ZS: :3Z44::Z<

/.
A.—

 

 

 

atutmtngv, ..
.

 

 

mEDOZ

BmDOE
SQZ<AD$2< 223% L/zzz :3 13372.74

52<qu2< 55.» >52 550% 4:232




/\|

AN!) HHme,

I‘ll-l tnl'l'llml', HEA’I‘INH

.H’I

INH'.(- I()C’..)

‘\r.‘|‘.\|/\I‘1-

.‘.l «\l ‘1

Hl‘

HIM Il‘l

65

Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

Rockford.
WM. H. FITCH, M.D., Pres. MRS. ROBERT REW, Secretary.

The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.

LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

Shelbym'lle.
DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, MRS. H. J. HAMLIN, Secretary.
President.

H. P. WALTON, President.

Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

C hampalgn.
HENRY TREVETT, President. A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld. I
FRANK W. TRACY, President. HOWARD K. WEBER, Sec.
Jacksonville Humane Society.
Jacksonville.

A. C. WADSWORTH, Pres. WM. PATERSON, Sec. pro tem.
The Jerseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

ferseym'lle.
MIss ADA C. DAVENPORT, DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Sec.
President.
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Harvard.
w. c. WELLINGTON, Pres. MRS. W. c. WELLINGTON,
Secretary.
United States Humane Society.
I 3 East M am Street, Dam/ille.
JOHN W. HALLS, President. I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.

The Whitehall Humane Society.

Whitehall.
FRANCIS FOWLER, Pres. ‘ H. O. TUNISON, Secretary.
5

 




.......

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

66

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
42 Lombard Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. A. C. ELST ER, Secretary.

 

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals and Children.

C rawfordsoille.

GEORGE W. PAUL, President. A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.
The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper Fourth Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.
82 Clinton Street, Fort Wayne.
A. H. BITTINGER, President. C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.

The South Bend Humane Society.
S onth Bend.
DR. S. L. KILMER, President. H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.
Terre Haute Humane Society.
Terre H ante.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. DR. E. B. MCALLISTER, Sec.
Muncie Humane Society.
M nncie.
DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. W. R. MOORE, Secretary.
The Elkhart Humane Society.
206 Main Street, Elkhart.
A. P. KENT,‘President. LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Sec.
Wayne. County Humane Society.
Richmond.
I. EDGAR ILIFF, President. MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, See.
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Pern.
JOHN L. MILLER, President MRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.

   




 

. 1 5., ‘

67

Kokomo Humane Society.

Kokomo.
E. N. COLE, President. MISS MINNIE A. TRUE-
BLOOD, Secretary.
IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.
Des M oines. .
JAMES CALLANAN, Pres. ELIZ. D’ICKSON JONES, See.

The Sioux City Humane Society.
S ionx City.
REV. GEO. H. CORNELL, Pres. EDWARD CROMWELL, Sec.

 

KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
Wichita. '
J. M. KNAPP, President. MRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Sec.

The Foster Humane Society.

Topeka.
REV. ABR’AM WYMAN, Pres. SAM RAD‘GES, Secretary.

KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Masonic Temple, 411 West Green Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, Pres. MISS BERTA WILSON, Sec.

Henderson Humane Society. .,
Henderson. '
, President. INGRAM CROCKETT, Sec.

 

Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort. - '
LOUIS MANGAN, President.

The Kenton County Humane Society.

91 5 Scott Street, C ovin gton.

H. A. SCHROETTER, Pres. MRS. FRANCES C. MANSER,
Secretary.

 

, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

_____’__—’

i
H y
I
i
I
i
I
i
i
W
i
1
i
i
i
9 \
.
W 3 ,
i
i S
. w
. i
i
‘ t
. 1
‘ §
‘ t i
i t
i
.1 ‘
.‘y ‘ ‘
»-. i
I.“ 1.1
I ‘i
. i
t M w ‘ |
. i ,
‘ W i
, .
‘ i
. . i
W i 1 1
S" v ‘
.. V ‘
't
., .
.: i
». i
.‘Al
i, “
i
w
i.
1,
i
n.” .
.< M
‘
'1 i. *
‘l
w
.1 ,
a, i
. i
‘ i
1 i
‘. , \‘
i ‘i ‘
i
,- . ‘ i
_ ‘1
"5 ii i
: ‘ ,
1 ‘m’ i‘
‘ H. l i.
‘.
i‘ “
1 . ‘!
. x ‘ r ‘
».f w
N M ‘
, . , 1
i .
. ,w ,
.i
A ‘1 ,
‘1 i 1
I ‘ ,
4 V‘ , ‘I
i .
. ii i .
, ‘ ‘ ,
. M A
v ‘>.
i, .
HM
H: ‘
i ‘ “
,‘\ 1‘
‘I “ ‘,
V“ ‘1
i“:
‘M ‘.
it '
.i
T“ ;(
‘ H‘.
‘W
i
" .1“? i
in ‘
w i
:‘ ‘ i
‘ ”H .l
I“ ‘
M.‘ .
“J \

n L 2.2.; _ 4‘

 

 

68

LOUISIANA.

Louisiana State, Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
606 Commercial Place, New Orleans.

Animals.

HON. B. C. SHIELDS, DOUGLAS FORSYTH,
Acting President. Secretary.
,MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of. Animals.
Portland. ~
HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, DR. H. C. VAUGHAN, Sec.
President.

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.

F: O. BEAL, President. MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Waterw'lle.
H. L. EMERY, President. H. B. SNELL, Secretary.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Lewlston.

WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

._———-—-—

MARYLAND.

The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
, 323 North Charles Street, Baltimore.
WM. WHITRIDGE, M.Dv., Pres. ROBT. B. HANSELL, Sec.

—_———

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
19 M llk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, President. JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Sec.
Taunton Humane Society.
18 Clinton Street, Tannton.

REV. T'HOS. EDW. POTTER- MRS. T’HOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.
0 President.

,

 

 

 




 

69

The Lowell Humane Society.
71 Central Street, Lowell.
FRED’K A. FISHER, Pres. MRS. GEO. F. RICHARDSON.

Secretary.
MICHIGAN .
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.

HON. T. W. PALMER, Pres. o. B. SCOTT, Secretary.

Kent County Humane Society.
Grand Rapids.
REVJ. HERRMAN RANDALL, A. C. TORREY, Secretary.
President.
Kalamazoo Humane Society.
Kalamazoo.
SAMUEL FOLZ, President. CARL G. FLIENSTUCK, Sec.

MINNESOTA.

The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Relief Society Building, 141 East Ninth Street, St. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Sec.

Minneapolis Humane Society.
513 Bank of Commerce Building, Minneapolis.
J. C. MCINTYRE, President. VERA E. BEAN, Acting Sec.

Duluth Humane Society.
211 Trust Building, Duluth.
REV. A. W. RYAN, President. H. W. MERCHANT, Secretary.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Chamber of Commerce Building, St. Paul.

W. L. WILSON, President. MISS ALICE S. MILLARD,

. Secretary.
Steele County Humane Society.

Owatonna.
B. S. COOK, President. DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

70

The Winona Humane Society-
Winona.
an. ALLAN BELL, President. MRS. E. W. WILLIAMS, See.

St. Cloud Humane Society.
St. Cloud.
WM. B. MITCHELL, President. J. I. DONOHUE, Secretary.

The Red Wing Humane Society.
Red Wing.
A. J. MEACHAM, President. DR. F. W. DIMMITT, Secretary.

Rochester Humane Society.
Rochester.
REV. J. F. TAINTOR, Pres. WENDELL VINE, Secretary.

Stillwater Humane Society.
Stillwater.
G. E. CLARK, President. FRANK T. WILSON, Secretary.
MISSISSIPPI. .
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Natchez.
WM. B. ABBOTT, President. ALEX. H. PEALE, Secretary.

#

MISSOURI.
The Humane Society of Missouri.
511 Commercial Building, St. Louis.
H. N. DAVIS, President JOHN H. HOLMES, Secretary.

The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
3401 Washington Avenue, St. Louis.
MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, Pres. MISS AGNUS BRADY, See.

The Humane Society of Kansas City, Mo.
City Hall, Kansas City.

HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS, F. M. FURGASON, Secretary.
President. '

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

72
Cape May County, N. J ., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

_ Cape May.
DR. EMLIN PHYSICK, Pres. T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.
The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

V ineland.
REV. R. B. MOORE, President. REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.
The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of. Cruelty to Animals.

M orristown.

DR. E. FAYETTE SMITH, MISS LOUISE 'SHELTON, Sec.
President.

The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Camden. .
WILLIAM J. COOPER, Pres. A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Hackensack.
R. M. HART, President. WALTER ELY, Secretary.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
County, N. J.

Elizabeth.
E. P. EDWARDS, President. J. C. COLE, Secretary.

Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Perth Amboy.
MISS LOUISE BENTON, Pres. MRS. FLORENCE KITCHEL,

Secretary.

Cranford, Union County, Branch of The New Jersey Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
C ranford.

GEORGE A. MORRISON, ALFRED H. MILLER, Sec.
President.




 

somw < \th a me x. mm \NNWWWXW m

”(N-Nunavuw mnau-ywu :Mabm-m..m><3‘04”<‘~g§w( g ‘_
‘ 5.

“Nd-v
.2
:1». «

 

 

 

b

ARREST AND PROSECUTIONS NOS. 24,948—9. (See pave 50.5

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

    

75

Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. .

121 Ellison Street, Paterson.
ARTHUR W. BISHOP, Pres. REE. NESHAM B. MACKEN-

, SEC.

Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Somerm'lle.

JOSEPH FITZGA, President. JOHN VOORHEES, Secretary.
Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Princeton.

W. B. GREENE, J R., President. MISS M. C. SCUDDER, Sec.
District Society in Lodi, Bergen County.
Lodz'.

JAMES W. MERCER, Pres. JACOB VAN HOOK, Secretary.
Ridgewood Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ridgewood.

MRS. C. C. HARRISON, Pres. MRS. F. J. WALTON, Secretary.

Humane Association of New Jersey.
Newark.
MRS. J. N. SAYRE, President. MRS. ALBERT BATES, Sec.

. NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

The Ossining Branch of The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. -

Incorporated March 12, I883.

 

Ossining. .
CLINTON S. ARNOLD, Pres. CHARLOTTE D-‘E KOVEN
JENKS, Secretary.

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated August 9, I888.
723 Powers Block, Rochester.
J. B. Y. WARNER, President. MISS SARA HYAT T, Sec.

  




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

76

ERIE 1 COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. .
Incorporated September 21, I888.

. 39 Erie Street, Buffalo.
DEWITT CLINTON, President. J. C. HALL, Secretary.

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated May 18, 1889.

305 Mill Street, Poughkeepsle.

WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES F. COSSUM. Sec.
President.

ORANGE COUNTY.
The Newburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.

Newburg.
GEORGE W. PETERS, Pres. A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

OSWEGO COUNTY.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City,
N. Y.

Incorporated September 23, 1889. .
Doolittle House, Oswego. .
CHAS. H. BOND, President. MRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, President. MRS. C. H. DAVID, Secretary.

ON ON DAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
207 Granger Block, Syracuse.
DWIGHT H. BRUCE, Pres. JOHN R. CLAN CY, Secretary.

 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
     
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  

 

 

  




 

 

 

  

77

ROCKLAND COUNTY.
Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.
N yack.
, President. WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec.

CHEMUN G COUNTY.
The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 21, 1891.

Elmira.
H. C. MANDEVILLE, Pres. MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER,

Secretary.
BROOME COUNTY.
Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, 1891.
Binghamton.
Z. BENNETT PHELPS, Pres. H. C. PRESTON, Secretary.

ULSTER COUNTY.

The Ulster County Society for the Prevention or Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. W. D. HALE, Secretary.

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, I891.

Watertown.

JNO. C. KNOWLTON, MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Sec.
, Acting President.

ALBANY COUNTY.
The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.
287 State Street, Albany. .
DR. WM. 0. STILLMAN, Pres. NATHANIEL J. WALKER,

Secretary.

 

 

  




     
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
    
    
   
      
      
     
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

78

NIAGARA COUNTY.
, The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

 

Animals.
Incorporated May 24, 1895.
Lockport.
F. J. SAWYER, President. MISS ALICE E. CROCKER,

Secretary.

CORTLAND COUNTY.
The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of. Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated April 17, 1895.
‘ Cortland.
C. P. WALRAD, President. ENOS E. MELLON, Secretary.

ONEIDA COUNTY.

The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of

Rome, N. Y.
Incorporated March 31, 1896.
' Rome.
DR. C. OLIN ZIM‘MERMANN, WELLINGTON W. BASSET,
President. Secretary.

CAYUGA COUNTY.
The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Incorporated October 26, 1896.
Auburn.
F. C. LADD, President. GEO. A. BREWSTER, Sec.

——_

NORTH CAROLINA.

The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

I7 Paragon Building, Ashem'lle.
HANFORD N. LOCKWOOD, GEO. L. ERD'MAN,‘ Secretary.
President.
North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

Wilmington.

ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. W. F. SHINSBERGER, SR.,
Secretary.




     
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80

Ashtabula County Humane Society.
Ashtabnla.

W. M. STRADER, President. MRS. W. M. PENFIELD, Sec.

The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

Chagrin Falls.
A. H. WILLIAMS, President. C. E. RYDER, Secretary.

 

Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.

Pomeroy.
ARTEMUS WILLIAMS, Pres. MRS. H. J. EWING, Secretary.

The Youngstown Humane Society.

Youngstown.

REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. MISS LILLIAN F. PIERCE,
Secretary.

Yellow Springs Humane Society.
_ Yellow Springs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, Pres. CHARLES E. ADAMS, Sec.

Seneca County _ Humane Society.

_ Tiﬂin.
DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, Pres. IRVIN N. REX, Secretary.
The Chardon Humane Society.
Chardon.
L. c. COWLES, President. M. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.

Huron County Humane Society.
N orwalk.

REV. CHAS. S. AVES, Pres. MISS MARY A. STEWART,
Secretary.

 

‘ The Humane Society of New Lexington.

New Lexington.
REV. HENRY BEEMAN, Pres. MRS. C. MART‘ZOLFF, Sec.




 

 

 

81

The Lima Branch of The Ohio Humane Society.

Lima.
R. C. EASTMAN, President. MRS. E. B. SEREFF, Secretary.

OREGON.

The Oregon Humane Society.

207 Second Street, Portland.
DAVID P. THOMPSON, Pres. W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

 

PENNSYLVANIA.

The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

1627 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

COL. M. RICHARDS MUCKLE, M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
President.

The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
1530 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. MISS ELIZABETH SOMERS,
Secretary.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lancaster. _
D. S. BURSK, President. JOHN L. MARTIN, Secretary.

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
York.
CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.
President.
‘ Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 Sixth A vet/tile, Pittsburg.
HON. GEOIEGE WILSON, Pres. MISS FRANCES HENRY, Sec.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
      
  
   
 
      

82

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

West Chester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. WILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

536 Penn Street, Reading.

JOHN D. MISHLER, President. f , Secretary.

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Williamsport.
MRS. C. LA RUE MUNSON, MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.
President.
Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Preven—
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.

JOHN M. KEMMERER, D. B. ATHERTON, Sec.
President.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie. .
HON. F. F. ADAMS, President. HON. W. B. FLICKINGER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.
Wilkesbarre.

JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, HAROLD D. DEEMER, Sec.

President.

The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.

 

Altoona. ,
MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRAT- MISS S-ID‘NEY COLESTOCK,
‘ President. Secretary.

!

_—_——

RHODE ISLAND.
Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
61 Westminster Street, Providence.
S. S. DURFEE, President. JOHN W. ANGELL, Secretary.




 

 

    

83

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Charleston.
J. ALWYN BALL, President. RICHMOND PINCKN liY.
Swrctury.
Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
C olnmbia.
, President. D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

 

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenville.

DR. H. M. PERRY, President. FRANK B. MCBEE, Secretary.
The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 partanbnr g.

I. B. LEE, MD, President. CHARLES H. HENNRY, see.
TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.

337 Mississippi Avenue, Memphis.
GEN‘ W~' 1- SMITH, President. M. L. MEACHAM. Act'g see,

Chattanooga Humane Society.

Chattanooga.
W. B. STEPHENS, President. J. C. MCGHEE. Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.

Knoxville.
W. L. TRENT, President. REV. W. H. BATES. Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society.
Nashville.
REV-D. C. KELLEY, President. MAT HOKE, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

  




     
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
     
    
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

84

The Madison County Humane Society.
Jackson.
REV. M. A. MATTHEWS, Pres. L. R. GRIFFIN, Secretary.

-‘

TEXAS.
The Texas Humane Society.
Waco.

ALFRED ABEEL, President. ROBERT J. BROOKS, See.
The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Austin.
MRS. I. H. EVANS, President. J. E. OLDRIGHT, Secretary.
UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake City.
DR. T. B. BEATT Y, President. J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.
VERMONT.
The Vermont Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, Pres. F. W. PIERCE, Secretary.
The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
" Animals.

Brattleborongh.
DR. GEO. F. GALE, President. MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Rntland.

T. L. DRURY, President. MISS ETHEL S. CLEMENT,
Secretary.

The Burlington Humane Society.
Burlington.
PROF. J. E. GOOD‘RICH, Pres. BYRON N. CLARK, Sec.

   




   
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
   

85

Chester Humane Society.

Chester.
GEO. L. FLETCHER, Pres. MRS. LOIS A. FLETCHER,

Sec.
Manchester Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Manchester.
HON. D. K. SIMONDS, Pres. MISS JESSIE O. HAWLEY,

Secretary.
St. Albans Humane Society.
5 t. Albans.

REV. J. O. BENNETT, MISS BESSIE C. PERKINS,

President. Secretary.

 

VIRGINIA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
900 East M ain Street, Richmond.
CYRUS BOSSIEUX, Pres. MRS. S. N. ROBINS, Secretary.
Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

224 M ain Street, Norfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, President. W. B. BARTON, Secretary.

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

Portsmouth.
HERMANN C. NIEMEYER, MISS M. A. BINGLEY, Sec.
President.

The Lynchburg Humane Society.

 

 

Lynchbnrg.
P. A. KRISE, President. , Secretary.
Roanoke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Roanoke.
J. ALLEN WATTS, President, , Secretary.
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Chamber of Commerce Building, Tacoma.
WM. V. BURRILL, President. HERBERT S. GRIGGS, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

86

Seattle Humane Society.

Seattle.

MALCOLM C. NASON, Pres. MRS. LAURENCE GRON-
. L Secretary.

9

WEST VIRGINIA.
West Virginia Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Wheeling.
MRS. G. R. C. ALLEN, Pres. C. J. RAWLINGS, Acting Sec.

WISCONSIN.

The Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 Milwaukee Street, Milwaukee.

ROLLIN B. MALLORY, Pres. MISS AGNES M. FURLONG,
Secretary.

The State Society has Branches at the following places:

Oshkosh, Sheboygan, Port Washington, Tomah, Stoughton, Hart-
land, Plymouth, Janesville, Beloit, Green Bay, Ashland, Waukesha,
Delavan, La Crosse, Sturgeon, West Superior, Monroe, Fond du Lac,
Manitowoc, Racine, Berlin, Wausau, Madison, Tomahawk, Marinette,
Antigo, Eau Claire, Hartford, and Columbus.

 

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

79 Granville Street, Halifax.
M. C. GRANT, Acting Pres. R. H. MURRAY, Secretary.

Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Hamilton.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., Pres. LIEUT.-C0L0NEL HENRY Mc—
LAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.

128 Barrie Street, Kingston.
G. J. B. PENSE, President. J. M. COTTLE, Secretary.
The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

189 St. James Street, Montreal.

CHARLES ALEXANDER, GEORGE DURNFORD, Sec.
President.

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
   
   
         

88

Victoria Branch of the British Columbia Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Victoria, B. C.
F. B. KITTO, Hon. Sec.

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.
C alle Paraguay, 1059, Buenos A yres, Argentine Republic.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRA- ANDRES EGARA, Secretary.
CI N, President.

, President.

 

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fe, Argentine Republic.
W. BARNETT, President. W. MACWHIRTER, Secretary.

Sociedad Proteotora de los Animales.
M endow. Argentine Republic.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, Pres. PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rio de faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, Pres. J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Sec.

SOciedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.

Caracas, Venezuela.
SENORA ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA E VASCONCELLOS, Presi-
dent and Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.
Montevideo, Uruguay.

JUSTUS CUBILC’), President. LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA,
Secretary.

WEST INDIES. .
Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 7
Port of Spain, Trinidad.

SIR HUBERT H. E. JEMING- KATHARINE H. BOURNE.
’HA , President. Secretary.




 

89

BERMUDA.
Bermuda. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Bermuda.
HON. T. N. DILL, President. CLAUDE W. MCCALLAN, Sec.
PORTO RICO.
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the
District of Ponce.
Ponce.

MANUEL V. DOMENECH, EDW. L. ZOVVE, Secretary.
President.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA.

It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies that the work
of animal protection has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies are powerful organ-
izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as well as at home through the dissemination 40f humane
literature. The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now has
branches in every considerable city of England.

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY.

PRESIDENT. SECRETARY.

 

 

ALGERIA.
Algiers . .
Bona . .
Constantine
Oran . .
Philippeville

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide . . . S.
Brisbane . . . . S.
Melbourne V
Sydney . . .

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.

Collardot
-. G. C .Zeilgrel:
. J. G. Riviére.

. ‘— Pinguad.
. Miss Faure.

, A. Abrahams.

. Richard F. Woodcraft.
. Thomas Latham.

F. Montague Rothery.

P. C. A. . . . . . . Walter H. Barnes;
1ctorian S. Prot. A. .. . . . . .
.Animal P. S. N. S. W. .P. N. Trebeck .

Agram .
Budapest
Carinthia
Czernowitz .
Graz . .
Innsbruck
Karlstadt
Kaschau
Klagenfurt

 

. S. Prot. A. at Agram .
.S. P. C. A. .
. S. P. A. of Carinthia .
.S. P. A. . .

.Styrian S. P. C. A.

Tirolian S. P. A. .

S. P. A. for Karnten

.Josip Muzler . . .
. Isidor Maday de Moros
.F. F. Oertl . . . .

: Baron. Von ‘MenSShengen
.Albert Moné . .
.Julia Ivancic . . . . .

 

Franz.Jos..Oertl‘

. Josip Medved.

. Prof. Chas. Monostori.
. Lorenz Washietl.

. L. L. Strzalkowski.

. Karl Berger.

. Edmund Kustin.

Iosip Absatz.

. Adalb Pater.
. Alfred Kohlert.

 

 




AUSTRIA-HUNGARY,C’0’

Krakau . .
Leitmeritz

<i

O

. Dr. Joseph von KOpff . .

.Feliks. dé Ptaviric. Piaw'icki .

Bronislaus Gustawicz.

. Eduard Schmicdt.

Dr. Jozef Limbach.

O<<mu
minim

.P.A...
.A. . .
.A.forthe
men .

Uic/imp—l

Ov-ﬂ

Sylvester Felschimoosky . Ottokar Beer.
. Florian Gartner . . . . . Richard Hartmann.

Mathias Novotny . . . . Josef Hudl.
Hubert von Freyberger . . Joh. Haralewicz.

n

S.

N

Lemberg . . .
Linz . . . . .
Mahr Ostrau

Prague

Przemysl .
Rzeszow .
Temesvar .
Trieste . .

Vienna

Zagreb
Zara

D4
(1)

Kingdom

D-i

of g
o ’ Branch Cralician S.P.C.A.:

O C I O 0

<2

.51
0
mm...

B

ze z
. Graef Janos.
. N. Salvari.

E. Alex. Sturm.

. Drag. Leskovac.
. Charles Inghini.

D. M. Parlagi Marton .
. . .Dr. Vigini . . . . .
Holland i

<'<:
0.10..

nna S. .P.. C: A. and. seven 1 SDr. Arthur
ranches . . . . . . . 1 von Griindenfels.

S.P.C.A. ...... . .Prof.E.Kamenar..
Dalmatian S. P. A. . . . . G. Testa . . . . .

-.2
. . 3>

.9

. Adolphe van den Bosch.
. Alban Roels.

. H. Louveigne.

. T. Beaufort.

. E. van den Eynde.

. Leon Diercxnes.

. —— Grouse.

. Andrin.

BELGIUM.
Antwerp
Brussels
Ghent
Liege

.Julien Koch . . .

A. . .
.‘Alphonse Solvyns .

Antwerp S. Prot. of .
Royal S. Prot. of A. of Brussels
. . Alphonse Gulikers
Louyain Victor Hénot

Malines . . . J. Mastboom .

Namur . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baron Fallon .
Verv1ers erviers S.forSuppress’nofC.toA.’Jules Ruhl . . . . . . A

O

 

 

 

 

 

DENMARK.
Copenhagen

and .5”? IF. Chr. Lembcke . . . .‘P. Jorgensen.

5 Denmark S. P. C. A.
( branches . . . .
.. . . ,. . l

.5. la. I<I111Hl Pacha Salim ‘A. von Dumrcicller.

.Mnhammed Malia-r Pasha .T. B. IInliler.

EGYPT.
Alexandria
Cairo .

 

. Alexandria S. P. C. A.
Cairo S. P. C. A. . .

_—_——_—__—._.- ,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

ENGLAND.
London . . . .
FRANCE.

B1arr1tz . . . . . S. P. A.. . . . . . . . E. Ardoin. . . M. Vail.

Cannes . . . . S. P. A. of Cannes . . . . . Charles Goudard- Malan . Ch. Rocofr’ort.
Dunk1rk . . . . Dunkirk S. P. C. A. . . . . .Alfred Dumont . . . . Emile Pouleur.
Havre . . Havre S. Prot. A. . . . . . .J. de Coninck . G. Serrurier.
Lyons. . . S. Prot. A. of Lyons . . . . . Louis Pugin . . . . . . Charles Lebrun.
Marseilles . . S. P. C. A. . . . .Charles Gounelle . . . . Edouard Rabaud.
Mentone . . . . S. P. C. A. of Mentone . . . .Hubert A. Freeman . . M. Gioan.

Monaco . . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . . . Mrs. S. H. Adlam . . . . Capt. Polli.

Nice . . S. Prot. A. . . . . . . . . . Sir James Harris . . . . L. J. Jerome.
Par1s . . . S. Prot. of A. . . . . . . . .A. Uhrich. Gabrielle Lamguet.
Pau . . . . . . S. Prot. A. at Pau . . . . . . Dr. H. Draper Speakman . Hubert A. Freeman.
Rouen . . . . . S. P. C. A. . , . . . . . . . Henry Paris . Gaston Hamel.

{ Royal S. P. C. A. [and branches} g H. R. H. Prince of; John Colam.

throughout England] . . Wales, K...G . .

    

                

c
O

                            

O
I
a

92

GERMANY.

Aachen . . . .
Altona . . . . .
Aschaffenburg .
Augsburg . . .
Baden-Baden . . .
Bautzen . . . .
Bayreuth . .
Berlin . . . .
Bernstadt . . .
Bonn . . . . . .
Bremen . . .
Breslau . . . . .
Bromberg . . . .
Brunswick . . . .

Cassel . . . . .

A. Baron Janssen . . . . J. Bernarts, Jr.
an 11d Birds . . . . Dr. Greve . . . . . . .-—— Trenkner.
A. of Aschaffenburg . .F. H. Deubler.
and B. . . . . . . Jacobus Reimers . . . Chr. Flemer.
. . . . .Maj. ~Gen. D. von Parseva1.——— Weinig.
at Bautzen . . . . . H. Wetzlich. . . . . . Dr. Hellig.
. . . . . . —— Preu . . . . . . . Heinr. Heuschmann.
P. C. A. . . . . . . General Koring . . . . . Major Wagener.
. . . . . . . F. Stahr . . . . . . . —-—— Neuma-nn.
P . . . . . . . -—- Bongartz . . . . . Dr. Korten.
A... . . . . . . . Ad. Brinkman . . . . . Dr. Kuhlmann.
. . . . . . . . .P. Huch . . . . . . . C. Junge. .
. . . . . . . . ———- Nolte . . . . . Rev. Siuberhch.
. . . . . Dr. Rudolf Blasius . W. Koch. .
A. of Cassel . . . . . Rev. Carl Wilhelm Peter . Martin Bett1ng.

O O O I O

immMAMmé
mmmmmmmmmm

  

 

 

 

C.
..A
..C
A.
..A
..A
..A
nS.
.A.
n.S
C.
A..
A..
A..
C.

MEMMmmm
mmwmm




GERMANY—Continued.

Celle . . .

Chemnitz‘
Coburg

Cologne
Constance
Crefeld .
Crimmitzschau
Dantzig
Darmstadt
Dortmund
Dresden .
Duisburg
Dusseldorf
Elberfeld
Elbing
Elmshorn

Essen .

Feldberg

Flensberg
F re1berg .

Frankfort-on- Main
Frankfort-on— Oder .

Friederichstadt
Gelsenkirchen
Glogau

Gorlitz

Gotha .
Greifenberg
Greifswald

swammmmmmm gm.

 

.2..ofCe11e . . . . .
imal .and Plant P. S. of the
Duchy of Coburg.
ne S. P. A. . . .
of Constance . .
A. of the Lower Rhine

on

.a

rthalerS. P. C. A

.A. and B
for the town and envi-

<o<<o<<<<o<o

.A.

nments of Essen

.C. A. for the town and
envi onments of Feldberg

A.

.of Freiboerg
.A . . . .
..A

.A. in Gelsenkirchen

fGorlitz . .
f the Duchy of Gotha

altic Ass’ n Prot. A.

Dr. Schreckenberger . .

.Dr. Schwarze .
Max Brodfiihrer

. Dr. Otto Hartmann
. ——--- Rothenhausler
. —— Printzen

, -—-- Reichardt

.Dr. Borntraeger

, Dr. Eisenhuth . .
. H. Werneke . .

, Dr. F. Schurig .

, A. Van Meetereu.

. Georg Gundelach .
, Heinrich Espenschied
. -—- Staberow.

M. W. Reinhardt
Prof. Dr. Meyer

—— Koller
.A. F. J. Eiler

. Judge Vehse . .
. Dr. Carl Schenck
. -—-— Schumann .
. W. Pollitz .

. Dr. Griittner .

. -—— Richter.

. Major Rudolf von Schollen.
. L. Rausch. . .
. Rev. Mr. Rittner.

. ——-- von Wolffrath

 

Rev. K. Gartner.

. Rudolph Hartmann.

. Adam Bruckner.

. Dr. V. Wiedmann.

. Franz Walter.

. Hermann Weberling.
. Rich. Rietzch.

. Alexander G011.

. E. Heusslein.

. H. Landgraf.

. —— Hiibler.

. Carl Grundmann.
. F. Schumacher.

. —-— Engel.
-. Prof. Dr. Meyer.

. —+ Kaefke.

. A. Jorgensen.

. ——Wolf.

. Alfred Geiger.

. Rev. Mr. Bieder.
. I. Sieden.

. —— Oberwinter.

. G. Volckman.

 

. -— Jahnke.

 

__..a~

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Giistrow . . . .
Halle . . . . .
Hamburg . . .
Hanover . . .
Heide . .
Hilchenbach .
Hirschberg .~
Homburg
Itzehoe . . . .
Jena . . . .
Karlsruhe . . .
Kattowitz

Kiel . .
Koenigsberg
Landshut
Langenschwalbach
Lauban
Laugensalza
Leipzig . . . .
Liegnitz . . . .
Liibeck . . .
Ludwigshafen .
Liineburg . . .
Malchin . . .
Mainz . . . .
Meissen . . . .
Miilheim . . . .
Munich . . . .

Munster. . . .

               

Neisse . . .
Neubrandenburg

“ ERMANY—Contz'nued.

mmEmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

 

mmmmmmmw~mm

(fin—1

D-inﬂ-iD-iﬂ-iD-iD-iﬂ-iﬁ-i:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$9494

.br

 

A. in Giistrow
A. of Halle
S. P. A.

..C

C.

ur . . .
in Hanover .

g
A.

A. in Kiel.
A.i
A.i

I I O O O

Leipzig
Liegnitz

of
of .
..P A. . .

O
O
o

<<m< <<.

.inMainz . .

O O O I

thalian S. P. Wild Birds

..C
..A
.A.
..A
.A.
A.
..A
A.
.A.
C.
..C
A.
..C
.A. .
A. .
..C
C.
eck
..C
.A.
C.
.C.
..A
.A.
.A.
St!)
and
.A..
C.

1n Koenigsberg .

O

O

omestic F owls and A.

o

in Langenschwalbach

l

D
A. of Neubrandenburg .

Dr. Fritzsche.

Dr. Tramhaijn .

Prof. C. F. Schulz .

Dr. Dammann .

Dr. Lammers . .

H. Feldmann . .
Carl Wagner . . . .
Heinr. Méckel . .

J. H. Raasche . .

Dr. Rdhrig.

F. Kaeﬂein . . .
Rabbi Cohn .

Franz Schuck

Gen. Brausewetter.

von Fuchs Bimbachs
—— Schutt . . . . .
Hermann VVende.
———Fischer . . . . .
Dr. Rob. Klee . . . .

 

. Dr. Otto Guthling. . .

Dr. F. L. G. Wichmann .
Sebast. Ledere . . . .
H. Reinecke . . . .
Gustav J. Hamdori . .
Prof. Schlenger . . .
Dr. C. F. Schaufuss . .
—— Schmidt . . . .
Count Houlin . . . .

Prof. Dr. H. Landois .

—-—- Pohlis . . . .
Rev. Mr. Steinfﬁhrer .

 

 

. Dr. Ph. Bauer.

. Wilhelm Stromeyer.
—— Sierds.

Carl Kraemer.

. R. Schwandt.

. Heinr. Schudt.

. M. A. Brodersen.

. K. Becker.

. -—-— Rudiger.

. Rev. Kloppenburg.
. R. O. Hasperg.

. ——- Saurer.

. ———- Anacker.

. —— Hanke.

. Max Rabe.

. Heinrich Reinisch.
.F. F. Lund.

. Charles Weingart.
. Aug. Lofﬂer.

. E. Thiel.

. Dr. L. Schaum.

. B. Zeidler.

Ernst Schiirmann.
. M. Bunhard.

. Aug. Bollmann.

. Rev. Hirschberger.
. A. Mahn.

 

. Mauermeister H ensel.

 

94

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.

Wiirzburg
Wupperthal
Zabern
Zittau
Ziirich
Zwickau .

HOLLAND.
Alkmaar
Amsterdam
Arnheim
Baarn
Brada .
Dordrecht
Haarlem . .
Hague, The .
Hertogenbosch .
Hook of Holland
Maastricht
Rotterdam
Utrecht

INDIA.
Ahmedabad
Bangalore
Bombay .
Calcutta

.O
(DU)

Uiuizdcduiui<uicriZui

. S. P. .
. S. P. A. . . .
. The Bombay S. P. C. A.
. Calcutta S. P. . . .

of Zabern
of Ziirich.

< <

.. P. . A. .
..A of Arnheim

«0404 «304444.13

of Dordrecht

9-1

G
.—4

g:Div

lands.S..EPA.

P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
ph
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
dee
P.
P.
eth

P.e

<<§< é

. Dr. Biiuerlein . .
.:H. Espenschied. .

. —— Gasser
.———Thiemer.
..P H. Wolff

. —— Zemmrich .

. K. A. Cohen Stuart
. B. J. Polenaar . .
. Baron H. A. Elias .
. J. P. Hooft .

. A. P. Sheltus

.H. Hoyer . .

. A. von der Voort

. R. A. Klerck

. F. X. Verheijen

. P. Dregmans

. P. H. H. Routs

. H. de Bie .

. J. Meyers

: .Col. D. Rohertson. .
. Dr. J. Pollen.

. Mr. Eichelsbacher.
. Ferd. Schumacher.
. B. M. Goettgens.

. —— Peschel.

. H. Fischer-Sigwart.
. —- Birkigt.

. C. J. Reiziger.

. C. F. J. Hanedves.
. M. F. W. Van Dulm.
. J. C. van der Veen.
. —-—— Van Vooren.

. S. Schotel.

. A. Beernink.

. L. V. van Rossern.

. L. G. P. Max.

. J. C. Jansen.

. K. Vonk.

. D. van Stolk.

. Van der Lip.

. —-— Manibkai.
. Gen. J. F. Fischer.

.K. M. Shroff.

.Hon. Mr. Justice]. Stanley G. W. Lees.

F. W. Duke, 1. C. S. . . .R. A. Donnithorne.
. . . . W. Goonetilleke.

. F. E. Panthakey.

. D. A. McCready.

. . . . V. Ranganatham Nayudu.

Howrah .

Kandy (Ceylon). . . . . . . . . .
Kurrachee . .S. P. A. . . . . . . MajorWadeson . .
Madras . . Madras S. P. C. A .Hon. H. T. Boddam .

. S. for Prot. of A. from Vivi-}
Madras ' ' ' i section and CruelTreatment M' K“ Chette

C. A
. Howrah S. P. C. A.
.S. P. A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




J'Tﬁﬁ ‘
v -. is,”

 

 

INDIA—Continued.
Mandalay
Rangoon (Burma)
Singapore . . .

..H D R. Tworney . . Count Calderari.
. . . . . . . . ..Rt Rev.J. M. Strachan, M. D. W. Alan Leonard.
A. . . . . . . . . . St. Vincent Down.

<c'<:'o'
minim—i

\l

IRELAND. [Boag
Belfast . . . . . The Ulster S P. C. A. . . . .SII‘ Wm Q Ewart Bart . W. H Patterson & Robt.
Cork . . ,. . . . Cork S. P. C. A. . . . . .erAIexand MCOStrlCh I P John C. Newsom.

Dublin . . . Dublin S. P. C. A. . . . . .Rt Hon Lord Ardilaun . George Ryall.

Kilkenny . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . Thomas Kough.

Waterford . ‘ . . . Waterford S. P. C. A. . . . . T1}: .Lﬁra 3111811211) if Cashel Robert McCurdy.

Wexford. . . . . County Wexford s. P. c. A. { $1122: mgr ‘ fume } Thomas Harpur.

ITALY.
Bologna The Emiliana 5.012061111in . .Angela Diana Costetti . .F. P. Gamberini. !

Florence . S. Prot. of A. of Florence . . .Count G.A Arrivabene. . .Gen. Giuseppe Mellini.
. S. P. A. . . . Otto Penz . . . . . Venceslas Carrara.
. . . . . . Bartolomeo Lagunima.

97

Genoa
Girgenti (Sicily).

Maenta .. .IS.P.A. .
Milin . . . . .The Lombardy Ass’nof Zoophily G. Bell1n1 . . . . . . .Prof.G1ulio Cantu.

Naples . . . . . Naples S. P. A. . Princess Moele Barese . . G. Minerdini. .
Naples . .' . . . Neapolitan S. of Z. .JCelestino-Slndaco . . . . Dr. Adolfo Giordano.

Padua . . ‘. . . S. P A. . Carlo Mal uta . . . . . Cav. Tullio Nob. Abriani.
Palermo . . . . S.for Humane Education andP.A. J. I. S. Whitaker. . . Vittorio Spataro. _
Rome . . . . Roman S. against C. to A. . . Prince A Doria Pamphili . T. Serras. 5

San Reino . . .S. Prot. A. of San Remo . .Michael G Foster . . .O. Piccone. .
Turin . . . . . . Turin S. P. A. . . . . . Cesare Du rando . . . .Franco Riccabone.

MALTA. S. P. A.

. J o I

 

 

 

 

NEW ZEALAND.
. M. Murph.

Christchurch . . .S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dunedin . . . . OtagoA S. P. C. A. . . . . . . Justice Williams . . . . E. E. C. Quick.
Wellington . . . . S. P. . . . . . . Jas. S. Jameson . . . . Francis Shaw.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NORWAY.
Arendal . . .
Bergen
Christiania
Christiansand .
Drammen
Ibbestad .
Kongsvinger
Mosjoen. .
Stavanger
Trondhjem .
Voss

PORTUGAL.
Lisbon
Lisbon
Oporto .

RUSSIA.
Abo (Finland)

Archangel . .
Astrakhan
Berdichev

Czernigow .
Dwiasa

Ekaterinburg
Grodna . .

 

'. . . .S.P.A...
Funchal (Madeira) .

.S.P.C.A. ..

. . . . . -— Holpeldt . . ,. . .‘H. Regland.

. . . . . . . . . . —— Hagemann . . . .' E. Olsen.

A. in Christiania . ‘. . Georg Sverdrup . . . . Oscar Nickelsen.
. . . . . . Hans Johnsen.

. And. Larssen . . . . . Miss L. Harig.

. P. B. Opsion . . . . . . N, Dons.

. -— Prydtz.

. O. Hals . . . . . . . O, Hals.

. E. Ronneberg . . . . . Kund Kloster.

.——— Kauvin . . . . . . B. Thomassen.

. Ivar Hesselberg.

MMm

<i<ig<<é<i<§<§<i<§<i
n-In-in-ln-In-Zn-Inin-I

_ [Heitoc

. S. P. A. Of Lisbon . . . . . . Julio d’An-drade .' . . . Joaquim Carlos da, Silva

. S.P.Domestic Animals of Portugal Count of Paco Vieira . . . Alfredo Henrique da Silva.
. . . . . Visconde de Guilhomil. . Alfred H. da Silva.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Funchal S. P. .C.'A:

 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A. R. S oof.
{Archangel Section of The} W W G 1. k' p
Russian S. P. A. . . i ' ' uwe 1a in - - - M- Makaroff.

AsﬁrlasléilﬁlnsSﬁchn 0f the} Lieut.-Gen. Hasenkamf . . M. Qui.

' l
: g€Berdichev Section ' oi The?
- l
- l

 

 

Russian S. P. A. f N. M. Kossowsky . . . .-A. Wilensky.

 

Czernigow Section Of The} Alex. Roschdestwensky . .Alex. Tschemesky.

Russian S. P. A. . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . ~. Bar. vonder Osten Driesen. A. K. Kulikowsky.
Ekaterinburg Section of The Q

- Baron von Taube . . . . K. N. Dementjeff.
Russmn S. P. A. . . . . S .
. . . . . . . . D. N. Batinschnoff . . . Z. W. Wolkow1tsky.




 

RUSSIA—Continued.

Helsingfors(Finland)!S. P. C. A.

Kalish . . .
Kaluga

Kamenetz

Kazan .
Kiev . .
Kovno

Krementchoug
Kursk . . .
Lodz .

Mariopol . .

Melitopol

Menselinsk .
Minsk
Moscow .
Narva
Nowoselitzi

N owotchorkask - .

Odessa

Omsk

Oofa . . . .
Orel . . . .
Riga . . . .
Simferopol. .
St. Petersburg.

Stavropol .

. Kaluga Sec. of The Russian S.

.A.
..A
. Kovno Sec. of The Russian S. 113.1?
A

.Kalish Sec. of The Russian S.

<1<1~‘"
949-1.:

)5 Kamenetz Section of Te
Russian S. P. A. . .

Kazan Sec. of The Russian S.

Kiev Sec. of The Russian S.

“in;

5 Krementchoug Section of T

( Russ1anS P. A. . . .

Kursk Sec. of The Russian S. P.

i Lodz Section of The Russian 11}
S. P. A.

i Mariopol Section of The Rus- }
sian S. P. A. .

{Melitopol Section .of The e}
Russians. P. A. . . . .

p

:. Minsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

Moscow Sec. of The RussianS.P PA
N arva Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

: .Don Sec: oi The.Russ.ian S P. A:
. Odessa S. Prot. A.

Omsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

. Oofa Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

. Orel Sec. of The Russian S». P. A. .

Livland S. P. A. .

. Taurida Sec. of The RussianS. P. A.

. The Russian S. Prot. A.. .

{ Stavropol Section of The}.
Russians. P. A. . . . .

 

 

 

P. Manassein

Kukarin . . . . .

K. Michalewicz . .

..P

S.

T.

T.N.Lange. . . . .
O. O. Eichelmann

Co 1. -Maj. A. Daronoff

B. M. Orenstein . . .

M.W.Zarin. . . . .
—— Zacwilichowski

W. Stankewicz . . . .

W. P. Kanatoﬁ' . . .

-———— Ostankoff.

—— Onatzewitch . . .
N A. de Gedrinsky

J. L. Pawlowski. . . .
A. T. Koreischa. . . .
Maj. G-en. Grekoff. . .
.Stephen John Ralli

F. Sendczikowsky .
P. E. Kindiakoi‘fy . . .
.Mary von Schilling .
E. Kessler

.Gen. -Maj. P. P. Lonskoi

A. S. Klutscharef .

 

. Wladislaw Hmielewsky.

. M. W. Micheeﬂ.
. F. K. Czerwinsky.
. T. Goomelewsky.

. W. Tynatowitch.

—— Lindenbaum.

. J. B. Orenstein.
. W. P. Kartoscheff.
. Léon Jezierski.

. D. Charadshieff.
. Casper L. Chludzinsky.

. ——-— Ossowsky.

. Dr. N. I. Korotnerf.
. Julius Selten.

T. A. Schawursky.

. —— Turmoresoff.
. Leon Margulis.

— Solovieff.
—— Iolianowsky.

. Tereletzky Klimowitch.
. Clara v. Livingmann.

. —— Kazcouchoﬁ.

. Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

. A. T. Taroshenko.

 

99




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RUSSIA—Continued.

Thuemen (Siberia) .1

Tiﬂis

Tobo lsk (Siberia)
Tula . .
Uman . . . .
Vilna . . . . . .
Voronezh

Warsaw .

(

Zytomir

SCOTLAND.
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr .
Dundee
Dunfermline
Edinburgh
Forfar

Glasgow .

Inverness

Perth
Tavistock

SOUTH AFRICA.
Cape Town . . .

 

{T‘huemen Section of The
. Russian S. P. A. . . . .
. Tiﬂis S. Prot. A. . . . . .
. Tobolsk S. P. A. . . . .
. Tula S. P. A. .

’ Uman Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
Vilna Sec. of The Russian S. P. A
{Voronezh Section of The

Russian S. P. A

." Warsaw Sec. of The Russians. P. A.
Wischny Wolotschek . . . . . . . . .. . . . .
. Zytomir Sec.of The RussianS.P.A.

. Aberdeen Ass’n P. C. A. .
. Arbroath Branch ScottishS. P. C. A.
. S. P. A.
. S. P. A. . . . . . . . .
. S. P. A.
.ScottishS. P. C. A. . . . .

Glasgow and West of Scot-

landS. RCA.

5
l .
‘3 Highland Branch of the Scot-
' tish S. P. C. A. . . .
S.
S.

P.
P.

Cape of Good Hope S. P. C. A.

 

 

-— Shishkowsky.

. S. A. Klimoﬁ . . . .
. L. M. Knioseff . . . .
..J P. Zeitlin . . . . .
D. Levandoﬁ. .

Maj. -Gen. 0. K. Sharsky

AHAIsaeﬁ. . .

BaronI. Briining . .
%N. W. Essenowsky To- }

bolkin. . . . .

Baron de Chaudoire.

Lord Provost of Aberdeen .
James A. Paterson
. William Hunter .

. TheLordProvost of Edin’gh

TheLordProvostof Glasgow
Right Hon. Lord Lovat

.F. Y. St. Leger, M.L.A.

 

 

. I. M. Pawlof‘r'.
L. N. Wolofr’.

. K. S. Twanoff.
. ——-— Smolitch.

. A. Rymschewiz.

. K. W. Koniewsky.
. —-— Golowatchewsky.
A. E. Sipatlo.

Alex. J. R. Thain.
. David Littlejohn.

. Thomas Buist.

Archibald Langwill, C.A.

Henry F. Lowndes.

. Duncan Shaw.

. W. Pavel.

IOO _

 




SOUTH AFRICA—Cont’d

Durban (Natal) . His Exc. Sir Walter Hely Thos. W. Edmonds.

[Hutchinson

. E. H. Crouch.
. Lionel Phillips . . . . . F. W. Fitz Simons.

 

East London . . .
Johannesburg
(S. A. R.)

Pietermaritzburg

(Natal)

SPAIN. . .

Barcelona . . . . Barcelona S. P. A. and Plants . Salvador Bad1a y Andren . Franc1sco de Maymo y[Llo-

part.

Cadiz......S.P.A............ ..........—-—Romua1do.
Gibraltar . S. . . . . . . . . . .D. S. Govett. . . . . .H. W. Bailey.
Madrid . . . S,
Malaga . . . . . Amm
Seville . . P .

0000
mmmo.‘

<i<£<3<i

. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely F. J. Dickson.
[Hutchinson

Plant P. A. . . . . .J. Garcia de Toledo . . .Henry J. Huelin.
. .. ..........R.deBustamente.

101

EN. '
SWED .F.Ky1ander . .. . . . .Albert Michelsen.

' as . . . S. A. . . . . . . . .
Pigggglfolm . . . . S. A. . . . . . . . . . K. J. Hellgren . . . . . J. Wilner.
Eksjo . . . EkSJO S. P. A. . . . . . . . F. Aug. Pettersson . . .Edward Petri.
Falun . . . . . . Valley S. P. A. . C. E. von Odr eich. . . . E. Hedblom.
Goteborg . . . . S. P. Animals Small Birds . Henrik Hedlu nd . . . . C. I. Gardell.

A , A J Molin . . . . . .A. Alstrom.

Grebbestad . . . . Grebbestad S. P. . . .
Kalmar . . Kalmar S. P. A. . . . . . . A. Hellner . . . . . . H. Bohman.
Karlshamn . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . Otto Berg . . . . . . Erik Leth.

Karlskrona . S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . .N. Hussenins .J.J. Blomberg.

Karlstad . S. P. A. . . .Bishop C. H. Run dg ren .Dr. Conrad Fristedt.

Linkoping S. P. A . . .Dr. A. Sterner . . . .G. A. Wallen.

Linkoping . . . .
Lulea S. P. A. . . . . .Rev. 0. A. Wester. . . .K. Hallman.

Lund :Lund S P. A. . . . . . .Prof. S. L. Torngvist. . .N.Lundahl.
Lund . . . . . .FriendsP. A.

Lyckeby .

. . . . . . .Fredrik Krebs . . . . .Aurore Ytterstrom.
. S. P.A.. . . . . . . . . .Rev. H. Bergstrom . . .H.Stalfors.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SWEDEN—Continued.

Marieped
M6rsil

S.P..A

. M6rsil S. P..A.

. K. U. Nylander
. Gustof Erikson .

. Thos. Nordstrom.
. N. Otto Lindstrom.

N ettraby N ettraby S. P. A.
Orebro . . . Orebro S. P. A.
Sk6fde . . . Sk6fde S. P. A. .
Stockholm Stockholm Branch S. P. A.
Stockholm . Swedish S. P. A. .
Stockholm Swedish Women’s Branch
Strengnas . S. P. C. A. of Strengnas .
Str6mstadt .S. P. A. . .
Sundsvall . . . S. P. A. .

Tj6rn . . . . . Tj6rn S. P. A. .

Umea . . . . . . Western Territory S. P. A.
Upsala . . . Northern S. P. A. . .
Vexio . . . . Vexio S. P. A.

Visby . . . . . Visby S. P. A.

Wimmerby . . . . S. P. A. . . .

SWITZERLAND.
Aargau S. P. C.
Basle . . . . . . S. P.

Berne . . . . . S. P.

Bienne . . B

Burgdorf

Chur .

Fribourg

Geneva . .

Langenthal .

Lausanne

Lucerne

Neuchatel

Nyon .

. . . . . Fr. Schlyter . . . . .
. . . .J. Wahlﬁsk . . . . .
.H. Uggla . . . . .Atel Th. Wahlstrom.

. Count G. von Rosen .A. E. Ljundberg.

. . . Baron Carl C. von Bonde . Baron Ludwig von Platen.
. Mrs. Josephine Varenius . P. G. Isberg.

.K. U. Nylander. . . . .T. Nordstrom.

Sven Ljunggren . A. Wiklund.

. Aug. Bystedt . H. Salvin.

. Carl Ljungman . . Y. A. Kallstrom.

Prof. C. N. Pahl . Dr. P. B. Regnér.
.Henrik Akerstr6m .A. G. Florén.

. Ch. E. von Oelreich . Frans Berggren.

. O. Carlstedt . . Alfr.Rosva1.

Fr. Ljung . . J. P. Johanson.

. Ivar Espelund.
. Dr. E. Adlez.

int hte Canton of Aargau Dr. H. Fischer . . . ‘
. . . . . . . .Prof. P. B6hringer . .-

A. . .S. W. Kuhn . . . . .

. renne S. Prot. A. . . . Henri Thalmann . . .

.S. P. A. .Joseph Rey . .

. Union of Soc’s P. C A. in Chur . Maj. Hartm. V. Caviezel

. Fribourg S. P. C. A. . . . . Rev. Charles de Raemy

. Vaudoise S. Prot. A. . . . . . . .

S. P. A. . . . Ed. Miiller—Jéiggi . .

. S. P. C. A. in Langenthal . . .— Cousin . . .

S. P. A. . . . . .Rob. Marbacher . .

. Neuchatel S. Prot. A . . . .Rev. Mr. Lardy

{8. Prot. A. of Vaud. in the}
Canton of Nyon . . . .

H. Hasler.

. Dr. Hans Keller.

. F. Witschy.

. Albert Chopard

. Dr. H. Stickelberger.
. Dr. Michel v. Valer.
. Prof. Otto Moser.

. Eugene de Bude.

F. Schneeberger.

. E. Chavannes.

. Dr. Bucher.
Eugene Courvoisier.

. Louis Maquelin.

A.i
A.
C.

Eugene Gamboni

 

 

 

 




  
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
  
 
   
    
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENTS.

 

In addition to Tithe uniformed force attached to Head-
quarters and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented
throughout the State of New York by the following Agents :

 

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R. W ........................................ Rushford

GLOVER, GEORGE W ................................ Friendship

HARRIS (M.D.), WILLIAM H ......................... Canaseraga

MUNN, JAMES E ......................................... Oramel

WHITING, J. I ............................................. Bolivar

BROOME COUNTY.

WILSON, JOHN M ....................................... Deposit
CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.

COTTON, CHARLES ....................................... Olean

GAYLORD, WALTER R ............................. Franklinville

HUNTLEY, JASON T ................................... Randolph

V LAWRENCE, FRANK E .............................. Cattaraugus
CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

JENKS, A. FRANK ..................................... Jamestown

CHENANGO COUNTY.

BRIGGS, WILLIAM P .................................... Smyrna
HOLBROOK, FRANK E ............................... Columbus
MORSE, ALPHA ........................ ' .................. Oxford

WILLIAMS (M.D.), GEORGE o ........................... Greene

 

 

 




 

105

CLINTON COUNTY.

LIBERTY, LOUIS ................... - .................. Plattsburgh
MOORE, JOHN N ...................................... Champlain
COLUMBIA COUNTY.

WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ............................. Craryvillc
WHITE, GORDON A ..................................... Hudson
DELAWARE COUNTY.

DODDS, JOHN T ........................................... Delhi
HALSTEAD, GEORGE .................................. Stamford
VAN TASSLE, ALTON L ............................... Treadwell
WILSEY, ADELBERT L .................................. Slidney
DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M.D.), THOMAS K .................... Wappinger’s Falls
MOITH, THEODORE .................................... Fishkill
ESSEX COUNTY.

DODGE, LEONARD ....................................... Keene
JOHNSON, WARREN. .............................. Ticonderoga.
STANTON, JOHN W ............................... Elizabethtown
FRANKLIN COUNTY.

DONOHOE, M. C .......................................... Malone
FULTON COUNTY.

BUTTON, MILLARD F ............................... Gloversville
DAY, JULIUS B .......................................... Mayﬁeld
HOWE, DUANE ....................................... Broadalbin
KIBBE, ARTHUR D .................................. Gloversville
LENTZ, WILLIAM ..................................... Johnstown
'OOT, ERASTUS ..................................... Gloversville
GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN .................................. Le Roy
ROGERS, JOHN L ...................................... Pembroke

GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE .................................... Prattsville
HORTON, J. BRADLEY ................................... Athens

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

106

MOON, WILLIAM H ................................... Windham
REILLY, JOSEPH ........................................ Catskill
RILEY, WILLIAM T ................................... Lexington
WELLS, CHRISTOPHER .............................. Coxsackie
WILLARD (M.D.), CHARLES E .......................... Catskill

EERKIMER COUNTY.

BARGY, WARNER ...................................... Frankfort
HALL, H. CLAY ....................................... Little Falls
SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ................................ Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

NORTHRUP, JOSEPH ............................ Alexandria Bay
WARD, PETER A ...................................... Watertown

LEWIS COUNTY.

BABCOCK, LEWIS E .................................... Lowville
DRYDEN, JOHN D ................................... Copenhagen
MURRAY, REV. JAMES BYRON, D.D ............. Constableville
SCOVILLE, HENRY C ............................. Constableville

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.
SHULTS, WARREN D ............................. Mount Morris

MADISON COUNTY.

BRYANT, HAROLD... ................................ Brookﬁeld
DE GROODT, FRED. E ............................ Pratt’s Hollow
GAVIN, JOHN .......................................... Hamilton
LIPPITT, F. B ............................................ Madison
LOCKMAN, A ........................................... Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H ...................................... Oneida
TEALE, B. S ............................................... Oneida
WARREN, JOB A ....................................... De Ruyter

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

DE FOREST, DAVID ................................. Amsterdam
EATON, ALFRED G .................................. Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C ................................. Canajoharie

MERENESS, CHARLES W ............................. Fort Plain

 




 

____m mwm'munwrr—rsm-
3‘

107

NASSAU COUNTY.

BRUNDAGE, JOSEPH H ................................ Sea Cliﬁ
CLOWES, LEWIS H ................................... Hempstead
COCK, HON. TOWNSEND D' ......................... Oyster Bay
COFFIN, BENJAMIN L ............................... Thomaston
CORT, THOMAS HENRY ............................. Cedarhurst
DUNBAR, JOHN J ....................................... Freeport
FLOYD—JONES, G. STANTON ....................... Massapequa
MERRITT, DAVID H ..................................... Inwood
SMITH, JAMES T ........................................ Hewletts
VAN WAGNER, GEO. E ............................ Locust Valley
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM ......................... Locust Valley
NIAGARA COUNTY.
BRACKENRIDGE, WM. A .......................... Niagara Falls
HOD‘GE (M.D.), JOHN W .......................... Niagara Falls
POMEROY, D. N ........................................ Lockport
THURSTON, BENJAMIN F ......................... Niagara Falls
ONEIDA COUNTY. ,
LEWIS, W. D ................................................ Utica
ONONDAGA COUNTY. *
OTIS, ISAAC C .......... ' .................................. Jordan
ORANGE COUNTY.
CORWIN, SPENCER W ............................... Middletown
MILLS, JAMES J ..................................... .Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W .................................. Goshen
ORR, JAMES A ....................................... Port Jervis
WILLIAMS, NATHANIEL H .......................... Ridgebury

ORLEANS COUNTY.
SMITH, SAMUEL W ...................................... Holley

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G ................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W H ......................................... Mexico

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

108

OTSEGO COUNTY.

CRAMER, ALMOND ................................ Cherry Valley
HOLBROOK, JOHN L ................................... Flycreek
JOHNSON, HOWARD R ................................. Oneonta
PLATT, CHARLES M ...................................... Morris
SITTS, JOHN H ............................. 2 . . . .Richﬁeld Springs
TIPPLE, ORRA L ...................................... Schenevus

PUTNAE COUNTY.
BENNETT, WALTER J .................................. Mahopac

QUEENS COUNTY.

APPLEGATE, JACOB A ................................. Flushing
BAILEY, GEORGE M ................................. S‘pringland
BUSCH, ADAM ....................................... Woodhaven
DUSING, WILLIAM. . . ...... . . . .. .. Q. ..... 231 Ninth Ave., Astoria
POST, JR., JAMES B ................................ Richmond Hill

RICHMOND COUNTY.
ELLIOTT, GEORGE ................................ New Brighton

ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.

MITCHELL, JOHN M ................................ Ogdensburg
WAIT, JOHN ............................................. Potsdam

IARATOGA. COUNTY.

KAVANAUGH, F. W .................................... Waterford
SELDEN, EDWARD D .......................... Saratoga Springs

SCHENECTADY COUNTY.
HOAG, C. E ......................................... Quaker Street

scnomnm COUNTY.
REED, H. LOUIE .......................................... Gilboa

SCHUYLER COUNTY.

WAIT, WILLIAM HENRY ............................... Watkins
WELLER, DR. F. B ..................................... Watkins

 




vmmanv—r—g- —.. , ._..._.

,,._,_ ~~m mam—mm...“

109

:11:ch COUNTY.
KNIGHT, LEWIS J ........................................

Farmer
’STEUBEN COUNTY.
ALDEN, DR. PHILO L ........................... Hammondsport
BURKE, THOMAS W .................................... Addison
LAIN, CORNELIUS H ................................... Canisteo
LANE (M.D.), GEO, W....... ............................ Corning
SHELDON, JOHN R ................................ Hornellsville
WILKES, ROBERT B ....................................... Bath
SUFFOLK COUNTY.
ANDERSON, THOMAS S, W ........................ Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L .................................... Babylon

BRUSH, BENJAMIN F ....................... Cold Spring Harbor
CALL, FRANK H ....................................... Bay Shore
HOMAN, C. E. C ................................... East Hampton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M ................................. Setauket
MORISON, GEORGE W ............................ Ronkonkoma
NELSON, WILLIAM F ......................................
OVERTON (M.D.), FRANK ............................
POST, REGIS H

Islip
Patchogue

.......................................... Bayport
REEVES, DETMOLD ................................... Greenport
ROGERS, JOHN F ................................... Southampton
SAVAGE (MUD), WILLIAM B .......................... East Islip
SEAMAN, JOHN D ................................... Brookhaven
SIMONS, FRANCIS W .............................. Shelter Island
SIVIITH, CHARLES F .................................. Cutchogue
SMITH, CHARLES L ................................... Northport
STRONG, JAMES S ..................................... Wainscott
SUYDANI, WALTER LBlue Point
VAIL, ALFRED R ....................................... Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B ............................... Baiting Hollow
WIGGINS, JR., DAVID B .............................. Sag Harbor
SULLIVAN COUNTY.
CREVELING, REV. P. C .................................. Liberty
DECKER, A. A ..................................... Mountain Dale

GRANT, EDWARD W ....... Liberty

 

 

 

 




    
 
  
  
   
    
 
    
   
   
   
 
    
    
 
   
 
   
    
    
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
  

IIO

TIOGA COUNTY.

BEEBE, CLARK W ........................................ Candor
STEELE, CHARLES R ........................... _ ....... Apalachin

ULSTER COUNTY.
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ........................... Clintondale

WARREN COUNTY.

BURNETT, WILLIAM H ............................ Lake George
GRIFFING, E. T .......................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E, S ......................................... Lake George
SEXTON, JESSE E ......................................... Hague

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEWAY, FRED ..................................... Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M ............................... Salem
TEMPLE, ALLEN S ..................................... Whitehall

WALSH, JAMES ......................................... Granville

 
 

WAYNE COUNTY.

AGETT, WILLIAM W ...................................... Lyons
COOPER, BYARD .......................................... Clyde
DAVENPORT, CLARENCE F. ........ Huron
MORSE, LEWIS H ........................................ Newark
RICH, JOSEPH C ......................................... Marion

WILLIAMS, ALDEN P .................................... Marion

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

  

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J .............................. Mt, Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL L ................................. Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H ......................................... Irvington
BEACH, ROBERT J ................................ Pelham Manor
BERBERT, FREDERICK .................... Hastings-on-Hudson
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H ................................ Tarrytown.
BUSSARD, JOSEPH ................................ New Rochelle
COLLINS, HIRAM J .................................. Mt, Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains
FLINT, F, W ........................................... Larchmont

FOWLER, GEORGE ................................. White Plains




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

 

THE PAYMENT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS on MORE, AT ONE TIME,
SECURES A LIFE MEMBERSHIP.

 

A

Allen, Mrs. John K.
Amend, Bernard G.
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Andrews, C. A.
Archbold, John D.
Arnold, William

Astor, Mrs. John Jacob
Astor, William Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P. '

B
Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox

Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B.

Benson, Miss Mary
Beresford, Mrs. John G.
Bergh, Henry

Billington, Mrs. Reno B.

Bliss, Robert P.

Bliss, Susan D.
Borman, A. H.
Bostwick, Mrs. Jabez A.
Bowdoin, George S. '
Boyd, J. Gilmore
Braidich, A. F.
Brewster, Robert S.
Bundy, Hobart L.
Burdick, B. W.

 

Burke, Edward F.
Butler, Miss M. W.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Cary, Miss Ellen G.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Chauncey, Henry D.
Claﬂin, Arthur B.
Claﬁin, Mrs. H. B.
Claﬂin, John

Clark, Miss Ella Mabel
Clausen, Henry
Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. M.
Clews, Henry

Cochran, W. Bourke
Convers, E. B.

Cook, C. T.

Corning, John’J.

Crapo, John M.

D

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Dawson, Benjamin Frederick
De Sers, Msme. La Contesse
DeWitt, George G.

Dey, Anthony

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.
Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleve’d

  

 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 

 

 




 

 

 

Dodge, George E.
Dodge, Norman W.
Draper, Mrs. Henry
Driggs, Silas W.
Dunlap, Cornell

E

Eger, Mrs. T. G.
Ehret, George

Eno, Wm. P.

Eno, Mrs. William P.
. Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Fairfax, Mrs. Lindsay
Ford, James B.

Ford, William T.
Foster, James

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerrish, Mrs. Frank Scott
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gillette, William
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Gray, Horace

Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Haines, Mrs. John P.

Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.

Hamilton, John L.

Hard, Miss Laura W.

Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.

Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
8

—\-. .rnt—J‘uuwﬁwt’HZMWV—‘m- .. . , a.“

113

Henderson, Mrs. A. C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Hubbard, Thomts H.
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann
Huntington, Archer M.

I
Iselin, Adrian

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnson, Dr. S. K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kemp, Edward

Kennedy, John L.
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kip, Henry S.

Kohlsaat, J. W.

‘Kraus, Miss Emma

L
Lanier, Charles
Lee, Miss Alleine
Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson
Liautard, Dr. A. F.
Lilley, C. W.
Low, Joseph T.

M

McGee, James
Marié, Peter

 




   

114

   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

Markoe, Dr. Francis H. Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Marlor, Henry S. Robbins, Mrs. Milton
Marsh, John Edward Rogers, H. H.

Marshall, Charles H. Rolfe, Mrs. N. D.

Mayer, Otto L. Ruppert, Jacob

Meeker, Dr. C. H. Russell, Jr., Archibald Doug.
Meeker, Mrs. C. H. Russell, Hon. Horace

L Merritt, Mrs. George

‘,j Merritt, Miss Mary E. S

Milbank, Joseph

3
1 M'lb k M S h H B
, . h c armann, . .
l M11132 WiggﬁirgthEr Schermerhorn, Mrs. John W.
L.

 

 

 

Moffat, Miss Myra Schermerhorn, William C.

L l Moore, Mrs. John Godfrey Seligman, DeWittJ.

g: ggglL Morss, Mrs. Mary T. Shaw, Mrs. Francrs G.
l
l

 

Mott, d L_ Sherman, George
Mou1tgﬁf 3211155 Eliza Sherman, William Watts

Moult n M . . . Smith, Mrs. A- J

Mm; 301,1: B}? A Smith, Dr. Edward A.
Smith, Miss Josephine C.

. Squier, E. George

g M}: .g N .

. W Standish, Mrs. Myles

Newton, Mrs. R, H, Stevens, Frederick W.

Stillman, Miss B. G.

O Stokes, Miss C. P.

~ Stokes, Jr., James

O’Brien, William Stokes, Miss Olivia E. P.

Olcott, Miss Edith Straus, Nathan

Olcott, F. P. Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade

Olmsted, Mrs. Charles T. Suckley, Robert 13.

Osborn, William H. Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

g «g»? l. P

H “ M i

‘j g; j' l Parrish, James C. T .

llL ‘i; L Post, Edwin A. Taft, Elihu Barber

"g 1 Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor Taylor, George C-

j g}: L : Thompson, Fred. F.

'j.‘ Lg ggj g3 R Thorne, William

:ggl jg g Tiffany, Charles L.

f; W] if“ Reusens, G- Townsend, Mrs. Howard

 

 

 

 

 

Rhinelander, Miss S. Trevor, Henry G.
Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott Tuck, Edward
Ripley, Harry Dillon Tuck, Mrs. Edward

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, .g .....
‘ l“ L ggggg




 

 

U
Uhlmann, Frederick

V

Valentine, Mitchel
Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W‘.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen
Von Post, H. C. '

W

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Watson, George H.
Wendel, Miss Ella

115

Wendel, Miss Georgiana G. R.
. Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wharton, Edward R.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrs. C. E.
Whitney, Hon. Wm. C.
Winans, Miss M. Antoinette
Winship, L. A.
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.
Wood, Charles B.
Wood, Mrs. Charles B.
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon

Y
Yuengling, Jr., David G.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS.

 

THE ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION IS FIVE DOLLARS.

A

Abraham. Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Alexander, J. H.
Allebone, Mrs. J. 0.
Allen, Miss L. D.
Allen, Miss Rose
Alter, David

Am Ende, Dr. C.
Andrews, Miss Pearl
Armstrong, James
Arnstein, Albert
Arnstein, E.

Aron, A.

Ashforth, Mrs. Freda

Auchincloss, Mrs. H. D.

Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Babcock, H. D.
Bachmann, Frederick

Backster. Mrs. Clara L.

Backus, Mrs. Foster L.
Bacon, Marshal L.
Bailey, Mrs. O. S.

Baldwin, H. M.

Baldwin, Miss Kate C.
Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Ballin, Oscar E.

Banks, Mrs. Theo. Howard
Banyer, Goldsboro
Barclow, Mrs. Kate L.
Bardes, John

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis

Barnes, Mrs. Harriet S.
Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barney, Mrs. J. Stewart
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barry, Wm. J.

Barth, Gustav A.
Barton, Mrs. Carrie L.
Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Bechtel, Mrs. Eva
Beemer, James G.

Beer, Mrs. G. L.
Beinert, Charles

Belais, Mrs. D.
Belford, William J.

Bell, Bertrand F.

Bell, Gordon Knox

Bell, Mrs. James

 

 




 

   
   
  
   
  
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    

Bell, Thomas O.
Bender, George
Benedicks, Leonard
Benedict, Miss Laura
Benedict, Miss Louise
B‘enet, Dr. Imlay
Benjamin, A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. Wm. E.
Beramji, R.

Berlin, H. C.
Bernheimer, Mayer S.
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Biddle, John

Billings, Miss M. M.
Bininger, Wm. B.
Birkbeck, Miss Alice
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Bishop, Miss M. C.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Miss Kate W.
Blake, Peter

Blinn, Dr. F. Gray
Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.
Bliss, Miss Ida E.
Bliss, Justin A.

Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.
Bloodgood, John H.

Bloomingdale, Charles A.

Blumberg, D.

Bodine, B. J.

Bond, Frank S.
Bondy, M. S.
Borman, Sydney
Bowdoin, Miss Edith G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Boyce, William

Boyd, Allan S.
Brackett, Edgar T.
Brady, Patrick
Braine, Theodore

117

Braun, Ludwig

Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brewster, Mrs. William
Bright, Mrs. Henry
Bristol, Miss Fanny L.
Britton, Mrs. Harriet Lord
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Broun, Miss E. W.
Brown, Addison

Brown, Edward M.
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Mrs. Ellen D. Brooks
Brown, Robert

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bruns, C. A.

Brush, W. Franklin
Bryan, Charles S.

Bull, W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, William V.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

(N

v

Cady, Mrs. J. C.

Cahill, Michael
Caldwell, R. J.

Calef, Mrs. John H.
Calm, Miss Berta
Cammann, George P.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel

Carew, Mrs. L. B.
Carnochan, G. M.
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.

 

W




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4‘ .v f 1:"- . A -A AAA_ A A E — A AT vi; ‘ 4;. )7) 4 . .___..L_ .. ‘ 1; L ‘p._,.‘ N 4‘44, 54”“ g~ , :, A4;4«/, ~A —: .1" ,
..L.._...4 .. 4 ...i :4 A! .....4.n_.. .‘ﬁ
_ . - .4 4... . A. A x A AA~ A AA - 4 A 4 A 4AA v» AAHAAA- 4 A < >
4‘ . T' 1: 7. 1."‘...;A;:A“:“ ‘ i 51%;: 7A 1 A5“: 2‘ ‘ 44597 1‘ ‘4" f ‘ ':.~?“: ,_ A); .AA'. L: .‘f__., A _ l
l

. »~-/' 1 . .AH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Carrington, Miss E. B.
Carroll, J. D.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Mrs. M. B.

Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cathcart, Miss Jane R.
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Miss K. L. R.
Catlin, Wm. H.

Cestero, J. N.

Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.

Chambers, Miss Catherine D.

Chapman, Mrs. E. N.
Chapman, Isaac E.
Childs, Miss Jessamine G.
Chisholm, Hugh J.
Choate, Hon. Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Clark, Mrs. Margaret
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Close, S. B. ‘
Clyde, Miss Mabel
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.

Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cofﬁn, Miss Adéle
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.

Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Conklin, Miss Mary H.
Conner, Mrs. Crowell M.
Constable, W. .

Cook, Frank D.

Cooke, Mrs. Laura E.

Corbett, C. H.

Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coudert, Hon. Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.

Cox, Charles F.
Cramer, L. H.

Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Critten, Miss Marjorie
Critten, Miss Mignon
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cruger, Fred Hammerlys
Culver, Mrs. Everett B.
Cummings, George F.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Frank
Cunningham, George
Curie, Charles

Curie, Charles, Jr.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Henry

Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Dana, Richard S.
Darrell, Edward F.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davies, Mrs. Mansﬁeld
Davies, William Gilbert
Davison, Clarence B.
Davison, Rev. W. L.
Day, Clarence S.

Day, Mrs. H. M.
Dearborn, Miss Dorothy
DeBow, Mrs. A. M.

De Coppet, H.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

120

Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Flint, Miss Helena
Floyd, William
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.
Foller, Nicholas
Foote, E. V.

Forbes, Miss Agnes
Forney, Matthias W.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Fox, Charles A.

Fox, Mrs. Hilda C. Seccomb
Francis, Nathaniel L.
Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas
Franzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freel, Edward
Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, W. D.
French, Mrs. Leigh H.
Friedmann, H. G.
Frothingham, H. P.
Friihauf, Miss Victoria

G

Gage, William B.

Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A.

Gallatin, Frederic

Gates, Isaac E.

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Almy

Gatter, Miss Georgia

Gaus, John L.

Gellatly, Mrs. John

Georgen, W. T.

Gherardi, Rear Adm., Ban—
croft, U.S.N.

Gibb, John

Gibbert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.

Gibbes, Miss Z.

Gilford, Samuel T.

Gitterman, Mrs. John Milton

Glatz, Mrs. Pauline

Goddard, Miss Annie C.
Godfrey, Charles H.
Godkin, Lawrence

Godwin, Parke

Goetze, Otto

Goin, Mrs. James D.
Gokey, Mrs. William J.
Golding, John N.

Golding, Jr., John Noble
Golding, Robert Noble
Goldsmith, Fred.
Goodman, Joseph N.
Goodrich, George Selden
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Gould, Frank J.

Gould, George J.

Gould, Mrs. George J.
Gould, Miss Helen Miller
Graef, Mrs. Harry C.
Grant, Rev. Percy S.
Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S.
Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.
Grismer, Joseph R.
Grismer, Mrs. Joseph R.
Griswold, Mrs. George
Griswold, Miss Sarah D.
Grosvenor,Rev.Wm.M.,D.D.
Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Hon. R.
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

Gwyer, Mrs. Fred Walker

H

Haddock, J. W.
Haffen, John
Hagaman, A.
Hage, Daniel S.
Hague, Miss M.
Haight, Stephen S.
Haines, G. Sabine

 




IZI

Hale, Mrs. Thomas

Hall, Mrs. Humes
Hammond, Mrs. John Henry
Hard, Anson W. ,
Harding, Col. Wm. J.
Hardy, Miss Ruth
Harkness, Mrs. S. V.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harris, Mrs. Laura C.
Harris, Mrs. Wm. Hamilton
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Hart, Charles

Hartley, Mrs. Marcellus
Hascall, Miss Florence King
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Hatch, Dr. -Henry D.
Hathaway, Charles E.
Haviland, S. W.

Hawley, Edwin

Healey, A. Augustus
Hearn, Arthur H.
Heaton, Mrs. Chas. A.
Hecht, Aaron

Heckscher, John G.
Heene, E.

Heller, Clarence

Heller, Mrs. E. L.
Hellfeld, Miss Anna D.
Hellman, Mrs. Theodore
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Henry, Gustav C.
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Miss Helen L.
Hentz, Henry.

Hentz, L. S.

Hentz, Mrs. Mary B.
Hentz, Miss Mary R.
Hepp, Chas. TheOdore, M.D.
Herr, Mrs. A.

Herrick, M.D., Everett
Herrmann, Mrs. Esther
Herrmann, Mrs. L.
Herzfeld, Richard
Hess, Mrs. N.
Hess, Selmar
Hesslein, S. A.
Hett, Frank
Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Hewson, J. H.
Heyland, E. A.
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Hile, Miss Annie
Hill, Warren E.
Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
Hix, Mrs. Preston
Hoefer, Charles R.
Hoegg, William
Hoffman, F. B.
Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Charles W.
Hohns, Herman
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Holden, Miss Maud M.
Holden, Mrs. K. V.
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Hollins, Jack Knapp
Holt, Miss Winifred
Hone, Mrs. Chas. Russell
Hood, David
Hopi, Max G.
Hopkins, H. C.
Hopkins, Mrs. Sheldon
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Hornthal, Lewis M.
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Howe, Wirt
Huber, Joseph

 

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hudson, Mrs. Alice P.
Humason, Mrs. V. P.
Hunt, Charles \N.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J. C. G.
Hutchins, Aug. S.
Hutchins, William E.

I

Ibert, Frank
' Ingersoll, Miss Maud

Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.

Isaacs, David
Isaacs, Gabriel
Iselin, C. Oliver
Iselin, Miss G.
Israel, Siegmund
Ives, Wm. Jay

J

Jackson, B. A.

Jackson, Theo. F.
Jackson, F. W.
Jacobsen, Mrs. Kristine
Jennewein, Valentine
Jesup, Charles M.
Jevons, Thomas E.
Jewitt, Mrs. Edward G.
Jex, Miss Emily D.

Jex, Mrs. Josiah
Johnson, A. K.
Johnson, F. Coit
Johnson, Joseph

Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader
Jones, Miss Caroline 0.
Jones, Miss Eleanor M.

Jones, Floyd—, Mrs. Geo.

Stanton
Jones, Frank
Jones, George H.
Jones. Miss Julia 1.
Jurgens, W. B. A.

K

Kaltenmier, John

Kane, S. Nicholson
Keasbey, Robert A.
Keator, Mrs. T. R.
Keech, Mrs. Frank
Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.
Keith, Dr. Horace G.
Kelly, Edward F.
Kelton, Mrs. C. F.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Keppler, Rudolph ‘
Kern, August

Kestler, Bruno B.

Kidd, Miss Georgette
Kimball, Miss Rosamund
King, George R.

Kirk, H. B.

Kirk, Mrs. Harford B.
Klein, C. F.

Knapp, John M.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knickerbocker, Mrs. M. A.
Knoblauch, Charles
Knoblauch, Mrs. Jessie
Knopf, A. E.

Knopf, Dr. S. A.

Knox, John Mason
Koch, J. Otto

Kohl‘man, Charles

L

Ladenburg, Mrs. Adolph
Laidlaw, Henry B.

Lamb, Mrs. Emma G.
LaMontagne, Mrs. Maurice
Lane, Mrs. James W.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Lanman, Mrs. Jonathan T.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.

 




Lawrence, Cyrus J. ‘
Lawrence, John L. -
Lawrence, Mrs. John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.

Lee, Prof. B. F.

Leeds, Edward F.
Leeds, John G.

Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Lefferts, F. R., Jr.
Leggett, Francis H.
LePiemme, Mme. Louise C.
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levere, Mrs. Rose
Levy, Aaron

Levy, Bernard

Lewis, H. D.

Leyes, Peter

Liebmann, Charles
Linder, Jr., Charles
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Liszka, Miss A. F.
Little, Joseph J.
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Livingston, Mrs. R. E.
Lockman, John T.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.
Lord, Dr. Benjamin
Lord, Miss Couper
Lord, Franklin B.
Lorenz, Mrs. Leo

Lorette, Miss Frances M. V.

Losee, Charles E.

Low, Miss Nathalie F.
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowther, Charles S.
Ludlow, Banyer

Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lyman, Samuel H.

Lynch, Mrs. Jasper

123

M

Mackay, Mrs. B.
Mackay, Mrs. D. Sage
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Mackey, Miss Helen
Magnotti, R.
Mahlstedt, Jr., John D.
Maitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.
Maitland, T. A.
Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marcks, L. H.

Marks, Mrs. Nanette
Marsh, Frank P.
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, Anderson 0.
Martin, C. C.

Marvin, Charles D.
Mattmann, Mrs. C.
Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.
Maxwell, Henry W.
Maxwell, Mrs. Matilda
May, Moses

Mayer, David

Mayer, Siegfried W.
Mayhew, Mrs. R. F.
McAllister, Mrs. Harriet
McBurney, Mrs. S. A.
McCaﬁfrey, B.

McCall, John A.
McCormack, Bernard
McDonald. J.

McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John
McGirr, E. F.
McGovern, Rev. P.
McKendrick, Miss Claire F.
McKendrick, Mrs. J. S.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

McKenna, Mrs. Wm.
McKim, Mrs. R. A.
McKinstry, Mrs. L. L.
McLean, George H.
McLean, John L.
McVickar, W. N.

Mead, Miss Gertrude
Meagher, Mrs. T. F.
Mergle, Anton
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Michelbacher, S.
Millar, George W.
Miller, Mrs. C. A.

Mills, Mrs. J. B.

Minck, Henry

Misch, A.

Mitchell, John A.
Mitchell, A. Roger
Moffatt, Mrs. Cleveland
Moller, Edwin Clarence
Moller, Peter

Moller, Mrs. Peter
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Monahan, Thomas
Monroe, Augustin
Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montant, A.
Montgomery, George L.
Moore, Albert Hanford
Morgan, E. D.
Morgan, George H.
Morgan, Wm. Fellowes
Morris, John B.
Morrison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Morse, George L.
Morten, Alexander
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Muir, James
Mulholland, John E.
Munch, William
Munroe, Mrs. Chester
Murphy, Miss Edna L.

124

'Namm, Adolph I.

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
      
   
   
    
      

Murray, Miss Sophia I.
Murtagh, Robert

Myers, George L.
Myers, Miss Lillie

N

 

Nash, John McL.
Nathan, Miss Madge
Neidlinger, Adam
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Neustadt, Sigmund
Newgreen, Miss Emily
Newhall, J. B.

Newton, Miss A. G.
Newton, Mrs. George B.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Nicoll, Mrs. Benjamin
Nielsen, N. P.

Niles, Mrs. Philip .
Niles, Robert Lyman
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Rob’t H.

North, Thomas M.
Nostrand, Frank

O

Obermeyer, Theodore
O’Brien, M. J.

Ochs, Ernest

Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George M.
Oothout, Mrs. William
Orr, John C.

Osborn, Jr., H. Fairﬁeld
O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.
Otterson, W. Curtis
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.

P

Page, Edward D.
Palmer, Francis D.

 

 

 




 

 

 

    
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
 

Palmer, F. H.

Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Park, Joseph

Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parmele, Chas. Roome
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin
Parsons, William H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pell, J. H.

Pell, Mrs. J H.

Penfold, Miss Josephine
Pennell, Mrs. G. C.
Perkins, Benjamin
Perkins, Miss Edith Howell
Perkins, Miss Ruth
Perry, Dr. John L.
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.
Phillips, Wm. D.
Phoenix, Lloyd.
Pinkerton, Robert A.
Pirie, S. C.

Poggenburg, H. F.
Pohalski, H. Percy
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Potter, Mrs. Geo. M.
Potter, Miss Helen F.
Prescott. Mrs. Annie E.
Preston, Mrs. Geo. Rutledge
Preston, Ralph J.
Proctor, Miss H. F.
Prout, Dr. J. S.
Prout, Mrs. J. S.
Pryer, Miss A. C.
Purdy, J. H.
_Putnam, Geo. L.
Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

Q
Quimby, Frank P.
Quin, Louis

125

 

 

Quinlan, Thos. F.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Ramsay, Miss Grace S.
Rand, George C.
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Raphael, H.

Rathbone, R. C.

Raub, Herman
Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor, Miss Florence
Read, Wm. A.

Reid, Miss Katherine
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renwick, William W.
Reuter, Albert
Reynolds, Chas. H.
Rice, Jesse I.

Richards, Auguste
Riker, Samuel

Ring, Miss M. L.
Rinschler, Frank

Robb, Mrs. Alexander
Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Rodewald, F. L.
Roemmele, Jr., Fred.
Ronalds, Geo. L.
Roome, W. Harris
Rose, W. B.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.
Rossbach, Jacob

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Thomas Fitch
Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch

 

  

 

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

126~

Russell, Mrs. James Towns’d Shepard, Dr. A. W.

Russell, Wm. H.
Ryan, Joseph T.

S
St. John, Wm. M.
Satterlee, Mrs. Herbert L.
Schaefer, Charles

Schenck, Miss Florence A.

Scheuer, Charles
Schleiermacher, Christian
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmitt, Mrs. Joseph
Schnurmacher, J.
Scholer, Dr. Gustav
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schrader, George
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Carl L.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Seabury, George J.
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Sedgwick, RObert
Segaller, Phil

Segree, Mrs. P.
Seligman, Miss Alice F.
Seligman, Isaac N.
Seligman, Jefferson
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse
Seligman, Miss Madeline
Sellew, Mrs. E. E.
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Semken, Dr. George H.
Seybel, D. E.

Sheldon, Jr., Henry K.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James
Sheldon, Mrs. James
Sheldon, James O.

Sherman, Mrs. Charles E.
Shipman, Nelson

Shivler, Charles S.
Shriver, Mrs. Harry T.
Shults, John H.

Sickels, David B.

Siegel, John R.

Siegman, Alfred

Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard

Siemer, John A.

Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Simons, Jr., Charles D.
Sinclair, John J.

Skene, Mrs; Alexander J. C.
Sloane, Henry T.

Small, Miss Blanche D.
Smart, Mrs. E. R.

Smith, A. W. ‘

Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, Crawford C.
Smith, George C.

Smith, Henry A.

Smith, James Rufus
Smith, J. Campbell

Smith, MasterJewell Kellogg
Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Tom Bradley
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex.
Snow, E. G.

Solomon, Robert G.
Sooysmith, Charles
Spence, Miss Clara B.
Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Lorillard
Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Speyer, Mrs. James
Spring, Miss Anna R.
Spruck, Henry

Standish, Myles

 




128

Ulshoeffer, W. G. Watson, Mrs. W. E.

Underhill, Eugene Weatherbee, Edwin
Weber, Joseph

V Weekes, Arthur D.

. Weeks, T. W.
Valentme, Mrs. A. C. Weil, Jacob

Valentine, R. B. . Weil, Lewis
Van Beuren, Michael M. Welch, Mrs. Alex. M,
Van Beuren,Mrs. Michael M. Welch, David
Van Bossanyi, Fred. Wells, Miss Julia Chester
Van Buren, Mrs. H. M. Welz, John
V311 Der R0659 Geo. Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
V3“ Ingen, M155 Anne Werner, Mrs. Henry
Van Ingen, Mrs. E- H- Westcott, Miss Thalia
Van Ness, J . Newton Whalen, Richard
Van Nest, Mrs. Alex. T. Wharton, Mrs. Edward R,
Van Orden, MISS Anna 'Wheeler, Schuyler Skaats
Van Orden, Miss Mary L. White, Horace
Van T1ne, Mrs. J. H. White, Miss May W,
Van Volkenburgh, Miss S. E. White, Mrs. Jno. J,
Van Winkle, Edgar B. White, S, V,
Vélth, MYS- H. F- Whitehouse, George M.
Vietor, Mrs. George F. Whiting, Miss Matilda M.
Villard, Oswald Garrison Wicke William
Vollkommer, Joseph Wickett, s. G.
Wiener, Dr. Joseph
W Wilcox, William G.
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wade, William D. ' Wilkins, Morris
Wagner, Frederick C. Willard, Miss Mary L.
Wagner, L‘OUiS C- Willcox, David
Wainwright, J. Mayhew Williston, Henry B.
Walker, Joseph - Willson, Charles Hill
Walker, Mrs. W. M. Wilson, Miss Elizabeth B.
Wallace, John Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Walser, Dr. William C. Wilson, John M.
Wandell, Townsend Wilson, Mrs. Lilian B.
Ward, Mrs. F. A. B. Wilson, M. Orme
Ward, Jr., Mrs. John Seely Wilson, Maris
Ward, L. B. Wilson, Washington
Warde, J. S. Winans, Miss Isabel T.
Wasserman, Mrs. E. Winans, Miss S. S.
Waters, V. S., Dr. E. Wing, L. Stuart

- . E .
L. Erie-H . .4 .2535— a- 2;

ages

. _ .MI‘JC‘EAJ AZ?“

37.? 1 H, N7 '
'i m
: lll l‘l ’J
‘i ‘1 .li‘ ;
s i? '1'
‘ l‘i “ w ‘
i l
3“ ill‘ 5’;
l l H ‘1
. i l
‘ ,1" ii ‘ E‘
v . ‘3 '
l. ‘1} i‘|‘[ ‘ l
l ; “ l
5 i! i 11""
l ‘ ‘il l '
i ‘ l'i
L1 ‘ ' H i
1" i l, ‘ w

"‘ ‘ “ l l l

‘i 11% 1‘

i ll ‘

. j ‘ l ‘ ."

Ni: 3.: ~ ,

u l I 1 l

‘. . w l

l i , . ,l' J .

l ill ll ‘

i l . ii ‘
l j i .

1‘ l l " Jr

ii ‘? >1 “l

. l' 1‘

l 1 ' Ji
l l {IJ} ,ﬁ‘
‘l ‘ ‘ ll" l
‘1 . i.
. J: ‘

’il l l l 1:;

l . l m

i ‘ " l

l l I "

1 ‘ ‘
i ‘i {i ‘i‘
‘ l m i.

I 1 ‘ i ’ “ 11

'U‘“ V‘ ‘r ‘ ll

1 . 1 ‘

. . . i l

i .
. l l .l

l 1 _ \i

i l‘ l "i‘

l ““5 'L‘V

l i ‘1 ii if
, , . 1‘
<11 m. 'l‘
I } . i ‘
‘ . > ‘ ‘l
l u. i.
I .
l) Jl ‘H‘l‘l‘l
i; K .
. ll ‘1

‘.

l.l ‘ }
‘ i .

u
i l l l
i . i

l l, fl}
,H .' iv A. 1"

li ‘i 'l ‘l'
l '1 i1"

5 . l W“ i
_. “I 1‘1.‘

l 1- l‘ »l ‘

ll ‘ .
zi‘) :. l" I
l .‘ L‘ ‘

it v ‘ } '
n ‘ ' l“
‘ l l ‘
e i;
x, i ‘I‘ w‘

H . i

; l l i l
. .l l; ‘;
' ..

H
i, i l
,‘i i| ll
52' ‘1': ‘1‘
il': 1.1 ll

N

‘=' i l 1
\[1l \ly i
i l
i‘ ’ H l

‘ l

‘. Ji' 2
. ;‘ 1| . l h

i H ' I:"

a i .

I 1. m. l
" H. ‘I
1 .
,l'i ‘
‘ill
a “x i.

l .H A

ll ‘1‘ '.
1“ 1r ‘
H l w

‘ l: i‘

.‘ 3:? ‘4 ‘~ "
‘l ll'i " i‘
l ‘

i . a} i.’
Il ‘ ii 1’} y
w .l, ,4
i . i .
[i ii ‘i ,
‘, $1,: 1‘ ii,
i it ‘ ‘
.!| W ‘ .ih‘

AM (1‘. .Y
" I ‘l . .
u, l1 -v ‘il
‘ i, ll ,
Ml 1 l‘ . ini‘
i‘ ‘ l ‘
‘n I l r‘
H 1 ‘1
l1 l J

l

I i ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Winslow, Walter Barrell
Winter, George

Winthrop, Mrs. Grenville
Wissel, Andrew

Witte, Charles G.

Wolf, Mrs. John

Wolfe, Master John
Wolff, Lewis S.

Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Wood, Mrs. James
Woodruff, Henry G.

W oolley, William Edgar .
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, Mrs. Emma C.

9

129

Wright, Miss Harriet
Wyckoff, Peter
Wyman, Miss Esther

Y

Yeisley, Rev. George C.
Young, Dr. John J.

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Ziegler, Henry

Zimmerman, Mrs. J. E.
Zittel, Frederick

 




 

®bituam 1Recorb

The Society mourns the loss of eighteen mem-
bers of Whose death it has been notiﬁed during the
year 1901, viz. :

CAMPBELL, ARCHIBALD H.
DILKS, GEORGE W.
DONOVAN, JOSEPH
DUNCAN, JOHN P.

ENGLE, ROBERT S.

FRIES, FREDERICK
HAMMOND, EDWARD AUGUSTUS
HELLMAN, THEODORE
HITCHCOCK, MISS F. A.
KEMP, EDWARD

KING, MRS. PERCY R.
PARS-ELL, HENRY V.
ROSENBAUM, MRS. MARY
SHERIDAN, THOMAS W.
STORY, J. T.

VORGANG, CHARLES F.
WILSON, JOHN M.

WOLFE, CHRISTOPHER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

mimosa augustus 19811111110111).

Resolutions passed by the Board of Managers of The
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, March 14, 1901:

The Ofﬁcers and Managers of The American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have heard with
great regret of the death, on February 12, 1901, of their
friend and associate, Edward Augustus Hammond.

Mr. Hammond was elected a member of the Society
October 5, 1887, became a member of the Executive Com-
mittee January 4, 1888, and one of the Vice-Presidents,
September 21, 1899.

Mr. Hammond was deeply interested in everything that
pertained to the work of animal protection, and gave much
of his time and substance to helping the cause. His advice
was much sought after in various matters affecting the
welfare of our' Society, and he never failed to respond to
such appeals, and by his letters from his home in Washing-
ton he gave much encouragement to our Ofﬁcers.

The Managers appreciate the generosity shown by his
gift in his will to our Society, and direct that this minute
be entered at length on the records of the Society, and a
copy sent to his family by the President.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING
YEAR

1901.

 

A

Achelis, Fritz ............
Alexander, C. B

American Ice C0 ........
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.....
Andrews,

Anonymous .............
Anonymous ............. 5 00
Anonymous ............. 250 00
Anonymous ............. IO 00
Anthony, Mrs. N. W..... 5 00
Arnold, Constable & Co..
Ashforth, Mrs. Freda....

Astor, Mrs. J. J

Astor, Mrs. Wm .........
Austin, Mrs. Francis B. . .

B

Babcock, Miss E. A .....
Babcock, H. D ...........
Bacon & Co .............
BardWell, W. A ..........
Barker, Miss Isabel R...
Barlow, Mrs. F. R

Barnes, Mr. & Mrs. Ed-

ward

Barnes, R. S .............
Bates, Mrs. A. F ........
Beers, M. H .............
Behr, Herman & C0 .....
Benedict, Dr. Charles S..
Benedict, Miss Louise. . . .
Benet, Ludovic ..........
Beresford, Mrs. J. G .....
Berthele, J. G ............
Berwind, Mrs. E. J ......
Bingham, C. W ..........

25 oo
5 00
IO 00
2 00
IO 00

H

HH

H
HU'IOOUIUIOH

8888888888

H
010

Bishop, Mrs. Heber R. ..
Bliss, Miss Sue D ........
Bliss, Mrs. Wm. H ......
Bloomingdale, Lyman G.
Borden’s Condensed Milk
0.
Bossert, Louis & Son. .. .
Bosworth,
Brett, Mrs. Carrie ........
Bristol, John I. D .......
Brookes, Mrs. E. C ......
Brown, Edward M .......
Brown & S-eccomb .......
Bryant, Mrs. Alexander. .
Bunce, John .............
Burger & Hower Brew-
ing C0
Busch, Mrs. Briton N. . . .
Butts, Mrs. L. A

C

Calhoun, Henry W ......
Carpenter, Miss Agnes.. .
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B. . 50
Carter, Walter S ......... Io
Cary, Miss Ellen G ...... IIO
Cary, Mrs. W. F

(K Cas ”

15
IO

“ Cash” (A. R.) ..........
“ Cash” (P.) ............ IO
Castree, Miss Louise ..... IO
Cathcart, Miss J. R ...... IIO
Ceballos. J. M ........... 5
Childs, Mrs. 'J. W ....... I
Chisholm, Mrs. Wm. E. .

U!
D

8888

888 8888888888

88888888888888888

 

 




 

 

133

Chrome Steel Works ..... $5 00
Clark, Miss Ella Mabel.. I5 00
Cole, E. H .............. 5 00
Colgate, A. W ......... IO 00
Colton, George W ....... 5 00
Colton, Miss Harriet A.. 5 00
Colvin, M. S ............ 5 00
Conger, Miss L. H ...... I 00
Congress Brewing Co. .. . 5 00
Connolly, Miss L ........ 0 50
Cornell, Hon. Robert C. . 5 00
Cornell, Mrs. Wm. T. .. . 5 00
Crosby, Mrs. Edward N. . 5 00
Cross—Austin Ireland Lum-

ber Co ................. 5 00
Crossman, W. H. & Bro. . 25 00
Cruzka & Cosak ......... 2 00

Curtis, G. Warrington... 25 00

D
Dahn, John A. & Son. .. . 5 00
Daly, Henry F ........... 25 00
Daly, Mrs. Henry F ...... 25 00
Davenport, Ira ........... IO 00
Davis, Mrs. C ............ 2 00
De Coppet, E. J ......... IO 00
De Coppet, H ........... 5 00
De Coppet, Mrs. H ...... 5 00
Dennis, James S ......... 5 00
Derby, Mrs. R. H ....... IO 00
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B ...... I 50
DeVinne, Theodore L. .. . 5 00
Dien, Charles ............ I 00
Dillon, John F ........... IO 00

Dodge, Rev. David Stuart IO 00
Dodge, Mrs. Wm. E., Sr. 5 00
Donelle, Miss Ada M. .. . 5 00

Dows, Mrs. David ....... 25 00
Drexel, Miss Josephine

W. .................... IO 00
Driggs, Stilas W ......... IO 00
Du Bois, Miss Ethel ..... 5 00
Dunnell, Miss A. D ...... IO 00
Dunning, H. A .......... 5 00
Durand, John S ......... 5 00.

E

Eagle, Mrs. Henry ....... 5 00
Eastern Brewing Co ..... 5 00
Eastman, Joseph ......... 50 oo

Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady .....
Eger, Mrs. T. G .........
Eger, Mrs. T. G., “In
Memory of Mrs. H.
Eger Cole” ............
Ellison, William B .......

’ Ely, Ambrose K .........

Eppig, Joseph ...........

F

Fallert’s Brewing Co., Jos.
Farley, Robert Emmet...
Farmers’ Feed Co .......
Finck, Mrs. Henry T. .. .
Fischer, B ...............
Fischl, F. & C0 .........
Fish, Miss F. D ..........
Fisk, Mrs. S. A ...........
Flint, Mrs. Charles R. .. .
Foote, Dr. E. B ..........
Foote, E. V .............
Forbes, David ...........
Foreal, Siegmund ........
Foster, Mrs. H. Elizabeth.
Francis, Nathaniel L .....
Frank Brewing Co., W. H.
Frese, Estate of Charles. .
“ Friend, A, C. W.” ......
From Tom ..............

G

Gale, Walter C ...........
Gates, Miss Charlotte G. .
Gibbes, Miss Zela ........
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline ......
Goerck, Miss Henrietta..
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Gould, Miss Helen M... .
Graef, Mrs. Emily C.
Gray, Mrs. Geo. Zabriskle
Green, Stewart ...........
Grifﬁthes, George H .....
Groth, Miss S. M .......
Gurnee, Miss Delia ......

H

Hagen, Mrs. W. H ......
Hahn, Jos. & Son ........

2
5 oo
20 OO
5 oo
5 00
IO 00
IO 00

5

IO 00
I oo
5 00

$5 00
IO 00

5 00
IO 00
5 oo
5 00
IO 00
IO 00
5 00

4o 00
5 oo
5 00
IO 00
2 oo
2 oo
40 oo
5 oo
5 oo
5 oo
20 00

100

500

500
250

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

134

Haight, Mrs. Alicia,“ In
Memory of Old Black
Pete and Bruno ” ....... $25 00
Halsted, Jr., Mrs D. C.. 2
Ham, Miss Abbie L ...... 2
Ham, Jas. M ............. 5
Hann, Mrs. G. V ........ 2
Hard, Miss Laura W ..... 10
Hardy, James ............ 10
Hardy, Voorhees & C0.. 20
Harkness, Mrs. S
Harris, Mrs.
“In Memory of Danny
Deever” _
Harris, Miss Maizie F. .. .
Harris, Mrs. Wm. Hamil-
ton
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L. . .
Hartley, Mrs. Marcellus. .
Hawley, Miss Jessie 0.,
“In Memory of Keti—
nah ” 00
Haynes, Miss Elizabeth J. 2 00
Hearn & Son, James A. . . 100 00
Hearne, R. J ............. I 00
Heily, A. V ............. 2 50
Heissenbuttell & Nearing. 5 oo
Heller, Miss Margaret. . . 5 00
Hencken, G. D I 00
Henderson, Mrs. A. C. 5 00
Henry, G C
Herr, Mrs. A ............
Hewitt. Miss Kathleen...
Heye, Mrs.
Hiéchcock, Mrs. Welcome

Hoecker, . . . .
Hoffman, Miss D. W.. .
Hoffman, Paul ...........
Hoﬁman, Mrs. W. B....
Holland. Mrs. Helen M. . 3 00
Holt, Mrs. Henry ........ 5 do
Hoppin. Wm. Warner. .. . IO 00
Homer, Mrs. E. H ...... I 00
Hotchkiss, Miss Helen S. I 00
Howland, Mrs. H. L..... 2 oo
Hubbard Thomas H. . 100 00
Hapfel Brewing Co., J C.

200

IO 00
5 oo
5 oo

00

“In Memory of Fluffy ”. .

“ In Memory of Poppy
and Little Ned” .......

“ In Memory of Tip”

“ In Memory of Tony

Iselin, Adrian ............

Itgen, E. H. .. ...........

J
Jackson, Mrs. E. S. & A.
V. W

Jackson, Theodore F .....
Jacob s, . S
Jaquins, Mrs. Edward. . . .
Jay, Mrs. John C ........
Jennings, Mrs. O. G .....
Jevons, Thomas E .......
Johnson, Mrs. Maud .....
Johnson, S. K. D.V..S
Jones, A.
Jones, Miss Caroline 0..
Jon,es Delancey Floyd-..
Joseph, Mrs. L ...........
“J. D. W.”

Karges, G ...............
Kellogg, Mrs. Charles. . . .
Kelly, Mrs. Charles ......
Kelsey and Loughlin .....
Kennedy, Harvey E ......
Kenny, Mrs ..............
Kenyin, Mrs. D. L .......
King, Miss Ellen ........
Kip, Henry S

Laase, Miss S ............
Laidlaw, Henry B .......
Lambert, Miss Leila .....
Lane, Miss Frances A... .
Lane, Mrs. James Warren
Langdon, \Noodbury G..
Langler & Sons, N
Lanier, Mrs. J. F D
Lawrence, Miss I ........
Laxmidas, Labhshanker. .
Leeds, Mrs. John G .....
Legg, Mrs. G

Lehman, Philip ..........

5 00
I 00
I 00
I 00
IO 00
65 00

500
1000
500
1500
100
500
2000

200
500
500
500

1000

10 00
IO 00
IO 00

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I36

Rehan, Miss Ada .......... $5 00
Reinold, A. E ............ I 00
Remensnyder, Rev. J. B. . I 00
Richard, Auguste ........ I5
Riker, Samuel ............ 20
Robbins, Chandler ....... Io
Robbins, Mrs. Milton.... 100
Robinson, Mrs. J. A 5
Rogers, H. H ............ Ioo
Rogers, Mrs. M. S- .......
Rogers, Mrs. Mary B....
Rollins, Louise M ........
Rosebault, Miss Laura D.
Runkel, Mrs. Louis. .. .. .
Rushmore, I. W .........
Russell, Mrs. A. D .......

5 00
I 00
1000

S

Saul, Charles R ..........
Schaefer Brewing Co., The
F & M

Schermerhorn, Mrs. John

Schley, Mrs. Wm. T ......
Schurz, Miss Marianne...
Scudder. Rev. Charles J. .
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A .....
Seitz, M .................
Seligman, Miss A ........
Seligman, Isaac N .......
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse .....
Sherman. Mrs. Charles E.
Short, Florence ..........
Smith. Cornelius B .......
Smith, F. N .............
Smith, George C .........
Smith, James Rufus ......
Smith, Mrs. Joseph A... .
Smith, Wm. Alex ........
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex...
Spence, Miss Clara B.... 20 00
Spratt, M. B ............. I 00
Squire. Mrs. N. R ....... 5 00
Stanton, Miss Juliet C... . 5 oo
Stein. A 10 00
Stephens. Benjamin ...... 5 00
Stickney. Joseph ......... 20 00
Strach. Kate ............. 1-00
Street, Mrs. C. F ......... 5 00
Stutz, Louis .............. 5 00

5 00
27 00
I 00
5 00
5 00
5 00
20 00
10 00
IO 00
8 50
5 00
2 00
5 00
5 00
IO 00
10 00
IO 00

T

Tappin, Charles L ........ $5 00
Taylor, Mrs. Fred F ..... IO 00
Taylor, George C ........ 100 00
Thiele, E ................ 5 00
Thompson, Mrs. H. C... 20 00
Thompson, Mrs. Robt. M. 5 00
Thompson, Mrs. Sam’l C. 20 00
Thompson & Co., Geo. A. 5 00.
Thorn, Miss Phebe Ann. 20 oo
Thorne, Samuel .......... 25 oo
Thorne, W. V. S ......... 5 00
Thorne, William ......... 25 00
Tisner, Mrs. Paul G ..... I 00
Tissot, Mrs. Harry ....... 2 oo
Titus, Mrs. A. L ......... IO 00
Toplitz, J., “In Memory

of Celia Rosenfeld Top—

litz ”
Travers, Mrs. E. Montagu
Tuckerman, Mrs. Paul...

U
Ullmann, E. S ...........

U. S. Bung Manufactur-
ing C0 .................

500

IO 00

V

Valentine, Mrs. A. C .....
Vallens, Eugene ..........
Van Iderstine & Son .....
Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H. . . .
Van Pelt, G. S ...........
Villard, Mrs. Henry ......

IO 00
5 00
5 00
5 00
15 00

25 00

W

Walker, Roberts .........
Walker, Dr. William A. . .
Wallace, Wm. H .........
Walton. G. A ............
Ward, Miss F. L ........
Wassermann, Mrs. E .....
Wayland, John Elton. .. .
Weil, Lemuel ............
Wells. Mrs. F. C .........
Wheeler, James R .......
White, Jr., John Jay ......

2000
500
500
500
500
500
1000
500
200
500

 

 

 




 

\

I37

White, Miss May W ...... $10 00
Whitney, Wm. C ......... 100 00
Wiener, Frank ........... 2 00
Williams, Mrs. Eliza C... 5 00
Williamson, Mrs. D. D... 2 00

Williamson, Mrs. Maria

H. .................... 15 00
W'mans, Miss Isabel... 3 00
VVinans, Miss M. Antoi—

nette .................. 5 00
Wolfe, Mrs. John ........ IO 00
Wolff, Lewis S ........... 5 00

Wolff, Wm. Arnold. .. .. .
Wood, Mrs. James .......
Woodward, Jas. T ........
Wright, Miss Harriet. . ..
Wyckoff, Mrs. Peter B. . .

Z

Zeller, David V ..........
Ziegler, Mrs. H ..........

$500
10 00
1000
500
2000

100
500

 

 

 

 

 




 

DONATIONS OTHER THAN MONEY.

.150 Horse Hats
..Paste1, Dog’s Head

Haines, John P... . .. .

Henderson, Mrs. A. C. ..

..50 Horse Hats

Holbrook, Miss Lilian... . .

. 1,000 Horse Hats

Robbins, Mrs. Milton . . . . . . . . . . . .

.120 Horse Hats

Tenney & Dixon..................

.Horse, 'Wagon, and Harness

Watson, Mrs. W. E.. . . . . . .
Wright, Miss L.. . .

.Horse Blankets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

CENTURY FUND.

 

SUBSCRIBERS TO THE “CENTURY FUND” DONATE $100
ANNUALLY TOWARDS DEFRAYING THE GENERAL

EXPENSES OF THE SOCIETY, AND MAY DISCONTINUE
THEIR SUBSCRIPTIONS AT ANY TIME.

 

American Express CO.
Archbold, John D.
Braidich, A. F.

Eno, William P.
Haines, John P.
Homer 8: CO., R. J.
Merritt, Mrs. Julia
Rhinelander, Miss S.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1901.

The following summary will be found interesting as showing the work accomplished during the year 1901 by kindred .
societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted, it does not follow that no work was

accomplished. In many instances reports were not received, and in others the ﬁgures were not available or no records were
kept.

l

P

-aueumq
patqesw ‘
JQIIJO pm:

51

'paAonsop AI
‘AJaAooaJ ased

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY.

-nqure u; swans mos;
‘saInm

~saouel
aAomaJ slewing 33ml
'paAonsap Aleu'emnq
‘Axonooax used panest
amine 93:91

mox; popuadsns Aura:

'paiaﬁnsaAu;
pue paAgaaaI siuieldmog

.Iaqio pun sasxoq palqestq
JO ssapmoq‘slemrue [112mg
-odmai summit: palqestq
9111 In pamoasoxd saseg

‘sason

 

 

 

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile . . Mobile S. P. C. AC" . . . . . . .
Birmingham Birmingham Humane Society . . .

ARIZONA.
Tucson . . S. P. C. A. of Tucson . . . . . .

ARKANSAS.
Little Rock . Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark.*

CALIFORNIA. .
San Francisco The San Francisco S. P. C. A.*
Los Angeles . The Los Angeles S. P. C. A. .
San José . . Santa Clara County 5. P. C. A.
San Dtego . . San Diego Humane Stociety’k . . . . .
Sacramento . The Sacramento County Humane Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




CALIFORNIA.—C0n.
Oakland . . . .
Redlands . . . .
Santa Barbara . .
Santa Cruz . . .
Fresno . . . . .
Sausalito . . . .

COLORADO.

Denver . . . .
Colorado Springs .

CONNECTICUT.
Hartford . . .
New Haven . .
Meriden . . . .

DELAWARE.
Wilmington . .

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington . . .

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine.
Jacksonville .
Pensacola . . ..
Tampa . . . .

GEORGIA.

Augusta . . . .
Atlanta . . . . .
Brunswick . . . .
ILLINOIS.
Chicago . . . . .
Rockford . . . .
Quincy . . . . .
Shelbyville . . . .
Champaign . . .

 

Oakland 5. P. c. A. ,
S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal .
Santa Barbara Humane Society*. . .
Santa Cruz County Humane Society . . . .
FresnoS...PCA...
Marin County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
Colorado Humane Society* .

El Paso CO. Branch Colorado Humane Soc.

Connecticut Humane Society . . . . . .
The New Haven S. P. C. A. . .. . . . . .
Meriden Humane Society . . . . . . . .

DelawareS.P.C.A. . . . . . . . ..
The Washington Humane SocietyyL . . . .

St. Augustine Humane Society. . . .
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Humane Society . . . . . . .
Hillsborough County S. P. C. A. . . . . .

Georgia S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . . . . .
Atlanta Humane Society . . .
Brunswick Humane Society . . . . . . .

The Illinois Humane Society* . . . .
Winnebago CO. Branch Illinois Humane Soc.
The Quincy Humane Society. . . .
The Shelby CO. Br. of the III. Humane Soc.
Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society

 

I...

16
IO

 

42
32

60
6.3
30

I44

 

 

....

 

639
. 1;;
'éé
897
133

50

I3373

IS
200

'83
225

2381
96

 

 

* Fiscal year.

1- Children and animals.

i Large and small.

 

I41

.7..— .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ILLINOIS—Continued.
Springﬁeld. . .
Jacksonville .
Jerseyville .
Harvard .
Danville .
Whitehall .

INDIANA.
Indianapolis .
Crawfordsville
Evansville . .
Fort Wayne .
South Bend
Terre Haute
Muncie .
Elkhart .
Richmond
Peru . . .
Kokomo .

IOWA.

Des Moines
Sioux City .

KANSAS.
Wichita . .
Topeka . .

KENTUCKY.
Louisville .
Henderson
Frankfort .
Covington .

LOUISIANA.
New Orleans

 

 

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld . . . .
Jacksonville Humane Society . . . . . .
The J erseyville Humane S. P. C. A. & C. . .
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Soc.
United States Humane Society. . . . . .
Whitehall Humane Society . . . . . . .

The Indiana Humane Society . . . . . .
Montgomery Co. Humane S. P. C. A. & C. .

‘ The Evansville Humane S. P. C. W., C. 82. A.

Fort Wayne Humane Society . . .
The South Bend Humane Society . .
Terre Haute Humane Society .
Muncie Humane Society . . . .
Elkhart Humane Society . . . .
Wayne County Humane Society .
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Kokomo Humane Society. . . .

The Iowa Humane Society . . .
The Sioux City Humane Society .

The Kansas City Humane Society. '
The Foster Humane Socrety . . .

Kentucky Humane S. P. C. . . .
Henderson Humane Society . . .
Franklin County Humane Society*
Kenton County Humane Society .

Louisiana State S. P. C. A. . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 




I53

any horse, mule, cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.” .

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
country came into active existence. The purpose of the as-
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “ to provide ef-
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through-
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then Were or
might thereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, another “ act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals ” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New
York. The legal deﬁnition of the word “animal” now in-
cludes every living creature except members of the human
race, and the words “ torture ” and “ cruelty ” include every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION OF OTHER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS OF THE
WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of local societies incorporated

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

I54

in the United States is now 222, and in other American nations
21, societies have been established and incorporated since 1866,
making a total of 243.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has. been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the So-
ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for the Prevention Of Cruelty to Children. This
was done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D.
Wright; Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice-President of the
new society, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, which has done
so much and such effectively good work in the last twenty—
seven years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep-
resented an increased interest in humane work which has
found a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every
State in' the Union. At this date there is not a single State in
which cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by. the law, under
stringent penalties for disobedience. Some defects continue
to exist, of course; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that
the laws on this subject are good. What is now required is
that the great mass of the people shall be educated into sym-
pathy with the humanity of the law. That is now the greatest
work of the Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful
for the assistance and encouragement which it receives from
the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

The abuses growing out of the then prevailing systems of
dog catching and impounding having become so ﬂagrant as
to demand immediate checking, a bill, entitled “An Act for
the better protection of lost and strayed animals, and for
securing the rights of the owners thereof,” was prepared by
the President of the Society and introduced into the Legisla-
ture of 1894, providing for the abolishment of the city dog
pound, and empowering the Society to carry out the provisions
of the act. This bill became a law on March 8, I894 (Chap. I I 5,
Laws I894), and the Society immediately thereupon com-

 




155

menced the erection of a Shelter for Animals at 102d Street
and East River, provided with every accommodation for the
care of animals and their humane destruction.

In rescuing the community from the reign of the old dog
catchers, the Society earned the gratitude of the dog owners
of New York, and in 1895, at the request of the Mayor of
Brooklyn, the law was amended (Chap. 412., Laws 1895) so as
to include that city as well. A Shelter was then established in
that city, at the corner of Malbone Street and N ostrand Avenue,
and when Staten Island became a part of the greater City of
New York, a Shelter was also opened on Wave Street, Staple-
ton, Borough of Richmond.

Much suffering has thus been spared the vagrant, lost, and
abandoned dogs and cats of the city. Unwanted animals are
no longer thrown into the streets, to suffer and die of expo—
sure and starvation, but are given into the care of the Society
and by it mercifully destroyed or placed in good homes.

Through the generosity of kind-hearted people interested in
the work of animal protection, the Society was enabled, in
1896-97, to rear a commodious ﬁreproof building as its perma-
nent Headquarters, adequate to the increased needs of the So-
ciety, and supplied with every facility for carrying on the work
to the best advantage.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and
by night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offend—
ers against the laws relating to animals. In addition to the
uniformed police, the Society has nearly two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In the Boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn the
Society has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and
disabled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning ani-
mals and animals which have fallen into excavations; and a
patrol wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

156

and medicines for rendering aid to injured animals in the
streets.

In addition to its permanent headquarters, Madison Avenue
and 26th Street, and the Shelters above mentioned, the Society
maintains an ambulance house at III and II 3 East 22d Street,
New York, and an ofﬁce at I3 Willoughby Street, and an
ambulance house at 114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn. In the
greater City of New York it maintains a uniformed force of
twenty salaried Special Agents, and in other parts of the State
of New York it has 180 volunteer agents.

In the prosecution of its work, the Society has in constant
use three large ambulances for the removal of disabled ani-
mals, and eight smaller ambulances andvtwo bicycle carriers
especially constructed for the removal of sick, injured, and
homeless small animals. Twenty horses and a large corps of
men are employed in this service.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human-
ity to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and
growing circulation.

 




 

 

 

AN APPEAL.

 

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous-hearted people for aid. It receives no appropri-
ations from the city or State, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and over-driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed many
millions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity
to animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the
effect has been fully as great as could have been reasonably
hoped for this purpose; and to these ends we earnestly invite
your pecuniary assistance.

The library of the Society contains many valuable books
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The library is of great
importance and value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection. ,

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “ Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
' a number of leaﬂets, among which the following may be men-
tioned:

No. I.—-“ Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints in regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

No. 2.———“ What is Docking? ” Points out the absurdities
of the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities
proving the cruelty of the operation. '

No. 3.——“ Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by I. A. Allen, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion. "

No. 4.——-“ The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
re’sume' of the famous English dishorning case.

No. 5.———“ Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig-
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner-
vous disorders, and its care. i

No. 6.—“ Rabies and Hydrophobia.” Gives the opinions of
medical men on these diseases, and refers to the Pasteur treat—
ment and the Buisson cure by vapor baths.

These leaﬂets are intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of postage, as, fol-

 




 

 

I59

lows, per packet of 100: N o. I,.six cents; No. 2, ten cents; Nos.
3 and 4, twenty-ﬁve cents; No. 5, ten cents, and No. 6, forty
cents. .

Title XVI of the Penal Code, relating to cruelty to animals,
is also pnblished by the Society in pamphlet form, and a copy
will be forwarded to any one interested in the work.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HOW TO PROCEED AGAINST
OFFENDERS.

There are two modes of proceeding, viz.: I. By giving the
offender into the custody of a policeman, constable, or other
ofﬁcer. II. By the apprehension of the accused under a
warrant.

I.

BY GIVING THE OFFENDER INTO THE CUSTODY OF AN OFFICER
AUTHORIZED To MAKE ARRESTS.

When you personally witness an act of cruelty, call the atten-
tion of an ofﬁcer to the nature of the offense, insist on the arrest
of the offender; if you cannot accompany the accused to the
magistrate, then give your name and address to the ofﬁcer as a
witness, and be sure to take his number, name, and precinct,
in order that you may compel attention to the case; The law
requires the police throughout this State to aid in the protec-
tion of dumb animals from injury and abuse; and should any
ofﬁcer refuse his assistance—which is not likely to occur—
then take the number on his hat or shield, and report the same
to the Society.

II.
BY THE ARREST OF THE ACCUSED UNDER WARRANT.

When you do not personally see the act of cruelty, or when
you can not procure an ofﬁcer on the spot, or if the ofﬁcer

 

 

 




I61

refuses to act, then obtain the name and address of the offender,
and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and the names and resi-

dences of those who witnessed the act, and lay the facts before
a magistrate.

IN ALL CASES

Make a note of the time when, and the
the offense occurred, and also the names and residences of all
persons present and of any others who may be called as wit-

the size and location of such wounds—especially if raw, dis—
charging, or in contact with the harness. If the offense was
ﬂogging or beating, note the instrument, the number of blows,
on what part of the body inﬂicted, and the effect, if any, on the
skin of the animal; if overloading, carefully observe the symp—
toms of distress, such as the trembling, falling, unusual perspi-
ration, or exhaustion. Report all cases of mutilation, such as
docking tails of horses, cutting tails or ears of dogs, or any
other torture; also cases of cruelty in the transporting of sheep,
calves, game, fowls, or other poultry, or animals, while bound
by the legs or otherwise, in any part of this State, either on land
or water. In every instance observe minutely and take down

in writing the facts and details, and also the language of the
offender at the time.

FINALLY.

Complaints or inquiries made to the Society at its head-‘
quarters, by night or by day, will receive prompt attention; and
ALL ARRESTS FOR CRUELTY SHOULD BE PROMPTLY REPORTED
THERE,TO INSURE A PROPER PROSECUTION OF THE CASE.

II

 

 

 




 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS.

See Illustraz‘z'om, page 64.

The dimensions of this tank are as follows : length, ten feet;
width, ﬁve feet; and height, four feet six inches. A trap-door
is provided through which the animals are put into the tank,
and four heavy plate—glass windows light the interior. Ordi—
nary illuminating gas is admitted through an inch and one-
quarter pipe, and when the tank is to be emptied escapes
through a six—inch pipe. As shown by the illustrations,
a truck or cage rests on the bottom of the tank on tracks,
the latter withdrawing from the tank so that the cage can
be moved outside to facilitate the handling of the bodies of
dead animals.

The method of destroying small animals by illuminating
gas was adopted by the Society after a thorough investiga-
tion of other known methods, and is to be recommended from
humane and sanitary standpoints. Illuminating gas pro-
duces anaesthesia or insensibility, and death follows almost
instantaneously and is absolutely painless. Charcoal fumes
cause asphyxia or suffocation, and the use of charcoal is not
recommended for that reason.

 




 

 

 

 

 

, ,7 a __—*,&Wkaa.a . 3.. , . , , i 7.,
» , , > < ,, .———AWA—~—-~ —-r—~—_.-—a—W “a . ‘~ _ 7 M7 _:7 , ,
. ‘l

 

 

To Mose woo may feel disposed to donate 1?); PVZLZ, to
' t/zo éeaovo/om‘ oojeoz‘s of 2712': Society, l/ze following
is suomz'z‘z‘ea’ as a form .°

Form of Begaesz‘ of Personal Property. ,

-I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ...................................................... dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

 

 

Form of Device of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property], together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any Wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor-
poration, its successors and assigns, forever.

 

 

 




 

 




IIIIIINIQIIBGIEIIIHIGHEIIQIIiI‘IIIEIIIIBIInInuIval-IIInn-nuuuuu-u-nun-n-I-nun-III. nnnnnn

DONATION BLANK.

"Ila-III-IIHIInH-IH IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

l
- .................................................................... I90 ........... f
To JOHN P. HAINES, President, I

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
Madison Avenue and 26th Street, New York.

 

Sir :

Enclosed please find my check for $ ............................................... , a donation to the general funds
of the Society.

Name ................................................................................................................................

Address .....................................................................................

 

This subscription carries with it no obligation for subsequent years.
Donations will be acknowledged in the Annual Report.

, , ”v.” . mm,"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 




MEMBERSHIP IN THE SOCIETY.

Attention is again called to the fact that this Society receives no funds from the public treasury, its ,
revenues being derived mainly from members’ dues, voluntary donations and bequests. The scope of a
the work could be greatly extended if the Society had a larger ﬁxed income such as is derived from mem-
bership dues and interest on permanent funds. An urgent appeal is- therefore made for'new members,
and those who are already identiﬁed with the cause of animal protection in this way are earnestly re-
quested to interest their friends in the work with a View to having them become members of the Society. r i

The laws of the State of New York provide as follows : “ T/zepolice force of Me Cily of New York,
as well as of all olner places w/zere police organizations exist, snall, as occasion may reonire, aia’ l/ze Society,
its MEMBERS, or agenz‘s, in Me enforcement of all laws wniclz are now, or may ﬁereafz‘er oe, enacted for

Me prolecz‘ion of (lame animals."

, ananany.ahaSi’lhl‘v‘nlﬂﬁﬂ'ﬂﬂﬂH-‘ﬁ‘mﬂw
sauce-rad

uann-nnuu-u aaaaaa n-aa-pn-un'a nnnnnnn n-nn—n-i.

To JOHN P. HAINES, President.

Sir: ;
Please add the following names to the roll of members of The American Society for the .

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals :
NAME _ ADDRESS

 

 

 

............................

(If proposed by a member, please sign here) ...................................................................................................
Annual Membership, $5- Life Membership, $100.

Members receive all publications of the Society gratuitously.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

SUBSCRIPTION To “CENTURY FUND.”

At a recent meeting of the Board of Managers of The American Society for the Pre-
Vention 0f Cruelty to Animals it was resolved that the President be requested to communicate
with the friends of the Society and ask their assistance in the matter of establishing a

“CENTURY FUND.”
Subscribers to the “CENTURY FUND” donate $100 annually towards defraying the

general expenses of the Society, and may discontinue their subscriptions at any time.

Ibﬂllug
.‘
*‘hingigi ------------------------- -.B-..a.- --------------------------------------------- IIDQIIIIGOQDODDIO.....
---------------------

New York ...... . ........................... , ............. 190 .......

T0 ./OHN P. HAINES, President.

Sir:
I bereby subscribe One Hundred Dollars ($100), payable annually,
in lbe monlb of , lo ibe “ CENTURY FUND” of Tbe

American Soeieiy for lbe Prevention of C rueliy io Animals, reserving lbe rigbi lo
revoke ibis subseriblion at pleasure.

 

Name

 

Address .............................................

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

4*” "W" WWW?

 

 

 




Tm; AMERICAN SOCIE'L
f

}‘|i\‘ '] HJ'.

l’ma\'I-:.\"1‘mx HFCRlTliL’I‘Y TO ANIMALS

. \1 I 1) l'-\ 11H” .\ l'.\.'|‘1~i HI“ NFAV YORK

in nun;
\Hx'H rm I‘M»,

o

'H l l l\"l'\V-S§ X'I‘I I ANNUAL REPORT

1H1 .2zi- ‘1}.‘xl-L 1‘ .\IJI,\(} 1)}‘L(_'lf'..\ll}}‘ll{ 31, 1901'.

H)! I.\' l‘. H,\IN};‘.S. I’RE‘.SII')ENT.

\YI'IIIRS H1. THY. SUCIETY:
um Sl‘lU-Jil'

X li\\' YURK

I ()0:

 




 

 

 

ZZO> N532 .Fﬂﬂv2h :Pva->FZm:/>F
SDZmC/au ZOmHQ/mz UVrSHQOm 3:9 :0 mZSFZJmDNvQ/NHE

QZ<

 

 

 

 

 




 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

8

and acquaintances to join our ranks as life members and
annual members.

In that endeavor I think they would be greatly assisted by
using a small illustrated booklet which I have recently pre-
pared, partly for that purpose. It contains a fairly full his-
tory of the Society, with many illustrations of the work that
it has done and is now engaged in doing. I have the pleasure
to know that some persons who have read this little book
have expressed their amazement at the extent of our work,
of which they admit that they had no previous conception.
I would urge the circulation of this booklet as a means of
increasing the membership of the Society; and I may permit
myself to express the opinion that members of the Society
Who should read thislittle book would require no urging to
induce them to become earnest missionary advocates of our
cause.

Among the good works which I would very gladly under—
take in preparation for the coming summer if we had the
means to spare, would be the erection of fountains for the
refreshment of man and beast during the torrid period. I do
not believe that any better work could be done for the cause
of temperance by the prevention of the use of intoxicants,
and I do not think that it would be possible to prevent a
greater amount of suffering to the brute creation with a less
expense of money, than by the erection of hundreds of foun—
tains throughout the length and breadth of the city. When I
think of the good that might be done, it is almost pitiful to
think of the small amount which the limited means placed at
our disposal permit. The borough of Manhattan has passed
ordinances permitting the erection of six fountains at as many
different places, the city undertaking to supply them with the
necessary water. The cost of only three of these fountains
has been provided by humane and generous patrons of the
Society. How long will it be necessary to postpone the erec-
tion of the other three? And then, let it not be forgotten

   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

16

 

JOHN MASON KNOX, Treasurer, 2'72 account 20275 THE AMERICAN
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

DR.
ToCash balance, Dec. 31, 1901. . . . . . . . . .$13,509 96
“ Bequests: Mary Preston . . . . . . . . $25000
JanetCraig . . . . . . . . 95000
LymanW.Case . . . . . . . 53997
Mrs. Jane E. Welton . . . . . 100 00
1,839 97
“ Members’ Dues and General Donations . . . . . . 13,039 28
“Fines..................4,62990
”DepositsonBadges. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000
" Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . . . . . 75,131 87
./ X/
/
,/
,/
////
///
/
/
/
/
/
//
///
,/
$108,170 98

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts

of Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24

skilful veterinary surgeons and every appliance known to
up-to-date science, it has afforded relief to many helpless
dumb creatures, Whose sufferings would have been pro-
longed but for its existence. The usefulness of this depart-
ment cannot be expressed in words, yet it is only a part of

the Society’s work, and is ever ready to respond to calls for '

its service.
STABLES

Many so-called stables have been condemned, owing to
their unsanitary condition and want of sufﬁcient air space,
and the animals removed to more comfortable quarters at
the suggestion of the Society. There are still many sub-
terranean places there from ﬁve to tWenty horses are
stabled, which places, owing to their inadequate means of
exit in case of ﬁre, should be prohibited by statute.

OVERLOADING OF TEAMS

This phase of animal torture, while not as prevalent as
formerly, is carried on to some extent by unscrupulous ship-
pers of merchandise, or by ignorant drivers. Few things
are more cruel than that of compelling horses to haul loads
that necessitate the straining of every muscle of their bodies,
and which is aggravated when the asphalted streets are al-
most impassable on many occasions during the winter sea—
son. During the past Winter the Agents of the Society
caused over two hundred teams of horses to be unhitched
and taken to their stables, leaving the loaded vehicles in the

streets.
CANALS

Experienced Agents were detailed to cooperatewith the
local Agents resident along the line of the canals of the
State, and, While no extreme cases of abuse of horses or

 

 




 

 

»l'

I
\

\IN

 

 

 

l N \‘nl J,

\
l

 

 

.‘lJU

~
I

 

 

\ \71\\ \x

A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

(ow 0.3m 9'09 “9% “N N \ ”IRON (WV HUDIMV

)1 \

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

    
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Aug. 16.

Aug. 17.

Aug. 21:.

Aug. 31.

Sept. 5.

Sept. 5.

Sept. 9.

48

Merritt Bristol, of Schuyler Lake, N. Y., was convicted
of having kicked and cruelly beaten a horse with a whip
and a heavy strap, after which he left the animal for several
hours without providing it with food, drink, or medical as-
sistance, the horse having fallen in the roadway from an
attack of vertigo. Bristol was found guilty, and sentenced
by Justice Geo. H. White to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars, and to
be committed to Otsego County Jail.

Samuel Shapiro, of New York, was arrested at Tarrytown
by an Agent of the Society at that place, for overloading a
team of. horses that were in a sick and exhausted condition.
These horses had hauled a heavily—loaded vehicle for many
miles, and were in a complete state of prostration when
stopped by the Agent. Shapiro pleaded guilty to the charge
of cruelty to animals, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten
dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days.

Arthur D-onely, of Jamaica, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ten dollars by Justice Jay, for cruelly beating a horse on
the head and body with a whip.

Cecio F. Cotton, for unjustiﬁably shooting at and injur-
ing seven cows belonging to a neighbor, was convicted by
the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Keady
presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars.

Ferdinand Kaiser was annoyed by a homeless cat, and in
a vindictive spirit he seized the animal by the neck and
completely disembowelled it. The cat was found some time
after, still alive. The defendant pleaded guilty to the charge
of cruelty, and was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars.

Edward Wall, Jr., was charged in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judges Wyatt, McKean, and Hins-
dale, with having stabbed two horses with What is known
as an ice-shaver. Both animals 'were badly wounded by the
terrible weapon, which was shown to the Court. The evi-
dence was overwhelming, and Wall was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned twenty days. This
ice-shaver can be seen in the Museum of the Society.

Isaac Feinstein, of Brooklyn, was convicted by the Court
of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Keady presid-




w
__
u.
w
. #
V

ﬂattrlzm. “rmrwtmﬁrrﬁm—W —7 »~ ~-— ~

~ may; :1» ymwar .r

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




A‘Q. v...;. ,
. / , ‘ , .‘ _.._ l.
A.;‘,._;:._.. :2 79:; .2? _ : K :_ _

2222/ E: z‘,.:.‘_‘,.:$ 5:; >22 5:; v_:_./:_,_\z_

< 2:: 2:? 1:;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

71

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Central Police Station, St. Joseph. _
HUSTON WYETH, President. EMIL KUENSTER, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.
S edalia.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. LEE MONTGOMERY, Sec.

NEBRASKA.

The Nebraska Humane Society.
15 Commercial National Bank Building, Omaha.
DR. GEO. L. MILLER, Pres. H. S. MANN, Secretary.

The South Omaha Humane Society.
South Omaha.

COL. J. L.‘ MARTIN, President. MISS GERTIE PARKHURST,
Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Market Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, Pres. D'R. JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

The Keene Humane Society.
Keene.

HORATIO COLONY, Pres. MRS. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

NEW JERSEY.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential Building, Newark.
G. W. THORNE, President. COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Sec.

The Hudson COunty District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals. '

201 V2 York Street, Jersey City.

GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, EDWARD H. WHITNEY, Sec.
President.

 




 

79
OHIO.
The Ohio Humane Society.
24 East Ninth Street, Cincinnati.
, President. MIss CECILIA RITTER, Sec.
Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEN. JAMES BARNETT, Pres. SAMUEL D. DODGE, See.
The Canton Humane Society.
Frazer Block, Canton.

 

W. W. CLARK, President. CHARLES R. FRAZER, Sec.
Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Columbus.

JULIUS F. STONE, President. F. HOOVER, Secretary.

Teledo Humane Society.

313 Adams Street, Toledo.

HON. JAMES M. BROWN, W. W. H. SMITH, Secretary.
President.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren.
GEORGE P. HUNTER, Pres. MARY C. IDDINGS, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Dayton.
Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Athens.
L. A. KOON S, President. MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
The Erie County Humane Society.
Sandnsky.
JOHN C. ZOLLINGER, Pres. MRS. FANNY F. EVERETT,

Secretary.
Scioto County Humane Society.

Portsmouth.
E. E. EWING, President. HARRY BALL, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

    

87

Ottawa Humane Society.
83 St. Peter Street, Ottawa.
MRS. GWYNNE, President. MRS. GEO. E. PERLEY, Sec.

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Quebec.
JOHN T. ROSS, President. A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty. to Animals.
Ferry Building, Water Street, St. John.
JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., Pres. S. M. WETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.
- 103 Bay Street, Toronto.
W. R. BROCK, M.P., Pres. MISS DORA SPEARS, Sec.

Fredericton Society for the Prevention of, Cruelty to Animals.

Fredericton.
REV. F. PARTRID'GE, D.D., CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.
President.

Moncton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M oncton.
GEO. B. WILLETT, President. WILLIAM A. MCDOUGALL,
Secretary.
St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
St. John’s, Newfoundland.
SIR WM. V. WHITEWAY, Pres. GEO. M. JOHNSON, Secretary.

The Winnipeg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Winnipeg, Manitoba.
A. F. D. MACGACHAN, Pres. G. W. VVINCKLER, Secretary.

Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
S herbroOke.
WM. FARWELL, President. FRANK THOMPSON, Sec.

  




GERMANY—~Cominued.

Neumiinster . .
Neustrelitz . . .
Nordlingen .
Nuremberg
Offenbach
Offenburg
Oldenburg
Osnabruck
Passau .
Pforzheim
Pirna .
Ploen .

Posen .
Remscheid
Regensburg
Ribnitz
Rostock .
Saalfeld .
Schleswig
Schwerin
Sensburg
S-iegen
Solingen
Stargard
Stettin .
Strassburg i. E.
Straubing
Strehlen
Striegan
Stuttgart
Warstein
Wiesbaden

mmmmmwmmmmm

Uin/iuiui

mammAMMmmm

 

rlitzS. P. CA

4240444444044

andB.

of Passau.

.Abrmﬁé

. in Ribnitz

0

.A. in Nuremberg

E. Messtorff
B. Praefcke .

Heinrich Hermann

Gottlieb Held
Dr. Volckmar

Prof. Franz Dosch.
Wilh. Kahtmann

—-—- Boker .
J. Sp'ahl . .
—— Pﬁsterer

Julius Lutsche.

H. Foerster .
Rudolf Schulz
Gottl. Arns .
L. E. Meyer .

Ludwig Dolberg

D-iﬂ-iﬁ-iﬂ-iﬂ-Iﬂ-iﬂ-ID—iﬁ-iﬂ-ID—im

mmmmmmmmmm

of Rostock

. . .<:'<:<: .<:

of Schleswig .

.B. andA.

O

400040443444444404

A. . in. Wiirtemberg
C. A. of Wiesbaden '

Ferd. Matz . .
Dr. Mauer.

Dr. T. Steen
Rev. Mr. Florcke
Rud. Hoch . .
Prof. Schirlitz
———Ziih1 . .
Rev. Ed. Schneider
— Steinwender
A. Egglhuber
Otto Ulm . .
August Friedrich

. Count von Zeppelin

 

—— Kropz

. Count A. von Bothmer

 

—— Kock.

M. Reckow.

J. Kellermann.
Francis Monniger.
Ernst Renk.

. Dr. Mannheimer.

—— Kahler.
Joseph Alteneder.

. ——- Berner.

. O. Kaven.

Ed. Reissmiiller.

, --— Paﬁ’rath.

A. Geitner.
H. Wilken.

. Heinrich Teutmann.

. Dr. T. Steen.

———-— Moller.

. —— Dorn.
. Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.
. —— Reinhardt.

—— Bottge.

. Rev. Ed. Schneider.
. —— Kertzer.

. G. Dechner.

. Rev. A. Bojanowski.

Schikor.

. Johannes Scybold.

\Viesmeyer.

. Count A. von Bothmer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




SWITZERLAND—Cont’d
Rolle . .
Soleure . . .
St. Gall . . .

T oggenburg
Thun

Vevey

Zurich

TASMANIA.
Hobart
Launceston .

TURKEY.
Candia (Crete)

 

 

Min-10404040.}

. Southern Tasmanian S. P
. Northern Tasmanian S. P.

 

. S. P. C. A.

. ——-—— Reymond
. T. Arnold

. C. Tuppinger
. I. Edelmann .

.O A. .in.St.. Gall

. A. of Toggenburg
.G.Pfeiffer.
. G. Suter

<<oo<44

.A. .R. G. Hamilton.

 

 

. A. Knechtenhofer

Schopfer.

 

: Prof. Servert.
. T. Edelmann.

Scherrer.

 

I F. Brandt.
. H. Burnier.
. G. Naegi.

. Miss M. S. Gellibrand.
.Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

 

. M. E. von Schwartz.

£03




?

 

 

 

 

III

. .Yonkers
Ossmlng

, FERDINAND............................

, MAHLON......

GARNJOST
GOBLE

. .Mt. Kisco

. .Mt. Vernon

HART, FRED. R..........
HUSS, HENRY... ..

. .Bronxville
. . Tarrytown
Ardsley
. .Elmsford

. North Tarrytown
. . Irvington
Rye

..Chappaqua
STEWART....

. Port Chester

AUGUSEUSH.HHU.HH.H..NH
,ALBERT‘wzun.nu.nu.nn.nu.u.un
,\HNTONH.HHH.HHH.HH.HH.UH

MAHONE

PHELPS, ALBERT E
SCHENCK, CHAS.

SHERMAN

SLOCUM, WILLIAM E................
ZINCK, GEORGE F

3HY15EN,RUDOLPﬁLZTNZITLIITLIH
PAGE

KONRAD

WYOMING COUNTY.

BRID‘GEN, REV. ARTHUR E. .

 

Attlca
. . . . Attica
Castlle

GIFFORD, DR. WILLIS. B. . . . . .. . . . . .
LINDSAY, 2D, JOHN.

 




De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova, Alfred
DeGroot, Miss Emma P.
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

Delano, Miss Jean W.
DeLashmut, Mrs. G.

De Luze, Francisco 0.
De Rigaud, Mrs. Clara
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.
Despard, W. D.

Despard, Mrs. W. D.
De Vinne, Miss Emma
De Wolfe, Miss Elsie
Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles‘F.
Dillar, W. E.

Dillon, John F.

Dillon, Maurice
Dimock, Mrs. I. DeWitt
Dimock, Mrs. J. J.
Ditson, Mrs. C. H. ’
Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, William E.
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Doelger, Peter

Doerr, J. B.

Dominick, H. Blanchard
Donaldson, Mrs. E. L.
Donovan, Dennis
Dowst, Arthur A.
Drake, Mrs. Charles
Drake, John J.

Drake, Miss Mary Hopeton
Dreier, H. E.

Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Duke, Mrs. L. Z.
Dunham, Mrs. Minnie
Dunlop, John

Dunnell, Miss M.
Durand, John S.

119

Dusenbury, C. Coles
Du Vivier, E. A.

E

Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady

Eckstein, Samuel
Eddy, Mrs. Jane B.
Edmonds, John W.
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Eglen, Fred.
Eldridge, Lewis A.
Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Ida
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Ellison, William B.
Ely, Ambrose K.
Emmet, Master Watson Case
Emory, Mrs. John Comegys
Endicott, Mrs. Robert
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles M.
Ennis, John J.
Eppelsheimer, Henry
Eppig, Joseph
Erbsloh, R.

Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fargo, James C.

Faye, Mrs. Ernest Frederick
Feist, Karl

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Finck, August

Fisk, Mrs. S. A.

Fiske, Mrs. Harrison G.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Jr., Henry
Flint, Miss Annie

Flint, Mrs. Austin

Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin

 

 

 




127

.l’ .J
:4:— -;;M:<r“h— .. m..- Mg 4 A, .4 55‘

 

.,
l
Stanton, Mrs. John T l
Stanton, Miss Julia C. Taber Miss Mary l
gem, é M-d Taller, William H. l
eln, onra Tanenbaum, Moses l f
gtephens, John H. Tappan, Herman s! I
8:6111. Bil/113mg: Tappin, Charles L. l
Stem“, *Hlssh ““3 Taylor, Mrs. A. E. Scranton «‘l
S CW3”, 11g Taylor, Mrs. Moses H
tewart, Thomas J. . Taylor Thomas F. :ll
Stewart, Willlam Rhlnelander Thoma’s Frederic C I‘ll
Stewart, Mrs. Wm. Rhine- Thomasbn FrederioB. [1,,
Stizlilder 1 Thompson, Edward P. m
S . kHCY: J Thompson, Mrs. H. C.
8?ch HQ}? hirs- JOSCph Thompson, Miss Rhoda
Still, J0 “M; C F Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.
St'llman’ M155 E. P. Thompson, Mrs. Samuel C.
$.11] man, Thrs. ° E Thorn, G. R. Hallett
1 man, omas ' Thorne Miss Phebe Anna
Stokes, Anson Phelps Thorne, Mrs T W
Stokes, Miss Dorothy Thorne, W V S '
Stokes, Mrs. Horace Thouroil Mrs: E. A.
Stone, Edwm . Thurnauel‘, Felix -
Strauss, Mrs. Jacob Tiedemann F
Strauss, Samuel Tierney M1311. A,
Ettmat. {GUN/SC F Tilford, Mrs. Charles E.
reet, 1‘5; - . Tilford, Mrs. Frank
Sturges, Mlss May F. Timolat James G.
Sturmdorf, Dr. Arnold Toby Geo. P,
Sturmdorf, Mrs. Arnold Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Sulllvan, Mrs. Catharlne A. Townshend John
Sulzbacher, Oscar W' Trask G. D. S.
31130, Iﬁl‘oﬁel (1' Travis, George E.
u 1'0, 1C 31' Truog, Mrs. Randolph
Sutton, Mrs. Gregory Tucker Mrs. R, 5,
$3520.15] 6313: L Tuckerman’ All“
Swahn, ,Mrs. Fanny Darri— Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred
grand U
Swahn, Geo. W. _
Swayne, Alfred H. Ubsdell, 1.0111] A.
Swift, Dr. E. E.

Ullmann, E. S.
Swords, Miss P. Caroline Ulmer, William

Symington, Wm. H. Harris Ulrichs, Thomas

 

 

 




 

Leland, W. C ............

ewis, Mrs. Harry D.
Lins & Sons, H ..........
Livingston, Miss Ann L..
Livingston, Mrs. H. T...
Lockitt’s Sons, George...
Long Island Brewery.

M

Mackay, Archibald K.
Mackay, Mrs. D. ‘S‘age. ..
Maffett, Mrs. J ...........
Mager, Mrs. F.
Mahlstedt, J. D ..........

ann, Parker ............
Manney, Mrs. Charles R.
Marshall, Chauncey ......
Marston & Son ..........
Mason, Mrs. Alfred Bishop
Matthews, The Firm John
May, Levy & May .......
Mayer, Henry ............
McFarland, Philip ........
' cGirr, E. F ............
McKendrick, Miss C. F. .
McKim, Mrs. J. A .......
Meagher, Joseph P ......
Measel, Mrs ..............
Meeker, Dr. C. H .......
Meeker, Mrs. Mary E....
Meigs, Ferris J ..........
Meltzer Bros .............
Merriam, Miss Annie L. .
Meserole, Mrs. K. M....
Metzger, Mrs. A .........
Milbank, Joseph .........
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph. .. .
Miller, Allen S ...........
Miller, Mrs. Elizabeth. . . .
Miller, Mrs. E. F .........
Mills, W. McMaster ......

Mollengauer Sugar Reﬁn—
o .................
Moore, Wm. H. H .......
Morton & Sons, John.
“ M. M.”

oooooooooooooooo

ing

Nassau Brewing Co ......
Newton, A. J ............

 

I35

$1 00
25 oo
5 00
100 00
5 oo
5 oo
5 00

IO 00
10 oo
5 00
IO 00
15 oo
5 oo
2 oo
5 oo
5 oo
5 oo
5 00
IO 00
4 oo
o 50
5 00

I oo
2 oo
5 oo
5 00
200 00
100 00
5 oo

5 00

500
10 00
500
500

1000
500

Nicol], Mrs. Benjamin. . . .

Niles, Mrs. Robert L....
Nourse, Mrs. C. J ........
Noyes, Mrs. H. D' ........
Nugent, J. H ............

O

O’Donnell, Charles .......
Olmsted, Mrs. Charles T.
Osborn, Mrs. W. Church.
Osterholt, Ehler .........

P

Parr, Wm. P ............
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin .....
Penfold, Miss Josephine. .
Percy and Ethel ..........
Perkins, George W ......
Perkins, Ruth ............
Pfonts, Miss Fanny L. . . .
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G. . . .
Phillips, Wm. D‘ .........
Pinkerton, Robert A .....
Plaut, S. & H ............
Poggenburg, H. F .......
Poirier, Mrs. Edmond. . . .
Polevoy, C. P ............
Polevoy, V. P ...........
Pomroy, H. K.. Mrs .....
Porter, Mrs. Mary A. . . .
Potter, R. Burnside ......
Powell, D. B ............
Pratt, Marion, Miss ......
Pryer, Miss A. C .........
Purdy, M. E .............
Pyle & Sons, James ......

Q
Quinlan, William .........

R

Rabe, Dr. R. F ..........
Rapallp,'Mrs. Edward S. .
Rathbone, Mrs. Albert. . .

Raynor, Miss Florence. . .
Redmond, G. H

500
200
10 00
IO 00

5 oo
5 oo
20 oo
2 oo
15 oo
20 oo
4 00
IO 00
25 oo
5 oo
5 oo
5 00
I 00
I oo
6 oo
20 oo
5 oo
5 oo
10 00
I 00
IO 00
I 00
IO 00

450

500
2500
500

 

 

 

 

 




MAINE.
Portland . . . . Maine StateS P. C. A.*. . . .. . . . 61 128 156 374 23 822

Bangor . . . . . The Bangor Humane Society . . . . . . 6 6
Waterville . . . . Waterville S. P. C. A. . . . . . . ...4 I 2 I3 5 (2,4
Lewiston . . . . LewistonandAuburnSPCA . . . . . III: 33.. 22:: If...

MARYLAND.
Baltimore . . - - The Maryland S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
MASSACHUSETTS. . _
Boston . . . . . The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . . . . 1773 1524 .. . . . . . . 30351
Taunton . . - - Taunton Humane Society * . . . . . . . 6 6 IO 4 . . . . 72
Lowell . . . . . The Lowell Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . _ , . . . . . .
MICHIGAN.
Detroit. . . . MichiganS. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
Grand Rapids . . Kent County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kalamazoo . . - Kalamazoo Humane Society. . . . . . . 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Mm NESOTA.
St. Paul. . . . . MinnesotaS. P. C. . . . . . . . . .
Minneapolis . . . Minneapolis Humane Society . . . .. . . IO 82 67 5 . . . . 910
Duluth. . . . . DuluthHumaneSociety . . . -. . . . .
St. Paul . . . . - St. Paul S. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . 13 76 309 101 . . . . 2221
Owatonna . . . . Steele County Humane Society. . . . . . 21 4 12 54
Winona . . . . - The Winona Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . .
St. Cloud . . - - St. Cloud Humane Society . . . . . . . I 5 2 - - - . . - - . 4
RedWing. -' - - RedWing Humane Society. . . . . . .
Rochester . . . . Rochester Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
_ St1llwater - . - - Stillwater Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez . . . . . The Mississippi S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .
.Mésscinm: H S f M
t. ouls . . . . umane ociety o ISSOIII'l . . . . . 8 2 o , , . ,
it. LouiE . . . . ﬁomﬁn’ s Hunéane SocifetIy< of Missouri . . . . . .5 334 ”9 33 648
ansas ity . . . e umane ociety o ansas City . . . 2 6 1: IO 610
St. Joseph . . . . The Humane Society of St. Joseph* . . . . 2% I?8 1i; ‘ 2; .. . . 3. ..
Sedaha . . . . . The Humane Society of Seedalia, Missouri . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .

I43

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

__._.._.____.._._é;r-;mm x- -u._.a_-_:_. ,;.1_ 4;; _<_r-;x_'

K..1_.._. ___.~,

;;__k.,»‘, S s 7 .

l
I

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEBRASKA.
Omaha . . .
South Omaha

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Portsmouth .
. Keene . . .
NEW JERSEY.

Newark .

Jersey City

Cape May .

Vineland .

Morristown

Camden .

Hackensack

Elizabeth .

Perth Amboy

Cranford .

Paterson .

Somerville .

Princeton .

Lodi . . .

Ridgewood
NEW YORK.

New York .

Ossining

Rochester

Buffalo . .

Poughkeepsie

Newburg . .

Oswego . . .

Fulton. . . .

Syracuse . .

 

 

Nebraska Humane Society.
South Omaha Humane Society.

New Hampshire 5. P. C. A. .
The Keene Humane Society .

The New Jersey S. P. C. A.

The Hudson County District S. P. C A.
Cape May, N. J., District S. P. C. A. .
The Vineland S. P. C. A.

Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P. C. A
TheCamdenS.P.C..A
The Bergen County S. P. C. A. .
The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J. . .
Perth AmboyS. P. C. A.

Craniord, N. J., Br. of TheN. J. S. P. C. A
Passaic County District S. P. C. A. . . . .
Somerset County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Princeton S. P. C. A. . . .
District Society 1n Lodi, Bergen County .
Ridgewood S. P. C. A?!< . . .

The American S. P. C. A.§ . . .
Ossining Br. of The American S. P. C. A.’|< .
The Humane Soc. of Rochester N. Y., P. C. A.
The Erie County S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A. . . .
The NewburgS. P. C. A. . . . .
S. P. C. A. of Oswego City, N. Y. . .'
S. P. C. A. of Village of Fulton, N. Y.
The Central New York S. P. C. A. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

NEW YORK.—C0nt’d.
Nyack . . . . TheRocklandCountyS.P.C.A.. . . . . 2 2 I
2 I06

Elmira . . . . . The Elmira S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . 4 3 9 II
Binghamton . . . Broome County S P. C A. * . . . . . . I3 79 I7 19 245
Kingston . . . . TheUlsterCountyS.P..CA. . . . . . . ..
Watertown . . . Jefferson County S. P. C. A. . . . . 65 IT 16 .. .. 276
Albany . . . . . Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society 15 32 86 3441 . . . . 67x
Lockport . . . . The Niagara County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cortland . . . . The Cortland County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 5 7 . . . . 12
TheStevensS.P...,..CAofRomeNY . .

6 I8 73

Rome . . . . .
Auburn. . The Cayuga County S. P. C. A.”< . . . . . 5

NORTH CAROLINA.
Asheville
Wilmington

OHIo.

N
'6’)
IO

?
O
N

The North Carolina S. P. C. A. . . . . . I 5 ..
North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A. . . . . . IO 57 5 21 .. . . 64
Cincinnati . . . . The Ohio Humane Society . . . . . , . .. . . .. . .
Cleveland . . . . Cleveland Humane Society . . . . 109 40
Canton , , , , , The Canton Humane Society . . . . .
Humane Society of City of Columbus, Ohio . 134 1020 547 I673 32 2326

71

Columbus . . .. .
Toledo . . . . . Toledo Humane Society*. . . . . I3 54 II3

Warren . . . . . The Trumbull County Humane Society . .
Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society P. C. C. & A.

Dayton. . . . .
Athens . . AthensS. P. C. A. . . . .. . ...
. 2 2 4 50

I45

Sandusky . . . . The Erie County Humane Society. . . .
Portsmouth . . . Scioto County Humane Society . . . . . -. -. .
Ashtabula . . . . Ashtabula County Humane Society . . . - . - . . . . .
Chagrin Falls . . . The Chagrin Falls Humane S. P. C. C. & A. . . - . . . . . .

Pomeroy . Pomeroy Branch Humane Society . . . .
Youngstown . . The Youngstown Humane Society . . . . 69 16 13 4 I6 248
Yellow Springs . . Yellow Springs Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tiﬂin . . . . . . Seneca County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
Chardon . . . . The Chardon Humane Society. . . . . . '. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .
Norwalk . . . . Huron County Humane Society . . . . .- .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:::: l
I
l

§ Includes work of its own agents throughout the State.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

O HIo.—Ccmtinued.
New Lexington .
Lima . . . . .

OREGON.
Portland

PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Lancaster
York . .
Pittsburg
West Chester
Reading
Williamsport .
Scranton .
Erie . . .
Wilkesbarre
Altoona . .

RHODE ISLAND.
Prov1dence .

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston . .
Columbia . .
Greenville . .
Spartanburg

TENNESSEE.
Memphis .
Chattanooga
Knoxville
Nashville
Jackson. .

 

 

Humane Society of.New Lexington .
Lima Branch of Ohio Humane Society

The Oregon Humane Society . .

The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. . . .
Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. .
Lancaster S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
The York County S. P. C. A. . . . .
Western Pennsylvania Humane Society* . .
Chester C. Aux’y Women’s Br. Pa. S. P. C. A.
Berks County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
Lycoming County S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Lackawanna Br. of Pennsylvania S. . C. A.*
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Luzerne Co. Humane Assoc’n P. C. C. & A.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society"<

0

Rhode Island S. P. C.IA.* . . . . . . .

The South Carolina S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Richland County, South Carolina, S. P. C.
Greenville Branch of So. Carolina S. P. C.

A'.
A.
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A. . . . . . .

Tennessee 5. P. C. A. & C. . . .
Chattanooga Humane Society . .
Knox County Humane Society . .
Nashville Humane Society . . .
Madison County Humane Society .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




TEXAS.

Waco . . . . .
Austin . . . . .
UTAH.

Salt Lake City . .
VERMONT.

Chester . . . .
Brattleborough
Rutland . . .
Burlington
Chester. .‘
Randolph
Manchester .
St. Albans. . .
VIRGINIA.
Richmond .
Norfolk.
Portsmouth
Lynchburg
Roanoke
WASHINGTON.
Tacoma . .
Seattle . . .
WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling .
WISCONSIN.
Milwaukee. . .
BRITISH No. AMERICA
'Halifax . . . .
Hamilton

 

 

 

 

The Texas Humane Society .
Austin Humane S.‘ P. C. A. .

Utah Humane Society .

Vermont Humane Society.
The Brattleborough S. P. C. A.

Society P. C. A. . . .

Burlington Humane Society
Chester Humane Society .
The Randolph Humane Socie
Manchester S. P. C. A. . .
St. Albans Humane Society

Richmond S. P. C. A.
Norfolk S. P. C. A.

W

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia

The Lynchburg Humane Society

Roanoke S. P. C. A. '.
Tacoma S. P. C. A.

Seattle Humane Society

West Virginia Humane Society * .

Wisconsin Humane Society*.

The Nova Scotia S. P. C.

Hamilton S. P. C. A.

29

O...

37

60

122

31

250
IO

IO

461

164I

I7

37

102

 

 

‘gga

100

39
62

26

 

25

42

1'5 76
700

25
343

500

2028

I47

Kingston Kingston Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Montreal . . . TheCanadianS.P.C.A.. . . . . . . .
Ottawa . . . . . Ottawa Humane Society . . . . . . . .

Quebec . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Quebec S. P. C. A. . .g . . . . . . . .

 

 

 

i .
I.
r
l.
l
?

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BRITISH N o. AMERICA.—

Continued.
St. John, N. B. . . New Brunswick S. ‘P. C. A.

Toronto. . . Toronto Humane Society .
Fredericton . Fredericton S. P. C. A. .
Moncton . . Moncton S. P. C. A. . . .
Winnipeg . . . Winnipeg S. P. C. A. . .
St. John’s, N’ﬂ . St. John’s S. P. C. A. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




a, —. "‘7 7:1... J.»

 

HISTORY.

 

Prior to the enactment of the statute entitled “ An Act to
Prevent the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle,” intro-
duced in England in July, 1822, by the late highly esteemed
Mr. Martin, the general treatment of animals in all countries
of the world was inhuman.

* “ Whether from ignorance, thoughtlessness, heedlessness,
or wanton brutality, animals were subjected to extreme pain
and torture, and their condition failed to excite the Commiser-
ation of the public. The best classes of society contained a few
persons only who openly protested against this cruelty, while
the majority were engaged in divers pastimes that caused
much animal suffering, and regarded with scorn and indigna-
tion any appeal made to them in favor of the brutes. Naturally,
the lower and lowest orders were therefore more or less insen-
sible to the claims of lower animals; taking cue as well as ex-
ample from their betters, they also indulged in cruel sports
and maintained a right in man to behave toward dumb do-
mestic dependents as he pleased. In fact, the protests of
humane people were silenced by ridicule which came from the
platform, the pulpit, and the senate, as well as from the galled
pens of satirists.

“ No better instance can be quoted of the prevailing indiffer-
ence of men in even the highest social position to the feelings
of animals than the mocking treatment of the Peers when
Lord Erskine stood up in the House of Lords, in the early

* From the 74th Annual Report of the Royal Society, London.

 

 




    

 

 

  

 

 

 

150

part of the present century (1811), to ask for justice to the
lower creatures of God. Insensible alike to his moderate de-
' mands and appeals for compassion and mercy to all defenseless
animals that man had pressed into his service, the chamber
broke out into open derision when he argued in favor of their
rights to humane treatment. It is said that loud jeers, vulgar
ejaculations, indecorous demeanor, and even whistling and
cock-crowing were practically the only reply given to the
grand speech of this high-souled man. No wonder, therefore,
that the man in the street ridiculed also, and that callous coach-
men and other persons vented their unrestrained passions on
animals without let or hindrance. The public records of eighty
years ago certainly do show that the friends of the brutes were
few, and their" foes many and cruel.

“ The most reckless and savage punishment, and the most
disgusting disregard to the bodily sufferings of animals, were
exhibited unconcealed in the highways and streets daily; fester-
ing sores, discharging wounds, excruciating lameness, and
tottering inﬁrmity called not forth modern devices to evade
public reprobation, and without disguise the lash and goad
worked their bloody inﬂictions. The uncombined efforts of
a few benevolent individuals were no check to these evils; and
hence it became necessary to establish a society which should
unite the friends of dumb animal creatures.

“ The founders of this Society met on the 16th of June, 1824,
and inaugurated the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, appointed a committee, and conceived the following
plan of operations:

I. The circulation of suitable tracts gratuitously, or by cheap sale,
particularly among persons intrusted with cattle, such as coach-
men, carters, and drovers.

2. The introduction into schools of books calculated to impress on
youth the duty of humanity to inferior animals.

3. Frequent appeals to the public through the press, awakening more

general attention to a subject so interesting, though too much

neglected.

 

 




 

 

151

4. The periodical delivery of discourses from the pulpit.

5. The employment of constables in the markets and streets; and

6. The prosecution of persons guilty of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty, with
publicity to the proceedings, and announcement of results.

“ Steadily working by the above means, bravely bearing
contumely and overcoming difﬁculties, the founders became
stronger year after year: subscribers and co—workers gradually
joined their ranks; and a marked improvement slowly mani-
fested itself in the treatment of animals. Then followed the
distinguished patronage of Her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, Her Royal Highness the late Duchess of Kent, the
Nobility, and many distinguished Members of both Houses
of Parliament; and in 1840, by command of Her Majesty, the
Society was honored with the preﬁx of ‘ Royal.’ Since that
period its progress has been regular, and its achievements en-
couraging, and now it is regarded as a permanently estab—
lished institution, which has outlived ridicule, and secured for
its founders the esteem of good and practical men of this
and succeeding generations.

“ During many years the committee advocated the removal
and enlargement of Smithﬁeld Market. Owing to its agency,
bull—baiting, bull-running, cock—ﬁghting, badger—baiting, and
other wicked sports of a barbarous age have been prohibited
by legal enactments. In 1835 the Society obtained an amend-
ment of Martin’s Act; in 1845 an amendment of the law for
regulating Knackers’ Yards; in 1849 a new and much im—
proved Act for the more effectual Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals; and in 1854 an Act prohibiting the use of dogs as
beasts of draft or burden throughout England; and recently
many other Acts of Parliament.”

The ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection
of animals was The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the
late Henry Bergh, to whose noble self-sacriﬁces and untiring
energies the cause of animal protection in this country owes

 




 

 

, ”A. -M ‘4

 

 

~;:7—:_‘—.—z< . > A -

“den-.- wﬂb ;. -41 .M.Mx‘.¢ m;

152

its origin. The history of the Society, therefore, is practically
an account of the inception and development of the work of
animal protection in America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he wOuld have been exposed to
personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the sub—
ject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in London
on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of
John Colam, Esq., Secretary of the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much
valuable information concerning the operations of that Society
in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found that
no similar society existed in this country, and he immediately
devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the asSistance of the press, it
might probably have failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh
delivered a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his
cause with such force of argument and such warmth of elo-
quent conviction, that expressions of sympathy and offers of
assistance were freely made by persons in attendance. The
press then lent its powerful aid; the lecture was published in
whole or in part in all the great cities of the country; public
sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly
aroused, and on April IO, 1866, “ The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ” was incorporated by
the Legislature of the State of New York. Among the orig-
inal charter members of the Society were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It
provided that “ every person who shall, by his act or neglect,
maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat

 




 

 

 




