 

 

 

- —:’

 

A DOG’S EARS
By the Veterinary Staff
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

A dog’s hearing is one of his keenest senses.
The extended range of a dog’s hearing can
be demonstrated by a “silent” dog whistle. If
you toot one, you’ll hear nothing, or only a
faint high peep. But to the dog it’s a shrill
blast, audible as much as half a mile away.
They sound only in the region above 15,000
cycles per second, beyond the normal range
of a human’s hearing, but well within the
dog’s extended range, which is about 25,000
cycles. By comparison, the highest note of a
piano is 4,186 cycles per second.

A dog’s ear is similar in its internal struc-
ture to the human ear. The outer ear canal
and ﬂap differ considerably from man’s, and
even vary greatly among the different breeds.
This outer structure in the breeds with erect
ears acts as an excellent sound antenna, a
sort of ear trumpet, which can turn to catch
faint sound.

While the size of the outer ear serves a
valuable purpose in the dog’s hearing, it also
can lead to trouble. Erect ears catch dirt be-
cause they are completely exposed. Hanging,
ﬂoppy ears, even though the ear canal is
covered, drag on the ground and pick up
dirt. The biggest problem with ﬂoppy ears,
however, is that the pendant ear tends to
cover the opening of the canal, thus inter-
fering with air intake and proper ventilation.
A warm, moist, stagnant canal in turn pre-
disposes to infection caused by certain bac-
teria and fungi.

If a dog paws continually at one or both

ears, scratches them, or rubs them against
things, it’s likely they need a cleaning. Check
ﬁrst for burrs, grass or any other sharp item
that may be stuck in the ears. If it’s only
dirt and accumulated wax, you can clean
them easily by swabbing the ear gently with
a small wad of clean cotton wrapped around
the end of your little ﬁnger. Wet the cotton
ﬁrst with a little mineral oil.

Stay away from the ear canal. The same
caution given humans about not poking
things into your ear applies to your dog.
Clean the outer parts of a dog’s ears, but
never poke anything into the canal.

Give special attention to dogs like poodles
and terriers that have a thick growth of hair
in the ears. The hair often holds globs of
dirt and wax. This interferes with aeration
and causes moisture retention, which may
lead to infections. The hair should be plucked
every few weeks.

If after cleaning the dog’s ears, he con-
tinues to paw at his ear, the trouble could be
impacted wax or something worse. Don’t try
home treatment because you may be treating
the wrong thing. Consult a veterinarian for
diagnosis and treatment. A neglected ear
could result in a serious complication.

Ticks and Mites

Regular inspection of your dog’s ears
should include a careful look for ticks. The
ear is one of the tick’s favorite hiding places.
If you ﬁnd one, swab the area with alcohol
to anesthetize the tick. Wait a minute or_two.
Grab the tick with tweezers and pull it out
slowly, making sure not to leave the head
imbedded in the skin. Swab the area again
with alcohol to help prevent infection. Burn
the ticks, or ﬂush them down the toilet.

Another external parasite is the ear mite.
Symptoms are shaking the head, scratching
the ears and overall nervousness— the same
symptoms observed with most ear ailments.
A brown crumbly material is usually seen in
the ear canal. Only a veterinarian can ac-
curately diagnose mites, which is another
good reason to have your veterinarian exam-
ine and treat the ears, if you suspect trouble.

13

 

 

 




 

wmdﬂ 3 BLUE RIBBON DOG SHOW

 

 

vﬁne spring morning in 1877, when the
ASPCA was in its eleventh year, founder
Henry Bergh slit open the day’s mail and
removed a check for $1,295.25, donated “to
aid and assist him in building a hospital
for dogs.”

The money represented proceeds of a dog
show at Gilmore’s Gardens, popularly known
as the Hippodrome. That show, held by the
Westminster Kennel Club, was so successful
it became the ﬁrst in an unbroken series of
annual shows held in New York City. On
February 10 and 11, 1964, Westminster will
hold its 88th consecutive show. The Kentucky
Derby is the only other sports event in the
country with a string that long. Westminster’s
blue ribbon for Best in Show is the most

6

coveted honor American dogdom can bestow
and its prestige has become more overpower-
ing than its founders dreamed in 1877.

Rich in tradition, Westminster goes back
to a group of sportsmen who handed to-
gether to enjoy shooting and raising ﬁne
bird dogs. One of their ﬁrst pointers was
Sensation, Whose picture became the club’s
emblem.

While the club was interested primarily in
ﬁeld dogs, it realized there was considerable
interest in other breeds and it decided to
hold a dog show in New York City. A planned
three-day show at the Hippodrome drew
1,177 dogs in 33 breeds, enough entries to
extend the show to four days. The proceeds
of the fourth day were handed to Henry

 

 

 

 




 

EDITORIAL

The Pigeon Problem

In an attempt to get rid of New York
City’s pigeons— extravagantly estimated by
some to number as many as ﬁve million—
the Board of Health has called on all New
Yorkers to stop feeding these birds. It also
urged the Park Department to abolish pigeon
feeding areas in the City’s parks.

The board acted after Health Department
ofﬁcials said that pigeons were responsible
for a number of diseases in humans, the
worst being fatal meningitis. The department
said that about four deaths each year are
traceable "to pigeon-borne disease, contracted
through pigeon droppings which contain a
fungus that causes the disease.

Every day newspapers carry letters from
irate citizens either supporting the City’s
position or violently opposed to it. It is not
the business of the ASPCA to argue the pros
or cons of a matter of public health or wel-
fare, except where humane treatment of the
birds is involved.

The business of the ASPCA is to prevent
cruelty to animals—pigeons included. We
are agents of the State of New York and the
City of New York empowered to enforce
animal cruelty statutes. Our authority begins

and ends there. Therefore, it is not only in-
appropriate but ill-advised for us to be drawn
beyond the limited sphere of our jurisdiction:
prevention of cruelty to animals.

    

VOL. 17, NO. 3 WINTER 1963

June Eliot, Director of Publications
Janice Paprin, Publications Editor

IN THIS ISSUE

Pigeon Problem .................. l
Winterize Your Dog .............. 2
Ignatz and His Friends ............ 4
Westminster: Blue Ribbon

Dog Show ..................... 6
School Days for Dogs ............. 10
Fifty Years in the Doghouse ....... 12
Your Pet’s Health ............... . 13
War or Peace: For Pet Lovers . . . . 15

Smile When You Say That,
Pardner ...................... . 16

International Jigsaw ............. 19

Be a First-Nighter . .Inside Back Cover

 

Cover picture

Pets are popular Christmas gifts. For helpful
stories about how to care for animals that join
your family this Christmas see pages 2 and 14.

Animal Protection is published quarterly by The
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, Editorial Ofﬁce, 30 East 60th Street, New
York, N. Y. 10022.

   
 
    




 

 

 

 

WAR or PEACE

for pet lovers

 

Biting, clawing, yeowling, snarling ﬁghts
between cats and dogs are a legend as old
as the history of house pets. Traditionally,
the two species just don’t get along.

But many of them ignore this tradition
and simply refuse to “ﬁght like cats and
dogs.”Forgetting their ancient enmity,mother
cats have adopted orphaned puppies, and
pooches have protected feline family members
against the pugnacious advances of other
canines.

Pet fanciers have come up with all kinds
of theories to explain this phenomenon. Dog
lovers insist that because dogs are almost hu-
man and because humans adopt cats, it isn’t
surprising that dogs have also adopted cats
from time to time.

Cat lovers say that because cats are such
clever animals it’s perfectly easy for them to
ﬁgure out how to adopt a dog—when they’re
in the mood for it.

Scientiﬁc researchers have also given some
thought to the problem. What surprises them
is not that dogs and cats do get along so well,
but that some of them don’t. Some experts
have found that almost all puppies and kit-
tens get along well together at birth. It isn’t
until they’ve matured that some of them de-
velop a mutual dislike.

“Cats and dogs have to learn to ﬁght like
cats and dogs.” says a researcher at the

 

Purina Pet Care Center in St. Louis, Mis-
souri, where almost a thousand dogs, cats,
puppies and kittens live together. “It doesn’t
come naturally,” he says.

There have been dozens of instances in
which cats and dogs have formed lasting
friendships. A huge great Dane named Mar-
vin, for instance, gave daily dog-back rides to
Shakespeare, a tabby tomcat. Every morning
Marvin would lie down and permit Shake-
speare to climb on his back. Then the great
Dane would stand up and take a 10- or 20-
minute dogtrot while Shakespeare sat calmly,
like a nobleman on horseback, watching the
scenery go by.

Another story involves a stray mongrel
named Terri found by a college student and
taken into his apartment. In due time it be—
came apparent that Terri was an expectant
mother. But she had a tragic time and lost
her entire litter. Then one day she wandered
out of the house. A few hours later she was
back again in her dog bed. She seemed to
be nursing. Terri behaved as any protective
canine would. She uttered stern warning
growls to keep her curious human master
away.

The next day he ﬁnally saw What Terri was
nursing. It was a newborn Siamese kitten.
Where Terri got the kitten is still a mystery,
but that kitten, which he named Edgar, is
probably the only cat in New York who
shuns other cats and purrs warmly to dogs.

(continued on page 18,)

15

 

 




A Snake named Kaa, a 1331 called Misty and a
gumea p1g dubbed lgnatz are 1mportant members
’fof the ASPCA eachmg staff They earn their
keep inf lettuce biscuits and milk“ by helping to
. open the mySteriOus; m‘aereleus- world of animals
to thousands of city children every year. Ignatz
".1a11d company off er Wide- eyed youngsters a chance
to; make friends With animals they might never
meet outSIde of books

 

 




 

its ﬁrst show, for instance, Westminster of-
fered an award for the “Best Pointer Puppy
Either Dog or Bitch, Either Native or Im~
ported, to be Shown with No Less than Two
of Her Progeny.” The prize was “a Russian
Leather Silver Mounted Fly Book and One

Gross Assorted Flies.”

Variety of Breeds Shown

Whereas the 1964 visitor to Westminster
will ﬁnd about 115 breeds on exhibition, the
1877 show produced 33 breeds and a miscel-
laneous class in which anything remotely re-
sembling a dog was shown. Bird dogs, Eng-
lish, Irish and Gordon setters, along with
pointers accounted for as much as half the
entries. As the years went by and interest
in purebred dogs grew, the selection changed.
Around the turn of the century the St.
Bernard had his heyday and one class in this
breed had 53 entries. Jacob Ruppert had
one of the top strings. Collies, too, were one
of the most popular dogs then, and J. Pier-
pont Morgan’s kennels practically dominated
the breed.

Fashions in dogs change with the years,
and Westminster entries usually reflect the
popular breeds of the day. Collies still have
one of the largest entries, although ﬁrst place
has recently been taken over by poodles. Last
year 194 poodles were entered. Next in line
were 119 dachshunds, 88 collies, 75 dober-
manns, 71 great Danes and 69 boxers.

Westminster offers classes for every breed
and variety of breed ofﬁcially recognized by
the American Kennel Club. Until this year it
also provided a class for “miscellaneous,”
breeds recognized in foreign countries but
insufﬁciently represented in America to be
accorded ofﬁcial status. In this group last
year were three Akitas, a dog of Japanese
origin, two Cavalier King Charles spaniels,
the favorite breed of King Charles I of Eng-
land, one Chinese crested dog, an almost
hairless dog, ten Shih Tzus from Asia and
two soft coated Wheaten terriers from Ireland.

The miscellaneous class will be missing
from future shows because of a new ruling
by the American Kennel Club, bringing to a

8

close one of Westminster’s most colorful
chapters. The miscellaneous class is ﬁlled
with romantic canine history. Breed after
breed, well known today, made its American
debut in this class. The pekingese, chow,
saluki, kerry blue terrier and the boxer
started from this springboard.

In the early years qualiﬁcations for the
class were so vague that not even four legs
were necessary. At the ﬁrst show Nellie, a
brown two-year-old bitch born with two legs
was entered.

Westminster exhibitors have been just as
colorful as their dogs. Royalty, theatre peo-
ple, high society and other celebrities have
shown dogs. Actor Maurice Barrymore,
father of Lionel, Ethel and John, was a
prominent exhibitor. Dogs from the royal
kennels of Queen Victoria and the Czar of
Russia were shown. At the ﬁrst show there
were two stag hounds imported by the Grand
Duke Alexis and presented to General Custer.
In the 1920’s mystery writer S. S. VanDine

showed Scottish terriers.

Unbroken Skein Saved

Only once did Westminster come perilously
close to breaking its historic string of 87
consecutive annual shows. In 1946, its 70th
year, a New York tugboat strike left the
city’s coal bins in short supply. Places of

 

photo by Evelyn Shafer
Last year’s Best in Show winner, Ch. Wakefield’s
Black Knight, an English springer spaniel, shown
with handler Lawrence Carswell.

 




 




 

“Heel,” “sit,” “come,” “stay” . . . these
little words have become important by-words
in many New York households since the
ASPCA ﬁrst gave its pioneer obedience train-
ing course 20 years ago. Early in 1964 we

. . _ . will graduate our 20,000th dog. The pooch
German shepherd obeys the “sit" command ' 1" . I. 1 Will lOin the army 0f well-behaved mOdels 0f
der the watchful eye of the instructor. ' " " " ‘ V department turned out every year at six

eight-week sessions. These pictures were taken
of a group half way through the course at
Washington Irving High School.

§
g
E

“If I told you once I told you a hundred times . . .
look where you’re going.”

A ﬂuﬁy poodle across the room distracts this fel-
low’s attention.

A dalmatian is singled out for special attention. Black poodle gets' a dressing down for a misstep.

 

 




 

 

awlew ...... - mm. :23: », ;=.:,.:»:-,-:::-:¢:-:v;~z-zt ;. .......

Informals Featuring Animal Etchings
By Marguerite Kirmse Now on Sale

 

Informal notepaper containing reproduc-
tions of delightful animal etchings can now
be ordered from the ASPCA in a gift box of
12 assorted notes and envelopes. The six ap-
pealing subjects in each assortment include
dogs, cats and horses. Shown here is one
from the group entitled Audacity.

The miniature lithographs are from limited-
edition etchings by Marguerite Kirmse, one
of the truly great animal artists. Each minia-
ture is lithographed on ﬁne paper.

The informals are $1.50 for a box of 12.
To order yours now send a check or money
order to: Humane Education Dept, ASPCA,
441 East 92nd St., New York, NY. 10028.
All income beneﬁts the ASPCA.

This year for the ﬁrst time the ASPCA
sold a special line of Christmas cards as-
sembled just for us from Marguerite Kirmse
etchings. Included were the six subjects now
being sold as informals, plus ﬁve others. We
expect the Christmas card sale to top 10,000,
an exceptionally gratifying response to this
initial offer.

 

Birth of a Good Guy

Good guys are hard to ﬁnd, but the ASPCA
has one. Queens attendant Arthur T. Goebler
was presented with a Good Guy Shirt by
radio station WMCA for his efforts to help a
13-year-old boy ﬁnd his lost dog. Charles
Fazio of Brooklyn telephoned the shelter re-
cently to ask if we could ﬁnd his dog, which
had run away from home. Attendant Goebler
was so understanding and helpful that, al-
though the dog was never found, the boy
wrote to WMCA recommending that the sta-
tion award Mr. Goebler its Good Guy Shirt.

 

Arthur T. Goebler, a Good Guy

17

 

 




 

 

INTERNATIONAL JIGSAW

When a gray and white cat and a brown
poodle stepped off Eastern Airlines flight
821 in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, recently, it
marked the end of a mix-up that started in
Genoa, Italy, and involved the American
Embassy in Italy, the New York City Wel-
fare Department, the Travelers Aid Society,
the Humane Society of Broward County,
Florida, and the ASPCA.

It all started last spring when a destitute
American family of four living in Genoa ap-
pealed to the American Embassy for help in
getting back to the United States. The request
traveled through channels until it reached
the New York City Welfare Department,
which assigned Raymond Sanchez to the case.

Mr. Sanchez arranged for the Raistrick
family — mother, father and two boys, Frank
and Rickie—to sail for New York aboard
the Cristoforo Colombo and immediately to
be transferred here to a train for Florida,
Where they were to live with relatives. To
Mr. Sanchez’ surprise the Raistricks arrived
in New York with two pets—a cat named
Tonella and a poodle named Rickie. There
was only an hour or so before their train
left Pennsylvania Station to solve the prob-
lem of what to do with the pets. The railroad
would not permit them on the train without
carriers. Furthermore, the Welfare Depart-
ment was not authorized to pay for transpor-
tation for animals.

Just as the train was pulling out of the
station, therefore, Mr. Sanchez took the ani-
mals and promised the tearful Raistricks that
somehow, some way he would send their pets
to them. He consulted Travelers Aid, which
suggested the ASPCA be called to care for
the pets in the meantime. The animals were
taken to the Manhattan Shelter marked “hold
for later delivery to owner.” We weren’t told
why the animals were being held, and they
remained at the shelter for 21 days while Mr.
Sanchez, on his own time, was trying to ﬁnd
a way to move them to their owners. He
later told us he never thought to ask our help.

    

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Frank and Rickie Raistrick and their pets ﬁnally
get back together at the airport after a month’s
separation. Frank greets poodle Rickie and Rickie
holds Tonella the cat.

Mildred Lipscomb of Ft. Lauderdale News

When we ﬁnally learned the heartbreaking
story we immediately arranged to fly the pets
to Florida. First of all, we assured the family
we had no charges for their board or their
regular care in our hospital. We provided
carrying crates, and Roger C. Folwell, Presi-
dent of the Humane Society of Broward
County, Florida, said he’d be happy to pay
for transporting the pets to their owners.
Tonella and Rickie were spruced up, given
the proper shots, and 21 days after they
arrived at the shelter we put them on an
Eastern Airlines plane for Florida. The Rais-
tricks were at Broward County Airport to
greet their pets in a heartwarming reunion
that stamped “happy ending’9 to an interna-
tional jigsaw.

19




 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

World of Food Pavilion, N. Y. World’s Fair, scene of ASPCA opening night benefit.

    

M were”

BE A FIRST-NIGHTER at the New York World’s Fair

Passport to Paradise, a beneﬁt party at the
New York World’s Fair on opening night,
Wednesday, April 22, 1964, will raise funds
for the ASPCA Pet Adoption Service. Pass-
port to Paradise has been planned to give
ﬁrst-nighters a chance to see the Fair, enjoy
gourmet food and avoid the traffic jam—
all for only $35.

A private, brand new subway train for
ASPCA guests will depart from midtown
Manhattan about 7:30 p.m. for a gay, non-
stop 20-minute ride to the World’s Fair site in
Flushing. Guests will then attend a cocktail
party and dinner in the rooftop theatre and
gardens of the World of Food Pavilion. A
parade of dogs, led by Lady Greyhound and
set to background orchestra music, will be
featured. There will be prizes and mementoes.

Editor’s Note: We have already sold 50 °/° of the reservations.

Glide-a-Ride trains on rubber wheels will
then take guests on a sightseeing tour of the
Fair. A farewell good-night-cap at the World
of Food Pavilion will be offered each guest
before the subway train departs for the re-
turn trip to Manhattan.

Proceeds will beneﬁt the Pet Adoption
Service, which last year found homes for
23,077 animals. Adopted animals are en-
titled to a free examination and one serum
inoculation against communicable diseases in
the ASPCA Hospital. If the owner wishes to
spay his new pet in our hospital, there is no
charge for hospitalization, examination, en-
trance, drug or inoculation fees. The owner
pays only the surgical fee. Your tax-deductible
Passport to Paradise at the World’s Fair will
help support these services.

T0” of the Fairom _
Transvertation to 3‘15 {1",

Background orchestra mu . . , . G ADDRESSM
Bag of mementoes‘ and door prizes ' ,

o
o
.
o
o
o
c
o
9

cm v *7

A farewell good—night-cap

 

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
Horace H. Nahm, Vice-President
William Mapel, Vice-President
James H. Jenkins, Treasurer

John W. Ream, Secretary

Board of Managers

Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton
John W. Cross, Jr.
Walter B. Devereux
Albert E. Hart, Jr.
James H. Jenkins
Richard C. Kettles
Robert V. Lindsay

J osé A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
William F. Morgan
Horace H. Nahm
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
John W. Ream
James H. Ripley
William Rockefeller

Managers Emeritus
F. Ambrose Clark
Robert L. Jones
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank
George B. Wagstafi

**

*

**

Administration Ofﬁces TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York, N. Y. 10028 (York Ave.)
William Mapel, Administrative Vice President

Katherine M. Lehr, Secretary to Committees

Edward W. Simms, Personnel Manager

Edward I. Metcalf, Director of Public Relations

Comptroller’s Division
Thomas A. Fegan, Comptroller

Hospital and Clinic
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Director

Operations Division
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director

Humane Work Division

Edmond M. Rowan, Director
Humane Education Department
Diana Henley, Supervisor

Fund Raising and

Special Activities Division

30 East 60th Street, New York, N. Y. 10022

June Eliot, Director of Publications and Programs
Maude Hayman, Chairman of Volunteer Committees

PLaza 5-1650

Animalport

Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica, N. Y. 11430

George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

OLympia 6-6042

Bronx Shelter TYrone 2-8500
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, N. Y. 10460

(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)

Robert P. Hammatt, District Manager

Brooklyn Shelter TRiangle 5-9580
233 Butler St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 11217

(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

Manhattan Shelter TRafalgar 6-7700

441 East 92nd St., New York, N. Y. 10028
James L. Metz, District Manager

Nassau County Shelters

Pratt Blvd. Ext., Glen Cove, L. I. 11542 516 ORiole 6-5913
Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager

70 Water St., Long Beach, L. I. 11561 516 GEneral 1-0660
George Wright, Shelter Manager

Queens Shelter REpublic 9-4041
94-27 158th St., Jamaica, N. Y. 11433

George Tuscher, District Manager

Richmond Shelter GIbraltar 7-0122

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. 1., N. Y. 10305
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager

Western Westchester Shelter 914 Lyric 2-7890

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y. 10523
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

Serving Glen Cove, Sea Cliff, Bayville, East Hills.

Serving Tarrytown, North Tarrytown, Mount Pleasant, Irvington, Dobbs
Ferry, Hastings-on-Hudson.

 




wads, Maw 5W ,
Cam Maw/11M , 422%,
and; 1‘

 

 




 

 

 

Bergh for the ASPCA in what has become
a long association between the Society and
club, culminating in today’s vigil by the
ASPCA of the club’s two-day show at Madi-

son Square Garden.

Best in Show

The perennial war cry of the old Brooklyn
Dodgers used to be “wait till next year.”
For dog breeders and exhibitors the peren-
nial hope is “maybe this is our year” —— our
year to win Best in Show at Westminster.
The thrill of winning dogdom’s highest honor
rivals the excitement of winning the Kentucky
Derby in a photo ﬁnish or the World Series
by the slim margin of a home run with two
out in the last of the ninth.

The judging of Best in Show usually oc-
curs at about 11 pm. on the second night of
the show. A ﬁeld of about 2500 perfectly
groomed purebred dogs has been narrowed
down to six. In a tense, hushed atmosphere
dogs and handlers circle the ring once, twice,
then line up single ﬁle in the center. A din-
ner-jacketed judge examines the dogs indi-
vidually ——- looks at teeth, eyes, feels muscles,
tests the texture of coats. He moves to and
fro quietly, deep in concentration. Then he
watches intently as each handler trots his
dog down and back the length of the enor-
mous arena. Even seasoned handlers are as
nervous as a high school girl with a walk-on
part in the school play.

Finally one dog out of the six is motioned
to the center of the ring to stand beside the
red and yellow sign saying “Best Dog in
Show.” A gleaming silver trophy and a
purple and gold rosette are brought out.
There is clapping, whistling and shouting.
Reporters and photographers dash from the
sidelines, and the audience surges into the
arena to get a closer look at the dog that has

 

won America’s highest canine award—
Westminster’s Best in Show.

The winner of the award in 1907, the ﬁrst
year it was made, was a smooth fox terrier,
Ch. Warren Remedy. The dog went on to
win again the next two years, the only dog
in the long history of the classic to Win three
years running. Only four dogs have won
twice. Two were wire-haired fox terriers.
Ch. Matford Vic won in 1915 and ’16, and
Ch. Pendley Calling of Blarney won in 1930
and ’31. A cocker spaniel, Ch. My Own
Brucie, won in 1940 and ’41, and one of two
dobermann pinschers ever to go Best in
Show, Ch. Rancho Dobe’s Storm, copped the
title in 1952 and ’53.

Terriers Win in Early Years

From the beginning terriers have won
Best in Show 30 times as against 26 times
for the ﬁve other groups combined. Before
1935 terriers predominated almost to the
exclusion of other dogs. Only ﬁve other
breeds had broken the ranks of these full-of-
ﬁre dogs. In the last 30 years, however, there
has been greater variety. Since 1950 only
one terrier has gone Best in Show. Ch. Elﬁn-
brook Simon, a Westhighland white terrier
won in 1962. Recent years, on the other
hand, have seen the rise of the poodle’s star.
Before 1956 only one poodle had ever won.
But four poodles— two toys, one miniature
and one standard — have come out on top in
the last eight shows.

In the early years of Westminster there
was no award for Best in Show and the
classes were far more diversiﬁed. Dogs were
sometimes entered in several classes to com-
pete for special prizes, such as “F or the Best
Setter Dog of Any Strain bred in the United
States from Native Parents.” Prizes offered
in those days had an original touch too. At

7

 




 

entertainment, including the Garden, were
ordered shut. Many dogs from distant points
had already arrived in the city and confused
exhibitors gathered in the darkened Garden
to moan the passing of a great tradition.

Finally a delegation of Westminster and
Madison Square Garden officials met with
the mayor the afternoon before the show and
received permission to try to run the show
in one day, starting at nine the next morn-
ing. Lunches and dinners were cancelled and
a swiftly paced show made it possible to
award Best in Show shortly after midnight.
The word “consecutive” remained Westmin-
ster’s proud boast.

Most dog shows will take as many entries
as they can get, but Westminster’s demand
for benching space exceeds the supply. At
ﬁrst the club tried to accommodate everyone
wishing to show, but when the Fire Depart-
ment clamped down, it was agreed to limit
the show to 2500 entries, considered a safe
number. To limit the entries only dogs that
have won a blue ribbon at a previous show
in the United States are eligible, making it
truly a blue ribbon show. To be fair, all
entries that arrive in the same mail as the
2500th are accepted, so the ﬁgure varies
slightly from year to year, depending on the
load the postman brings in that fateful de-
livery, which usually comes in December.

One of the show’s greatest attractions for
the casual visitor to the Garden is the 2500
dogs benched in the basement under the
arena. Visitors enjoy rambling up and down
the aisles admiring the magniﬁcent variety
of the dog world’s top specimens.

Caring for this huge assemblage of dogs,
exhibitors and handlers is a task Westminster
has superbly mastered with the help of the
Foley Dog Show Organization of Philadel-
phia, which provides trucks, benching, rib-
bons, badges and organizes the mechanics
of the show. Nine veterinarians are on hand
to minister to dogs that might become ill.
An ASPCA agent, who checks the show dur-
ing the two-day run to prevent cruelty, rarely
has anything unusual to report.

With the 1964 show only two months away
2500 of the nation’s champions are being
groomed for the exciting climax on February
11, when one of them will be crowned Best
in Show at the Westminster Dog Show—
dogdom’s answer to the Kentucky Derby, the
World Series and the National Open.

 

JUDGING A DOG SHOW

A dog show consists of a series of
successive eliminations, narrowing the
number of dogs down to one top win-
ner—Best in Show.

Dogs must be purebred and must be
registered as such with the American
Kennel Club. The AKC has jurisdiction
over all purebred dog activities in the
United States and regulates the opera-
tion of dog shows. It has adopted stand-
ards for the various breeds and now
registers 115 different breeds.

In selecting a winner a judge com-
pares a dog with the standard for his
breed. He notices the dog’s movement
and carriage, his general appearance,
height, weight and coat, body structure,
slope of the skull, color and size of
eyes, size, placement and carriage of
ears. Exhibitors walk or “gait” their
dogs in a circle while the judge ob-
serves them. The judge also asks to
have the dogs pose while he examines
each one individually.

Each dog is entered in a class for his
breed. Through a series of individual
contests the best dog of each breed is
chosen—that is, the best collie, the
best beagle, etc. The winners are called
Best of Breed.

The next major step is selection of
Best of Group winners. The breeds
recognized by the AKC are divided into
six major groups, depending roughly
on the kind of work the dogs were origi-
nally intended to perform. The groups
are Sporting (pointers, spaniels),
Hounds (beagles, foxhounds), Working
(boxers, collies), Terriers (Irish, fox),
Toys (chihuahuas, pugs), Non-sporting
(bulldogs, poodles).

Best of Breed winners in each of the
six groups compete for Best of Group.
These six winners then compete for
Best in Show.

 

 

 

 




Cold weather means galoshes and winter
coats, storm windows and antifreeze. Falling

mercury also means it’s time to winterize
your dog.

If Rover is full grown and robust, he
doesn’t need extra clothing for outdoors. His
own coat is adequate insulation. But if he’s
still a puppy, a short-haired small breed, or
sick, protect him with a sweater or blanket
when outdoors on very cold days.

 

Don’t bathe a dog in winter. A good daily
brushing to remove dirt and loose hair will
help his coat keep its beautiful glow. If your
dog gets into a mess and you must bathe
him, keep the room warm and draft-free.
Rub him vigorously with an old rough towel
to stimulate circulation and speed drying.
Give him two hours to dry before going out
agaln.

Your pet’s feet need special attention in

snowy weather. Examine his paws periodic-
ally to remove caked snow. Feet can also
become irritated by salts sprinkled on streets
to melt snow. If much salt is swallowed when
a dog licks his feet, the salts may also cause
diarrhea and vomiting. Therefore, it’s a good
idea to wash his feet as soon as he comes
into the house after a romp in bad weather.
Then give him a brisk rub with a large,
rough towel.

Indoors or Outdoors

Should you keep your pet in his dog house
through winter or bring him indoors? The
important point to remember is to keep his
temperature constant. A healthy dog can
stay outdoors through winter if he’s ac-
customed to a dog house (except perhaps in
an unusually severe cold spell). But don’t
make the mistake of bringing him into the
warm house one night and leaving him out
the next. A dog house should be Well con-
structed, large enough to be comfortable, but
small enough to retain warmth. It should be
double built and dry with a flap over the
opening. Guard against drafts and dampness.

If your pet makes his home inside your
house with the family, train him to sleep on
his own bed, which should be a few inches
off the floor. A rug, blanket, straw or cedar
shavings can serve as bedding. Make sure
the bed is placed away from intense heat
and out of drafts. If your pet spends too
much time near a radiator or ﬁreplace, it
will lower his resistance to cold when he
goes outdoors. Heat also tends to dry his
coat. Doorways, stairways and areas close to
the floor are the draftiest; basements are the
dampest.

Plenty of exercise will condition your pet
to the cold as no amount of coddling or
home life will. Several walks in the open air
daily will do him good. You’ll probably

beneﬁt from the exercise too.

Feed your pet a little more generously in
winter—more fatty foods for extra energy
and perhaps vitamin supplements if your
veterinarian recommends them.

 




 

    
    
   
  
 

CITY ..

“FIFTY YEARS IN THE DOGHOUSE”

 
  

The Ideal Christmas Gift for Everyone on Your Christmas List

“Fifty Years in the Doghouse” is a book
that will delight everyone on your Christmas
gift list — the postman, the hairdresser,
J unior’s teacher — even Santa Claus himself.

It’s a human interest account of ASPCA
Inspector William Ryan’s colorful experi-
ences with animals during more than a half
century as ASPCA’S ace trouble shooter. The
book describes William Ryan’s incred-
ible adventures—- adventures that have
brought him in contact with more than half
a million beasts, birds and reptiles. Among
the anecdotes are stories about a bull in a
powder room, a 14-foot snake in a lady’s
bathtub, an elephant on a rampage in West-
chester and a beer-drinking Eskimo husky.

ORDER NOW FOR CHRISTMAS
The book, published by G. P. Putnam’s

Sons, will be available to the general public
on January 15, but through special permis-
sion of the publisher and McCall’s magazine,
which expects to run a 10,000-word excerpt
in its February issue, the ASPCA is offering
the book to our members and friends in time

 

NAME...

 

for Christmas. We’re grateful to the pub-
lisher and to John Carter, Editor of McCall’s,
for allowing us to offer the book before pub-
lication date.

This touching, warm-hearted book was
written by Lloyd Alexander, author of “Park
Avenue Vet,” a best-seller about a veteri-
narian. Mr. Alexander has written 12 books,
including novels, short stories, poems and
translations from French works.

Publishers Weekly, the recognized au-
thority in the publishing ﬁeld, has reviewed

“Fifty Years in the Doghouse.” Says Pub-
lishers Weekly:

“Animal lovers, and readers in general, ought
to get pleasure from the countless stories involv-
ing beasts, birds and reptiles, told with gusto,
relish and just a bit of journalistic license.
Rosebud, the zoo elephant, running away from a
Shriners’ parade in Yonkers, makes an enter-
taining yarn. So do the tales of Rheingold, the
too-happy racehorse, and of some illegal cock-
ﬁghts attended by mobsters. It is a warmly told
book about a warm-hearted and very decent
human being whose lifelong devotion to the care

of animals has nothing of the oversentimental
about it.”

ASPCA Humane Work Division, 441 East 92nd St

I wish to order
Enclosed is my check for $
stand the book will be mailed directly

 

 

., New York, N. Y. 10028
copies of “Fifty Years in the Doghouse” at the s

 

STREET .........

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATE

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

   
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
    
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

 

 

  

 

 

pecial ASPCA price of $4.00 a copy.
. I am attaching the names and addresses on my gift list and I under-
to them with a card bearing my name.

...............

 




 

 

 

Calf Born at Animalport
Flies to Puerto Rico

A rare arrival was recorded recently at
New York International Airport. Not regis-
tered on any passenger list, but still creating
quite a stir, the traveler was a 50-pound bull
calf born at 2:30 a.m. at the ASPCA Animal-
port.

The mother, a pedigreed Holstein, had
been brought by truck from Toronto with
ten other cows of the same breed. There was
to be a 24-hour wait for a cargo plane bound
for Puerto Rico. Either the shippers had
miscalculated the time of birth or the ex-
pectant mother cow may have been hurried
a bit by her unaccustomed travels. But the
imminent birth became obvious, and soon a
little black and white calf arrived and took
to its wobbly legs.

Other small animals like dogs, cats and
monkeys had been born at the Animalport,
but the cow was the first large animal to
give birth at the shelter.

The jubilant spirit at the Animalport was

 

Director of Operations Arthur I.. Amundsen checks
0 Holstein cow and her 50-pound bull calf born
at the ASPCA Animalport at New York Interna-

tional Airport, photo by New York Mirror

tempered, however, by another less fortunate
event. Another cow in the same shipment
was also delivered of a calf later in the
morning, but it was born dead, despite all
effort by an ASPCA veterinarian to save it.
Both mothers went on with the shipment
to Puerto Rico, and the new member of the
party went along without extra charge.

 

Pets for

Giving your family a pet for Christmas?
ASPCA shelters have many ﬁne animals to
choose from. A Special Adoption Clerk at
the Manhattan Shelter will help you pick
the right pet for your family.

Whether or not you adopt your pet from
the ASPCA, here are a few suggestions to
ease the homecoming. The ASPCA urges
parents not to place live Christmas gifts un-
der the tree or in a stocking. A more com-
mon-sense idea is to bring a pet home a few
days before, or a few days after the hectic
holiday rush when the pet will have the fam-
ily’s undivided attention.

Before you shop for the animal get a good
book on pets and their care. Bone up ahead
of time on how to choose a pet, its feeding,
grooming, symptoms of illness and house
training. Next analyze your family and decide
on a pet that will ﬁt into your home or
apartment and your family’s way of life.

14

Christmas

As a rule children under five are not
ready for a live pet. Older children should
be prepared for the pet’s arrival and taught
consideration and kindness and how to
handle an animal without teasing, twisting its
legs or pulling the tail.

The next step is preparing a place where
the pet will be kept. Buy feeding dishes, a
bed, etc. Finally, introduce the pet into the
household in an atmosphere of calm. Let the
animal adjust gradually to his new home,
and you will be off to a good start with a
pet that will enrich your life for many years.

Two ASPCA booklets offer more informa-
tion on the care of dogs and cats. Send 250
for “Cats and Their Care” and 150 for
“Your Dog and His Care” to ASPCA Hu-
mane Education Dept., 441 E. 92 St., New
York, NY. 10028. The booklets are given
free with animals adOpted from the ASPCA.

VI




 

 

 

 

 

 

We grew up trusting in such unalterable
axioms as: a leopard can’t change its spots,
or cats purr because they’re content, or
monkeys smile because they’re happy.

Now two studies have jolted us out of a
couple of these deeply entrenched beliefs by
reporting that cats purr because they’re
mixed up and chimpanzees smile when they’re
angry.

A West German scientist who has spent
ten years trying to ﬁnd out why cats purr
concludes that they purr for the same reason
human beings smile—they’re happy or
they’re mixed up. Dr. Paul Leyhausen, chief
animal psychologist of the Max Planck Insti-
tute, and his fellow scientists have been
studying 33 black, brown, yellow, white and
calico cats.

Some cats purr because they are terrible
snobs, Dr. Leyhausen says. The feline world
has a strict class system, he declares. Some
cats are status-seekers. Therefore, a cat that
wants to hobnob with higher-class cats will
use the snob or diplomatic purr to curry
favor, he says.

16

 

 

There is also a democratic purr, the scien-
tist says. An aristocratic cat will purr in such
a way as to gain the companionship of low
caste cats. Some tomcats apparently use this
approach. Dr. Leyhausen says kittens purr
to show they are happy just as some babies
gurgle. But old cats that purr often are hav-
ing a bad time. They are manifesting a
“regression to kitten-like behavior.”

This, a grown up cat purrs to pretend it
is a little kitten again. “It does this to ward
off potential danger, as if to say: ‘You must
not hurt me —I am just a little tiny baby,’ ’9
the scientist says. But he adds that cat owners
should not worry too much if their pets purr
because purring is universally accepted as a
manifestation of friendliness.

The authority for the conclusion that mon-
keys smile because they’re hostile is Dr.
Desmond Morris, Curator of Mammals at
the London Zoo, who has studied a chimp
named Congo. He says: “When a chimp is
playful and happy it does not smile as we do.
Usually, it holds its mouth open, keeping its
teeth covered. Sometimes, however, its lower
teeth may be showing but never the upper
ones. The only time a chimp bares all its
teeth is when it is angry or frightened.”

Dr. Morris’s studies were described in a
magazine “Nature and Science,” put out by
the American Museum of Natural History.
The magazine also says that if a chimp sees
two rows of bared human teeth it becomes
angry or frightened and bares its own in re-
turn—thus giving the false appearance of
“smiling back.” If the chimp becomes more
excited or angry, it may start a “war dance”
by beating its chest, clapping its hands and
beating its chest again. It ﬁnally may beat
the walls of its cage, stamp its feet, kick a
wall and leap at the bars. Another danger

(Continued on page 18)

when you say that, pardner

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

Walter Hollinde, District Manager in Staten Is-

land, examines 31/2 foot, 150 pound sea turtle.
Staten Island Advance photo

ISO-Pound Sea Turtle
ls ASPCA’s Guest

“Feeding a 31/2 foot, 150 pound sea turtle
is no snap,” said ASPCA’s Staten Island
District Manager Walter Hollinde. He made
this comment when he was host to a sea
turtle after pranksters planted the beast in
a Chinese restaurant.

Mr. Hollinde sent two strong men tO call
for the creature and installed it in the shel-
ter’s bathtub. He bought some mackerel in
a ﬁsh store down the street and Offered it
tO the sea turtle. The beast turned up its
nose at the morsel.

“These turtles are hard tO feed in captiv-
ity,” said Mr. Hollinde. Thoroughly experi-
enced in handling fresh-water snappers, Mr.
Hollinde rarely sees a sea turtle. This was
the biggest turtle he’d ever had. According
tO stories he heard it was caught by a fisher-
man Off Sandy Hook.

During the day and a half Mr. Hollinde
had the turtle two people Offered tO buy it.
A woman told him that turtle meat was a
delicacy and that she paid a fortune for it
in the store. Nevertheless, Mr. Hollinde
turned down the Offers and released the
creature tO freedom. He set it down on the
sand at deserted Annadale Beach and watched
the turtle crawl toward the water and swim
away.

18

 

ANIMAL PROTECTION
BECOMES A QUARTERLY

Beginning with this Christmas issue,
ANIMAL PROTECTION will be published
quarterly instead of semi-annually. Un-
til now issues came out in spring and
fall. The fall issue included the ASPCA
annual report. The extra issues are
planned for winter and summer, and
the fall issue will continue to include
the annual report.

The enthusiastic response to ANIMAL
PROTECTION from our members has
prompted the additional issues. One
reader recently wrote: “The fall ASPCA
magazine is truly beautiful. The pictures
are so good and the whole layout is
well done. I enjoy reading it as much
as any monthly publication.”

ANIMAL PROTECTION, which started
publication in 1947, has readers in 48
states (nobody in Alaska or Hawaii yet)
and in foreign countries in Europe,
Asia, South America and Africa.

 

 

 

Smile when you say that, pardner
(Continued from page 16)

sign, the magazine says, is when the chimp’s
hair stands on end.

We wouldn’t be surprised if tomorrow
someone somewhere reports that leopards can
change their spots into stripes or even plaid
if properly motivated. Nothing is sacred any
more.

 

War or Peace
(continued from page 15)

Surprising? The experts say no. Mother
dogs who lost their litters have been known
tO nurse any stray animal they could ﬁnd.
It’s their way Of. satisfying their maternal
instincts. Cats tOO have been known tO adopt
other animals when their litter dies. A cat
and dog can co-exist happily in the same
family if they are put together when young.
Once they form a friendship, chances are
they’ll spend their whole lives together like
cats and dogs —-— peacefully, that is.

 

 




 

QUALITY AUTO SERVICE, INC.

422 EAST 92ND STREET
NEW YORK, N. Y.

AT 9-5539

 

 

CANCRO FUNERAL HOME, INC.

3710 WHITE PLAINS AVENUE
BRONX, N. Y.

KI 7-6464

 

EMIL M. KOCH AGENCY

Insurance and Real Estate
Miss Dorothy L. Humphries

901 SENECA AVENUE RIDGEWOOD, N. Y.
VA 1-7321

 

Feed the Dog Food the Professionals Feed

Sturdy Kibble or Sturdy Meal

Baked and Blended in the Same Old-Fashioned Way
that 30 years of experience have shown to be correct

 

 

GROVE PET SHOP
FREEPORT AREA
Puppies — Canaries — Parakeets — Birds Boarded
Tropical and Gold Fish — Aquariums
Pigeons —— Feed —- Pet Supplies
Monday, Thursday, Friday: 9-9
Tuesday, Wednesday, Saturday: 9-6
89A S. GROVE STREET FREEPORT, N. Y.
Phone: FReeport 8-3949

 

 

LONGLIFE FISH FOOD PRODUCTS
COMPANY

50 COOPER SQUARE NEW YORK 3, N. Y.
SPring 7-2910

 

DOG YUMM l ES
HARTZ MOUNTAIN PRODUCTS CORP.
50 Cooper Square, New York, N.Y., Phone: SP 7-3133

 

 

 

ALLIED BIRD CO.
mv. or HAR'I'Z MOUNTAIN PRODUCTS CORP.
POSlTlVELY WHOLESALE ONLY
so COOPER SQUARE NEW YORK 3. N. Y.

SPring 7-2855

 

 

 

    

  

Policeman Honored for
Saving a Dog at Sea

An oﬂ-duty patrolman who saved a cocker
spaniel from drowning last July 1 has been
awarded the ASPCA’S Medal of Honor and
Certiﬁcate of Merit. Patrolman William E.
Butler was water-skiing almost a mile out
on the ocean off Freeport, when he spotted
a cocker spaniel in the water. The dog was
thrashing her paws wildly against the churn-
ing water. Kicking off his skis, Mr. Butler
swam to the dog, caught her and swam with
her toward the boat, but she was afraid to
go aboard. With the animal clinging to his
back the policeman started out for shore.

He took the dog home and began a search
for her owners, the Harry R. Walkers, whom
he traced through the dog license registry
in Albany. Mrs. Walker said Tammy was
lost while staying at the family’s summer
house on the marshlands off Great South
Bay. “She must have wandered off, and
being almost blind, swam out to sea instead
of toward land.” Mrs. Walker’s three chil-
dren had been heartbroken by Tammy’s
disappearance. But thanks to Mr. Butler an
overjoyed family got their pet back.

  

 
 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 
   
 
  
 
 

The ASPCA’s Medal of Honor is placed around
the neck of Ptl. William E. Butler by George H.
Tuscher, District Manager in Queens.

L.I. Press photo

 

 

 

 

 

 




Last year the ASPCA Hospital and Clinic treated more than
30,000 sick and injured animals. This is an average of almost 100
patients ministered to every day of the year.

The most precious commodity there is— life itself— is en-
trusted to our care when a dog injured in a car accident is brought
in on a stretcher or a poisoned kitten is rushed into the emergency
ward. Even though many of their owners can’t afford to pay, no
animal is ever turned away.

Your contribution helps the ASPCA provide the care these

patients need.

 

Your Christmas gift to
the ASPCA Hospital and Clinic
today may save

an animal’s life tomorrow

 

 

 

 

 




