 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

form of bequest.)

 

 

ER. SOP. COA:

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OE CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall.
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

 

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TID‘E‘CI‘HE‘GDRMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

 

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET »

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

Vol LI No 4 New Series APRIL 1956

 

WORKING FOR ANIMALS

By courtesy of the BBC Woman’s Hour, we reprint part of a recent broadcast, in which Mrs. P. E. Jarvis,
honorary secretary of the RSPCA Mayhew Home, London, and of the RSPCA South Harrow Clinic, featured.

Mrs W. K. Tye,
Southgate Aux-
iliary hon sec,
sends this pic-
ture in which
Miss D. Gaulder,
helper at the
Branch clinic, is
seen with a dog
for whom she
found a home

 

To turn to something quite different, how about
work for animals, work done for many years by
our next speaker, Ethel Jarvis.

Mrs. Jarvis: ‘It started with my concern for
stray cats. I have always befriended them—trying
to ﬁnd their owners or to get them adopted in
good homes. This led me to seek RSPCA
help and I became known to their nearest estab’
lishment which is several miles from my home.
I took stray or injured animals to them or they
collected them from me. Soon I was recognized
locally as the animal welfare worker and people
came to me with their problems. I was always
welcomed at the RSPCA Home as a reliable
worker who could be depended upon to help in
any way. Gladly I became a member of the coma
mittee and this widened the scope of my activity.

‘In addition to the lost cats and the animals we
are able to accept for adoption into good homes,
our accommodation is reserved for emergency,
hardship and cruelty cases.

A PICTURE
WITH A
MORAL

‘ B i d d y ’, t h e
spaniel, cut her
paw on broken
glass left behind
b y h o l id a y
makers on the
beach at Great
Yarmouth. Chief
Inspector Tye
gives ﬁrst aid.

[Photograph by cour-
tesy of lock Russell.]

 

‘The past year has provided us with an interest
ing variety of guests. Besides cats and dogs we
have had in our care for periods varying from a
few days to several ,weeks, golden hamsters,
guinea pigs, tame mice and rats, monkeys, mon—
goose, and cockatoos and parrots. The assistance
of voluntary workers in finding good homes for
unwanted animals is greatly valued.

‘To anyone who wishes to work for ani'
mals, I would say “Look around you; wher—
ever and Whoever you are, there is work to be
done”. I can truthfully say I have done just
as much good from my own home as at the
clinics.’

HORROR

 

As some readers have an understandable distaste for prosecution reports and pictures, we propose to publish them
only at intervals and when we do so to keep them together in the four centre pages. When such material is used,
we shall, as with the present issue, warn readers, so that any wishing to avoid being harrowed by pictures and
reports of prosecutions may be able to tear out the centre pages and avoid reading or seeing them—EDITOR.

 




 

4%}

 

 

April 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 41

RECENT PROSECUTIONS

CATS STOLEN:
SENT FOR EXPERIMENTS

Five pet cats who vanished during the night of
Bodmin carnival were taken to London, sold to
a medical research laboratory, and used for eXa
periments, Bodmin magistrates were told re—
cently.

Altogether the thief sold twenty—two cats to the
laboratory, for which he was paid a total of £30
including 505. for his travelling expenses, the
court was told. After the owners of the ﬁve
missing cats had given evidence, the defendant
was found guilty of stealing them and ﬁned £20.
He was ordered to pay an advocate’s fee of 25
guineas and witnesses’ expenses of £11 43. 10d.

Callous

The solicitor prosecuting for the police de
scribed the offence as ‘most callous and heartless
and deserving of severe punishment’. He added:
‘In this raid on Bodmin’s pets, these defenceless
animals were stolen for gain.’ ‘

A The Police were helped in their inquiries by
RSPCA Inspector Grinnall who had received

complaints from owners who had lost their cats.

BUDGERIGAR:
DEAD IN CAGE, NO FOOD

A lorry—driver and his wife who went away from
their home for eight days, and left their pet
budgerigar without food and care were ﬁned at
Market Bosworth Magistrates Court.

It was stated that Senior Inspector Paul and a
policeman who entered the house found the bird
dead in its cage, with the seedvpot empty and very
little water in its drinking vessel.

' . The couple were summoned for causing un—
necessary suffering to the budgerigar by omitting
to give food and necessary care.

They wrote pleading guilty and were each
ﬁned £1 and ordered to pay together £5 15$. costs.
it"(Case No. B.141.)

SHOT AT DOG TO MAKE HER JUMP
INro CANAL

It took a veterinary surgeon half an hour to ex’
tract an air riﬂe pellet which was embedded in the
left ear of an Alsatian bitch, the deputy Stipend;
.iary Magistrate was told at West Bromwich when
two men admitted causing unneCessary suffering
to the animal. They were each ﬁned £5 with
£4 17s. 11d. costs.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that defendants were in some ﬁelds and he
understood they were ﬁring at reeds apparently

with the intention of shooting rats. They preA
sently arrived at the canal side, where some people
were bathing. One of the bather’s dogs was sitting
on the bank. .

The defendants took cover behind some
bushes and shot at the dog, apparently with the
intention of making her jump into the canal.
Twice the dog jumped into the water after
making a noise. '

When the dog was examined her owner found
a pellet wound in her left ear. When the defenv
dants’ attention was drawn to it they said they
did not intend to shoot the dog, but to frighten
her. A veterinary surgeon found a pellet ema
bedded in the dog’s ear, and it took half an hour
to remove it.

‘For a Laugh’

The dog might easily have been blinded, comv
mented the prosecuting solicitor, and the
RSPCA felt that the shooting of the dog with a
riﬂe was a very cruel act.

One of the defendants told the court: ‘We just
did it for a laugh. We weren’t shooting to harm
the dog, and I am very sorry I hurt it.’

The second defendant endorsed these words,
and added that he got the dog out of the canal
as the side was steep and it could not get out
unaided.

The magistrate ""told defendants he thought
they had behaved extraordinarily badly. There
might have been serious consequences.

‘You quite recklessly ﬁred at this unfortunate
animal, and the bullet might easily have gone into
its eye. The dog might have had to be destroyed.
It was quite a needless and wicked act, and you
must be dealt with severely.’ (Case No. B.198;
Inspector DoWnes.) .

OVERSEAS PROSECUT IONS

Two cases of cruelty with which the RSPCA was
associated recently came up in Court at Singav
pore, writes Mrs J. M. Fren-ken, honorary secrea
tary of the RSPCA Singapore Branch.

In both cases the accused were ﬁned.

One case was particularly shocking as it con
cerned a young Chinese boy who strangled a
puppy prior to cutting ' it up for experimental
purposes. The Magistrate of the Juvenile Court,
apart from ﬁning the boy, took the matter up very
seriously both with the child’s family and his
school.

 

The two centre pages, which follow, are
given over to the reproduction of pictures
showing the Victims of cruelty or neglect.

 

 

 

 




 

 

April 1956

auxiliary was held at the Council Chambers, Retford. Lady
Gallway took the chair and Mr Harry White, Council
member and branch hon sec, spoke. ,

Preston and District Preston, Christmas effort, Mrs H.
Kay (branch hon sec). £77 lOS.

Rochester Division Strood, jumble sale, Mrs Wright,
£14 2s. 8d.

Rotherham and District Alderman Mrs F. L. Green, branch
chairman, presided at the branch annual meeting at Davy’s
Cafe, Rotherham. and was supported by Miss Nancy Collin-
son, hon sec, and Mr C. A. Stevens, hon treas. The guest
speaker was Mr Stanley G. Watson, hon general sec of
Huddersﬁeld branch. Chief Fire Ofﬁcer Smith accepted a
framed RSPCA certiﬁcate on behalf of Rotherham Fire
Brigade.

Sheffield Mrs Collier, branch hon sec, gave a talk to Eyam

Mrs R. C. Riseley, Branch hon secretary and Council
Member, on duty at the RSPCA West London Branch Stand

at Cruft’s Show

 

THEANIMAL WORLD 47

Women’s Institute, and the Wesley Guild of Hillsborough
Trinity Church.

Somerset—South The annual meeting of the Minehead
auxlhary was held in the Congregational Church Hall,
Minehead, and the Rev W. Floyd, auxiliary chairman, pre-
srded. Reports on the year’s work were given by Mr H. J.
Craske, hon treas, and Miss P. Archer, hon sec. '
Sussex—Mid, and Eastbourne Laughton, whist drive, Mrs
Hanbury (aux hon sec), £8 14s.

Wiltshire—Marlborough and District Mrs Desborough
Walford, Council member, presented ‘Prince’, a black re-
triever, with an RSPCA inscribed collar for rescuing ‘Laddie’,
his dog friend, at the branch annual meeting.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Pudsey, dance, Mrs K.
Mitchell (Pudsey aux hon sec), £48 43. 8d.

    

Photo by courtesy of the Sheffield Telegraph and Star

The Mistress Cutler of Sheﬂield presents to Mr Joseph
Fowler, Sheffield Branch ambulance driver, an RSPCA
bronze medal and certiﬁcate for helping the Sheffield
Inspector in the rescue of a swan from the River Don

HOUSE—TO'HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Bromley, Mrs Hill, branch hon sec, £588 35.; Oldham,
Mrs D. N. Bethel, aux hon sec, £43 155. 661.; Gloucester
City and District, Mrs Nash, branch hon sec, £122 175.;
Luton, Mrs J. H. Jeﬂs, aux hon sec, £186 155. 6d.; Warwick,
Mrs Hutchby, aux hon sec, £73 175. 2d.; Leeds, Mrs J. W.
Harvey, branch hon sec, 163.; Putney, Miss C. M. Burrow,
aux hon sec, £9 Os. 10d.; Highclifle, Mrs Astbur;r and Mrs
Stevenson (co. aux hon secs), £43 163. 9d.; Bournemouth,

Mrs J. Crooks, branch hon treas, £160 53. 9d.

’A FEW USEFUL HINTS

FLAG DAYS. Collectors sometimes have great difficulty in
controlling emblems when there is a high wind. When a
Collection takes place in such conditions, it is suggested the
emblems could be placed in cellophane bags, and placed in
the tray—thus the emblems can easily be seen and there is
"0 danger of the collector being diverted from his or her
el'l‘lorts as a result of retrieving emblems blown from the
tr ay. A shopkeeper interested might donate the bags if the
Pfedicament of the collector is noticed—otherwise, it is
Wise *0 Purchase a few for the purpose mentioned. Head-
quarters cannot provide such bags as part of flag day
e‘IUipment.

OUTDOOR DISPLAYS AND SHOWS. Difficulty is often
exPerienced when such displays are arranged at Agri-
cultural and similar shows, particularly when there is a
Strong wind which blows leaﬂets in all directions. By run-
ning two lengths of string, about two inches apart, across
a table, firmly securing each end with a brad, and then at

regular intervals tacking the string to the table, it is possible
to place the leaflets under the double row of string which
holds them firmly and neatly in position.

COLLECTING BOXES AT HOLIDAY RESORTS. It is the
custom of one Branch supporter, on Saturday evenings,
to visit hotels at a popular seaside resort during the season
and with the permission of the Manager to take the
RSPCA collecting box from the bar counter and to pass it
amongst the visitors seated at the tables. By so doing a
very considerable amount of money is raised as few people
refuse to contribute. It is, of course, necessary to have the
co-operation and consent of the Manager of the hotel
before such a collection is possible. After the box has com-
pleted the rounds, it is returned to the bar counter and the
collector moves on to the next hotel. It is estimated that
the boxes so used raised four times as much as a box which
is just left on the counter.

 

 

 




 

 

 

April 1956

ROOKS

Man’s attitude towards birds is to a large and
lamentable extent one of ignorance and
callous selﬁshness.

This is made evident by the recent removal of
protection from many of our loveliest British
birds, and even more by the wanton destruction
to which others are constantly subjected.

Rooks are the natural enemies of insect life,
particularly of wire—worm, leather—jacket, and
cockchafer beetle, and for this reason alone
should be looked upon as the farmer’s friends.
They have been condemned in some places on
acc0unt of occasional damage to growing crops,
but careful observation has shown the greatest
concentration of rooks on the worst grub’infested

ﬁelds.

A large land’owner, deploring the war—time

destruction of his rookeries, said: ‘When you ,

could see a thousand rooks at once in the
ﬁelds, then the crops, meadow, pasture and
arable were excellent and there were no soil
pests.’

The wholesale killing of rooks under warvtime
DORA was followed by a plague of insect pests-—
Nature’s revenge for ignorant destruction of a
great part of the rook population. .

Nesting rooks, killed on the instructions of the
Ministry of Agriculture, were found by a Dorset
farmer to be ‘full of caterpillars’. Then, ‘valuable

time had to be taken picking caterpillars off the ‘

crops’.

THEANIMALWORLD I - 39

Slaughter

The ghastly slaughter of so many young rooks
in the nesting season—by the use of ﬁre brigades
to hose out the nests—and by the ‘spring shoots’
———is indefensible. ’ '

In 1951, a head gamekeeper wrote to the
Essex Weekly News: ‘They are bloWn to
pieces by the guns in a beastly and revolting
manner. I have often seen a young rook badly
wounded, straddled in a branch, and its dis—
tracted parents wheeling around the nest.
This calls for a second shot to put the poOr
bird out of its misery.’ ‘

The RSPCA has vigorously protested against
such methods of rook control—in some instances
with success. The Society insists that where
animal numbers are to be controlled, methods
used must be the most humane possible.

During a ‘shoot’ there is much mutilation and
suffering. A large proportion of the birds are not
killed outright, but are left to die on nests or
branches. Parent birds are shot down, while nesta
lings—unable to ﬂy—cower, terriﬁed, in the nests,
dying of slow starvation. ‘

Truly, this planet must have been a far happier
place for animals and birds before the advent of
predatory man! , . .. ,

‘We shall be remembered in history,’ said
Ruskin, ‘as the most cruel and therefore the
most unwise generation of men that; ever
troubled the earth—the most cruel in. prio—
portion to their sensibility, and. _most unwise
in proportion to their science.’ M. R. D.

 

POLICE ’ SERGEANT BRAVES DANGER—TWICE

Trapped on a ledge at Castell‘ Ogof, Solva, a
sheep was saturated with the spray from the sea
running with a heavy swell into a small inac’
cessible bay.

Had the animal been left, it would un—
doubtedly have toppled to death in the sea.

When Police Sergeant R. W. Jones surveyed
the place, he looked down a cliff face 200 feet
high and almost vertical. To climb down without
the help of a rope was impossible: the ﬁrst 75 ft.
consisted of loosely packed earth, grass and
stone, which afforded no foothold.

Undeterred by the risks he envisaged, Police
Sergeant Jones volunteered to rescue the animal.
Lowered by rope, he reached the foot of the cliff
and then had to wade in the sea and climb the rock
to where the sheep was stranded. The time was
mideinter and the sea icy cold.

He secured the animal and had to swing her
over protruding rocks before hauling could begin.
He himself was hauled by helpers to safety; the
animal was frequently wedged in the rocks and

had to be freed, whilst the police sergeant was
suspended on the rope over the dangerous cliff.
The ordeal lasted an hour, during which time he
grazed his elbow several times against the rocks.
The sheep was uninjured. ’

The same gallant man rescued another
sheep stranded 45 ft. down a 100 ft. high
cliff at Parc-y—Morfa Bay, Pembs. Stakes were
driven into the ground at the cliﬂ top, and the
Police Sergeant was lowered on ropes looped
round them. He and the sheep were both
hauled to safety. '

For his gallantry Police Sergeant Jones. has
received the RSPCA’S silver medal.

Arduous Rescue of Cow

Rescue operations that began at 5.45 of a winter’s
evening were continued until ten minutes past
midnight and then were resumed for four hours
the following morning led to the rescue of .a cow
from the River Severn at Powick,Worcestershire.

A farmer reported that one of his cow‘s was. in

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MLJ‘M

 

m
H
_

 

INA

m.
s
'—
1
O
N
a
O
N
U
s
d
3
V
3
n
m
D

9
3
N
'—
1
3
N
3
S
S
V
1
1
V
v.
M
V
U
S

[Cou rtesy, Sunday Pictorial

 

“TI

7 W72"




 

 

April 1956 THEANIMAL WORLD 43

 

 

‘WEAK AND TREMBLING’
IN MARKET -

In a prosecution taken by the RSPCA at
Norwich, a witness said that this Red Poll
cow, at Norwich Market, was ‘weak and
trembling and nothing more than skin and
bone’. Two men were each fined £5 for
causing unnecessary suffering to the cow
by conveying her to market when in a
suffering state. Each had to pay £4 costs.
RSPCA Market Inspector Oldman said that
the cow ‘looked like a complete wreck’
when he saw it with other cows in a pen.
(A.9l86)

 

 

 

TWELVE MON THS’ KlNDNESS

The pictures below tell a story of how a ’dog can be affected by cruelty and transformed by kindness. The first picture was
taken when the RSPCA brought a man before the magistrates at Whitchurch on a charge of causing unnecessary suffering
to the dog by unreasonably omitting to provide necessary care and attention. The dog was found tied to a caravan wheel
by a chain about 3 ft. in length. The animal was very thin and its claws were very long and a large patch of hair was rubbed
away. A veterinary surgeon who examined the dog found it emaciated from malnutrition. He considered the dog had been
suffering for more than a fortnight. No fine was imposed but on an application made by the RSPCA the owner was disqualified
for life from keeping a dog or having a licence. Inspector Tynan placed the dog in a good home and the second picture,
which shows a wonderful improvement, was taken twelve months later. (A6806)

BEFORE . AFTER

 

 




 

April 1956

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THEANIMALWORLD 45

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

FEBRUARY 1956

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,467 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Oﬂenders imprisoned.
67 Oﬂenders ﬁned.
50 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
789 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, beating 4
CATTLE~Neglecting, travelling unﬁt .. 3
SHEEP—Neglecting, beating, tying leg and neck with

rope and abandoning in a well 5

PIGS—Neglecting

DOGS—Starving, neglecting, shooting and wounding,
killing in improper manner 23

CATS-Starving, neglecting 5
RABBITS—Starving, beating 5
FOWLS——Neglecting 4

PIGEONS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner,

maliciously killing . .. ... . .. 5

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

conﬁning birds in small cages 1
gUsing bird lime 2

VARIOUS OFFENCES ‘

Infringements of the Slaughter of Animals (PigS)

Act, 1953 . 2
Permitting in oﬁences 3
Aiding and abetting in oﬁences 5
Causing in an offence 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 69

During FEBRUARY, 1956, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TWELVE persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:
THREE for 2 years; ONE for 3 years; FIVE for 5 years; THREE

for Life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 4,572
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 124
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 1,536

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled.

Cats 3,158 Dogs 3,014 Miscellaneous 718 Total 6, 890
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst— aid. 1,488

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats 21 Dogs 71 Miscellaneous 2

Total 94

NIGHT STAFF

No of cal ls received: 1,060

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls 5: 1,736
No. of animals rescued: 7

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 175

No. of complaints: 11

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 9

N o. of animals destroyed:

Cats 76 Dogs 22

Miscellaneous 20 Total 118‘

NORTH WALES UNIT
First Aid Cases:

Cats 14 Dogs 28 Miscellaneous 6 Total 48
No. of Animals handled by Unit:

Cats 44 Dogs 39 Miscellaneous 3 Total 86
No. of miles Covered by Unit: 2,875 ‘
AWARDS
CASES CONSIDERED 66
SILVER MEDALS " 2 ‘
BAR TO SILVER MEDAL 9
BRONZE MEDALS 2
’ BARS TO BRONZE MEDALS 2
CERTIFICATES ... 22’"

RECORDS FOR 1955

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS , . .. . 28,128
CONVICTIONS ... . .. ... 1,052
CAUTIONS ... . .. ... 9,843

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 148,963

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,545

 

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 , Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

*ALLIEERT, MRS ' FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ. MP *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GARDNER, HON. JULIET *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D

ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS I. w., MA RISELEY, MR5 R, c.

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ

BRANSOM. MISS Lo 0-, FRSA HOGG, 5- R-, ESQ, 080. MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BYWATER, H. E., 580., MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SIBLY, w, A., ESQ, MA, JP

CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, FR MET S, HON CF *HUNTER, MISS SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 8., MBE, '11), JP
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT, MRS, MA

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS W. *meE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MACNAGI—ITEN, MAJOR A. WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE

(CANTAE), DOMs MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WILLIAMS, THE REV H. L.
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, EA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *wmcngsran, F. I. ESQ, FCIS, FSS
POWELL, COL R. M., DSO

 

 

“ Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THEJCOUNCIL
,4" Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD
_ Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, PCA
Hon Medical Oﬁicer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Bankers—MESS“) COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEARS‘CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MEE, ACIS
ASSIstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, EA

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 I 77

Telephone-Whitehall 7177

 

G R O U P XI I |
Spring Conference

The Spring Conference of this Group will be held on
Saturday, April 28, 1956, at 11 a.m., at The Mansion
House, Doncaster and all branch and auxiliary
branch secretaries are cordially invited to attend
The Chief Secretary Or the Society has kindly con—
' ;j3;;;J;.- sented to be present and the Mayor Of Doncaster
“ ‘ will accord the Conference a civic welcome.

Resolutions and other agenda material should be
sent to the Group Secretary as soon as possible, and,
in any case, not later than April 14.

 
        

 

 

SIMPLE. NR
SAFE.
SURE it. “@ASH Xi”

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

ICCIES IIIII suttvuxt IID - BIRMINGHAM - 6 - Luciano
5456

‘Dangerous Load’ of lionesses

  

A circus lorry driver was fined £3 at Hendon for
having a dangerous load on his vehicle—cages con—
taining a lion and seven small lionesses—which
slipped on the trailer while he was driving along the
Watford By pass at Mill Hill.

Pleading guilty by letter the defendant said three
of the ropes holding the caging on the trailer became
chafed by friction and broke, causing the load to slip.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

38 THEANIM'ALWORLD

April 1956

 

CHASING THEIR TAILS

The bonus for the tails of grey squirrels has been
increased from a shilling to two shillings.

Mr J. L. Tweedie wrote recently in the corre—
spondence columns of The Times that there was
no question about the damage done by grey
squirrels, both to food crops and trees. He
acknowledged having received the bonus for
tails when this scheme for encouraging control of
squirrel numbers was introduced, because he had
always tried to keep their numbers down to reason-
able limits before any ofﬁcial campaign started.

He continued, however, that the temporary.

disappearance of the wild rabbit and the reduc—
tion in numbers of the grey squirrel had heralded
the appearance of ‘a new menace to food prOv
' duction’——the woodpigeon.

Woodpigeons (he says) have always been a
problem, but surely they have never been so bad as
during the past two years. He believes that a much
larger proportion of the eggs laid by wood—pigeons
is now being hatched successfully and consequently
there are several successful broods a year where

before so many eggs were eaten by squirrels.

The writer urges that, before what may be
irreparable harm is done by the extermination
of grey squirrels there should be a most
searching inquiry into a possible correlation
of declining squirrel and increasing pigeon
numbers.

In the opinion of the RSPCA, the authorities
would do well before putting a premium on the
pursuit of squirrels for their tails, to make sure
that they are not, in fact, chasing their own tails.
This would certainly seem to be the present
occupation of the authorities, when they order
the destruction of any species as a means of
increasing food production, since the effects are
usually offset by the increase of other species, or
by other effects arising from this destruction.

May we recommend as a text for the desks of
those who order the destruction of so~called
pests: ‘Beware how you tamper with the balance
of Nature!’

.(‘Animal World’ is indebted to Air Tweedie and to the Editor of The
Times for bermtssxon to use the material in this article.)

 

WOODLANn COMPANY

Badgers ln Woodlands (Forestry Commission
Leaﬂet No. 34, price 9d.) gives us a tantalizing
glimpse of the fascinating events happening with,
out the average person’s knowledge in our own
cOuntryside. ‘

That we should not know the badger too well
seems to suit him, for his numbers have increased
over the last ﬁfty years. Of course, he is ‘fairly
strictly nocturnal’, as the author of this pamphlet
says, and this must be the main reason why he
avoids the persecution that might otherwise have
led to his disappearance. There are, of course,
detractors of the badger, and it is heartening to
see an ofﬁcial publication declare that, ‘on the
whole’, he can be ‘assessed as more useful than
harmful to the foreSter, and can be tolerated and
even welcomed in our woods.’ ' .

Even without this ofﬁcial blessing we should
be reluctant to ﬁnd fault with animals in whose
behaviour several patterns of play may be dis—
tinguished, such as ‘Kingvofathevcastle’ and ‘Tag’.

Categorically, Mr E. G. Neal (who has
written the pamphlet for the Forestry Com—
mission) says: ‘Badgers do not bark saplings; they
are very useful in destroying certain woodland
pests; they do little damage to game birds.’

As if it were not enough for them to be en,
dowed with charm, badgers seem to have all the
‘domestic’ virtues.

‘Badgers are very clean creatures’, says Mr
Neal. ‘They keep the set free from all ﬁlth and do
not bring back food of any kind which might go
bad. Their periodic spring cleaning of the set
reduces the chance of disease. . . . They clean

 

their fur carefully by licking, and a sow will
groom its cubs until they are old enough to do it
for themselves.’

BULLFIGHTING DOOMED ?

(Reprinted from the Daily Telegraph with acknowledgments.)

.1

 

 
   
   

 

 

' r
1“

Football is threatening the primacy of bullﬁghting
1n Spain. This picture, by Mingote, the ABC
cartoonist, shows how the new craze, football,
has affected the very professionals of the ‘Ruedo’
—the bull ring.

While the picador is allegedly tiring the bull’s
neck muscles, the ‘diestros’——the master bull,
ﬁghters—listen With a portable radio set to the
broadcast commentary on a football match, prob
ably Madrid v Bilbao. The caption runs: ‘OlmedO
centres to Azpeitia, Olsen gets hold of the ball.
and passes to Rial, who . . .’

(Editor’s note: The RSPCA has always said that
v1s1tors—including those from Great Britain—-
help to keep alive this barbaric ‘sport’.)

 

 

 

 

 




 

4O THEANIMALWORLD

April 1956

 

 

the River Severn and could not get out. The
animal was located by Regional Supt. Best and
helpers below a steep bank. -

To descend was impossible, as the bank was
steep and wooded. The Superintendent tried to
borrow a boat and none of the helpers would
go with him, as they could not swim.

Finally, Mr John Wells, Steward of the Severn
Motor Yacht Club, volunteered, and in his boat
managed to reach the cow, but in the pitch dark
and the icy slippery conditions they had difﬁculty
in securing a rope round the horns, though the
Superintendent, by a superhuman effort, was at
last able to do this.

In her fright, the animal dragged the boat
and its occupants to the far side of the river,
where the bank was - impossible to climb.

   

PRECARIOUS PERCH

Regional Supt Brown fell into the water, but
he ﬁnally succeeded in tethering the free end
of the rope to a tree.

Helpers were then brought from the other side
of the river and the cow was hauled to a ledge,
rugged, given medicine and made as comfortable
as possible for the night. She was due to calve
any day; the owner stayed with her for the rest
of the night.

Next day, the Regional Superintendent and
another helper went to the scene with picks and
spades and cleared a slope up which the cow could
be hauled. This was achieved after much hard
work, and the Regional Superintendent, for his
bravery, persistence and hard work for an animal
in distress has received a bar to the RSPCA silver
medal he already holds.

Photos by courtesy of the Northern Daily Telegraph

 

 

These pictures tell graphically the story of a rescue by inspector G. Dawson, who is seen perched precariously on a ledge
in disused Lee Quarry, Bacup. From his diﬁicult perch the Inspector lowered two marooned sheep to safety.

 

ACTION

When one RSPCA school lecturer visited a
school recently he was told by the Head‘
master that since his last visit an Animal ‘De—
fender group had been started and had had
the result of stopping birds—nesting by the

village boys. The Headmaster said ‘I did not

have to interfere: the Animal Defenders dealt
with any boy touching a nest’.

Since the last report 143 lectures were given in
schools in Surrey, Wiltshire, Bedfordshire, Sufv
folk, Northamptonshire, Hertfordshire, Essex,
Glamorgan, Maidstone area, Harrogate, Felpham
(Sussex), Tadley area and London. Talks were
also given to the Bromley Torchbearers Group,
East Barnet Young Conservatives, a Youth
Fellowship in Wood Green, a Tottenham Chil—

dren’s Library Meeting, a Young Britons’ Group
in SW6, and the Gravesend Animal Defender
Group. ’

Thirty—six new Animal Defender groups were

formed; 466 children joined the Headquarters
Group. ‘ .'

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mr
J. R. Wilkinson, former hon sec Scarborough
Branch; Mr Frederick Hogg, chairman Lancaster
Division; Mrs de Clermont, hon sec Lingﬁeld
Auxiliary; Mr Arnold Davies, chairman and
former hon sec Wrexham branch; Mr Percy
Hendv, Supporter; Capt B. E. Crosse, supporter;
Miss F. Janson, supporter. .

 

‘E‘a‘r

 

 




 

42 THE ANIMAL WORLD April 1956

 

DOG’S THROAT CUT—

RESULT OF THOUGHTLESSNESS

A cafe owner found this stray 5‘; months old fawn
bitch with what appeared to be a cut throat. An
RSPCA Inspector examined the dog, who whined with
pain at the slightest touch. There was a severe injury
on the neck and throat and a cut to the depth of l‘;
inches encircled the throat. An RSPCA inspector
gave the dog a humane end.

A more thorough examination was made by the
Inspector and he found a rubber paper band deep
down in the dog’s throat, which had to be cut with
scissors. Extensive enquiries by the Police and
RSPCA failed to trace the owner and it is thought
that the dog may have been abandoned by a long
distance driver. The dog was in good condition, but
had been unable to eat due to the injury and intense
pain. The rubber band was found to be small in
circumference and it is thought that the band may
have been placed on the dog’s neck when she was

very small

 

RSPCA INSPECTOR
HAD TO SWEEP
PASSAGE CLEAR
TO REACH THESE
PIGS -

 

When the RSPCA prosecuted the owner of these pigs for causing them unnecessary suffering by omitting to provide them
with. proper care and attention RSPCA Inspector Hanson told Halifax Borough Magistrates that he found seven small pigs
in a sty. Six were huddled together in one corner and the seventh was in another. The pig on its own was lying down in What
appeared to be ‘sludgy filth’ which covered a greater part of the lower limbs and face. A" were in a filthy state-
The Inspector tried to reach the pigs but the floor was three or four inches deep in what he found to be excreta and urine
and he had to sweep a passage clear before he could reach them. The one on its own could not rise to its feet. Of the others
only one could stand or walk. The rest in being helped to their feet screamed in agony. Looking over a partition the Inspector
found several carcases of other pigs. The pigs, seen by a veterinary surgeon, were found to be suffering from rheumatism
brought about by living in damp and unsanitary conditions. Six of the pigs he ordered to be humanely destroyed at once and
this was done. The owner of the pigs was ﬁned £50 and was ordered to pay £6 65. costs as well as being disqualified for life
‘ from keeping pigs (A3882)

 




 

44 THE ANIMAL WORLD

INCITED BULL TERRIER TO
ATTACK MONGREL

A bull terrier’s attack on a mongrel dog lasting
half an hour’led to a bricklayer’s labourer being
summoned in Leeds City Court for causing
unnecessary suffering to a threeayearvold mongrel
dog by unreasonably inciting his bull terrier dog
to attack it.

He was ﬁned £20 and ordered to pay costs of
£12 83.

The Magistrate told him: ‘You thoroughly

deserve to go to prison for this brutal treatment. -

No doubt you were drunk and excited and you
did not appreciate what you were doing. Don’t
drink as much, and if you do, try and prevent
yourself from being a brute. I have put it very
forcibly andvI intend to.’

A veterinary surgeon said that the mongrel

; dog had a wound two inches long on the
,shoulder going through the muscles which

were lacerated almost to the bone.

The prosecuting solicitor for the RSPCA said
that a woman, who owned the mongrel dog, was
walking up a street, when her friend letout two
mongrel dogs ‘which are affectionate and have
no malice at all’.

They ran towards her and gave her an affeo
tionate welcome, said the prosecuting solicitor,
and on reaching the front of the home of the

'p.551”.Woman, the man, who was in his garden, told

" her to get her dogs fastened up. She replied that

they were doing no one any harm and the man
said, ‘If my dog gets loose it will kill them.’

The man went towards the woman, said the
prosecuting solicitor, holding the bull terrier by
the collar and when three or four yards away he
Said to the bull terrier ‘Get it’, and released it. The
bull terrier immediately set about the mongrel.
“The man said that the evidence for the prose!
cution was all lies. ‘When I released my dog from
the lead these two dogs bounced into the garden.

All three of them came out together.’ (Inspector
King, Case No. B396.)

BOYS STONED CATS T O DEATH

After ﬁnding a helpless grey—striped tiger cat
which he thought he ‘might help’, a youth
and three friends stoned the animal to death,
it was stated at the Juvenile court at South
Bank, when the RSPCA prosecuted four boys
for cruelly ill—treating a cat.

The boys, two aged 16, one 15 and one 14,

- were to go to the Juvenile Attendance Centre

for 12 hours and ordered to pay £1 16s. 6d. each.

Their parents were each bound over in the
sum of £10 to see their boys were of good bev
haviour for twelve months. The father of one of
the eldest boys was ordered to forfeit £10 for a

«breach of a previousrecognisance of £20.

April 1956

a

‘Kill all cats’ boast

Although three of the boys admitted the offence
this boy denied it.

He also told the court that the day after the
attack the boy aged 15 returned to the spot
boasting that he would ‘kill all cats round here’.

A nightvwatchman said he was inspecting his
lamps when the boy aged 15 approached, saying:
‘Have you a knife? We Want to cut a cat’s throat.’

‘I told the boys to leave the animal alone
and carried on with my job. But a few minutes
later, I heard a scuﬂling and when I ran to a
nearby trench I found all four boys throwing
stones at the cat. The animal tried to jump
out of the trench but the boys threw clay on
top of it.’

Body in trench

‘I asked’, said the watchman, ‘where the cat was
and the boys told me it had gone. I did not
believe them and shining my torch into the
trench, which was 9 ft. deep, I found the cat’s
body with a large piece of clay on its head.’

Inspector N. Shuttleworth said before
dying the cat must have suffered considerable
injuries.

In statements to the police all the boys, except
one aged 16, admitted the offence. He said:
‘I picked up the cat from the gutter because it
was helpless and wanted to see what was wrong.
I have ﬁxed up birds and other animals before
and thought I might be able to do something for
it.’

He also told the court that the boy aged 15
tied some string round a brick to drown the cat
in a water‘tub.

‘But I told him to leave the animal alone and
went into the watchman’s cabin to play cards.
Later he and the other two boys came into the
cabin boasting they had killed the cat.’

Evidence ‘all wrong’

He denied ill—treating the animal himself and said
the evidence by the nightrwatchman implicat’
ing him was wrong. .
The statements of his three companlons
which also involved ‘him were ‘all wrong’, he
added. 1
The presiding magistrate told the boys: ‘We
have never had a case like this before the juvenile
court. You all keep pets apparently, and what
would you think if anybody did the same to
them. Your parents will be punished as much as
you are by this action.’ (B.366.) -

Help on Saturday, June 2nd
London Joint Animal Flag Day

 

 




 

46 THE ANIMALWORLD April 1956

 

 

NIGERIA:
ANIMAL TRANSPORT REFORMS

Efforts by the RSPCA Nigeria Branch to bring
, about reforms in animal welfare continue to bear
fruit. Byeelaws introduced by the Nigerian Rail;
. way Corporation lay down conditions that must-
be observed by anyone consigning an animal or
bird for carriage on the railway, provide that
adequate arrangements for the supply of food
and water during the course of the journey should
be made and impose upon any attendant accom~
panying an animal or bird an obligation to see
that the creature is fed and watered on the
journey.
The penalty for infringement of any of these
three byealaws is £20. '

NEW ZEALAND

Miss M. B. Howard, Member of Parliament for
Sydenham (Christchurch), and President of the
Canterbury SPCA, New Zealand, played a part
in obtaining the passage of the regulation in New
Zealand which makes illegal the coursing of live
hares in any conﬁned space and the liberation of
captive birds for the purpose of being shot.

HORSES TO THE CONTINENT

A statement received from the Ministry of Agri—
culture, Fisheries and Food shows that, during
the quarter ended December 31, 1955, 279 horses
were exported through English ports to the Con,
tinent. From London 5 went to Belgium and 6 to
Holland; from Folkestone 125 to France; from

  

Harwich 139 to Denmark, and 4 went from Hull
to Sweden. Three were not valued, and 132 had
a value of up to £50 placed on them. The rest
were valued at over £50 each and 45 were worth
over £1,000 each.

Besides these, 57 horses and 12 ponies were
exported to Europe after being exempted from
veterinary examination.

At the RSPCA Pet Show
Dar-es-Salaam

MARKET REFORMS

Good news comes from Tavistock, Devon,
where Senior Inspector Mullard has succeeded
in obtaining a more suitable weighbridge for the
use of sheep and pigs. This replaces the old
weighbridge, which had a smooth and slippery
surface platform, on which both sheep and pigs
were apt to lose their footing, with consequent
injury and suffering. '

At Botchergate Mart, Carlisle, straw bedding
is now provided for the calves, thanks to the
efforts of Senior Inspector Brown.

Chief Inspector Young has persuaded the
Rotherham Borough Council to supply fresh:
running water in all the lairages at the Rotherham
Abattoirs. '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed
by the sum raised.)

Iv. ~2~Z~.

   

Mrs A. D. M. Hopkinson, Bury (Lancs) and District Branch
hon sec, presents an RSPCA Certiﬁcate of Merit to the
Chief Fire Officer of Bacup Fire Station for the rescue of
sheep from a quarry at Stalk Meads, Bacup. From left to
right: RSPCA inspector Dowson, Chief Fire Oﬂicer, Area
Organizer, Mrs Hopkinson and Local Councillor

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, \Glossop and District
Stalybridge, jumble sale, Miss V. Carter (Stalybridge aux
hon sec), £15 10s.

 

Caemarvonshire West and Anglesey Benllech, dance (joint),
MISS Prlce (branch co. hon sec) and helpers, £7 9s. 3d.
Cleveland and Tees Side Saltburn-by-the-Sea, contract
bridge drive, Mrs Hart (Saltburnaux hon sec), £4 15s. 6d.
Derbyshlre—Derby and District Allestree, dance, Mrs R. A.
Loten (branch hon sec) and social committee, £18 19s. 3d.
Chlldren’s annual ball, Mrs Loten and social committee,
£31 16s. 3d.
Devon—North Ilfracombe, jumble sale and pound stall,
Mr and Mrs W. A. J. Lovering (co- hon secs, Ilfracombe
aux), £17 10s..
Essex—Colchester and District Over £3 was given to branch
funds when Major Chapman addressed Coggeshall Women’s
Instltute.
Herefordshire Ross, whist drive and dance, Miss Salmon
(Whltehurch co. aux hon sec) and helpers, £15.
Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Kettering, Christ-
mas Fayre, Capt. D. P. Hewitt (Kettering aux hon sec), £102 7s.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne The RSPCA bronze medal for gal-
lantry was presented to Mr Roger Buglass by the Mayor of
Blyth, Coun Mrs J. G. Allison, at a meeting of Blyth Council.
Norfolk—~Mid and Norwich The Mayor of Thetford (Mrs
S. W. Wheeler) presided at the annual meeting of Thetford
aux111ary, and Major H. G. Burns, aux hon treas, presented
hIS report.
Norfolk West Hunstanton, old time dance, Mr and Mrs
H. Hayes; Mrs H. Bishop organized competitions, £8.

Jumble sale, Mrs Stuart Mudie (Hunstanton aux hon
sec), £15.

Nottingham and Notts The annual meeting of Retford

 

 

 




48 - THE ANIMALWORLD Apri11956

 

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

At the time of going to press we have been in—
formed that the following Flag Day Collections
are to be held in the near future:

Andover Sat, 7th April
Braughing, Hormead, Bunt—
ingford & Cottered (Herts) Sat, 26th May

Carmarthenshire County .. . Fri. and Sat,
18th (Sr 19th May
Sat, 19th May

Sat, 26th May

Fleet & Crookham (Hants)
Fordingbridge (Hants)

Hatﬁeld Rural District Sat, 14th April
Hoddesdon (Herts) Sat, 14th April
Hemel Hempstead Sat, 21st April
Letchworth Sat, 26th May

.14 .

 

Rye Park (Herts)

Sat, 14th April
Sedgefield (Co Durham)

Sat, 12th May

SPRATT’S not scraps

Stockton—onaTees Sat, let April is what a dOg
Tlverton (Devon) . Sat, 26th May . , I
Tring Sat, 19th May needs for nourishment.
Warrington... Sat, let April

An appeal is made to any readers who are able
to assist these collections to communicate with
the local Hon Secretary concerned; the name and

/ 5 BONIO ‘ MIXED OVALS ' WEETMEET
QR“ PUPPY BISCUITS ' DOG CAKES

Spratt’s Patent Ltd., 4I/47 Bow Road, London, E3

 

 

address of this ofﬁcial will gladly be supplied by
RSPCA Headquarters.

TRINKETS

From time to time our attention is drawn to the
value of trinkets, beads, broken jewellery of
silver and/or gold which can easily be converted
into cash by jewellers and others dealing in these
metals. Beads, etc., usually ﬁnd a ready sale at
bazaars, whilst there is a ready market for jewel—
lery made of silver, gold or precious stones, even
though broken. Branch ofﬁcials may, therefore,
care to bear in mind these potentialities when
making appeals and/or organizing a function.

' F LAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES _

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE ,COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY
JUNE 2

‘Please help!’

HOW TO HELP

By making a street collection in the Metropolitan Police area (London

and Suburbs) on JUNE 2.

By making a house to house collection in London (and Suburbs)

between MAY 27 and JUNE 2 (inclusive).
By placing tins and emblems in shops and business premises.

By making a private collection amongst relatives and friends, even
if you do not live in the London area.

By sending a donation.

By sending the names and addresses of friends who
are prepared to collect.

lllll 1/5 ‘\ mt“; .\ "\llllli

‘—

N.B.~—-No one under the age of 18 is permitted to col,
lect either in the street or from house to house in
the LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes
possible for young people to make private cola
lections amongst relatives and friends.

9"

‘.
.x\.

’/////?V/ r

I"

-. _ :- ?l A /%/
Offers of help, please, to: (Wirmmwmu
RSPCA, Appeals Department, ‘ngk you!

l05 Jermyn Street, London, SW! yaw help!’

a?

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd. London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




