 

 

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

Notiﬁed up to time of going to Press on April 30
Aberford, Garforth and Barwick—in—Elmet

(Leeds Branch) .. Sat., June 7
Abergavenny ,, July 19
Aldershot... ,, June 7
Anglesey ,, July 12
Arley, Warwickshire ,, June 14
Balsall Common, Warwickshire ,, n 14
Barton—on’Humber . H July 19
Bedfordshire County .. ,, June 14
Blackburn... ,, H 7
Bridgwater . . ,, July 5
Burgess Hill, Sussex ,, June 14
Chatham . ,, July 5
Chester ,, June 28
Chorley, near Preston n n 14
Cleethorpes . .. . . . ,, July 5
Codicote, Hertfordshire ,, June 21
Colchester .. ,, July 19
Cronqer ,, ,, 19
Denbigh Wed. June 11
Devizes Sat., July 12
Essex County .. ,, ,, 19
Eton ,, June 14
Exeter Fri., July 11
Fareham . . . . Sat., July 12
Grimsby . . ,, June 14
Hastings ... ... ,, July 12
Knebworth, Hertfordshire ,, June 21
LetChVVOI‘th n 9 ) 2 1
Lichﬁeld ,, ,, 14

 

Meriden, Warwickshire Sat., June 14
Newport, Monmouthshire ,, ,, 14
Norwich . ,, July 5
Nottingham ,, , ,

Nuneaton... ,, June 14
Pembrokeshire—Mid and North Branch ,, July 19
Pembrokeshire—South Branch ,, ,, 19
Ryde, Isle of Wight ,, ,, 5
Sandown, Isle of Wight Thur., July 3
Scarborough .. .. Sat., June 28

Scunthorpe ,, ,, 21

i! 3’ 7

Sevenoaks Rural District

Sevenoaks Urban District ,, ,, 7
Shanklin, Isle of Wight . Thur., July 3
Sheerness Sat., June 14
Shefﬁeld ,, ,, 7
Shepton Mallet, Somerset Fri., July 4
Southend—on—Sea Sat., July 19

Stockport Fri., June 6
&Sat., ,, 7

Surrey County Sat., July 5
Tetbury,Gloucestershire ,, June 28
\Walsall ,, ,, 28
Wellington, Shropshire Thur., July 17
eymouth .. Sat., July 5
Winchester ,, June 28

\X’inchester Rural District (area covered

by Southampton and District Branch) ,, June 7

An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with their local hon
secretaries, whose names and addresses will gladly be

provided by RSPCA Headquarters.

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the house—to-
house collection was made and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

House—to—House
£ 5. cl.
Aberdare and DistriCt 46 6 0
Flag Days
£ 5 cl.
Barnoldswick, Mrs H. Ingham (aux hon sec)... 55 14 7
Thrapston, Mrs R. W. Coles (aux hon sec) 9 14 8
Bicester Garrison 22 18 0
Sawbridgeworth, Mrs J. Pease (branch hon sec) 16 8 1
East Grinstead, Mrs E. Gasson (aux co hon sec) 70 7 10
Laugharne, Miss G. David (aux hon sec) 10 0 0
Broadstairs, Mrs Crook (aux hon sec) 60 2 8
Eastleigh and District 56 14 8
Okehampton, Mrs F. E. \Weaver (aux hon sec) 93 11 7
Bishop’sStortford, Miss K. A. Hill (aux hon sec) 83 16 5
Dover, Mrs Price (branch hon sec) 116 8 5
Hemel Hempstead 101 12 0
Shipley and Baildon, Mrs E. M. Moore (aux
honsec) 124 O 9
Hatﬁeld Rural District, Mr D. Wilshire
(branch hon sec) (includes Brookman’s
Park, Miss Spence, aux hon sec, £31 105. 4d.) 79 13 Z
Warrington, Mrs E. B. Fairclough (br hon sec) 197 17 O

Spaniel Boxes

Redcar, £84; Middlesbrough, £74; Middlesbrough, £84:
Streatham, £33 (4 months);VStreatham, £13 (4 months);
Huddersﬁeld £100 195. 7d. (10 months); Sittingbourne,
Col .ection at football match, £15 7s.

  

................

'1 )V 1'}
\ \ \\
\ \\\\

':
.\ ‘
w

~—___i

SURE EQCASH Xg

CAPTIVE son PISTOL
FOR ALL. ANIMALS

   

6

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND

5456

 

 




June 1958

Oakham Cattle Market as the result of neigh'
bouring Uppingham Market now being closed. A
splendid covering has been built for the pigs and
more cattle and sheep pens will have been erected
by summer. A good bedding of straw has been
put down in the sale ring and the adjoining pens
to prevent animals from slipping.

 

HORSES TO THE CONTINENT

During the quarter October 1 to December 31
1957, 136 horses and ponies were shipped to the
Continent of Europe after examination at
authorized ports.

Two went to Belgium, 60 to France, 37 to Italy,
32 to Denmark, one to Germany, one to Holland,
two to Norway, one to Malta.

In addition 101 horses and 69 ponies were ex—
ported to Europe after being exempted from
veterinary examination. (These animals were valua

able bloodstock.)

THE ANIMAL WORLD 71

GROUPS CONFERENCE
Mr G. R. Bell, Council Member," presided at
Group 5 Conference in the White Rock Pavilion,
Hastings, at which the business session was
opened by Mrs Wallis Power, Acting Chairman
of the Society. A display illustrating various
aspects of the Society’s work was arranged by
Mrs Dowdell, Council Member, who was
present. Branches within the group Were well
represented. Mr John Hall, 1 Chief Secretary,
discussed Branch problems and, Mr C. R. Davies
(branch organizer) overseas work. '

 

@bz'tuary

With. sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Mr E. C. W. Hart, Hon Sec, Forest
Hill Branch; Mrs Clive Shields, supporter.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where afunction is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
oﬁicials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary.)

 

Photo by W. ]. Fair.

THE OLDES T?

Jessie, a strawberry roan, photographed between Mr

Charles Hackett (her owner) and Inspector Anthony. The

picture was taken shortly before jessie was given a humane

end. Her teeth had worn so short that she could no longer

Masticate and this was the reason for her being put to sleep.

She was believed to be forty years old at the time this
picture was taken.

AthIl, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District AM, branch.

Senior Inspector Slater presented his report. A lantern lecture

Was given by Mr Walter J. C. Murray.

Berkshire—Newbury and District AM, branch. Reports

were submitted by Mrs Gerald Opperman, hon sec, and
r J. M. Laycock, hon treas. Major Hancock spoke.

Blackpool AM, branch. The speaker was Mr Luetchford.
Chester AM, branch. The Rt Hon Earl Kitchener presided.
The Mayor attended. Mr K. S. Tolhurst spoke.

Cirencester AM, branch. Mr H. St G. Rawlins (hon treas)
presided.

Cleveland and Tees-side Stokesley, a draw. Miss H.
Dobson and Mrs Boyd, aux hon secs, £47 3s. 6d.
Cornwall—East AM, branch. Presentation of two framed
certiﬁcates, a medal and bar, to Inspector A. F. Wilkinson,
by Mr R. S. Jervoise (branch chairman) for two rescues. The
ﬁrst rescue was of a cow in calf from a well at Trenarret
Farm, Alternun, and the second rescue was the hauling of a
steer from a disused water-wheel pit at Wheal Brothers
mine, Harrowbarrow.

Durham and District AM, branch. The Viscount Gort pre-
sided, accompanied by Lady Gort. Reports were presented
by Miss G. S. Wilkinson (hon see), Mr A. B. Peacock (hon
treas), and Senior Inspector Pigott. Alderman Alsop (Council
Member) attended. Mr Ampleford (Parliamentary Organ-
izer) gave an address.

Essex—South, Southend and District AM, branch. The
speaker was Major Chapman.

Glamorgan—Mid, and Port Talbot Porthcawl, jumble sale.
Mrs V. L. Hands, aux hon sec, £73.

Gloucestershire—Mid Rodborough Common, dress show
organized by Mrs and Mr Loncraine (La Boutique, Stroud),
£8

AM, branch. Mr S. Hill (branch chairman) presided.
Great Yarmouth and District AM, branch. Dr R. L. Ley,
branch chairman, presided. The Mayor, Mrs K. M. Adling-
ton, presented an RSPCA certiﬁcate to Acle Fire Brigade

The RSPCA rescue work
during the East Coast
floods is recalled by this
picture of ‘Robbie’, sent
by Mrs justin of South-
gate. Rob was one of the
dogs lost when the flood
waters struck Convey ls-
land. The owner could not
be found and Mrs justin
adopted him.

 

 

 




 

 

. June 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 67

 

PICTURES FROM SPAIN

 

9 -$

 

These pictures recall a visit to RSPCA Headquarters by the Count de Sert, President of The Spanish Federation for the Pro-

tection of Animals and Plants. Right: The Dogs’ Home, Barcelona. Left: Much stress is being laid on work among children,
who are seen here with a donkey bought after the old man who owned it had died.

 

NEWS FROM MOMBASA

Mrs Bosworthick, Secretary/Inspector Mombasa
Branch, reports:

‘At the Old Harbour port there has been
trouble with turtles, as these animals are off—
loaded in a sling which causes the genital organs
to appear. An African standing watching took out
his knife and severed them from one as it passed
him. He was immediately arrested for this cruel
action and next day appeared in court, where he
was ﬁned 400/— with 200/— costs.

A few days after this a dhow arrived in the
Old Port with 66 turtles on board, of which 19
were dead on arrival. I called in the veterinary
officer and the Port Police. The owner informed
us that the turtles had died from seasickness due
to bad weather up the coast. Letters were sent
to the Fish Warden, Malindini, and to the Corynr
don Museum, Nairobi, for information for the
best treatment for turtles. The Fish Warden at
Malindini stated that the Captain was the largest
dealer in green turtles and very experienced.

Two other dhows arrived with loads of turtles,
one or two of which had died on one, no
casualties on the other. The Port Police still have
the matter in hand.’

 

THE RED RUIN MARE: Henry G. Lamond. Faber.
163. 253 pages.

This vividly descriptive account of a horse’s life
in Queensland in the early years of the century
must appeal to animal lovers for its sincerity and
true understanding, while the harshness of life
On a cattle station in that climate and in those
aVS contrast with the author’s sensitive and

Sympathetic attitude to the individual animal.
M. E. T.

VIRTUES OF THE DOG

Mrs L. Voss, Durban SPCA, sends this ‘gospel’
on the dog, as an example of the approach of an
Indian teacher to the task of instructing children
in Natal in the right way to value animals. The
Indian school teacher is Mr C. Maharaj of
Nonoti GAI School, Stranger, Natal, and the
‘gospel’: ‘One should remember and recollect
that the Almighty who gave the dog to be a com—
panion of our pleasures and our toils, should
also remember that the Almighty has invested
this animal with a nature noble and incapable of
deceit. It is possessed of- Beauty, without Vanity,
Strength without Insolence, Courage without
Ferocity, and all the Virtues of Man, without his
Vices. It is a noble gift from God to man.’

 

 

Children in Tanganyika holding RSPCA leaflets after [55mm
ing to a talk on animals and their care

 




 

 

 

ANIMAEH

EWORL D

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol LIII No 6 New Series

JUNE 1958

PRICE EOLIRPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

HEEEiNo iiiEMsEEVEs

The cover picture this month provides an apt illustration of progress abroad. Ali, an African boy photographed in Zanzibar
with his pet goat, is devoted to the animal and tells other boys how they can show kindness.

‘Look at the suffering in cattle markets in England
andWales! Peer into backyards, where dogs pass
miserable lives on chains!’

Admonitions of this sort are frequently ad,
dressed to RSPCA workers when they speak of
the need for helping animals overseas. No one in
the Society has ever denied the crying need of the
Society’s activities in this country, nor do we
seek to minimize this need. Far from hiding it, we
allot to it a prominent place in this magazine,
which, month by month, records the work of the
Inspectorate in England and Wales.

We believe, nevertheless, that we have a duty
towards all animals, everywhere. We have no
wish to ‘interfere’, but where animal suffering is
brought to our notice, we think it right to relieve
it.

The aim of the RSPCA overseas is, in humility,
to help animal welfare workers to help them,
selves. In this issue of Animal World we give eXa
tracts from a report made by an Inspector;
Organizer sent temporarily to Nigeria to learn,
by discussion with animal welfare workers there,
* Continued overleaf

PENANG
PRESENTA-
TlON

 

Mrs D. l. N. Davidson receives an RSPCA plaque for her

dog, Lamoran Bianca, who (as described in ‘Animal World’,

june I957) rescued a puppy attacked by a tiger, which would

also have threatened the life of a Malay Amah. The presen-

tation was made at the Selangor Turf Club by Captain

Lindsay Vears, Vice-Chairman of the RSPCA Penang and
Province, Wellesley Branch

 

customer is always right.

of the RSPCA!

 

THE CUSTGMER IS RIGHT

Two stories from the Branches convince the RSPCA of the wisdom of the slogan that the

The Huddersﬁeld honorary secretary says that a grocer has an RSPCA Spaniel collecting
box in his shop. The box was taken away, but children, who came into the shop, wept when
they found that it had gone and the grocer decided to have it brought back—to the proﬁt

The honorary secretary of the Sittingbourne Division had a Spaniel box in the doorway
of her shop. Recently, after the box had done a long spell of duty, the honorary secretary
feared that it might have lost its appeal and she decided to move it. So many people asked
for it to be exhibited again that she promptly agreed. It is only taken in at night and has
to be put out first thing in the morning as people ask about it if it is late!

 

 




 

 

June 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD . 63

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

APRIL 1958
RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,749 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Offenders imprisoned.
68 Oﬂenders ﬁned.
33 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
655 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSESw—WOTléing in an unﬁt state, neglecting , 5
CATTLE-——Starving, neglecting ingrowing horn, beating,
etc. 5
PIG———Beating 1
GOAT-—Neglecting 1
DOGS—~Neglecting, starving, killing in improper manner,
shooting and wounding 21
CATS—~—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, shooting
and wounding, injuring with stick, etc. .
RABBIT—Neglecting 1
FOWLs—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,
maliciously killing, etc. 8
SWANs—Shooting and wounding 2
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 1
Selling other than close-ringed specimens bred in
captivity . . . . .. 3
Conﬁning birds in small cages 1
Shooting 1
Killing 1
Attempting to kill 3
Setting spring trap 1
VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel—tooth traps—~set in open .. 2
Keeping dog when disqualiﬁed 1
Spreading myxomatosis ‘ . 1
Permitting in offences 2
Causing in an oﬁence 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 71

During APRIL 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed ELEVEN persons from owning a dog OT
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months: THREE for 2 years: TWO for 3 years:
THREE for 5 years: TWO for Life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 7,222
Total number of CONVICTIONs from January Ist 270
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 2,664

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

N o. of animals handled:
4,414 Cats 4,191 Dogs 1,109 Misc. Total 9,714
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,474

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
71 Dogs 19 Cats 6 Misc. Total 96

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,134

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 11

N o. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 293

N o. of animals rescued: 5

No. of inspection complaints: 4

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,490

NORTH WALES UNIT

First Aid Cases:

49 Cats 53 Dogs 10 Misc. Total 112
No. of animals handled by Unit:

255 Cats 107 Dogs 16 Misc. Total 378
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,230

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT

First Aid Cases:

30 Cats 63 Dogs 8 Misc. Total 101
No. of animals handled by Unit:

124 Cats 91 Dogs 11 Misc. Total 226
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,338

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First Aid Cases:

77 Cats 191 Dogs 35 Misc. Total 303
N o. of animals handled by Unit:

228 Cats 237 Dogs 35 Misc. Total 500
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,026

AWARDS

Cases considered 52
Silver medals 2
Bronze medals 5
Bar to Bronze medal 1
Presentation collar

Certiﬁcates 31
RECORDS FOR 1957
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 24,942
CONVICTIONS 852
CAUTIONS 8,596

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 135,570 ‘

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 15,671

 




 

i , June 1958

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 67

 

 

PICTURES FROM SPAIN

 

 

   

 

These pictures recall a visit to RSPCA Headquarters by the Count de Sert, President of The Spanish Federation for the Pro-

tection of Animals and Plants. Right: The Dogs’ Home, Barcelona. Left: Much stress is being laid on work among children,
who are seen here with a donkey bought after the old man who owned it had died.

 

NEWS FROM MOMBASA

Mrs Bosworthick, Secretary/Inspector Mombasa
Branch, reports:

‘At the Old Harbour port there has been
trouble with turtles, as these animals are off
loaded in a sling which causes the genital organs
to appear. An African standing watching took out
his knife and severed them from one as it passed
him. He was immediately arrested for this cruel
methods by which they are slaughtered.
80,000 head of cattle are trekked annually
into the Eastern Region.

I witnessed the droving of some of these herds
and although the general condition of the animals

BAN ON BEARS AND LIONS
Circus refused base near houses

The Minister of Housing and Local Government
has decided that the use of a site in Bridlington
for a circus for more than a few days at a time
would be injurious to the surrounding residential
area. Residents of the Fortyfoot district com;
plained at a public inquiry in December of lions
and bears from the circus being near the bottom
of their gardens. One woman said the roaring of
ions at night was ‘awful’.

Mr Robert Postill, of Fortyfoot, Bridlington,
had appealed against Bridlington Borough Counv
cil’s decision that the use of the site should cease
after September 30 last year.

The Ministry stated: ‘The Minister has no
doubt that the use for circus purposes of this
comparatively small site for more than occasional
brief visits, each not exceeding a few days, would

VIRTUES OF THE DOG

Mrs L. Voss, Durban SPCA, sends this ‘gospel’
on the dog, as an example of the approach of an
Indian teacher to the task of instructing children
in Natal in the right way to value animals. The
Indian school teacher is Mr C. Maharaj of
Nonoti GAI School, Stranger, Natal, and the
‘gospel’: ‘One should remember and recollect
that the Almighty Wh9.ga\:e..the dog ’59. be a com!
instrument but they are dependent on the Moslem
north for their supply of cattle and the Hausa
cattle traders have said that they will refuse to
sell cattle to the Ibos if they refuse to slaughter
in the Moslem manner.

be injurious to the amenity of the surrounding
residential area. He considers the authority have
good reasons for their efforts to control the use
of the land for circus purposes, and accordingly
dismisses the appeal’.

When the inquiry was held, Mr J. Williamson,
County Planning Officer, said the animals would
make a considerable amount of noise and there
was always the possibility that they might escape
from the circus.

 

LECTURES TO CHILDREN

Since the last report 86 lectures were given in
schools in Birmingham, Oxford, Charlton Mack—
rell (Somerset), Ealing, Shotton, Grimsby, Carr
diff, Isle of Wight, Sussex and the London area.
Twenty new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 292 children joined the Headquarter
Group. ‘

 




June 1958

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 69

Deliberately Spreading Myxumatosis

First Prosecution

Legal history was made at Castle Hedingham,
Essex, when the RSPCA took its ﬁrst prosecu’
tion under Section 12 of the Pests Act, 1954,
against a farmer accused of using infected rabbits
to spread myxomatosis. The farmer did not ap
pear. A plea of guilty was entered on his behalf.

For the RSPCA counsel said that the
disease caused ‘a living death’ for 14 days and
brought up internal swellings and abscesses be—
hind the ears and eyes. Infected rabbits be—
came blind and deaf and were unable to fend
for themselves or ﬁnd the way to their
burrows.

The defendant was seen to walk along a
boundary ditch between his land and that of a
smallholder and empty two objects from a sack.
Afterwards the smallholder found the carcasses

of two rabbits at the spot. They were infected
with myxomatosis. '

For the defence it was explained that the farmer
did not know he was committing an oﬁence. The
chairman of the magistrates said that the bench
would set an example by imposing a ﬁne of £5.
Costs of ten guineas were awarded against the
defendant.

In this case, B3195, evidence had been
obtained for the Society by Senior Inspector
Cooper. '

The efforts of the RSPCA will be recalled when
the Pests Act was introduced. It was, thanks in a
large measure, to the forceful propaganda of the
Society that the Government was persuaded to
introduce into the Act a section making illegal the
deliberate spreading of this odious disease. Under
the Act the maximum ﬁne for a ﬁrst offence is
£20 and for subsequent offences £50.

 

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

Slaughterhouses Bill

This measure, which seeks ‘to make provision
with respect to Slaughterhouses and knackers’
yards and the slaughter of animals; and for purv
poses connected therewith’, has now passed the
Committee stage. Numerous tributes were paid
to the inﬂuence of the Society during the dis—
cussion in Committee.

On the question of the electrical stunning of
long—haired sheep, Mr J. B. Godber, Joint
Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Agria
culture, Fisheries and Food, said:

‘. . . The hon Member for Sunderland North

(Mr Willey) said he had been in touch with the

RSPCA. . . . I have also taken the precaution of

ascertaining their View and I can corroborate

What he says. They do not feel disturbed at the

present time, and we can attach considerable

weight to their views on matters of this kind.’

Mr Godber undertook to circularize local
authorities who implement the Slaughter of
Animals Act, to draw their attention to the need
or care in electrocution of sheep, and pointing
out the heavy penalties for failure to comply
with regulations. (He has now circularized local
authorities about this.)

. When the carbon dioxide method of slaughter,
lng pigs was discussed, Mr F. T. Willey, MP,
escribed the Minister as saying:

‘that the process of anaesthetizing animals

with carbon dioxide had been investigated with

great care by the RSPCA, and the Univer31t1es
ederation of Animals Welfare.

I have always very much welcomed co»
operation between authority, whether central
or local authority, and voluntary organizations.
. . . It is much better to bring in voluntary
bodies as early as possible, so that not only have
we their good will, but their participation.’

Mr A. Blenkinsop, MP, spoke of the report of
Major Hancock, the Society’s Chief Veterinary
Ofﬁcer, on the carbon dioxide plant used in
Holland, and Mr Godber, the Joint Parliamentary
Secretary to the Minister of Agriculture, com!
mented:

‘. . . I assure hon Members that my officials
will keep in the closest touch with the RSPCA
and with other appropriate societies in relation
to this matter. We are anxious to see that its
introduction shall be smooth and effective, and
will lessen cruelty, which is the wish of all hon
Members. . . .’

Mr F. T. Willey, MP, tabled an amendment to
Clause 8, with the object of securing ofﬁcial right
of entry of RSPCA Inspectors to all slaughter,
houses throughout the country, and during the
course of his speech on this, he said:

‘. . . Inspectors of the RSPCA have so estab—
lished their good name that they are welcome
to attend most Slaughterhouses. The excep~
tions to that are very rare indeed. I think it
would be a good thing to recognize that the
very cases which form the exception may be
those in which such access ought to be
granted. I would not stigmatize the exceptions,
but only say that while the exceptions are
there and remain the suspicion will remain too.

 

 

 




 

 

" \1l,ll3&

 

r
e
t
h
S
e
g
r
o
e
G
[

‘ 1‘." 1!»)...14

Animal Defender

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded I824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE OI'EEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH. 'l‘llli OI I I \ SIO'I’IIILR
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE (‘III'NIISS III ATIILONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHI'R III (‘().\K\';\l'(}HT

PRESIDENT
SIR MALCOLM SARIIENT, IIIIN l.l.l), l)\1l.\‘, IR(‘\1, I|(\\
VICE-PRESIDENTS
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC LT-CIIL SIR THOMAS MOORI. Mk I. ("III . \H’ \.\‘ [HUNY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

 

THE COUNCIL

Acting Chairman: MRS WM I IS l’(I\\ I K, .II’
Acting Vice-Chairman: |.'l-(‘()l. J. ('. IIII k\\()( )1). H.‘ H,

AGIUS, THE REV DOM AMBROSE, 088, MA *EV'ANS. MRS l)A\ II). In I I'I II I I I I. III! RI HUN IHI: EARL
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD GALWAY. IIII- IIIm AI.I R \ ISI III \ I I \\ i own I, H um‘ MRS I).

*ALLIBERT, MRS GARDNIZR, II()\ .III II I ‘ .R \l |}( \\ ‘ R. I., ISI), KIA, P” I)

*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FClS, .IP *HARYEY, MRS J. “1, M I I °RIII k_ II. II,, ISO
ANDERSON, L- K's ESQ, MRCVSI DVM HOMOUSI- 1- Su ”0 I \IHI \ . xx . \., [50, \IA, Jl’

*BELL, G. R.,ESQ HOWELI. IIASII l’., ISO, \llll , \\l I I . \I III RM «x IIII- Rl-\' PREBENDARY L. J. B.
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HUNI‘I-R, MISS w” . H,_ mm H (HEREFORD)
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LEE, MRS I. M. ’ I \l I , \1l(\, \1 x
BYWATER, H- E, ESQ, MRCVS l—LliWH.l.\ N. I!” RI \ (‘ANIIN ll()\ \RII. I III I ‘x\ \l IHRI)‘ SIRS III SIHIRUUUH
COPE, MRS JOHN LONUMAN. MRS \V. \\ \RIIS, I III IINII . (II, I'MII, (IRE
COTTERELL, LT-COL J. M. v., OBE MACNAIIH'IIN, MR -\. ‘ ’\\ III II . II \l(l(\, ISO, II‘A
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP *MCPIIAIL, MRS Al |.\‘()'\ II llll\, \III, I II II \\ II I I R I, \ll( \RlHlIR‘ Km;

*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MOORE. I.I-(‘(Il SIR IIIIIMAS. "\R I_ I III . \ll' ’\\ I\( III \I I R. I. .|., ISI), H‘IS, l-‘SS
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH

 

*Dcnutcx Brunch chrcxcnlnllxc I \VIIIII I I Y. SIR CHARLES. (IRE, KCMG, CMG, MC
(CANTAB), DOMS

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOIN’I‘I‘II) BY 'I‘IIIC ('()I \('II.

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, Tl)
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, PCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, IJRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LIINIIIIN

('IIII'I SI-I‘rI-lnr) II III\ II \I I , ISI)
.-\\\I\léllll MIIrI'IuriI-x II, \I I . IAMM, ISO. IIA
\ll \\ ,IHINIR, I‘SQ
l.I-I::II SI-I‘rI-Iur) R. \1l RR \\. ISI)
('IIicI VI‘II‘rIIIur) ()IIICI-r \I \IIIR R. (‘. (i. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS YINI-‘Y l’Rl('l \\l) ( IIIImI \R I
. .. . .' l » , H\RlII(III\IIIIl\I\\l\
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 ’I‘clcphIIne—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOPOCOA.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

TO those benevolent individuals who may \\'iSII tII I‘L'CUIIIL' I‘L‘IIL‘IIICUII‘S by \Vill to this

Society, the following form is resp

lecttully SIIgLCStCII

( .
I bequeath t0 ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE I)I{li\'li.‘\"I‘IIIx III. IjIIIIII-y III ANIMALS, J‘OT the

general“ purposes of that Society, the sum 0]. L' {Ice ()7. all duties

a able at . - - . . . . .
P y my death and the T€c€1[)t of the TTL’USHI'L’T IUT IIII' [IIIII‘ heme III the mud SIICIety shall
be a su cie '

ntdlsch .. ~. ,
ﬁt aTge fOT bitch legacy (If It Should he III'SI'I'I'II that the legacy Should be expended

on some articular -- . . ~
1) phase 0f the Soczety S 1('()7'/\', (l (IITCCIIUII III IIIIS I‘III'I‘I IIIII)‘ he added to the f07m

of bequest.)

,M w _ __,_.,.//

CA L'TION

. . . ,. . . . g b the
“I WP. 30. ‘IlII \VIIIS Ul' CIIIIICIIS must he In \Vrltlnfl “ﬁlmed Y

 

By the Act of 7 William IV and lVictori

Testator, and attested by two witnes

ses ' , - - - . I
1n the pTCSenLe or the TCSIIIIIII- and III each IItIIer- I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

62 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1958

 

 

 

* HELPING THEMSELVES. Continued from previous page
the problems of humane work: the purpose of
his report was to allow the International and
Overseas Committee of the Society’s Counc1l to
assess how best it could help local workers to
cope with difﬁcult tasks.

Let us remember that Nigeria is a Branch of
the Society, no less than Liverpool, Wakeﬁeld,
Bath and the numerous other branches on our
own doorstep. The distance from London Head,
quarters may be greater, but the status of the
Branch is the same. Its problems are accepted as
something to be shared by all RSPCA members
everywhere.

It was the wish of residents in Nigeria that they
should form a. Branch of the RSPCA. In so doing
they gained strength from belonging to an old,
strong and well—tried organization, without losing
any of their independence. By forming an overseas

 

branch, they joined animal welfare workers in
Seychelles Islands, Tanganyika, British Guiana,
Malaya, Gibraltar, Cyprus, Mombasa, Uganda,
Malta, Singapore, Grenada.

In seeking to extend its work overseas, the
RSPCA is motivated only by the wish to exert the
utmost possible inﬂuence for the welfare of ani’
mals. Where independent bodies operate, it in’
vites them to become associated societies. By
this method, the Society has opened up fruitful
correspondence with humanitarians in every part
of the globe (and has often sent ﬁnancial help
overseas), so that it can draw upon rich stores of
experience in its deliberations on animal welfare
problems.

In this sphere of work, there is a give and take
by which no one loses. The animals cannot but
gain from it. Nothing else counts with the RSPCA.

EDITOR

WHAHNG

At last we have it—an account of whaling at ﬁrst
hand, not from the humanitarian but from the
other side—~South of Cape Horn. The author,
Lt—Comdr J. Chrisp, MBE, RN (Retd), son of a man
‘who was well known in Tyneside sporting circles
as a bookmaker and publican’, served on three
whaling expeditions as an Inspector for the
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
Symbolically enough, when he went aboard the
Whaler for the ﬁrst time, ‘a cratevload of squealing
pigs was being swung over the side; thus I was
piped on board by a lively crescendo of eara
splitting squeals’. It was also typical of what was
to follow that getting to know fellowvofﬁcers in,
volved the opening of many bottles of whisky.
The voyage had also a symbolic ending~the
capturing of unresisting penguins in ‘wriggling
sacks’. They had shot over 2,000 whales.

The common defence of ﬁshing is that ﬁsh are
coldrblooded and therefore do not feel pain (this
of course is wishful thinking). But whales are
warmvblooded mammals. They were originally
land animals and took to the sea. Dr F. C. Fraser
and Mr P. E. Purves of the British Museum
Department of Zoology, after years of research,
have reported that all the evidence points to the
conclusion that whales are highly intelligent and
hlghly sensitive. The harpoon used is about ﬁve
feet long and very heavy, with four hinged prongs
which open out like an umbrella and prevent
Withdrawal. The head of it is ﬁtted with an
explosive grenade and a time—fuse which detonates
on entering the whale. The damage caused by the
shrapnel is very widespread. The whale suffers
the greatest agony, yet the killing may last for
twenty to forty minutes~sometimes other shells

are ﬁred into the whale and the suffering lasts very
much longer. A female bearing young may of
course suffer thus. The work is so dreadful that
the men who do it are not, to put it mildly,
of the highest type, and even they do it on
alcohol.

An electricallyroperated stunning harpoon has
been invented but not adopted. Cost ought not to
stand in the way, for LtaComdr Chrisp reports
that ‘the whales shot are valued at over
$520,000,000 a year; we had earned for our owners
a shade over £4,000,000’. An obstacle in. the way
of getting the electric harpoon adopted is adumv
brated in the book: the harpooners are naturally
extremely conservative. ‘A ﬁrstrclass gunner can
earn up to £4,800 in a three~months’ season.
Helicopters are used to spot whales but the harv
pooners regarded them with suspicion: ‘ ‘ BIOOdY
newfangled toys” was the least offenswe of the
epithets they rained on them.’ Nevertheless they
came to approve of the helicopters and they
could well come to approve of the electric har’
poon. If the Japanese perfected an electric hare
130011 and patented it, they could secure 1311
enormous advantage over the Norwegians in t IS
highly competitive industry. It is commOn 15%
describe whaling as hazardous; it is indeed: but1
the electric harpoon were successful, mUC
hazard, due to the plunging and zigzaggmg an
tailalashing of the whale in agony, W011
eliminated. he

Apart from this, the only hop? £0." to
ending of this suffering is the extermination“S
the whale, which is well advanced. SurelY t 1
is the last word in human rapacitYo

e

R. F. R.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

64 V THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1958

 

 

\
\

Problems in Nigeria

Interviewed after his five—month visit to Nigeria
on behalf of the Council of the RSPCA, Inspec’
torvOrganizer T. H. Scott was asked if he could
give in a few words some indication of the size of
the problem awaiting local humane workers,
who, with the backing of the RSPCA in London,
are seeking to raise standards of animal welfare in
Nigeria.

‘1 think’, said the Inspector-Organizer, ‘the
best indication I can give of the immense task
facing humanitarians is to say that I under—
stand from my extensive inquiries that the
cult of human sacriﬁce is not yet without its
adherents.’

Horse—Titling and Second Burial

Brief extracts from the main review of the
Inspector—Organizer’s tour are, as they apply to
the various regions (each representing more
territory than the United Kingdom):

NORTHERN REGION. This is a cattle and
horse country and the area around Kano and
Sokoto is the home of the world—famed red
goat from which the true Morocco leather is
obtained. The use of the inhumane native
horse bit, a general apathy towards the suﬁerv
ing of all animals, Gwari dog killing and the
trekking of wornvout horses to the Eastern
Region constitute the most obvious expressions
of cruelty in this Region.

EASTERN REGION. The alleged inhumane
slaughtering of horses in this Region has been
a matter of concern for a long time. The sup—
ply of humane killers by theRSPCA has been
a tremendous step towards the elimination of
this barbaric practice and it is thought that the
only inhumane slaughtering of horses, if it still
takes place, will be in the area just north of
Aﬁkpo in Ogoja province. The lbos of the
Eastern Region eat dogs as well as cattle and
horses, and I fear that the pagan ‘backyard’
slaughtering of dogs may well involve more
cruelty than the prescribed Mohammedan
method which has to be used on all cattle, and
the humane killer which must be used on all
horses slaughtered (legally) in the Eastern
Region. The dogs are, in many instances
trekked several hundred miles into the Region
from the north. I have witnessed a procession
of these unfortunate creatures passing through
Kaduna on their way east.

WESTERN REGION. The weekly sacriﬁces to
the Ju—Ju gods, of poultry, goats, dogs and
sheep, and the general apathy towards suﬁere
ing in animals are the main problems here.
A start has been made in this Region insofar

as our Branch at Ibadan has shown the
Society’s ﬁlms and arranged some lectures to
schoolchildren on the subject of animal
welfare.

LAGOS. The framework of the Society has, of
course, been established here since 1947. The
evils that this branch has opposed have been
mainly the unsatisfactory conditions under
which animals are transported from the
Northern Region to Lagos, the condition of
locally kept pets, and animals in markets.

In order that I might gain a realistic picture of
animal welfare work in Nigeria, my terms of
reference required that I should make a tour of
the country. This tour commenced on Novem—
ber 25 when I ﬂew to Kaduna.

The opinion I formed was that there is much
need for Animal Welfare work in the Northern
Region, the most pressing problems (apart from
veterinary items associated mainly with the
economic aspect of animal health) are: the trek—
king of horses to the East, cattle to the South
and East, and the collecting and trekking of dogs
to the East for food, the use Of the native horse
bit is still widespread, although illegal, and there
is an urgent need for the immediate supply of
humane type bits. I understand that the
Hausas will willingly pay for these bits.

Cruelty Cases

The Veterinary Authorities in the Northern
Region obtain several hundred convictions anr
nually for cases of cruelty which are taken before
the Alkali (Moslem, Native) courts. The Police
particularly thought that the best method of
tackling the animal welfare problem in the north
would be through the schools, by the distributlon
of leaﬂets in the Hausa language liberally printed
with pictures.

On November 28 I ﬂew to Jos and Vom. Most
of my time at Vom was spent in consultationwﬁ
Dr J. 1. Taylor, the Federal Director of Veterinary
Research. He said that he had no objection to gut
inspectors receiving general veterinary traInIng
and refresher courses in veterinary methods at
the Federal clinic at Obalende. .

At Jos I met a Senior Superintendent of Pollcei
who told me that the Plateau Province was relaa
tively free of complaints concerning cruelty t9
animals; this was different to his earlier expert
ences in the northeast, near Maidugufi, where
convictions for cruelty were frequent. . l

On December 3 I ﬂew to Enugu, the calm“
town of the Eastern Region. The maznPW’
P058 of my visit to the East was to obtain a3
much information as possible on the matter 0
ritual horse killings that are alleged to take

 

 




 

64 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1958

 

 

 

 

Problems in Nigeria

Interviewed after his ﬁve’month visit to Nigeria
on behalf of the Council of the RSPCA, Insper
tor’Organizer T. H. Scott was asked if he could
give in a few words some indication of the size of
the problem awaiting local humane workers,
who, with the backing of the RSPCA in London,
are seeking to raise standards of animal welfare in
Nigeria.

‘1 think’, said the Inspector-Organizer, ‘the
best indication I can give of the immense task
facing humanitarians is to say that I under—
stand from my extensive inquiries that the
cult of human sacriﬁce is not yet without its
adherents.’

Horse—Titling and Second Burial

Brief extracts from the main review of the
Inspector—Organizer’s tour are, as they apply to
the various regions (each representing more
territory than the United Kingdom):

NORTHERN REGION. This is a cattle and
horse country and the area around Kano and
Sokoto is the home of the worldvfamed red
goat from which the true Morocco leather is
obtained. The use of the inhumane native
horse bit, a general apathy towards the suﬁerv
ing of all animals, Gwari dog killing and the
tgekking of wornaput horses to the Eastern

n~<n.4 A-.- -Le

as our Branch at lbadan has shown the
Society’s ﬁlms and arranged some lectures to
schoolchildren on the subject of animal
welfare.

LAGos. The framework of the Society has, of
course, been established here since 1947. The
evils that this branch has opposed have been
mainly the unsatisfactory conditions under
which animals are transported from the
Northern Region to Lagos, the condition of
locally kept pets, and animals in markets.

In order that I might gain a realistic picture of
animal welfare work in Nigeria, my terms of
reference required that I should make a tour of
the country. This tour commenced on Novem—
ber 25 when I ﬂew to Kaduna.

The opinion 1 formed was that there is much
need for Animal Welfare work in the Northern
Region, the most pressing problems (apart from
veterinary items associated mainly with the
economic aspect of animal health) are: the trek—
king of horses to the East, cattle to the South
and East, and the collecting and trekking of dogs
to the East for food, the use of the native horse
bit is still widespread, although illegal, and there
is an urgent need for the immediate supply of
humane type bits. I understand that the
Hausas will willingly pay for these bits.

B LACK CARGO

 

The head covered by a hood, the feet taped together, and the bod

this falcon was consigned in the box shown rom Ch'

the staff at the RSPCA Air Hostel at f u:
out of the case after the three tapes shown had been
ID in. Holes at the side provided the only ventilation.

Attention was given to the bird, after removal from the carton
hours it died. Investigations instituted immediately showed that t

who were given his assurance that he would never
Prosecution was seriously considered, and alth
were given publicity in America and this was ex

. ago to Brussels via London.
London Airport to be in a distressed conditio

removed. The size of the box (a

 

 

 

y—except for the head—encased in two nylon stockings,

Travelling by air, the bird was found b)’
n. Completely immobilized, it was taken
cardboard carton) was ID in. by l6 in. by '

. . cted the journey to last one day, but that,
_ oaety of Chicago, Illinois, USA, at the request of the RSPCA,
again tape a bird for shipment.

ough because Of certain difficulties this course was not pursued, the facts

pected to act as a warning to other shippers.




 

 

 

68 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1958

 

OFFICIAL APPRECIATION IN
SEYCHELLES

An ofﬁcial publication issued in Seychelles and
sent to RSPCA Headquarters by Mr G. de
Comarmond, honorary secretary of the RSPCA
Seychelles Branch, pays a tribute to the Branch.

The tribute is contained in the address by His
Excellency the Officer Administering the Govern—
ment. The address, delivered at the Budget
Session in December last, contains, under the
heading ‘Agriculture’ these ﬂattering words:

‘An outbreak of cattle disease was controlled
and much extra work was done to help dog—
owners when their animals were attacked by the
killing disease known as hard pad. In this con—
nection and generally in relation to the care of
animals, I wish to thank the local branch of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals for their very practical help. They were
not content with offering advice, but went ahead
themselves, collected money and with it provided
material assistance in several ways.’

 

ANIMALS IN AMERICAN SATELLITES

Disturbed at a report received in London that the
United States Air Force was considering sending
chimpanzees into space as satellite passengers, the
RSPCA has sent a protest to Mr John Hay
Whitney, the American Ambassador in London.

The report expressed the hope that by experiv
ments with animals some of the answers would be
found to the problems of projecting man into
space; the American Air Force was said to be
working on plans to bring the animals back safely
to earth and animals were already being ‘con—
ditioned’ for space travel at the United States Air
Force Base at Holloman, New Mexico.

The Chief Secretary of the RSPCA, in his letter
to the American Ambassador, says:

‘If this report is correct, I think there is little
doubt that it will cause the greatest apprehension
amongst a large number of those in this country
and elsewhere who have the welfare of animals at
heart. In View of the unknown hazards to which
any animal used in experiments of this kind
would automatically be subjected, with the possi—
bility of acute suffering being caused, I would ask
you to be kind enough to represent to your
Government the great concern of the members
and supporters of this Society, and to express the
hope that no animal will be used in these experi«
ments.’

A letter has been sent by the RSPCA to Mr
Rutherford T. Phillips, Executive Director of
the American Humane Association, Denver,
Colorado, informing him of the Society’s pro—
test.

ﬁ.
‘

A letter received in May from the American
Embassy in London states: ‘We have now
received word from Washington that there are
no present plans’ to send up a monkey.

 

 

Photograph by courtesy of Sergeant Porter, East Suffolk Police.

HEDGEHOG TRAPPED

An RSPCA Inspector was shown the body of a male hedge-
hog, with his face in the jaws of a gin trap. The animal’s
tongue was protruding from the side of the mouth and was
badly swollen. The hedgehog was found by a policeman in
the garden of an old age pensioner. It was then still alive—
suspended from a small tree as a deterrent to birds, over a
bed of seeds. The animal was writhing in agony; the police-
man released him and shot him through the head to put him
out of agony. The body, still in the gin trap, was examined
by a veterinary surgeon who thought the animal had under-
gone extreme suﬂ'ering for at least a day and a half. Prose-
cuted at Orwell by the RSPCA for unlawfully causing un-
necessary suﬂ'ering to the hedgehog, a labourer was ﬁned
ten shillings. (B.Il2l, Inspector Hyde.)

 

#4

DOG TIED TO POST IN BLAZING SUN

An Alsatian dog found tied to a concrete post in
blazing sunshine was undergoing unnecessary
suffering, it was decided at RotherhamWest Rid’
ing Court. The owner of the dog was ﬁned £5
and was banned from keeping a dog for ﬁve
years. He had to pay £3 33. costs. ,

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
the dog was seen by Chief Inspector Young, 1‘5
had obviously been tied up for some time. The
weather had been exceedingly hot for several

ays.

The defendant said he had had to tie the dog
up for it ‘pulled the house to pieces’. (B2499)




 

70 THE ANIMAL WORLD

I have mentioned the RSPCA and I am sure
hon Members on both sides of the Committee
are fully aware of their activities. . . .’

Mr F. H. Hayman, in supporting the amend,
ment, added:

‘. . . The RSPCA does almost all the work in
dealing with cruelty to animal cases which come
before petty sessional courts. Its inspectors are
at almost every meeting . . . because bodies like
the RSPCA have a national standing, and are
respected in every area. I hope that the Minister
will accept the Amendment so that we may
make use of their experience and knowledge.’
Dr Stross, MP, another supporter of the

amendment, said:

‘. . . We ask the Parliamentary Secretary to
accept these words which do not tie him
down, but will be an indication to the reput—
able organizations in this country like the
RSPCA or the Universities Federation of
Animal Welfare, that we have noted and are
grateful for their work, and that we wish them
to continue . . .’

The Minister was not prepared to accept the
amendment, and it was withdrawn.

(The RSPCA has consistently worked for the
improvement of slaughterhouses and has advocated
particularly the slaughter of animals as near as pos’
sible to their place of origin so that journeys are
reduced; it believes slaughterhouses should be sited in
such a way that animals taken to them are not driven
through congested areas.)

QUESTIONS

SIR J. DUNCAN asked the Secretary of State for
Scotland (1) what advice he has received from the
Nature Conservancy regarding the increase in the
breeding colony of grey seals on the Farne
Islands which are doing increasing damage to
Scottish ﬁsheries;

(2) whether he is aware that grey seals are getting
so numerous on the east side of Great Britain
that they are spreading up to the Angus coast
and damaging ﬁsheries; and whether he is now in
a position to announce his plans for dealing with
this problem.

MR MACLAY: I have had reports of increased
damage by both grey and common seals from
many parts of the Scottish coast. In its Report
for the year ended September 30, 1957, the
Nature Conservancy summarized the evidence it
had obtained about the breeding colony of grey
seals on the Farne Islands, noted the increase
which has occurred and made these recomr
mendations:

(1) Research and observations on seals should
continue as at present.

(2) A new programme sponsored by the Scottish
Home Department should attempt to discover
means of protecting nets against seals.

June 1958

 

 

(3) As an experimental and interim measure,
further increases in the grey seal should be lim—
ited by an annual cull of 300 calves, if authorized
by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food, by order under the Grey Seals Protection
Act, 1932.

My Department is arranging for experiments
under head (2) of these recommendations, and
my right hon Friend the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food, and I are considering the
proposal under head (3) in consultation with the
interests concerned.

(The persecution of seals on the grounds that they
harm ﬁshing interests has more than once been the

subject of protest by the RSPCA.)

Experiments on Animals

MR BODY asked the Secretary of State for the
Home Department how many experiments on
animals were witnessed by inspectors of his
Department in 1956.

MR R. A. BUTLER: HM Inspectors under the
Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, in the course of
their visits to registered places see large numbers
of experiments. No record is kept of the number
so witnessed.

(The view of the RSPCA is that no painful

experiments should be permitted on animals.)

 

MARKET REFORMS

The RSPCA has been gravely concerned for some
time about the prevailing conditions in Romford
Cattle Market, and many representations have
been made to the local authority to improve the
method at present employed for the tying of
cattle. The Society was dissatisﬁed with the way
the calves were handled and, as a result of a
vigorous protest, temporary cover was erected
and the calves were placed loose in pens with
straw provided. It is good news to hear from
Senior Inspector Reid that the market is to be
closed on June 24 and in future cattle will go to
Chelmsford and Wickham Market, where facili~
ties are much better.

Chief Inspector Nash of Swansea reports that
another unsatisfactory market has been closed
at Neath and a new ultra—modern cattle market,
costing £24,000, was opened by the Mayor on
March 8. The new market is the only one com’
pleted in Wales since the war. It provides accom’
modation for attested and non—attested cattle
and the sale ring of standard size is completelV
under cover with tiered stands for buyers and
sellers. Eventually, under the town’s redevelop’
ment plan, a new abattoir will be established
nearby.

Chief Inspector Miles of Peterborough reports
that improvements are being carried out at




 

‘Oliver Twist’
—picture from
Mrs Rees,
Bournemouth

 

for courage and humanity. Reports were submitted by Miss
M. Castle (sec), Mr C. G. Francis (hon treas), and Chief
Inspector Tye. The speaker was Supt Priestley.

Halifax AM, branch. Travelling Supt Goodenough gave
the address. The Mayor attended.
Hampshire—~Southampton and District AM, branch. The
Mayor, Mr G. T. Dicks, presided. Mrs Wallis Power spoke.
Reports were submitted by: Mrs R. N. Statham (hon see),
Mr S. H. Squier (hon treas) and Senior Inspector Hallam.

Woolston, jumble sale, Mrs Birt, aux hon sec, £28 10s.
Hampshire—Winchester AM, branch. The Dean of Win-
chester (president) presided, supported by the Mayor and
Mayoress and Mrs Wallis Power (acting chairman, RSPCA
Council). Alderman the Rev Prebendary Snell gave an
address.

Huntingdonshire and March Area March, jumble sale (£28)
and cinema collection (£30 13s. 2d.) Mrs L. Morton and
Mrs M. E. French (aux co hon secs).

Kent—Dover and District AM, branch The Deputy
Mayor presided. Those present included the Earl of Guilford,
and the Mayoress. The speaker was Mr Davies.
Kent—Folkestone and District AM, branch. Mr. A. E.
Grace (branch president) presided. Mr F. Gravestock of the
Overseas Department of Headquarters, London, was the
speaker.

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Headcorn, whist drive,
Mr Brunger, £12 23. for branch fund.

Kent—West AM, branch. Reports were submitted by Mr
L. E. Green (hon sec and hon treas) and Senior Inspector
Cook. Mr C. R. Davies spoke.

Lancashire—St Helens and District AM, branch. The
Mayor (Councillor J. Henebery, JP) presided. The speaker
was Mr Tolhurst.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton AM, branch.

‘The Rev C. Watkinson (branch chairman) presided. The
speaker was Mr D. A. 'L. Camm (assistant secretary, Head-
quarters).

Middlesex —— North-West North Harrow, Miss Nora

Ebbutt’s Schoolof Dancing, display, £10.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich—Norwich, spring fair, Miss P.

Harbord, branch hon sec, £90.

North Tees Stockton-on-Tees, Odeon Cinema display,
Mrs W. V. M. Kelly (branch co hon sec), £13.

AM, branch. Alderman Alsop (Council Member) at-
tended. Addresses given by Police Supt C. W. Ritchie
(chairman) and Mr Luetchford.

Shropshire Shrewsbury, jumble sale, Mrs Meredith (aux
hon sec), £50.

Staffordshire—North Burslem, coffee party and bring and
buy sale, Mrs Berry (aux hon sec), £32 9s. 7d.

Stoke-on-Trent, whist drive, W. T. Copeland Ltd (Spode),
£13 12s. 6d.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch AM,
branch. The speaker was Dr A. L. McPhail (Council
Member).

77- THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1958

Suﬁ'olk—West, and Bury St Edmunds Sudbury, jumble sale
and whist drive, Mrs E. M. Breakspear (aux hon sec) and
helpers, £80.
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Surbiton, jumble sale, Mr A. R. Bell, vice-president,
£503 2:. 8d.

AM, branch. Mr C. R. Davies spoke.
Sussex—West, and Brighton Rottingdean, ﬁlm show and
rafﬂe, Mrs Tredennick, about £60 for Brighton Clinic.
Torquay and South-East Devon AM, branch. The Branch
Chairman presided, supported by the Mayor and Mayoress
and the Deputy Mayor and Mayoress. The speaker was
Wing Commander H. Hillier.
Warwickshire—South and East AM, branch. The Mayor of
Warwick (Alderman E. Bartlett) presided. The speaker was
Mrs Wallis Power (Acting Chairman of the RSPCA Coun-
cil .
Westmorland AM, branch. The Mayor of Appleby,
Councillor J. Hargreaves, presided. Reports were submitted
by Mrs Boyle (hon sec) and Mr L. N. Cross (hon treas). Mrs
W. Longman, Council Member, gave an address.
Wiltshire—North AM, branch. The chair was taken by
Miss Livingstone (president and branch chairman). Mrs
Desborough Walford (Council Member) attended.
Wolverhampton and District AM, branch. Mr A. Southall
presided. Those present included Dowager Lady Mander
(president) and Alderman Mrs R. Ilsley (Mayor). Reports
were submitted by Mr A. Fereday (hon treas) and Senior
Inspector Hayes.
Worcestershire—East and West Warwickshire AM, branch.
Mr Howard Wood (branch chairman) presided. The speaker
was Mr Tolhurst.
Worcestershire—West and Malvern AM, branch. Mrs A.
Harrison (hon sec) presided and presented a report. Other
reports were submitted by Mrs Strickland (hon treas) and
Regional Supt Best. The speaker was Mr D. S. Summerﬁeld.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District AM, branch.
Dr W. O. C. Jarratt (branch president) presided. The
speaker was Mr Luetchford. .
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District AM, branch. Mr Austin
Hyde was the speaker. The Mayor, Councillor Miss Wardle,
presided. '

Knaresborough, jumble sale, Mrs Lishman (aux chair-
man), £20.

AM, Wetherby Aux. The speaker was Mr Luetchford.
Mrs Harvey (Council Member) attended.
Yorkshire—Vale of Derwent Division AM, Division. Mrs
Bell (committee member) presided. The speaker was Mr
Luetchford. Reports submitted by Mrs Pye—Oliver (hon
38c), Mr J. L. Penrose (hon treas) and Senior Inspector

x ey.

 

DOGS IN CARS
The RSPCA takes a serious View of the habit of

some motorists of leaving dogs closed up in cars.
An unventilated car parked in the open on a
summer’s day can become extremely hot and
stuffy and the unhappy dog will suffer acute dis;
tress. Last year the Society prosecuted in two
instances, and in another two where dogs were
carried locked in the boots of cars.

Readers are invited to apply, with a stamped
addressed envelope, for a specimen of an illuSv
trated poster showing a dog with hanging tongue
in a closed car.

 

 




 

 

 

@NEFORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All inquiries 1‘0

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

l FLAG DAY

i GOODS
PLASTIC BADGES

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeek Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, [3.2

1 LIST ON APPLICATION
l
‘ Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: 'Unibutoo Edo’

 

ENJOY A DOG BOOK
and at the same time
HELP THE RSPCA

READ
MY DOG LASSIE
by FRANK CREW
Price 85. 6d. Publishers: Muller

The author is paying all royalties on this book to the
RSPCA

My Dog Lassie is available from any bookseller

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

-'

 

ﬁ

 

\ﬁ

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




