 

 

An aggravated case of blatant disregard
for the law and cruel and inhumane treat-
ment of animals was found by the ASPCA
agent who investigated the home of a woman
in North Highlands, New York. He found
two goats in a meadow so tangled in their
heavy chains they could hardly move.

Accompanied by a State Trooper, the town
dog warden and health ofﬁcer, he broke into
the house and found two dogs amid ﬁlth and
foul odor. The woman had disappeared,
leaving no food or water. Three months
earlier she had been ﬁned $25 for similar
neglect.

But this time, when the ASPCA agent
apprehended her, the judge had her held for
mental observation at the Hudson River
State Hospital. The animals were taken to a
Beacon animal hospital.

9? 96 96
Although horses are slowly disappearing
from the New York scene, the ASPCA is
ever alert for cruelty to those that remain.
Following investigation by Agent Victor E.
Balluff, a Brooklyn stable owner was ﬁned
$10 for failure to supply his seven horses
with sufﬁcient hay and grain for 21 hours.

In another case Agent Howard Dupuis is-
sued a summons to a Bronx peddler for
allowing his horse to walk on the streets
minus shoes on its hind feet. The offender
pleaded guilty in court and paid a $25 ﬁne.

Agent Joseph Schlesinger arrested a man
he saw beating a horse in Central Park,
Manhattan. The man had been galloping the
horse and the steed was overheated. lts right
jaw had an Open wound, and there was a
fresh wound under the saddle. The agent
suspended the horse from labor.

When the man could produce only con-
ﬂicting identiﬁcation Schlesinger immedi-

. . . for the prevention

of cruelty . . .

ately hauled him into night court where he
was held in $500 bail. His ﬁngerprints re-
vealed he was wanted for manslaughter in
Ulster County.

He received a $15 ﬁne on the cruelty
charge and was turned over to State Troopers
to be taken to Ulster County to answer the
manslaughter charge.

as .x. it

When two rabbits and ﬁve guinea pigs
used in tuberculosis tests at Roosevelt Hos-
pital were found missing, police and the
ASPCA were called in. A check of the scene
led them to believe it was child’s play and
the trial led to the neighborhood public
school were a clue was turned up.

A number of youngsters had bragged
about their new pet rabbits. The ASPCA
man, accompanied by police, recovered the
missing animals from homes in the neigh-
borhood and returned them to the laboratory.

As it turned out, the animals had no
communicable disease. The boys were turned
over to juvenile authorities.

as a:-
On a tip an ASPCA agent was stationed
at St. Nicholas Arena where a boxing bout
was in progress both in the ring and in the
audience.

The audience melee was started when two
men were hit by a flying chair and a man
loosed a case of pigeons in the balcony while
a companion exploded ﬁrecrackers. The
agents issued a summons for cruelty to the
pigeons.

Although the case was dismissed in court,
boxing commissioner Julius Helfand de-
plored the incident and the magistrate
strongly admonished the man for participat—
ing in What he described as a “downright

vulgar and cruel stunt.”
(Continued on Page 24)

15

 

 




 

@ogaﬂ gdogpitallitg

at 1 (WWW AIRPORT

CC 0 problem is considered too unusual
to handle at the Royal SPCA’s Ani—
mal Hostel,” said Arthur L. Amundsen,
Assistant General Manager of the ASPCA,
upon his return from a four-week observation
trip to this London Airport establishment.

His trip climaxed preparation for the
opening of our own Animalport which will
care for animals between ﬂights at New
York’s International Airport.

Mr. Amundsen reports that the unex-
pected is the normal at the London hostice,
ﬁrst of its kind in the world, when the next
plane may unload 1,600 monkeys, a valuable
race horse, a leopard cub needing a serious
operation, or a 1,100-pound elephant.

Through this Noah’s Ark of the air pass
a half million animals yearly. Sometimes as
many as 5,000 will pass through in a single
day. Some disembark in London, consigned
to zoos, dealers and private purchasers-Most
stay in London only a few hours, or a day
or two at the most, bound for other desti-
nations.

Baby Gorilla Gets Vitamins

One who stayed much longer was a 25-
pound baby gorilla, dubbed King by the
staff. King developed pneumonia and was
wooed back to health with vitamins, drugs
and oxygen in the hostel’s sick bay. During
his convalescence a kennelmaid (the hostel
has an equal number of men and women
tending animals) fed him baby food. Every-
body knew he was getting better when he
chased his nurse around the room.

Before the hostel opened in 1952 there
was a high rate of mortality among airborne

2

animals. Little was known of the optimum
conditions under which animals and birds
should travel. When post-war years saw a
rapid expansion in transporting livestock
by air (15 percent of all air freight tonnage
today consists of animals) major airlines
and the RSPCA set up suggestions for
shippers and saw the need for an animal
hostel. Today casualties are low and the
London shelter is the admiration of animal
exporters and collectors all over the world.

Similar problems at International Airport
in New York, where 100,000 animals pass
through each year, have encouraged the
ASPCA to construct our Animalport which
we’re patterning after the one in London.
Our architects visited that shelter before
drawing plans and Mr. Amundsen’s ﬁrst-
hand experience in London will be applied

to methods of operation.

 

 




 

 

 

Dangerous Invaders
(Continued from Page 9)

all-year-round menace. The tick’s leathery
body resists ordinary insecticides. Special
killing agents have been developed, but ticks
can be destroyed with these only after their
hiding places have been discovered.

Every dog should be examined for ticks
at least three times a week. The tick may
catch a ride anywhere, but he prefers three
locations: inside the ears, around the neck
and between the toes.

Spotting the Tick

“If you spot a tick accidently without this
careful examination,” warns Mr. Pomerantz,
“chances are your dog has been harboring
them for at least four months. And un-
doubtedly they’re already ﬁrmly entrenched
behind your drapes or under your rug.”

The trick is to catch the very ﬁrst one
your dog picks up, for a female may lay
from 1,800 to 3,000 eggs.

Here’s how to recognize the enemy: The
adult brown dog tick has eight legs, a head
and a body like a meal sack. Before feeding

 

An adult brown dog tick.

it is flat and reddish brown. After feeding,
it grows ten times in size to about a half-
inch long and is slate gray.

To remove, ﬁrst apply any type of oil,

18

which paralyzes and asphyxiates the tick.
Wear rubber gloves and use tweezers to
remove the tick, using a straight and slow,
but ﬁrm pull to avoid leaving the head
buried in your dog’s ﬂesh. Dab with iodine.
Flush ticks down the bathroom drain.

A solution of one ounce of neutral soap
dissolved in a gallon of water containing
three to four ounces of derris powder will
kill ticks on a dog. Always protect the dog’s
eyes with vaseline.

Long-haired dogs require considerable
combing and, if they’re badly infested, must
be clipped and every strand of the clipped
hair burned immediately. Follow clipping
with a bath of tincture of green soap and
warm water.

“To be safe, both the dog and the house
should be de-ticked, the dog preferably by
a veterinarian and the house by a competent
pest control man,” advises Mr. Pomerantz,
who has lectured on ticks at the Universities
of Harvard, Purdue, Montreal, Fordham,
Massachusetts, and is advisor to the U. S.

Public Health Service and the ASPCA.

Asked about his own dog, Mr. Pomerantz
sheepishly admits that Coco did have a tick
once, but it was his Wife who discovered
it in time. “She was carefully trained,” says
the only man in the country to have an
entire family of mites named after him,
Pomerantzi charlesi. Other insects bearing
his name, besides the recent tick appella-
tion, include a species of ﬂea, Stivalius
pomperantzi; and a species of chigger,
Euschongastia pomerantzi.

Don’t Ged Rid of Your Dog

“I must emphasize the psychological ef-
fect of ﬁnding ticks,” says the pink-cheeked.
poetic entomology expert, who got his ﬁrst
tick back in 1937. “When any dog owner
has had his home made completely un-
livable because of ticks brought in by his
dog, he’s likely to turn against dogs in
general, even though it was his own fault

(Continued on Page 20)

 

 




 

m
mm
n...“
WA
v
s

 

 

 




 

 

 

LET ME BE YOUR BOOKMARK

If you read a great deal —— as who doesn’t
—— and if you own a pet —— who doesn’t —
the ASPCA is putting out a bookmark just
for you. Five four-page bookmarks, each in
a different color, contain useful information
on feeding and care of your favorite pet.

The dog, cat, parakeet, turtle and the
golden hamster are available now, with
bookmarks on ﬁsh, parrots, white mice and
rabbits still in preparation.

They’re 5¢ each, or $3 per 100. Attrac-
tive and useful for yourself or your friends
for Christmas.

 

For the Prevention of Cruelty
(Continued from Page 15)

In another incident involving pigeons,
we took special measures to protect the
pigeons around City Hall Park. Four agents
and a stand-by truck were sent to the park
when several pigeons had been injured by
persons netting them in a quest for a hidden
$1,000 bill offered by a radio program.

Clues broadcast over the air, indicating a
white bird might be the key to the bill’s
hiding place, drew mobs of seekers. A pro-
test was lodged with the program and the
station, which apologizes and promised that
such a stunt would not be repeated.

24

Winter Care for Dogs

Cold weather’s here and there’s more to
come, which means that your pet will re-
quire special care if he’s to have a healthy,
comfortable winter. These do’s and don’ts
will help avoid chills and colds as well as the
complications that can arise when his re-
sistance is lowered.

' Brush your dog daily to remove dirt and
loose hair, but don’t bathe him too fre-
quently.

0 Healthy dogs don’t need extra clothing in
winter. Their own coats act as insulation
against the cold. Sick or frail animals may
welcome an extra coat, but the average
dog does better on his own.

0 Feed your pet a little more generously in
winter— more fatty foods and perhaps
Vitamin supplements on the advice of your
veterinarian.

0 Don’t allow him to spend too much time
close to the radiator or ﬁreplace. Intense
heat will lower his resistance to cold when
he does go outdoors. Heat also tends to
dry his coat. Damp cellars are bad, too.

0 Plenty of exercise will harden your pct as
no amount of coddling or house life will.
Several walks in the open air daily should
leave him comfortably tired, but not ex-
hausted. The exercise should do you some
good, too.

0 Almost any dog can stay outdoors in Win-
ter if he’s furnished with a well-built dog
house and is kept out right through the
fall. Dog houses for winter use should be
as small as is comfortable for the dog,
double built and dry and with a ﬂap over
the opening.

0 Salts sprinkled on streets to melt snow can
irritate a dog’s tender feet. They can also
cause diarrhea and vomiting if swallowed
when a dog licks his feet. So wash your
dog’s feet after he comes in from a romp
on snow-covered city streets.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE D OR LISTE

Cortisone

by Robert F. Jewett, D.V.M.

Many arthritis patients are now getting
marked relief from a comparatively new
group of drugs. During the past four or ﬁve
years Cortisone, ACTH, and their closely
related synthetic counterparts have proved
highly successful in relieving the pain and
reducing the joint swellings characteristic
of arthritis.

This is the most widely publicized use of
Adrenalcortical therapy, but it has many
other ramiﬁcations of interest to the medical
doctor and to the veterinarian.

Relieves Pain, Reduces Swelling

Cortisone, and other members of this
group of drugs relieves pain, swelling, and
inﬂammation from many causes, such as
skin allergies, burns, infections and injuries.
It affords prompt and durable relief to aller-
gic reactions to serum and vaccines. In trau-
matic injuries to joints it lessens the danger
of permanent immobility and promotes the
early return to use of the limb.

In burns cortisone prevents or materially
lessens scarring. It minimizes danger of
shock from surgery. It reduces sensitivity and
damage to the eye from infection and injury.
Its use also imparts a sense of general well-
being to afflicted individuals.

Cortisone achieves its results through a
complex inter-action of hormones. The exact
mechanism of this action is not yet completely
understood. It is not basically curative alone.

12

 

 

Its best use remains in conjunction with spe-
ciﬁc therapy directed toward overcoming the
underlying cause of the disease.

Marketed under such trade names as Cor-
tate, Cortone Acetate, Cortef Acetate, Deltra,
Cortotrophin, and Meticortin, the drug may
be applied topically as drops or solutions, by
injection, or orally, as the circumstances may
indicate.

Results Often in Hours

Results depend on how chronic the condi—
tion may be and on the extent and degree
of tissue damage already existing. Severe
cases may require a week or ten days before
there is noticeable improvement and treat-
ment may need to be continued for an ex-
tended period before deﬁnite and substantial
relief is obtained. In mild and recent cases
relief is often noted in a few hours.

The instance of a ten year old German
shepherd is a prime example of the effective
use of cortisone. When the dog entered the
ASPCA hospital it was so severely crippled
by arthiritis that concern was felt that it
might ever walk again. Along with heat
treatment and other therapy, he received
cortisone regularly for several weeks. When
discharged his pain had been alleviated and
he was able to get about comfortably.

For Selected Cases Only

Despite the excellent results with Cortisone
it must be prescribed with discretion. Pa-
tients suffering from kidney ailments cannot
be given the drug internally because it
upsets the ﬂuid balance of the body too much
for them to compensate. It does not counter-
act viruses and bacteria. Indeed, in some
conditions, it not only masks the progress of
infection by obscuring symptoms, but actu-
ally enhances such progress.

Therefore it may safely be used only in
selected cases.

But cortisone is truly a remarkable drug
and as its uses continue to be explored its
applications will be expanded.




 

 

 

Country Home for Animals

HE ASPCA now has eight shelters. The
latest addition is in the attractive sur-
roundings of Westchester County, in the

Village of Elmsford.

We are particularly pleased to have a
shelter in this suburban area, since it means
we Can care for certain wild animals in a
habitat they are used to. Raccoons, skunks,
muskrats and squirrels will be welcome tem-
porary visitors, and the woodsy background
of the property has already created a per-
manent home for 60 beautiful white chickens
which were turned over to us.

We’re proud, too, that we were chosen by
the Western Westchester Humane Society as

Expansive outdoor runs face wooded hills in
rear of building. Shelter can accommodate
one hundred animals at a time.

 

its successor to carry on the humane pro-
gram that ﬁne group of women had estab-
lished and fulﬁlled for the past 35 years un-
der the leadership of Mrs. August H. Haucke.

Many improvements have been completed
and others are under way. Landscaping, an
aviary, a new heating system, the purchase
of a second ambulance and the building of
an apartment for a caretaker and his family
are parts of an over-all plan to improve
facilities for the care of the fortunate ani-
mals that will be housed at this gem of a
shelter. There is kennel space for a hundred
or more at any one time, and each kennel
has access to an outdoor run.

Humane work never ceases in spite of con-
struction debris. Shelter Manager Carl Stohr
lifts collie, looking for home, from ambulance.

 

W .....

 

 




 

 

This Also Happened in ’57
(Continued from Page 8)

oil proposed a law that there may be no
barking or singing of birds between 11 p.m.
and 7 a.m.

University of Western Ontario psycholo-
gists tested a dachshund that barked the
right answers to such arithmetic problems
as ﬁve minus one, add two and divide by
three, and found the dog got the right
answers nine times out of ten. Miami Beach
police and humane society agents captured
an eight-foot alligator in a residential sec-
tion storm sewer. Stockyard workers in
Buffalo, N. Y., investigating an odd looking
sheep trotting out of a railroad car with a
herd of sheep from Kentucky, found the
animal was a shaggy St. Bernard dog.

And to prove that people are no better oﬂ
than animals, a Philadelphia doctor an-
nounced that monkeys put in charge of
other monkeys developed “executive ulcers.”

A monumental year, 1957.

 

Meet Santa’s Helpers
(Continued from Page 1])

grounds, since the deer provide all their
food, clothing and transportation. Hides be-
come parkas, gloves, trousers and shoes; hair
is used to stuff mattresses; sinew makes
thread; milk provides cheese, which is packed
in the membrane removed from the stomach.

Sleds are drawn by teams of nine or ten
in single ﬁle. One reindeer can pull 450
pounds and travel 40 miles a day. Siberia,
Alaska, Greenland and other extreme north-
ern points make similar use of these animals,
also creating knives from bones and ﬁsh-
hooks from horns.

In the United States reindeer are just
about extinct, except for a few in northern
Michigan—and Santa Claus’ fabled teams,
which we hope will live on in the minds and
hearts of Americans forever.

 

Oscar the Cat and family.

A NEW CAREER

Mickey Mouse, the famous American

cartoon character, has a German counter-
part. He’s Oscar the Cat, drawn by Carl E.
Fischer of Frankfurt. German children and
adults laugh at this cartoon, oblivious of the
fact that the artist, a one-time illustrator on
a Frankfurt newspaper, lost both arms, the
tools of his trade, in an air raid in 1945.

Scarcely four months after the tragic
accident Carl Fischer courageously took up
his pens, pencils and brushes again —— this
time ﬁrmly grasped between his teeth.

He has since completed many sketches,
cartoons and illustrations, children’s books,
water colors, drawings and lithographs.
Today, at 57, Carl Fischer is one of Ger-
many’s most prominent cartoonists.

He has illustrated German editions of
Cilliver’s Travels, Don Quixote, Reynard the
Fox and Cheaper by the Dozen. Ofﬁcial car-
toonist for the Frankfurt Zoo, he always
paints with his pet cat at his side.

Hard to believe the paintings are done by
a man who holds a brush between his teeth.

21

 

 

 

 




 

CC HERE’S a menace in the American

home that’s spreading so fast we
won’t be able to control it unless we take
preventive measures soon. It’s called the
brown dog tick.” This dire warning comes
from Charles Pomerantz, one of the greatest
living authorities on tick control.

Mr. Pomerantz, president of the Bell Ex-
terminating Co. of New York, is no stranger
to our readers —— he was the subject of
ANIMAL PROTECTION articles in 1948 and
1953. In addition to previous honors in
recognition of his role in 1946 in tracking
down the carrier of a new disease, rickettsial-
pox, science last year named a whole tick
family after him, loxodes pomerantzi.

Because the current tick problem is so
severe—~—-Mr. Pomerantz calls this his busiest
tick season in 20 years —— we repeat some
of his earlier advice and add new informa-
tion on the tick menace.

The invader comes into the house on the
dog, feeds on the dog’s blood and looks for
a secluded crevice in which to lay its eggs.

The brown dog tick is harder to get rid
of then any other insect. The bedbug stays
near beds; the cockroach prefers the kit-
chen. But the brown dog tick moves all
over the house and can be found under rugs,
behind wallpaper, in floors, beds, furniture,
lamps, refrigerators, books, ironing boards,

combs, draperies, and even in key holes.

Mr. Pomerantz recently found a batch of
30,000 to 40,000 tick eggs under one rug
in a New York City home. Sometimes his
men drill through walls, yank up tiles and
unscrew light ﬁxtures to get at them.

The brown dog tick, ﬁrst discovered in
this country in Texas and. Florida in 1912,
has become primarily a city tick, prosper-
ing indoors. His country cousins are the
Rocky Mountain spotted fever tick and the
American dog tick, also called the eastern
wood tick.

 
 
   
 

To date, the brown dog tick has not yet
been proved to be a disease carrier to hu-
mans or dogs, but experts believe he is
capable of becoming one after his complete
acclimatization to this country. His cousins
have been known to spread tularaemia,
Colorado tick fever and tick paralysis, as
well as Rocky Mountain spotted fever.

The brown dog tick can be dangerous to
the dog, nevertheless. Mr. Pomerantz recalls
one dog, found to be carrying 1,500 ticks,
which died from loss of blood.

It’s easy for any dog to collect a few
ticks in the course of a short walk. Ticks
drop off one dog and are picked up by an-
other on the street, in the park, in elevators,
on stairways, in hallways.

They thrive in warm weather, but in
present-day steam-heated homes, they’re an

(Continued on Page 18)

9

 

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American So ciety for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

 

 

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 11, NO. 3

Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Winter 1957

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, President
WILLIAM F. MORGAN. Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President
THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary
LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

COVER PICTURE

Our cover cat’s waiting-for-Santa mood
was captured by Walter Chandoha,
one of America’s top animal photog-
raphers, whose memorable cat and dog
photographs have appeared on the
covers of many leading magazines.

 

 

ADMINISTRATION OFFICES . . . . . TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
KATHERINE M. LEHR, Secretary to Committees
THACHER PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St.. New York 28, N. Y.
JOHN E. WHITEHEAD, V.M.D., Chief of Sta]?I
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT . . TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)

PLaza 5-1650

TRafalgar 6-7700

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT . . .
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

MANHATTAN SHELTER . . . . .
441 East 92nd St.. New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN SHELTER . . . . .
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

BRONX SHELTER AND CLINIC . . .
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

TYrone 2-8500

QUEENS SHELTER . . . . . .
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. 1.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND SHELTER . . . . . .
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

GIhraltar 7-0122

GLEN COVE SHELTER . . .
Pratt Blvd. Ext., Glen Cove, L. I.
VINCENT J. PATTERSON, Shelter Manager

GLen Cove 4-5913

LONG BEACH SHELTER . . . .
70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. I.
HARRY J. CONNOLLY, Shelter Manager

GEneral 1-0660

ELMSFORD SHELTER . . . . . . . . LYI‘iC 2-7890
Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
CARI. STOHR, Shelter Manager

 

 




 

 

Convenient to Runways
The RSPCA’S red brick building, with its

outside runs, extending over half an acre is
at one end of London airﬁeld near the
Bath Road from London to Windsor. It’s
less than ten minutes from the most distant
runway, offering convenient and speedy
access to the planes. And the hostel is never
“full-up.” It once accepted 2,400 monkeys
from the East, plus inﬁnite other varieties
of animals at once.

The stalls and boxes are ﬂexible, so that
those which held monkeys at noon may be
stabling pandas at four and valuable
thoroughbred horses at six. The only large
animal that has not passed through is the
I giraffe and that’s only because they don’t
build aircraft with enough headroom.

The shelter has accommodated crocodiles,
tigers, lions, snakes, bears, wolves, mongooses,
cows, pigs, frogs, dogs, cats, ﬂamingoes,
leopards, Cheetahs, horses, ﬁsh, sheep, pen.-
guins, anteaters, bulls, and a varied assort-
ment of birds, the most frequent customers.

A special horse ambulance, which can
hold two small elephants, transports ailing
animals from the plane to the hostel for
treatment. Large lions and tigers are trans-
ferred from their traveling cages to ingeni-
ous boxes adapted from one used by the
London Zoo.

Heating a Problem

Heating is one of the hostel’s heaviest
expenses. Birds, as well as monkeys and
lions and tigers from the tropics, are housed
in specially heated rooms, well-ventilated,
but not drafty, where a temperature in the
upper 70’s is maintained all year round.

One of the problems of transporting ﬁsh
by air is that at 20,000 feet the oxygen
content of the water is reduced to half of
what it was at sea level. One solution is to
send ﬁsh in sealed plastic bags in metal
containers. Tropical ﬁsh go in heated water.

Also self-sufﬁcient are poisonous snakes
transported in burlap bags. Only when an

unorthodox smell indicates a dead snake
may be enclosed with a live one does a box
have to be opened. Mr. Amundsen recalls
the day an urgent call came from the air-
port that nine snakes were loose on a plane.
RSPCA men were dispatched and came back

with the snakes safely in tow.

During Mr. Amundsen’s visit the shelter
was host to its two millionth animal, but
Mr. Amundsen was even more enthusiastic
about English hospitality toward people. Our
American representative is grateful to the
hostel’s manager Frederick Salmon, an ex-
perienced zoologist, who rolled out the wel-
come mat for him.

Busy Weekends

Neville Whittaker, assistant manager,
shares in the praise, as do the dozen ken-
nelmen and kennelmaids who comprise the
staff, which remains on duty 24 hours a
day. Week-ends are particularly busy be-
cause many airlines generally make London
on a Saturday or Sunday.

Mr. Amundsen marveled at the staff’s
efﬁciency. At 2 am. one night a cargo plane
unloaded 800 monkeys, 21 dogs, 44 cages of
birds, two heilfers, ten African gray monkeys
and a cheetah. All cages were cleaned, the
animals were watered and fed, and by
dawn most were already on another plane
bound for their ﬁnal destination.

“Any restaurateur would be staggered by
the feeding prospect which faces Mr. Sal-
mon daily,” says Mr. Amundsen. The hostel
must be prepared for any number of fastidi-
ous eaters that might arrive without notice.

One whole side of the building is given
over to a large, immaculate picture-window
kitchen and storage room, equipped with
gas stoves, deep freezers, refrigerators, clos-
ets for cooking utensils, bins and pantries.

There is always a stock of 30 types of
seed, grains and cereals stored in covered
metal containers. The hostel daily orders
large quantities of prime horsemeat —»a
lion or tiger will eat 12 pounds at a sitting,

( Continued on Page 22 )

‘ 3

 

 




 

 

 

 

A resident of Westchester, ASPCA’s Gen-
eral Manager Warren W. McSpadden dem-
onstrated a spirit of local pride by personally
planning and supervising much of the reno-
vation work at the Elmsford Shelter. At the
same time he played a major role in negoti-
ating contracts to handle the animal work of
seven nearby communities, using Elmsford
as a headquarters. These include: the Vil-
lages of Irvington, Tarrytown, North Tarry-
town, Ardsley, Dobbs Ferry, and the Towns
of Greenburgh and Mount Pleasant.

One Visitor has referred to the Elmsford

Shelter as “a country home for animals.” It
is just that.

New stone terrace, shrubs and rustic fencing
add beauty to the exterior. Asbestos-
shingled wing in background is to be home
of attendant George Beloﬁ and his family.

 

 

  
  
 
   

This small former summer house at entrance
to Elmsford Shelter has been converted into
a year-round aviary for a variety of birds.
Glass sections are removable in summer.




 

 

What better time than Christmas to photo-
graph your pet against a festive background.

Here are a few hints offered by experts
on how to get the best pet pictures. Good
pictures don’t just happen. Plan carefully.
Keep your background simple, but in a
contrasting color to the animal. Get your
camera down to your pet’s level and shoot
at close range.

Don’t expect an animal to hold a pose.
Be ready to shoot before you put the animal
in position — and don’t wait forever. For
an alert look, make a noise, or hold a toy
or a bit of food out of camera range.

The key to good pet photography, say the
experts, is the eyes. Even if you don’t get
anything else, be sure to get at least one
eye, and open! Avoid a head-on shot when
using ﬂash because a dog’s eyes have great
reﬂecting power which bounces the light
back and causes the dog to look blind. With
color film a head-on shot makes the animal’s
eyes appear blood-shot.

10

Walter Chandoha

 




OUR
HOSPITAL
NEEDS

Emergency surgery is a vital service of
the ASPCA Hospital. A dog iniured on
the street . . . a pin stuck in a cat’s
throat . . . a dog suffering internal
iniuries after a fall . . . all require in-
stant attention.

But despite the urgency of an opera-
tion, instruments, gloves and gowns
must be sterilized. A wasted moment
in sterilization may mean the loss of
a life. Hence our hospital needs this
autoclave, which can sterilize surgery
tools in a matter of minutes.

Safety, simplicity and speed, all basic
to good sterile techniques, are incor-
porated in this unit, which can easily
be moved to any surgery room.

Won’t you help us be prepared for
any emergency by contributing toward
the cost of the autoclave?

 




 

LETTERS

 

 

 

 

 

Bouquets for Long Beach Shelter

> Thank you for the splendid cooperation
and above all your understanding Of human
nature when you called at my residence.

Someone once said “the echo Of applause
fades away very quickly.” I want you tO
know that this is not the case in this in-
stance. I can see that you not only love
animals but you also love your jOb. Your
assistant George Wright is a worthy repre-
sentative and also is right on the job.

JOE MOSS
New York, N. Y.

Ed. Note: This and the following letter were
addressed to H arry I. Connolly, Shelter M an-
ager of our new Long Beach Shelter.

> Thank you for your prompt and sympa-
thetic action when a neighbor’s dog killed a
cat on my property.

Long Beach has become a better commu-
nity for your efforts here.

MRS. JEAN ROGERS
Long Beach, L. I.

Magazine Passed On

> Your ﬁne magazine issues are so much
enjoyed and never discarded. NOW a 13-year-
Old grandniece in the midwest is enjoying
them. She has made up her mind tO become
a veterinarian so you can understand why
she was so thrilled when the ﬁrst issues were
sent tO her three years ago.

MISS LILY KROBOTH
East Orange, N. J.

Member for 50 Years

> Thank you for my 50 year membership
pm.

It might interest you tO know hOW I ﬁrst
became a member Of the ASPCA. I was ten
years Old. I had been sent on an errand for

16

my mother one Saturday morning, when I
came upon the following scene. A poor half-
starved horse had fallen on the ice and the
brute Of a driver was beating him most
unmercifully. The horse was half dead from
starvation, and because Of that and the ice
he couldn’t rise.

I called a policeman and they ﬁnally
helped the horse to his feet. I made a charge
against the man at the police station. With
the policeman as my witness, he was ﬁned,
and when we came out Of the station house
the horse had dropped dead.

It was then I joined the ASPCA.

MRS. FLORENCE BELL ILCH
Red Bank, N. J.

School Pet Show

> Thank you for coming to the Bronxville
School and helping with our pet Show. We’re
very concerned that you get some reward for
helping us with it, SO Since we have SO much
money left over from it, we would like you
to take this ﬁve dollars tO help take care Of
all your sick animals.

DIANE HAMILTON
for the Boys and Girls Of the
Bronxville School

Humane Slaughter Legislation

> It was the general Opinion here that
your leaﬂet on humane Slaughter legislation
was the best Of the crop coming from the
USA. Our own leaﬂet is having quite a
profound effect. In conjunction with other
developments, the notion Of humane Slaughter
is fast catching on — at least in Ontario. We
think (with further effort and no relaxation)
we may reasonably hope tO get humane
slaughter legislation next Spring.

MRS. R. S. LAMBERT
Toronto, Canada

 




Meat Packers to Install

New Hog Immobilizer

 

 

Last August Oscar Mayer & Co., meat packers of Madison, Wisconsin,
announced plans to install gas chambers for killing hogs painlessly. We
feel this development is so important an advance in the ﬁeld that we
print a letter to the ASPCA from Oscar G. Mayer, Jr., the company’s

president, in which he describes the plan.

 

 

“Actually, there are three hog immobili-
zation units involved in our plants —— one
at Davenport, Iowa, and two at Madison,
Wisconsin. Our building plans call for new
holding pens, too, from which the hogs will
walk up ramps to the carbon-dioxide cham-
ber. The animals will be gently directed
onto a moving conveyor belt which will carry
them into the COz-ﬁlled tunnel. In a matter
of seconds the hogs are anesthetized and
then borne prone on the belt to the dis-
patching area. The anesthetic characteristic
of carbon dioxide is such that, should there
be an interruption of operations, the animals
will revive without ill effects once they leave
the chamber. You will no doubt recall that
this system was ﬁrst developed by Geo. A.
Hormel & Co., who later released it to the
industry for general application.

“The new immobilization technique has
the obvious advantage of being a more hu-
mane means of slaughter. Also, it will in-
crease the over-all efﬁciency of the Com-
pany’s production operations, reduce bruises

to livestock, and eliminate the more arduous
and hazardous method of handling livestock.

“When all these units are operative, our
beef and hog operations will have been con-
verted 100 per cent to the more acceptable
methods, and every one of these animals
will be immobilized either by the captive-
bolt pistol or the gas chamber. It should be
pointed out, however, that the small stock
which we process will not, for the present at
least, be handled by either of these more
advanced methods. In numbers, the calves
and sheep we handle represent 5 per cent
of our total slaughter. At present, these ani-
mals cannot be suitably handled by either of
these immobilization techniques. We will, of
course, continue to give careful attention to
this group in the hope that we can even-
tually develop and adopt more satisfactory
procedures for it.

“I recall with pleasure my trip to New
York in May, 1954, to receive the James
Hopkins award from your splendid organi-
zation. We value this award highly.”

Prevent the birth of Unwanted animals. Have your

female dog or cat spayed. Consult your veterinarian.

 

 

 

New York City dog licenses are renewable
on January lst. Send $3 with last year's certi-
ﬁcate to the ASPCA shelter in your borough.

19

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Staten Island Advance photo

Boxer is among ﬁrst to arrive at Staten Island
shelter in new blue and white ambulance
driven by Frank R. Camfora (left). Walter
L. Hollinde, district manager, checks him in.

 

Operation Deepfreeze

Man’s marvels of transportation by land,
sea and air sometimes need an assist from
animals. In the wastelands of the frozen
south at Antarctica sled dogs are now more
Vital than ever during Operation Deepfreeze
conducted by the United States research
team in the International Geophysical Year,
in which 5,000 scientists from all over the
world are attempting to solve some of the
earth’s mysteries.

Despite the hundreds of ships, planes, trac-
tors, trucks and jeeps used by the expedition,
Siberian huskies and Alaskan malamutes are
needed for rescue missions and to bring
supplies to lonely outposts.

Trained in New Hampshire the dogs ar-
rive from the United States on Navy ice-
breakers and are based at what is known as
“Dogheim.” They are bred from the same
husky and malamute stock seen in the show
ring and in sled dog races. Like racing dogs,
they are hitched parallel in teams of seven
with a lead dog up front.

Fiction writers to the contrary, the lead
dog is not the toughest, but the smartest.
Commands are “Gee” for right, “Haw” for
left, “Yake” for go ahead, “Whoa” to stop.

As in every polar expedition, the dogs
have already proven their value as a weather-
proof supplement to the motorized equipment
and as a morale booster to the men.

22

In Memoriam

On April 15, 1907, a beautiful young
Irish girl of 20 came to work for the ASPCA.
The frightened little stenographer began her
ﬁrst day wondering Whether she’d make
good at the job . . . wondering whether the
Society would keep her on.

Well, she made goodl Anne Lois Carmody
stayed with the ASPCA for 50 years.

From stenographer she advanced to the
post of Chief Clerk of the Humane Work
Department in 1932. In this post she directed
the cruelty investigation work and inspec-
tion program. Probably no one had a broader
understanding of humane laws in the State
of New York than Miss Carmody.

Despite her oﬂicial retirement in 1953 she
continued to offer her invaluable services to
the Society.

On September 27, 1957, Anne Lois Car-
mody died, leaving behind an entire lifetime
of dedication to humane work.

 

Royal Hospitality at Airport
(Continued from Page 3 )

a big dog two pounds. There is always a
reserve in the freezer, in addition to ﬁsh
for seals and some ﬁsh-eating birds.

Local vegetable merchants supply greens
any hour of the day or night. Baled hay is
always available, as are nectar (for hum-
mingbirds), powdered insects, bananas,
apples, dates and grapes.

On the last leg of his trip Mr. Amundsen
visited the animal hostel at Schiphol Air-
port in Amsterdam, Holland. The hostel is
operated for its own planes by KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines, one of the leading animal
carriers.

For added experience Mr. Amundsen ﬂew
back to New York aboard a Seaboard and
Western cargo plane which carried several
hundred monkeys and eight dogs.

Back in America Mr. Amundsen is now
supervising work at our International Air-
port shelter, Which was scheduled for open-
ing too late to make our editorial deadline.

 

 

 




 

THIS IS RIVETS...

saying Merry Christmas and speaking for the “Hospital with
a Heart” where no animal in need of care is ever turned away. Won’t
you please send your Christmas gift in the enclosed envelope to . . .

 

   

THE ASPCA HOSPITAL AND CLINICS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

A Miss Is Not Always A Mile

We take issue with the fellow who coined
the phrase “a miss is as good as a mile.”

Certainly this isn’t the down-beat attitude
we’re assuming because humane slaughter
legislation was left as unﬁnished business
when the Congress recessed.

Nor do we think it wishful to look forward
with conﬁdence to the passage of such legis-
lation when Congress convenes in January.

To the contrary, there is every reason to
be greatly encouraged by the remarkable
progress made since the ﬁrst humane
slaughter bill was introduced.

For more than 25 years previously the
humane movement had met with rebuff
whenever the subject of this major and nec-
essary reform was introduced.

The general public showed practically no
concern about the unsavory methods em-
ployed to produce meat for their tables.

The meat packers, through The American
Meat Institute, argued that: (1) they could
not afford the outlay for conversion, (2) any
drastic change in methods would increase
the price of meat beyond the consumer’s
reach, (3) no acceptable means of humane
slaughter were available.

The situation seemed dormant as far as the
outside world was concerned, but the hu-
mane movement, accustomed to delay and
slow motion in order to advance the lot of
animals, continued to plug away.

The ﬁrst break came ﬁve years ago when
George A. Hormel & Co. installed a carbon
dioxide chamber to render its hogs uncon-
scious before killing.

Shortly thereafter another leading packer,

Oscar Mayer 81 Co., shifted to the use of the
captive bolt pistol.

Next, the Remington Arms Company, Inc.
of Bridgeport, Conn., announced the devel—
opment of its Humane Stunner.

These advances combined to pave the way
for the introduction of humane slaughter
legislation. Each was given recognition by
the ASPCA, which presented its James Hop-
kins Award for the Humane Slaughter of
Food Animals to the companies responsible.

By 1956 The American Humane Associa-
tion was able to convince Senator Hubert
H. Humphrey of Minnesota that the intro-
duction of humane slaughter legislation was
long overdue. Congressman Edgar M. Hie-
stand of California introduced similar legis-
lation in the House of Representatives.

Although these bills did not pass, the effort
put into them was not in vain. The cause
which Mr. Humphrey and Mr. Hiestand dared
to espouse in 1955, by 1957 had become so
popular that eight bills were introduced.

Also, during this period a number of
packing plants had joined Hormel and
Mayer in a shift to humane slaughtering.
Among them: Seitz Packing Co., Hoerter 81
Son, Paulus Market, Tarpoff Packing Co.,
Swift & Co., Armour & Co.

By 1957 these conversions had multiplied
by four and a half the number of animals
brought to unconsciousness before slaughter
as compared with 1955, and by 1959 the ﬁg-
ure should be six times as great. (See letter
from Oscar Mayer & Company on page 19.)

This progress, slow as it is, leads us to
conclude that one more concerted push could
— and we hope will — put over this impera-
tive legislation for the further protection of
animals against the cruelty of man.

Without you, of course, this hope will not
become a reality. We Will need your con-
tinued support when the campaign resumes

early in 1958.

MW

General Manager

 

 




 

 

 

THIS ALSO HAPPENED IN ’57

A year animals made the news

In Washington, D. C., last January, a
white dog slipped into President Eisen-
hower’s inaugural day parade and with head
held high passed before the reviewing stands
right behind a colonel.

This dog’s boldness and utter disregard
for tradition and dignity was typical of much
that animals did in 1957, a year notable for
confusion, the unexpected and the ridiculous.

Animals, for example, took to dabbling in,
art. Paintings executed by a Baltimore Zoo
chimpanzee brought $25 to $50 apiece at
an art show. During a three-year art career
a Los Angeles parrot painted more than
759 watercolors and had nine showings at
a city-sponsored art exhibit.

Animal actors formed their own union
this year to protect the artists’ working
conditions, with contracts covering retire-
ment plan, sick leave, paid vacations, good
food, travel and hotel accommodations. A
Santa Monica poodle, dabbling in the stock
market through a Beverly Hills brokerage
house, made $1,500 on investments.

 

Animals conspired to plague man. A
driver in Memphis, Tenn., was hit by an-
other car with a dog at the wheel. Working
nights, a beaver family gnawed away a
40-foot poplar tree on a river bank along a
street lined with buildings in downtown
Rochester. A bird which carried a lighted

cigarette butt into its nest beside a Brooklyn

8

library caused $50 damage to the library’s
awning.

Long Island fauna got into strange
situations. A deer crashed through the front
window of a Long Island bakery, demolished
a birthday cake and disappeared through
the back door. When a swan ﬂew into a high
tension wire for the shock of its life, a police-
man lassoed the stunned bird and walked it
around until it regained its equilibrium.

 

“174-

tax-MC.2

weft/Wm

 

When a woodpecker evaded eviction from
a telephone pole, linesmen removing the old
pole sawed off a section containing the bird’s
home and hung it on a nearby tree.

Many animals got lost. A pet sea lion
swam away from home in pursuit of a
ﬁsh and turned up a couple of weeks later
50 miles from home. In Jersey City a lost
boxer dog walked into the police station
and headed right for the missing person’s
bureau. An escaped $5000 Bedlington ter-
rier, the object of a six-day search by heli-
copters and a posse of reward hunters at
New York International Airport, was ﬁnally
captured when her lead caught on a wire.

A Pleasant Valley cat was rescued from
the family freezer when the family dog
staged a 17-hour sitdown strike in front of
the freezer. People did funny things in 1957.
too. In California the Long Beach City Coun-

('C0ntinued on Page 21 )




MEET SANTA’S HELPERS . . .

F the 100 or more known varieties of
deer the caribou or reindeer, is dearest
to child and grown-up alike at Christmas.

The sentiment stirred within us by this
“camel of the frozen North” can be directly
attributed to the simple, warm-hearted “A
Visit from St. Nicholas,” written by Clement
Clarke Moore nearly a century and “a half
ago. While his Cupid and Vixen, Cornet and
Blitzen immortalized fleet-footed reindeer,
during the Stone Age this animal was the
most numerous big game and the principal
support of mankind in Europe.

Reindeer drawings in caves were so su-
perior to those of any other animal that
historians labeled the cavemen artists of 25
to 30 thousand years ago Reindeer Men and
referred to the dawn of history as the Rein-
deer Age.

The reindeer is the only breed of deer
where both male and female grow antlers,
which appear when a faun is about two
months old. In all varieties, except a few
which have no antlers, only the male wears
this crowning glory. It’s his weapon in
waging war with other males to select a
harem during the September mating season,
when the forest often resounds with the
crash of antlers.

Each year after these bony growths serve
their purpose they’re shed, during mid-
winter for males and early spring for fe-
males. In two weeks a round fur-like ball
rises from each base, and the process of
developing a new set of antlers begins. They
grow until nourishment automatically
ceases, then peel and harden. The deer helps
by sharpening them against tree trunks.

Naturally migratory animals, reindeer
travel in enormous herds, usually with an
old doe as leader. As many as 25,000,000

have been estimated in a single- herd observed

by the naturalist Ernest Thompson Seton.
Their fast-swinging trot can be kept up al-
most indeﬁnitely, and they’re excellent
swimmers, giving the caribou a needed ad-
vantage over wolves, which prey on the
young or inﬁrm.

Most dreaded enemies of the reindeer,
however, are insects, particularly mosquitoes
and botﬂies. To escape these pests in sum-
mer the deer seek high, wind-swept ridges
or snow-ﬁlled gulches.

There is a tale to the effect that the cari-
bou tribe maintains self-cure island sani-
tariums where the wounded go to recover
from their injuries. Fantastic as this may
seem, travelers continue to claim they have
more than once seen animals with broken
limbs, miles from the mainland, waiting for
their bones to mend. Nature’s process de-
pends on ﬂies laying eggs in the wound.
The hatched eggs deposit a secretion which
ﬁghts infection.

Reindeer have played a large economic
role in various parts of the world .since the

 

ﬁrst recorded evidence of their domestiCation

in China, 499 A.D.

The Lapps of Norway, Sweden and Fin-
land, for instance, depend upon reindeer for
their very lives. These Nomads follow the
herds from summer to winter feeding

( Continued on Page 21)

11

 




 

 

 

 

A DOG'S LIFE — you can ”insure it

The insurance business has gone to the
dogs. A lucky dog can now get life and
health insurance just like his master.

Last September a wire-haired terrier
named Asta was issued the ﬁrst life insur-
ance policy by the Animal Insurance Co.
of America, 92 Liberty Street, New York.
The face value of the policy was $5,000 and
the annual premium $400.

“Animal Insurance Co. of America is the
ﬁrst company exclusively devoted to insuring
a dog’s life,” said Milton M. Weiss, the com-
pany’s president, who abandoned a 25-year-
old brokerage to devote himself to the new

ﬁeld.

Since there are no risk tables for dogs,
Mr. Weiss spent ten years studying life
spans and is starting with an insurable age
of 14 months to nine years, renewable at
his option each year. No dog can get its
ﬁrst policy after it has reached seven.

Risks Tables

At 14 months, he ﬁgures a dog is the
equivalent of a man’s 21. After that it’s
roughly about one dog year for seven of
man’s. Thus at nine a dog would be about

63, no longer a worthy risk.

There’s no physical examination, but dogs
do have to be inoculated against distemper
and hepatitis. Another prerequisite is a
noseprint, which Mr. Weiss says is as infal-

Asta reads his insurance policy.

 

N. Y. Daily News phofo

14.

lible for identiﬁcation as a human beings
ﬁngerprints. Policies pay off on death from
any cause, except poisoning.

Premiums are eight percent annually on
a face value up to a limit of $5,000. The
company will write policies only on pedi-
greed dogs registered with the American
or Canadian Kennel Clubs. Mr. Weiss ex-
cludes mutts, he points out, not because they
are poor risks, but because they offer only
a sentimental value on which it’s hard to
put a price.

Non-pedigreed dogs, however, can still
bark for joy. Although not eligible for life
insurance, they can apply for the health
insurance, known as Canine Shield, 114:
West 10th Street, Kansas City, Missouri.

Health Insurance

Plain dogs in the street, as well as pedi-
greed animals, are eligible for the insurance,
which covers surgery, x-rays, hospitalization,
drugs and laboratory fees. Excluded are
grooming expenses and routine inoculations.

Handled by Employer Mutual Casualty of
Des Moines, Iowa, the plan will cover any
dog between the ages of six months and ten
years at a premium of $15 per year. Bene-
ﬁts pay up to $75 for each hOSpitalization,
with a limit of $150 in one year. You must
pay the ﬁrst $10 or 20 percent of each bill
(whichever is higher).

Canine Shield was launched in March
1956 by two veteran Kansas City insurance
men, Richard R. Nelson and Gordon Reabe,
who plodded through records covering
10,000 dogs before setting their premiums.
They claim the response was “fantastic” and
that dog owners by the hundreds are en-
rolling their pets in Canine Shield.

Health insurance is now available for cats,
says Canine Shield, and Animal Insurance
Co. predicts you may soon be able to insure
your cat’s life — all nine lives.




 

 

OU’VE heard the rumor that cats know
when people don’t like them. Well, this
is about to get out of the realm of humor into
scientiﬁc fact. Cats are clairvoyant. This is
the conclusion of psychic researchers at
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.

This may strike you as trivia, emanating
from an institution of higher learning, but
the truth is that many cats and pigeons
have been put through a rigorous program
to prove that animals, like humans, have
extra-sensory perception, or ESP, or psi
(short for psychic).

Extra-sensory perception is the ability to
ﬁnd out about something without the use
of the senses, such as taste, smell, touch,
seeing and hearing. In human beings it may
involve catching the thought someone else
is thinking (telepathy), or getting a knowl-
edge of some place or object out of sight,
sound or other sensory reach (clairvoyance)
or a prophetic power (precognition).

In animals, the most frequent cases of
ESP pertain to those that ﬁnd their way
home over miles of unfamiliar territory. In
the ﬁles of the Parapsychology Department
at Duke University is the case of Bosco, a
mongrel dog owned by a family that closed
its Knoxville, Tennessee, apartment to visit
Glendale, California. Bosco was crated and
shipped to the coast. On arrival he was left
at the express ofﬁce overnight. Next morning
the crate was found empty with a big hole
gnawed in the side. All search for Bosco
proved fruitless.

Eight months later the owner visited her
old Knoxville neighborhood. A lean, bedrag-
gled dog sat on the steps of her old apart-
ment house. He greeted her joyously. Dis-
tinctive markings and habits identiﬁed the
dog as Bosco. A neighbor said the dog had
been sitting on the steps most of the time
for two months.

How did he make the long journey home
over thousands of miles of roads he had
never seen before? This and many other
substantiated cases like it involving cats,

4

horses, pigeons, mules, cattle, pigs and
chickens lead some scientists to believe that
animals, like humans, possess some power
beyond their ordinary senses.

In the forefront on this thinking is Dr.
.I. B. Rhine, Director of the Parapsychology
Laboratory at Duke. He has spent over 30
years conducting tests and chasing down evi-

00 illlllllil/A’ [122 V0

dence on everything from haunted houses
to a mind-reading mare to try to unlock
the secret door to the mystery of the mind
—— human and animal.

Early this year in Richmond, Virginia,
the death of a famous mare named Lady
Wonder brought to an end one of our era’s
great ESP mysteries and one of Dr. Rhine’s
early cases. Famous from the time she was
four, Lady correctly predicted wars, derby
winners, presidential elections, answered the
square root of 64 and spelled Mesopotamia.

Dr. Rhine visited Richmond and spent
many days “talking” to Lady, who replied
accurately to complicated questions. The
unavoidable conclusion was that the horse
had powers of mental telepathy.

Talking Horse

Within a few short months hundreds of
visitors were lined up outside Lady’s stable
to see the “talking” horse. As often happens
when genuine ESP is commercialized,
Lady’s real powers gradually vanished.
When Dr. Rhine visited her again, cue-fol-
lowing had “crowded out” her early true
telepathic ability.

Other puzzling instances of ESP involve
cases in which animals seem to warn in
advance of some disaster or behave strangely
before a death in the family. The classic
“death howl” may be more than a myth.

 

 

”L”?

I / l

WW 1?
\I‘i“,\|{lnu.m / / // ,1

. \l \l.‘ / ,5
t . , ./

l

I ”gill/lit“ W \\

5‘4 /’ , . \
§ % /%/Wl,\ll l\\\‘ \N

Take the story of the collie that usually
accompanied his master to work at an ex-
plosive plant. One day as they drew near
the plant area the dog sat down on the
ground, whined piteously and refused to
move. The man went to work and the dog
returned home, panting, whining and
trembling. Later that day the entire plant
blew up, killing many employees, including
the collie’s master.

Cat Travels 1,795 Miles

Closely related to the phenomenon of ani-
mals that ﬁnd their way back home, is the
even more baﬂiing capacity of animals to
follow their owners over long distances to
new territory (called psi-trailing).

Clementine, a seven-toed cat, was left be-
hind when her owners moved from New
York to Colorado. Clementine was about to
have kittens. She raised her litter, weaned
them and disappeared. Three months later
she walked through the kitchen door of her
owner’s new home in Denver — 1,795 miles
away! She was nearly starved and her paws
were bleeding —— but it was unmistakably
the same cat.

A pet pigeon belonging to a 12-year-old
boy followed its owner 107 miles to a hospi-
tal where the boy was recuperating from an

operation.

Just as puzzling as the “how” in these
cases is the question “why” animals do un-
explained things. “We just cannot overlook
any longer such accounts as these I receive
about dogs that go out and starve themselves
to death on the grave of their masters,”

said Dr. Rhine.

Man has puzzled for centuries about the
instinct that guides birds in migration, helps
salmon to swim upsteam, causes carrier
pigeons to return to their home roost. Some
students of migration now suggest the answer
may be telepathy or some sixth sense.

Until recently it had been assumed that
pigeons ﬁnd their way by whirling in the
air until they sight a familiar landmark.
Then in 1949 English zoologist G. V. T.
Matthews trained a group of 25 homing
pigeons to “home” from the north. When
they were well trained —— up to 125 miles —
he put them in a truck in cloth-draped cages
and carted them 80 miles west. He released
them and they promptly went home. He
then took them 90 miles south —— with the
same result!

Such experiments are only a starting
point. Conclusive proof that animals possess
ESP is difficult to get. You can’t kill a person
to see how his dog will react. You can’t
lose a cat 3,000 miles from home to see if

he’ll get back.

Laboratory Research

Consequently Dr. Rhine is carrying on
controlled laboratory research with cats to
back up his bulging ﬁle of hundreds of case
histories on telepathy and clairvoyance.

The idea is to ﬁnd out whether the human

(Continued on Page 20)

5

 




 

  

Medal of Honor Awards
For Outstanding Bravery

Fireman Rescues Dog

During a one-alarm ﬁre in Manhattan
Fireman Charles G. Steinhauser, Jr., carried
a dog down a ladder from an upper story
after the dog’s blind mistress had been
rescued.

Above and beyond

Missouri Men Free Dog from Ledge
Ofﬁcer Andrew Nappier of the Animal

Protective Association in Brentwood, Mis-
souri, and volunteers Harold and Lester
Briggs received ASPCA honors for rescuing
a black and tan dog stranded at the bottom
of a stone quarry.

The rescuers lowered a rowboat on a crane
127 feet and rowed across a 60-foot-deep
pool of water to reach the animal perched
on a ledge just above the water. They then
climbed the 127 feet up carrying the dog.

Owner Tries to Save Pet

Lawrence Bjorklund was cited for risking
his own life in a vain attempt to save his
tiny dachshund Hilda. He dove into the icy
waters of Penobscot Bay, Maine, after the
dog had jumped out of his sailboat. The
animal died within minutes and Mr. Bjork-
lund clung to his overturned boat for three
hours before being rescued.

Maryland Judge Cited

County Judge Emmet H. Nanna of Prince
Georges County, Maryland, was awarded
the ASPCA honor for the unique sentence
he imposed on three teen-age boys charged
with torturing a boxer dog. They soaked the
animal in shellac solvent, then threw matches
at him until, aﬂame, he ran howling through
the streets.

As punishment Judge Nanna assigned the
youths, aged 14 to 16, to tend the animals
at the local pound for six months.

 

  

  

I", //‘/ 123/ 3:57" A:
4M2 M/f
' I y /

 

 

Bronx District Manager N. Michael Bromley
(left) presents medal to Rusty, owned by Mr.
and Mrs. Sidney Ganop and their son Steven.
When fire struck their home in the early
morning, the dog aroused the family in time
for them to reach the street safely.

New York Times photo by Edward Hausner

l7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Mrs. Hugh E. Paine, Jr. Heads
Animal Kingdom Ball Committee

Mrs. Hugh E. Paine, Jr., has accepted
Chairmanship of the eighth Animal King-
dom Ball, to be held January 23, at the
Hotel Pierre. Mrs. Paine, attractive daughter-
in-law of our former president, has chosen
as Debutante Chairman Miss Florence P.
Lincoln, assisted by Miss Janet Haskell.

Mrs. William Zeckendorf, 1957 Ball Chair-
man, has volunteered to solicit an array
of gifts from New York merchants, our prin-
cipal means of raising funds at the dance.

The Women’s Volunteer Division, under
Mrs. George Hayman, is arranging details
of the party, for which the entire ballroom
ﬂoor of the Pierre has been engaged. Well-
known decorator, Dick Nell, will design the
settings and the midway booths with fabrics
contributed by the Galey & Lord Division of
Burlington Industries.

The Ball, to support ASP'CA’s Adoption
Service Clinic, has a goal of $9,300. This
sum needed for the coming year represents
the difference between the $1 fee charged
and the actual cost of each clinic visit for
pets brought in during the 30-day period
after adoption, when this reduced rate is in
effect. Hospital statistics show that approxi-
mately 15 percent of all owners adopting
animals (16,268 last year) take advantage
of this unique service.

 

Irwin Dribben photo

Mrs. Hugh E. Paine, Jr. (right) Chairman of
the Animal Kingdom Ball, with Mrs. David
Swope and Dick Nell.

20

Dangerous Invaders
(Continued from Page 18)

the dog was not kept clean.”

Women especially worry about ticks caus-
ing disease and getting on the children.
Their ﬁrst reaction, according to Mr.
Pomerantz, is: “Get rid of the dog.”

“Granted, ticks are a menace,” he says,
“but that’s no reason to lose a pet. Keep
your dog, inspect him systematically, insist
that your friends do the same thing and act
fast if you do discover a tick.”

 

Do Animals Have a Sixth Sense?
(Continued from Page 5 )

can inﬂuence a cat by concentrating. A
human experimenter sits in an enclosed
cubicle concentrating on an ESP card picked
at random from a shufﬂed deck. If it is a red
card he concentrates on a food cup to the
right on the cat’s obstacle course, if a black
card it represents a food cup on the left.
Apparently the concentration works. The cats
score above chance often enough to show
“there is evidence that psi occurs between
man and cat.”

Said Dr. Rhine, “It is more than a mere
guess that animals have ESP. They may
have a lot more of it than man.”

Of course not all animals show startling
talent at ﬁnding their way home. Many pets
wander off every day and are never seen
again. We don’t know whether they want
to return. Maybe they just don’t like their
homes. We don’t know whether they can
turn their homing instincts on or off at will.

We do know that in explaining the possi-
bilities of ESP in animals a great deal of
work must be done. The cooperation of
zoologists, psychologists and naturalists must
he enlisted.

But the impressive authentic spontaneous
evidence and careful laboratory research
seems to show that extra-sensory perception
may be the only explanation for many
baffling things that animals do.

 




 

 

 

Long Island Press photo
Pot Healy and Peggy Heimberger staged a
show to beneﬁt animals.

Trick or Treat

Youngsters have been more active than
ever in raising money for animals. During
their trick or treat rounds on Halloween
teen-ager Joan Aronson and her friends
collected $32 which they donated to the
ASPCA.

Four junior-size Long Island philanthro-
pists, ranging in age from seven to eleven,
recently handed a donation of $2 to District
Manager Robert B. Ferris of the Queens
Shelter. The gift represented net proceeds
of a doll house fashion show, a talent show
and a play the girls staged.

 

Please Remember the ASPCA
in Your Will

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give and bequeath to The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, a New York charitable
corporation having its principal ofﬁce
at 441 East 92nd Street, New York,
N. Y., the sum of ____________________ Dollars.

Give a Junior Membership
for Christmas

Parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles and
friends: An ASPCA Junior Membership
makes a ﬁne Christmas gift for the young-
sters on your list. A $1 Membership, for
children under 18, includes:

1. A Junior Membership card
2. A button
Junior Jamboree in Central Park

4. Tour through ASPCA Hospital and
Shelter, including puppy and kitten

OJ

adoption wards
5. Color movies on animals
6. Subscription to ANIMAL PROTECTION

7. Opportunity to assist the Education
Department in its demonstrations with
live animals (a minimum of 50 hours
work can earn a Junior Achievement

Award)

ASPCA Fund Raising Dept. 1957
30 East 60th Street
New York 22, N. Y.

Enclosed is $1 for Junior Membership for:

Name ..........................................................
Please Print

Address ........................................................

City ............................ Zone--- State ............

Age .............. (Juniors must be under 18)

Gift of __________________________________________________________

23

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

A Miss Is Not Always a Mile . .

Royal Hospitality at London Airport

Do Animals Have a Sixth Sense? .

Country Home for Animals .

This Also Happened in ’57 .

Dangerous Invaders . . . 9
Picture Your Pet . . . . 10
Meet Santa's Helpers . . . 11
The Doctor Listens . . . .‘ 12
Our Hospital Needs . . . . . . . 13
A Dog’s Life -- You Can Insure lt . . . 14
For the Prevention of Cruelty . . . . 15
Letters... .... . . . 16
Above and Beyond the Call . . . . 17

Meat Packers to Install
New Hog Immobilizer . . . . l9

 

ANewCareer . . . .. . .21
Winter Care for Dogs . . . . . . 24

This is Rivets . . . . . lnside Back Cover

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

 

 

Lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




