 

 

Veterinary Surgeons

COMMANDER SCOTTa MILLER asked the Minister of
Agriculture the present number of veterinary
surgeons and practitioners available to the agri—
cultural industry; and how these ﬁgures compare
with those of the last three years.

SIR T. DUGDALE: I am informed by the Royal
College of Veterinary Surgeons that there are
5,485 names on the register of veterinary sur~
geons. Of these, about 2,700 are in private
veterinary practice in Great Britain, but not all
are likely to be engaged exclusively on agricultural
work. This compares with a ﬁgure of about 2,500
in 1950.

In addition there are about 300 veterinary
practitioners in a supplementary register main—
tained by the Royal College. The number has not
altered signiﬁcantly over the past three years.
About 200 are in private practice, but some of
these may be engaged on work outside agriculture.

COMMANDER SCOTTvMILLER: In view of the
rapidly expanding agricultural industry and the
new demands for veterinary surgeons and pran
titioners arising all the time, could my right hon
friend say whether he is satisﬁed with the general
rate of increase of members of the veterinary
service?

SIR T. DUGDALE: Yes, sir. As I said in answer
to a previous question, I keep this point very
much under review the whole time. I am satisﬁed
that the position is satisfactory. There are times

when we get such a big increase of work in the
eradication of tuberculosis that in certain areas
we may be temporarily short, but the general
position is satisfactory.

MR W. R. WILLIAMS: Is the Minister satisﬁed
that the number of students in the various agrir
cultural colleges and universities is sufﬁcient to
meet the demand of an extended agricultural
industry in the future?

SIR T. DUGDALE: I have never had any con,
trary advice tendered to me. ‘

HOUND TRAILING

RSPCA Inspectors in various parts of the
country have reported that many Trails take
the hounds over ground that is fenced with barbed
wire, with the result that the animals suffer injury
and laceration. Representations were made by
RSPCA Headquarters to the Hound Trailing
Association, asking that great care be taken in
future to select a course as free from barbed wire
as possible. .

The Secretary of the Association readily agreed
to this suggestion, and promised to advise the
area (local) committees and promoters accorda

ingly.

RSPCA CHRISTMAS CARDS & CALENDARS
PLEASE ORDER WITHOUT DELAY

 

 

 

FLAG-DAY REMINDER

Note to RSPCA Honorary Secretaries

HAVE YOU MADE YOUR
FLAG-DAY APPLICATION
FOR THE
COLLECTION IN I954?

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
  
   

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bellmal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE‘

BOLT SLAUGHTERING ‘
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




2'52: ‘
.5443”..- . . _ . ‘. .

 

 

 

December 1953

THE ANIMAL-WORLD 135

 

 

TIGER
1

Gaze, gaze, complacent gaze
Your greedy ﬁll upon the noble beast

you made your fool!———
Pent where the joyous muscles never more
May ripple free; or humbled, circuvaise,
To sit on chairs, to posture, and to ape
The homely habits of the fools who gape,
Impelled by foul priorities of fear . . .

of fear and rage,
Till death remit the sentence of the cage.

II

Ah, were he you and'you his fool instead,
He would not humble you,
But to himself more true
Would strike you dead . . .

a kindlier fate
Than to be doomed for ever to a cage
Companionless—

with none to care, or share
The unlit loneliness of midnight hours;
Nor friendly word, nor sympathetic mate
To mitigate .
His bafﬂed and bewildered hopeless hate.

WM. WALTON

CHRISTMAS
THOUGHTS

 

 

Here is a seasonable reminder for aunts and
uncles. Do not give pets as presents without first
making sure that the boy or girl, or anyone to
whom~the animal is going, can provide a good,
kind home. Be sure, too, that the pet is wanted
and will remain so after the Christmas thrill is
over.

The RSPCA has a pamphlet on the proper care
and treatment of most pets. A copy of any of
these pamphlets will be sent free to anyone
sending a stamped addressed envelope.

There is a temptation to over—feed animals at
ChristmaSvtime. This can have serious effects. Be
sure not to give ﬁsh bones, sharp chicken bones
or anything of this sort that will splinter and get
caught in the throat.

If an animal should be ill or injured at this
season, consult a veterinary surgeon. For poor,
blind and needy folk the RSPCA will help
through its Clinics or Free Voucher Schemes
where an. animal needs veterinary attention.

Birds need water as much now as in mid
summer and remember they enjoy the Christmas
scraps.

CHRISTMAS
EVE

*

 

The old black horse

With shocky feet

Who pulls the coalcart

Down our street

Tonight is standing in his stall
Remembering.

The shaggy sheep
That roam the down
And press to eat
Twixt scrub and thorn
The short grass sweet
Tonight bow heads
Remembering.

The patient cows

Against the moon

Standing in groups

Of three, two, one

Do silently communicate

The age'old story which began

Two thousand years ago when they
A stable crib stood round
Watching a Child——

No bed save for their straw had He
Guest of their hospitality

Warmed by their breath:

Thy patient inarticulate ones——
Today remembering?

MARIAN CRAS KE

DOGS

Dogs, Arthur CroxtonvSmith. (Penguin Hand
books.) Price 23. 6d.

Everyone who has a dog or contemplates
having one will ﬁnd this book invaluable. Indexed
and illustrated, it is an outstanding bargain at
23. 6d., with its 201 beautifully printed pages.

(This book is not available from the RSPCA

but can be obtained from any bookseller.)

 




“I,

 

December 1953

FOUND IN A WATER TANK

tragic.’

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 139

This picture comes from Mrs Harvey, hon sec of Leeds branch and a Council
member. Mrs Harvey writes: ‘The dog was taken out of an old static water
tank surrounded by a high fence over which he could not possibly have clam-
bered by himself. He was rescued by a member of the Leeds branch committee.
The dog was in a miserable and emaciated state and he was standing in a
mixture of mud and water. He was an old dog and we soon discovered that he
was suffering from kidney trouble and all the efforts of the veterinary surgeon
proved of no avail. After a week of such food as he felt inclined to take he died.
We received an oﬂ'erof a good home for him which made his end even more

 

OIL POLLUTION OF THE SEAS

Representatives from many maritime countries
attended an International Conference on the
above subject held at the Institution of Electrical
Engineers, Savoy Place, WCZ. '

The conference was organized by the Co
ordinating Advisory Committee on Oil Pollution
of the Sea, on which the RSPCA is represented,
and was opened by the Minister of Transport,
the Right Hon Alan Lennox»Boyd, MP. His state—
ment that the British Government had decided to
take the initiative in calling together the principal
maritime nations for the purpose of considering
the best means of preventing oil pollution and
with a View to drawing up an international con;
vention for the ratiﬁcation by the nations princi~

pally concerned, was greeted with loud applause.

Mr Roland Ampleford, Parliamentary Organizer,
was on the platform representing the RSPCA.
At the end of the conference the following

‘Declaration of Aims’ was carried unanimously:

Declaration of Aims

1. This Conference expresses its emphatic support of the
view that ships of all nations should be required to refrain
from discharging persistent oils into the sea, as this is the
only effective means of ending an intolerable nuisance.

2. This Conference notes with satisfaction the readiness
of the British Shipping Industry to adopt partial remedies
which will lessen the evil without waiting for agreed action
by shipowners in other countries. This Conference also
welcomes the expressed willingness of the main oil com-
panies to provide or cooperate in the provision of facilities
for handling waste oil at oil loading ports under their
control abroad.

3. This Conference recognizes that the full practicable
measure of success in preventing oil pollution cannot be
secured without international agreement. Its members will
use their best efforts to stimulate opinion in all countries
so that effective international action can be taken. To this

end, the Co—ordinating Advisory Committee on Oil Pollu—

tion of the Sea will invite representatives from other
nations to take part in their discussions and widen their
activities as necessary in order to be in a position to under—
take international propaganda. ‘

4. This Conference urges that, in accordance With there—
Cent report to the Minister of Transport, statutory prov131on
Should be made to ensure that adequate facilities for the
reception of oily residues are available at ports 1n the
United Kingdom and at oil loading terminals and repair
yards.

5. This Conference welcomes the announcement by the
Minister of Transport that the Government of the United
Kingdom has decided to take the initiative in calling together
the principal maritime nations for the purpose of con—
sidering the best means of preventing oil pollution and with
a View to drawing up an international convention for
ratiﬁcation by the nations principally concerned, and urges
that pending the signature of such a convention, all possible
steps, by legislation and otherwise, should be taken by
individual countries to control the situation.

‘THIRTEEN WERE LUCKY’

One RSPCA school lecturer went to a small
school and found only thirteen children, but she
commented ‘What a grand lot they were and
with what eagerness they listened!’

Since the last report 256 lectures were given
in schools in Somerset, Dorset, Pembrokeshire,
Glamorgan, Devon, Westmorland, Tunbridge
Wells, Oxford, Buxton, Huddersfield and South;
port. A Youth Club at Clifton (Westmorland)
was also addressed.

Thirty—six new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 193 children joined the Headquarters
Group. -

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Miss Bertram, former hon sec of Work—
sop Auxiliary; Mrs J. E. Golby, hon sec of Balsall
Common Auxiliary; Mrs A. Cruso, former aux
hon sec and a lifelong supporter, and the fola
lowing supporters: Miss Sarah Snelson, Mrs St
John and Miss M. Mason.

HARTSHORN ST UNNER

The RSPCA has bought the design of a humane
stunner for poultry. Anyone wishing to have de
tails is invited to apply for a special pamphlet,
stating the design and operating method of the
stunner, and giving directions for the handyaman
wishing to make it. Please apply, mentioning the
Hartshorn Stunner, and send a stamped ad—
dressed envelope for a copy of the new pamphlet:

RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

 




:52“;

  " AN IMA LmEW o R L K

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

  

\ \ ‘\
\ \
\ 'I '
\_ ‘

 

Vol XLVIII No 12 New Series

DECEMBER I 953

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Postpaid

 

ALL DONE BY KINDNESS

When the animal trainer, in the glare of the circus
lights, gives a lump of sugar to the performing
.animal, he is doing something more than offering
:a sop to the creature forced to go through un—

gnatural actions: he is ingratiating himself with the

audience. This is a tribute to the fact that most

people are fond of animals, and prefer to see them

kindly treated.
Is not this the very sentiment exploited by the

:men who offer as entertainment turns performed

by trained wild animals?
The piece of sugar is given with ostentation

:as a means of proving that it is ‘all done by

'kindness’. We wonder how quickly a wild

:animal’s instincts can be overcome by kind—-
‘ness?———quickly enough to make their training
.at exhibitions proﬁtable?

Little is known about methods of training——

-most of which takes place abroad. Is not this in
itself a significant fact?

Some exhibitors assert that RSPCA Inspectors

.can see all the training. This is not true. Inspectors

who visit actual performances have little more

opportunity of detecting possible cruelty than the
general public (though. RSPCA men, being more
practised, have made such reports as these):

‘One lion . . . evidently jumped too
soon. The trainer lashed the lion with a
whip, drove him back to the steps (stand),
and ﬁred a blank cartridge from a small
revolver into the lion’s face . . .’

‘The bears all showed resentment at
what they were asked to do. Before coming
into the ring the bears cried out in pain.
. . .' I slipped to the gangway through
which the animals had to pass. . . . I was
.just in time to see one of the attendants
with a short stick arrangement having a
sharp steel hook at one end. I was quite

satisﬁed that this man had been using the

weapon . . . but he quickly spotted me and

did not use the weapon in .my View.’

Why does not the RSPCA prosecute? It has
done so, where evidence of unnecessary suffering
has been obtained, but, as the law stands at
present, to exhibit performances by trained wild
animals is permitted.

As for cruelty in these performances, the late
Sir Peter Chalmers Mitchell (at one time secre—
tary of the London Zoological Gardens) said
that the risk of cruelty is inseparable from the
time performance, which is essential if entertain—
ment programmes must be maintained.

The reﬂection the RSPCA invites the public to
make is this: if wild animals are to be kept in
close conﬁnement (and this is inevitable, particu—
larly with travelling wild animal circuses and
stage performing wild animal turns) then these
creatures must live wretched lives. For this reason
the RSPCA says: ‘Do not patronize shows in
which wild animals are made to perform un—
natural antics for your entertainment!’

The suffering attendant on the trapping of wild
animals in their own lands, the breaking of their
spirit, the transport to climates unsuitable for
them: these, too, are considerations that must
persuade anyone with imagination to avoid wild;
animal performances.

This appeal to the public not to patronize wild
animal shows makes the RSPCA not a kill—joy.
society, but rather a promoter of joy—the joy
of animals!

Let the circus ﬁnd its attraction in the feats of
human beings! Everyone loves the antics of
clowns. From such ingredients can our enter—
tainment promoters make a dish that will give
happiness without causing harm to any creature
-——-in the true spirit of Christmas.

I EDITOR

 




A

VOLUlV-IE XLVIII N0 12

Y

THREEPEN CE
hris tlnas Visitar

“'3
E
F1
O
r11
2
O
H
11>
r‘
O
W
C)
>
2
C
an
i-i
E
H
w
(/2
w
('1
>

DECEMBER 1953
WI. Chappell

 

 

 




 

 

 

December 1953

event was organized by Miss L. Byard and Miss W. Brown
presided.

Durham and District Miss G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon
secretary, reports that a collection held in the Essoldo
Cinema by courtesy of the manager, Mr W. G. E. Green,
raised £29 13s. 10d. for branch funds. Six of the committee
and the Misses Atkinson worked to get the sum collected
and the branch chairman, County Councillor Mrs H. H.
Rushford, JP, helped one evening. Inspector Spencer spoke
twice on the stage on the ﬁrst evening and Mrs R. Davison,
a member of the committee, brought her big dog on the
stage and the Inspector told the audience that this dog had
saved her son’s life in Egypt.

Essex-Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
--At the branch annual meeting in Chelmsford, Mrs Hubert
Ashton presented medals for gallantry and meritorious ser-
vice during the February ﬂoods. Eight people were awarded
medals for rescuing and caring for animals. Major F. N. L.
Chapman attended and spoke against the battery system.
Reports were submitted by Mrs Donovan, branch hon
secretary, and by Inspector Reid.

Exeter East and West Devon Mrs F. E. Weaver, Okehamp-
ton auxiliary hon secretary, organized a jumble sale in
Okehampton Market Hall and raised £51 for branch funds.
Expenses were very low thanks to the co-operation of the
Town Council, local tradesmen and organizations.

Grimsby and District Mrs Fitzsimmons, hon secretary of
Scunthorpe and Frodingham auxiliary, reports: A dance
at the Royal Hotel, Scunthorpe, organized by the Mayoress
of Scunthorpe, the Hon Edith Quibell, a committee, member,
raised £31 for branch funds and a jumble sale, organized by
the committee, raised £11 105.

The proceeds of the Civic Ball at Scunthorpe, a sum
amounting to £170, have been given to the branch funds.
Mrs Fitzsimmons, auxiliary hon secretary, in‘ reporting this
says that Lord Quibell, Mayor of Scunthorpe, is aux111ary
president and the Hon Edith Quibell is a member of the
committee.

Hampshire—Southampton and District At the annual St
Francis Bazaar, which was opened by Mrs R. Biddle at the
Avenue Hall, Southampton, Miss W. Moody, branch'vice
chairman, thanked those who had helped in the organizmg
work, particularly Miss D. Pinhorn and Mrs M. G. RufTell.
Miss Moody also mentioned the competition organized by
Mrs C. Tench and her helpers. A vote of thanks to Mrs
Biddle was proposed by Mrs Rowland Moody and seconded
by Miss Pinhorn, who spoke of the efforts of Ammal
Defenders in local schools who had collected all the goods on
sale at the well stocked produce and vegetable stalls. Later
1n the day a magical miscellany was presented by Mr
Jeffrey Atkins, there was also a dancing display by Ports-
W90d secondary school and a whist drive. Over £300 was
raised for branch funds.

Headquarters Clinics Mrs Jarvis, hon secretary of the
RSPCA South Harrow Clinic, reports that an old time dance
organized by the Clinic committee raised £11 14s. for Clinic
funds. The committee and friends provided refreshments and
prizes. MCs were Mr and Mrs W. Mealing. The contents of
the begging dog box amounting to 16s. 9d. were given to the
RSPCA Mayhew Home. .
Herefordshire After pets had been blessed at .a spec1a1
service at Holy Trinity Church, Hereford, the Vicar, Preb
L. J. B. Snell, MBE (RSPCA council member) called forward
a brave. little girl, Barbara Swideska, who rescued a kitten
from three boys who were trying to drown it. Barbara was
Introduced to Dr W. S. Russell Thomas (RSPCA counc11
member). An address was given by Mr. Peter Freeman, MP,
another member of the RSPCA counCil.

The new Animal Welfare Ctntre in Ross Road, Hereford,
was declared open by Mrs Wallis Power, JP, Vice-chairman
0f the RSPCA council. Introducing Mrs Wallis Power,
Preb Snell, branch chairman and a member of the RSPCA
council, said that when he introduced the ammal serVice at

THE ANIMAL WORLD

0

141

Holy Trinity some years ago money came from all Over the
world. With this and the support of the local branch the
animal shelter had been set up at Holy Trinity and in the
past four years over 1,000 animals had passed through the
shelter. Preb Snell paid a tribute to the work of Mrs. Snell
and her voluntary workers at the old shelter. Mrs Wallis
Power, who outlined the work of the RSPCA, was thanked
by the Deputy Mayor of Hereford, Alderman G. F. C.
Higginbotham, and the chairman of Herefordshire County
Council, Mr W. H. Wright. Before the opening of the new
shelter the branch annual meeting was held. The hon
secretary, Miss E. M. Carver, said that more auxiliary
branches were wanted. Mr Curtis of Bosbury, who rescued
a sheep in difﬁculty, received the RSPCA bronze medal.
Another rescuer whose efforts were acknowledged was
15-year-old Derek Wheatstone who climbed a high ' tree in
Hereford to rescue a kitten. Inspector Rhodes, whose rescue
of a sheep and a cat was also mentioned, reported that during
1952 he had investigated 61 complaints of cruelty. Preb
Snell announced that Derek Wheatstone would be awarded
the Anita Knight prize for the bravest deed of the year.
Mrs G. Snell submitted a report of the activities of the
animal shelter and she thanked various helpers for all that
they had done. i

Hertfordshire—West Mrs Hipwell, Rickmansworth and
Chorleywood auxiliary hon secretary, organized a bridge
afternoon and raised £45 for branch funds.

Inspector Slater spoke at a probationers’ refresher course
held by the Chief Constable of Hatﬁeld County Police
Headquarters on the work of the RSPCA.

Huntingdonshire and March Area Mrs Shorter, branch hon
secretary, has received from Mr Peachey, Kimbolton and
Tilbrook auxiliary hon secretary, a report that a whist drive
organized by Mrs Stiff raised £1 99. for branch funds. Mr
Peachey also reports the following collections: Mrs ‘R.
Shelton, 11s.; Mrs Chalice, 7s._11d.; Mrs Peachey, 15s.

Isle of Wight Miss J olliﬁ‘e, Niton and Ventnor auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that a woman veterinary surgeon gave
an instructive talk to members of the Whitwell Women’s
Institute on dogs and cats and their common ailments and
how to treat them. RSPCA leaﬂets were given out by Miss
J olliﬂ‘e and a number of new subscribers were obtained.

A whist drive at Whitwell raised £3 for branch funds.
Kent—Ashford and District Mr Crothall, branch hon
secretary, gave a talk on the growth of the RSPCA to
Brabourne Women’s Institute and judged entries in a pet
snapshot exhibition, presenting prizes to the winners. A
collection of £1 7s. 9d. was taken for branch funds.

The sum of 12s. 6d. was collected for branch fundswhen
Inspector Coles spoke to Bilsington Women’s Institute
members on the work of the RSPCA. '

 

At the Tynedale Agricultural Show inspector Harfleet
demonstrates the Sawyer Trap

 

   

 




 

 

 

 

December 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 137

RSPCA TANGANYIKA ' ANIMAL DEFENDERS—ON PARADE

RSPCA Tangayika Division Animal Defenders had a proud
place in the Ceremonial Parade, held at Government
House, Dar-es-Salaam, when the Coronation of Her
Majesty Queen Elizabeth ll was promulgated and Loyal
Addresses to Her Majesty were submitted

 

Sheikh Mohamed Berhert with the Arab detachment, of
which he was officer-in-charge

Agha Khan
School Animal
Defenders

 

 

DOG SAVED FROM TAR

When ‘Pandy’, a twelvevweek old terrieratype
mongrel was rescued from a well of thick tar,
his life was despaired of.» Mr Len Rollett, a
civilian employee at Lindholme RAF Station
near Doncaster, had missed the family pet and
hearing cries ﬁnally discovered him in the well.
With the help of a friend, Mr Rollett was able
to free ‘Pandy’ whose nose and eyes were the only
part of him visible.

They improvised a small corrugated iron
stretcher and took him by, van to the RSPCA
Dogs’ Home in Marshgate, Doncaster. There,
Mrs E. M. Morrison, chairman of ’Doncaster
Division, obtained the help of a band of volunv
teers: Mrs Derby, who provided a large quantity
of margarine; sixteenvyearvold Sheila Chapman;
seventeenayear‘old Edith Woodward and sixteen'
yearaold Terry Pownell. ,

For two hours they rubbed off the sticky tar
with the margarine after first freeing the mouth
and giving the dog glucose and sugar.

The puppy, wrapped in a warm blanket, then
went home. in the van. ' f . ' ‘

 

Dr Gebauer, oﬁicer-in-charge, Animal Defenders’ Parade,
with Mrs lsobel Slater, Territorial Organizer. Assembling
Defenders for parade order; Africans leading

 

Animal Defenders from lndian Central School ready to
join the parade

CAT IN PIGEONS’ NEST

Called to the rescue of a cat, Inspector Marlow

found him high in a tree sitting in a pigeons’ nest
with a young pigeon. Using a ladder the Inspector

,was able to bring downthe cat, who promptly
'ran home.

The Inspector noticed that one of the pigeons
had fallen out of the nest and he was able to put
it back again with the one already there. Soon
afterwards hesaw the parent birds come back to
the nest.

RSPCA WINS REFORMS .
RSPCALInspe'ctor Tynan reports Considerable
improvements at Newbury Cattle Market, where
pigs and calves now enjoy some measure of com—
fort and where new loading pens have been
installed. At »Millom, Cumberland, Inspector
Turnell has succeeded in banning children under

. ﬁfteen from entering the Market.

 




 

 

 

December 195 3

 

Defenders held a pet show in the Vicarage Field, kindly lent
by the Vicar of Rochdale, the Rev Nightingale. Mrs Chad-
wich and Miss Fielding were in charge and prizes were dis-
tributed by Miss Osborne. A proﬁt of £13 was raised for
branch funds.

 

. AM )\.

At the Caledonian Market, Loughborough: left to right,

Mr G. Caradine, Branch Hon Treasurer; Mrs Evans;

Miss M. Harridge-Cayless, Branch Hon Secretary; Lady

Crawshaw, Branch President; Mr G. Wilson; and Mr C. .l-.
Farrer, Hon Secretary Hathern Auxiliary

Shropshire Mr T. Jones, Oswestry auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that the ladies of the committee arranged a coffee
morning by invitation of Mrs G. Wyse, and raised £10 for
branch funds.

*

Mrs Meredith, branch hon secretary reports that a
bring and buy sale, organized by Viscountess Hill and Lady
Berwick, held by kind permission of Mrs Wynne Corrie, at
Shrewsbury, raised £70 for branch funds.

*

The annual meeting was held on October 21 at the Castle,
Shrewsbury. The president, Lt-Col the Rt Hon Viscount H111,
DSO, was in the chair. Mr Roland Ampleford was a very
much enjoyed speaker. Wing Commander Hilher, DFC, was
also present and proposed a vote of thanks at the end of the
meeting. A medal and cheque were presented to Inspector
Watt for his work in ﬂooded East Coast areas. A certiﬁcate
wss presented to Police Constable Roberts. for 1113 havmg
rescued a dog from a pit shaft. The presentations were made
by the Viscountess Hill. The meeting was attended by over
one hundred friends and afterwards enjoyed an excellent
tea with the host and hostess, Viscount and Viscountess Hill.
Staffordshire‘North Mrs Berry, jomt branch hon secre—
tary, reports that a dance at Longton raised approxrmately
£50 for branch funds, and that a collection taken on Stoke
City football ground by permission of the d1rectors, raised
£51

StOCkPOI't, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire The branch
carnival and horse parade at Stockport was a great success,
105 collecting boxes being ﬁlled. A total of £20 was handed
in by members of the carnival committee towards the prize
money. Before the parade moved off Mrs Birkett, Disley
auxiliary hon secretary, crowned the tw1n carnival queens.
The JUdges were Mr Maben, Reddish; Mr erght, Mobber-
ley, and Mr Phillips, Mottram, in the horse classes and the
foot characters were judged by Mr Leah, branch chairman,
Miss FanshaWe and Mrs Birket . Mrs Rushby, branch
secretary, worked with Inspector Coles and Mrs Coles 1n
the Organizing work of the parade.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 143

Surrey—Epsom and District A jumble sale, organized by
Mrs Tudor Rees, Tadworth, auxiliary hon secretary, raised
£97 83. 5d. for branch funds.

Sussex—West, and Brighton Mrs Mitchell, hon secretary of
Copthorne auxiliary, and Mr W. C. Brown, branch secre-
tary, had charge of a propaganda stall at the Crawley pet
show and gala. Chief Inspector White judged entries in'the
pet show. The sum of £1 115. was collected for branch funds.
Torquay and South-East Devon The Vicar of Ellacombe
Park, the Rev E. E. Robinson, held a pets’ service for the
scholars of Ellacombe Parish Sunday School and their pets.
The service was held in Belmont Park, Torquay, and a
collection was taken for branch funds.

Walsall Miss Stanley organized a bring and bUy sale which
raised £40 for branch funds.

Westmorland At the annual meeting of the branch Mr
Thomas Wright Hodgson received from the Chief Constable
of Cumberland and Westmorland, Mr J. S. H. Gaskain, an
RSPCA certiﬁcate of merit for his gallantry in rescuing a
sheep from the flooded river Kent at Victoria Bridge,
Kendal. The Mayor of Kendal, Councillor T. O’Loughlin,
presided and the Mayoress presented prizes and certiﬁcates
won by children in the essay competition. Miss Shaw,
hon secretary of the Lancashire—North and Borders branch,
gave a talk. Ofﬁcials elected were: president, Lady Chance;
chairman, Mrs E. Crewdson; vice-chairman, Mr H.
Bowman-Watson: hon treasurer, Mr L. N. Cross; hon
secretary, Mrs C. Boyle; assistant hon secretary, Mrs K.
Perrot.

Wiltshire—Salisbury and District At the Animal Sunday
service at St John’s Church, Bemerton, pets were brought to
receive the blessing of Canon L. Bartlett, the Rector.
Lessons were read by Sir Alfred Wort, branch chairman.
The collection on behalf of various animal welfare organiza-
tions was taken by Chief Inspector Turner and others.

*

Mrs Dark of Pitton organized a whist drive and raised
£7 12s. 6d. for branch funds. Miss Wormell, branch co hon
secretary, presented the prizes.

*

A whist drive organized by Mrs Collins of Winterslow,
raised £10 ls. 6d. for branch funds. Miss Rosslyn Stuart,
branch co hon secretary, presented the prizes.
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Mrs Wrax-
ter, helped by Mrs Freeman, organized a whist drive at the
Village Hall, Wychbold, and raised £12 0s. 3d. for branch
funds. Mr R. Bartlett, chairman of Bromsgrove auxiliary,
who reports this function, says that he attended with Mrs
Bartlett.

 

Mess.

lames, whose picture comes to us from Mrs E. Strapp, who
says that he was returned to his home by the kindness and
enterprise of the Railway Police and of the RSPCA

 

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, D-L, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

 

TAGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP
BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, BT, MP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWEs, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GASKOIN, C. J. 13., ESQ., MA
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP
*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ

POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL
POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
RATTRAY, THE REV DR R. F.
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ
SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SIBLY, W- A» ESQ, MA, JP
*HUNTER’ MISS SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 13., MBE, JP
LEE, MRS TAIT, MRS, BA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD’ LT‘COL 1' C" 11” TD’ MP THEESSGTVCVN’STEESISELEOESQORD’ KBE, MA
,.. LONGMAN MRS W. ’ ' ' ’
DOWDELL, MRS _ ’ TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MURRAY’ BRIGADIER C- A" C3159 MRCVS *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP

* *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA PARKER, MAURICE G» ESQ: MISAC *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

 

 

* Denotes Branch Representative I Denotes Co-opted Member

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP

 

 

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, ECA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CH-B
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

"Mm &TRIISTEDTHE WORlD ova

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIs

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

Inexpensive GIFTS for
XMAS and NEW YEAR

Send 3d. for “NATURE GIFTS” Catalogue

 

Animal LITANY, beautiful Best Toilet SOAP with Bird,

wording (“For birds with
broken wings . . .”) 25. 9d.

DOG LEAD HOLDERS: hook
affixed to pokerworked plaque
With dog’s head, 35. 6d.

Dog or T/Fish pictures which
do not wash off: Box 3 tablets
4s. (3 boxes Ils. 3d.)
H/painted cutout CALENDAR,
Kingﬁsher or Gentian, 55. 9d.
NESTBOXES, Tit or Robin,

 

   
     

         

‘7‘ M
SIMPLE I W
SAIL.

; SURE MFCASH XE"

.CAETIVE BOLT PISTOL
'FOR‘ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND
5465

\|

\

:.\

‘. \ .
\

‘2'
..
O O ‘
\

ACCIES AND SHELVOKE [ID

 

 

SCARF RINGS, with coloured IOS. 9d. “Clearview”Window
miniature of Dog or Horse, Tray, IOs. 9d. “Bird Sanctuary”
55. 3d. Catalogue 3d.

Dept. 8. Greenrigg Works, Woodford Green, Essex

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

Please write to:

CHIEF SECRETARY,
RSPCA, l05 JERMYN ST., LONDON, SWI
For illustrated pamphlet
showing attractive range of
RSPCA CHRISTMAS CARDS AND
CALENDARS—IN BLACK & WHITE
AS WELL AS BEAUTIFUL COLOURS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

34 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 195 3

 

 

THE WINGED MESSENGER

In next month’s Animal World we welcome to our pages The Winged Messenger. .

Beginning with that issue Animal World will have added to its title ‘(incorporating The Winged

Messenger)’ .

Many of our readers are already familiar with this little journal which, issued quarterly, haskontained

news of special interest to bird lovers.

The magazine has been issued as a quarterly for some years, but the cost was much greater than the-
income derived from its sale, and the RSPCA Council decided reluctantly to discontinue publication.
As readers of The Winged Messenger will in future be. offered Animal World, we propose to allot space
in each issue to special news of interest to bird lovers. \Ve feel sure that this material will prove of

‘equal interest to all our present readers.

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT
Extracted. from HANSARD (Parliamentary Reports)

Cruelty to Animals

MR PETER FREEMAN asked the Secretary of State
for the Home Department Whether he will re;
issue the list of places holding licences to practise
experiments on living animals.

SIR D. MAXWELL—FYFE: No, because as I told
the hon Member on 13th November last, the
expense of publication is not justiﬁed by the
extremely small demand.

Lost Dogs (Police Charges)

MR PETER FREEMAN asked the Secretary of State
for the Home Department Whether he will raise
the amount of the ﬁne of Is. when dogs are
claimed by their owners from the Metropolitan
Police.

SIR D. MAXWELL—FYFE: As the charge is suﬂia
cient to meet the expenses incurred, I should not
be justiﬁed in raising it.

Cattle Dis‘horning

MR DE FREITAs asked the Minister of Agriculture
whether he will give greater encouragement to
the practice of dis—horning cattle.

SIR T. DUGDALE: My Department has been
advocating the diSvhorning of cattle for many
years. Ofﬁcers of the National Agricultural
Advisory Service take every opportunity of en—
couraging farmers to dis»horn cattle in com—
mercial herds, particularly where the cattle are
likely to be kept in yards. A leaﬂet has been
issued on the methods of dis—homing, and the
livestock ofﬁcers are always ready to give advice.

Rabbits (Crop Damage)

MR DE FREITAS asked the Minister of Agriculture.
whether he is aware of the damage done by rabr
bits to crops in the country generally, and in
Yarborough Road, Lincoln, particularly; and.
whether the experiments with myxamatosis hold
out any hope that rabbits may be eliminated
without upsetting the balance of life in the
countryside. .

SIR T. DUGDALE: I am well aware of the damage
done by rabbits generally. I am having inquiries
made about the area referred to by the hon
Member and will write to him. All aspects of the-
use of myxamatosis are being investigated, but
present evidence on its value as a longaterm con»
trol measure is, I fear, not encouraging.

Irish Cattle (Warbles)

MR HURD asked the Minister of Agriculture.-
what steps are taken to dress Irish cattle infested
with warbles on arrival at British ports.

SIR T. DUGDALE: No steps are taken to treat
Irish cattle on arrival at British ports since an
Order requiring the compulsory dressing of 111,-
fested cattle is in operation in Northern Ireland
and infested cattle coming from the Irish Re»
public are dressed at the port of embarkation.

Moreover, under the Warble Fly Order, 1948,

any infested cattle coming into the ownership of ‘

a person during the dressing season must be-
dressed WIthIn seven days. ‘

MR HURD: Is my right hon friend aware that:

hundreds of cattle that have come in this summer

from the Irish Republic have been full of warble:
grubs, and have had to have four dressings in this.

country? Will he please see that the Irish
Republic do their part of this job?

SIR T.. DUGDALE: I will look-into the point:

raised by my hon friend.

 

 

gig-I: a;:g\ _ i. .7

 




 

 

 

 

 

136 TH E AN 1M A‘TL 'ijw o R L D

 

 

 

Photo] [by courtesy of the Derby Evening Telegraph

lt took a day’s patient coaxing on the part of lnspector S.
Barrett, of Derby and District Branch of the RSPCA, to
overcome this brown terrier’s suspicion of mankind. For
some time people living near Chellaston ' had reported
seeing her running wild. Then seven puppies were found
under a hedge; for three weeks she had fed and cared for
them without any help. She and her family were taken to the
RSPCA kennels in Abbey Street, Derby, and under the care
of .Mr H. Broadbent (seen above), she slowly lost her
distrust of humanity ‘

PIGEONS IN CHIMNEYS '

Mr Stock, Goring auxiliary hon secretary, was
called into his sitting room by Mrs Stock, who
had heard extraordinary noises in the chimney.
A ﬁre was burning so it was diﬁ’icult for. him to
make an examination. Mr Stock called his gar—
dener and they noticed nothing except that a
good deal of soot had fallen. Finally, with a good
lamp they were able to recognize a white pigeon.
Luckily the bird was just within reach and they
managed to get her down none the worse. A meal
of corn did the bird a lot of good and by the
evening time she was quite lively. .

The bird had a ring on the leg and the number
led her to be identiﬁed. . _ ,

Inspector Ruck, called to a house Where a
pigeon had been trapped for some days in a
chimney, located the bird by means of a torch at a
joint in the brickwork. He borrowed a Chimney
sweep’s ladder and pushed it carefully up the
chimney. The bird was not coaxed to try ﬂying
upwards, but sat on the sweep’s brush and rode
on it to reach the open air and ﬂy away.

A pigeon trapped in a chimney at Barrow—inv
Furness‘ tested the resources of an RSPCA
Inspector.

The pigeon had been two days in the chimney
before Inspector Morris was called. The bird was
too weak to get through the top ‘of the chimney
and though the Inspector was not at ﬁrst aware

of this the aperture to the ﬁreplace was not wide

enough to allow the pigeon to get down.

At ﬁrst a rope was lowered from the top of the
chimney then a torch was left in the ﬁreplace
shining upwards and ﬁnally chimney sweep rods
were used.

Whenall these methods had failed Inspector
Morris arranged with the householder for part of
the chimney breast tobe taken out. This showed
the pigeon on a ledge six feet below and revealed
that the lower aperture would not allow the bird
to get through. The Inspector worked for over an
hour using the dog grasper in an awkward posi—
tion before he was ﬁnally able to free the bird.

OWLS FIND SANCTUARY

A good deal of publicity was given in the Press
to a family of owls in Church Vale, West Brom’
wich. The mother bird and her young having been
tormented by hooligans, the male bird—a large
barn owl—took to swooping down on the tor—
mentors and an ultimatum was issued by the
Police that, unless he, mended his ways, the
indignant husband must be shot.

However, the RSPCA Inspector intervened in
defence'of father owl, pointing out that he had
only attacked to protect his family from ill usage,
and as a result of his plea householders in the
Vale, who were also bird lovers, formed them—
selves into a guard to ensure that no further
harm came to the owls. Letters of thanks were
sent from RSPCA Headquarters to those residents
of Church Vale who had befriended the birds.

TWO GOOD DEEDS

At Hull Cattle Market, Inspector Heath noticed
three ewes in lamb in one of the grading pens,
and he immediately drew the attention of the
auctioneer'to these animals, with the result that
thefarmer owner was directed to take them back
to the farm and keep them until their lambs were

born and reared.

At Newcastle Emlyn Market, Inspector Dolv
lard saw a six—legged calf brought in for grading.
People were crowding round the little creature
and the Inspector feared that the calf might suffer
1n]ury from rough handling, or that he might be
sold to some showman. He therefore asked the
graders to treat the animal as a casualty and t0
p ace him in a separate pen. This was done and
the Inspector stood guard over him, protecting

1m from curious spectators. Later, he saw the
calf placed comfortably in a lorry, all to himself,
snugly bedded down in straw. Thanks to Inspec’
tor Dollard’s intervention, death came gently
to this poor animal, who had entered the world

maimed and Whose life might have held so much
suffering and torment. -

December 1953

at... A. =.

'3 $~_
3...»...

 

 

 




 

 

 

138 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1953

THE RSPCA AT WORK

OCTOBER 1953'

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,351 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Offenders imprisoned.
68 Offenders ﬁned.

48 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
880 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, overdriving 4

CATTLE—~Neglecting, starving, neglecting ingrowing
horn .
SHEEP—Neglecting, exposing unﬁt

DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing in
improper manner, throwing of moving bus 17

CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, shooting
and wounding, stoning“ . 13

FOWLs—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,
beating, etc.

DUCKS—Neglecting

PIGEON—Killing with arrow

n—t-P-r—AOO

WILD BIRD—Conﬁning in improper receptacle

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages ..
Using decoy bird . . . 1

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 1
Using bird lime

VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Steel—tooth trap—~set in open
Permitting in offences
Causing in an oﬁence
Failing to notify TB. in cow

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

1“!
r—up—Ar—AUJr-A

During OCTOBER, 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the

RSPCA, disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or '

holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows.

ONE for twelve months; FOUR for two years; THREE for ﬁve
years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 23,762
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 702
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 8,647

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 5,166 Dogs, 4, 777 Misc., 334 Total, 10, 277
N o of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,948

‘ PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats, 31 Dogs, 76 Misc., 1 Total, 108

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,635

Mileage covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,556
No. of animals rescued: 11
No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 265

NORTH _ WALES UNIT

First-aid cases:

Cats, 18 Dogs, 55 Misc., 0 Total, 73
N o. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 120 Dogs, 39 Misc., 0 Total, 159

No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,125

AWARDS

No. of cases considered 48
Bronze medals 5
Bar to Bronze Medals '

Certiﬁcates of Merit 11

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS _ 30,750
CONVICTIONS . . . ... 962
CAUTIONS . 11,599

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 160,263

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19,839

NORTH WALES UNIT
N9. of animals handled: 3,083

' AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross . . . 1
Silver Medals ' 11
Bars to Silver Medals
Bronze Medals 52
Bars to Bronze Medals 5

Merit Certiﬁcates 104




 

 

 

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

 

Miss P. Archer, Minehead aux hon sec, who sent this

picture, writes: ‘One of the forty unwanted or lost dogs

rescued by the Minehead Auxiliary. It is really wonderful
how we manage to find homes.’

Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District Mrs Tollemache,
branch hon secretary, reports: Mrs Maunsell, Liss auxiliary
hon secretary, says that a jumble sale held in Liss raised
£25 2s. for branch funds; Mrs Wigg, Four Marks auxiliary
hon secretary, organized a dog show which was judged
by Mrs de Casembroot and raised £21 for branch funds;
a certiﬁcate of merit was presented to Fireman P. Coleman
of the Haslemere Fire Brigade by Mrs Tollemache in the
absence of the chairman, Lady Dorman-Smith. This pre-
sentation was made at the Fire Station, Haslemere.

Miss Brown, Steep auxiliary hon secretary, and Mr Gid-

dogs, head teacher of Steep school, arranged for Inspector
Mahony to speak to Steep schoolchildren on the care and
treatment of animals.
Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
The Vicar, the Rev J. H. Pratt, and Mrs Pratt, took part,
with their pet hen, Brownie, and their poodle, Sally, in an
Animal Sunday Service at St John’s Church, Hurst. The 250
children attending the service sang hymns and Inspector
Blaylock gave the address. A collection of £3 3s. 3d. was
raised for branch funds.

At a concert in the Hurst Band Club Room, Hurst,
. articles presented by local traders were auctioned for branch
funds. Mr E. Kirkham and Mr J. Hough arranged the pre-
sentation of the articles and Mr , Salthouse was in charge.
~ The sum of £27 was raised for branch funds.

Councillor. Holland, the Mayor of Ashton, opened the

140 C THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1953

concert and Mrs Holland was presented with a bouquet
of ﬂowers given by Mrs Lowe. The Mayor was thanked
by Inspector Blaylock.

Balham & Tooting: Wandsworth Common Auxiliary Mrs
Granville Stott, Wandsworth Common auxiliary hon
secretary, organized a bring and buy sale at Highﬁeld School
and raised £40 for branch funds. The sale was held in High-
ﬁeld School by kind permission of Mr Austin.

Bath and District The success of the recent ﬂag day at
Bath, said Mr E. J. Hobhouse, branch chairman, at the annual
meeting at the Bath Pump Room, proved that the public
of Bath realized the good work the Society was doing.
Alderman A. W. S. Berry, branch secretary, moved the
adoption of the report. This was seconded by Mrs E. Lewis.
Mr J. E. McKeon moved the adoption of the accounts, in
the absence of the hon treasurer, Mr J. H. Browne. Mrs F.
Yeoman seconded. The reports were adopted.

Birmingham and District The annual service for the
RSPCA was held at St Germain’s Church (Vicar, the Rev
D. A. Foster, MA). The sermon was preached by the Rev
J. F. Hinett, BA, BD, Rural Dean of Edgbaston and Vicar
of Christ Church. He emphasized the impossibility of being
a Christian unless one was kind to animals. The Lessons were
read by the chairman and past chairman of the Birmingham
branch (Mr Parton Smith and Mr Ikin). Mr and Mrs Turley,
joint hon secretaries for Edgbaston and Inspector Griﬂiths
also were present.

Bolton During the Animal Sunday Service at the Queen
Street Methodist School, the children heard talks by Mrs
B. Marshall, Farnworth auxiliary hon secretary, and by
Inspector King. The Rev E. Price, resident minister, con-
ducted the service. A collection of £2 2s. 6d. was raised to
help the local RSPCA shelter.

Burton-on-Trent Mrs Bird, branch hon secretary, reports
the following efforts for branch funds: Mrs Hallam, Alrewas
auxiliary hon secretary, raised £17 0s. 10d. by a whist drive
and dance; Mrs Smith, hon secretary of Melbourne auxiliary,
organized a house-to-house collection in Ticknall and raised
£3 4s. 10d.; Mrs Pughe, Uttoxeter auxiliary hon secretary,
raised a substantial sum by a dance; Mrs Simpkin, Netherseal

auxiliary hon secretary, has begun work on a grand Christ-
mas effort.
*

A competition was organized at the premises of Miss
Wardle, F orresters Arms, Burton-on-Trent and £5 was
raised as a result for branch funds. The prize for the competl-
tion had been given to Miss Wardle by Mrs Monica Sprowl.

*

An RSPCA medal for gallantry shown during the East
Coast ﬂoods was presented by the Mayor of Burton,
Alderman J. W. Clark, to Inspector Jones. The presentation
was made prior to the start of business at a meeting of
Burton Town Council.

*

Mrs Pughe, auxiliary hon secretary, organized a dance in
Uttoxeter and raised £41 10s. 2d. for branch funds.

Mrs Smith, Kings Newton, Melbourne and Ticknall
auxiliary hon secretary, organized a whist drive at the ‘Pack
Horse’, Kings Newton, and raised £12 for branch funds.
Cornwall—East Mrs K. G. Foster opened a dog show,
organized by Mrs Creba, Saltash auxiliary hon secretary and
committee. Mr Crooks of Plymouth was the judge and
Inspector Grinnall attended.

Croydon Borough Mrs Bagnall, branch hon secretary,
reports that £43 was raised for branch funds at a bazaar..

Derbyshire—Derby and District Uncle Eric, of the Junior
Telegraph Club, was presented with a bouquet for Auntie

, Doris by seven-year-old Susan Joiner, of Far Laund, Belper,

after he had opened a sale of work held by Laund Hill and
Far Laund district branch of the Animal Defenders at the
Masonic Hall, Campbell Street, Belper. The sale, which was
followed by the branch annual tea, was to raise funds for the
upkeep .of a kennel at the RSPCA, Abbey Street, Derby, and
to prov1de stray animals there with a Christmas dinner. The

 

 




 

 

 

 

142 . THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

Photo] - [by courtesy of Swindon Press Ltd

Pet show at Chippenham Secondary Modern School
(Wiltshire-North Branch)

The branch displayed literature and photographs, all of

which proved popular, at the Combined Societies Exhibition
at the Drill Hall, Ashford.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
secretary, reports that a coffee morning held in the grounds
of the home of Mrs A. G. Briscall, 48 London Road,
Canterbury, raised £10 10s. for branch funds and a whist
drive held recently raised £3 13s. 1d.

Mr Watson of Hersden, near Canterbury, raised £1 4s.

towards branch funds by means of whist drives.
Kent—Folkestone and District Inspector Wolfenden spoke
on the welfare of animals and their protection at No. 6
District Police Training Centre, Sandgate.
Kent—North-Westi Mrs Honess, branch hon secretary,
arranged for Senior Inspector Stephens to receive from the
Mayor of Gravesend at the Regal Cinema, Gravesend, a
medal awarded to him for his rescue work during the East
Coast ﬂoods. Lady Hart Dyke, branch president, Mr W.
Honess, branch chairman, and the branch hon secrerary
attended. ,
Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Mrs R. Coles,
Thrapston auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a dance,
organized by Mrs Quincey, of Little Addington, raised
£7 33. 7d. for branch funds.
Liiicolnshire—Mid. and Lincoln Miss C. May Harrison,
branch hon secretary, reports that the Animal Sunday service
was held in St Mark’s Church, Lincoln. The preacher was
the Vicar, the Rev Canon A. 0. Jones, and a lesson was read
by Inspector Silcock.

A rummage sale, organized by Miss C. May Harrison,
raised £16 165. for branch funds.
London—South East Mrs Miller held a jumble sale and
raised £32 ls. 5d. for branch funds. Mrs Miller had the help
of a number of auxiliary hon secretaries and of Mrs Dilli-
stone, branch hon secretary. Mrs Mansﬁeld had a food stall
and her small daughter a toy stall.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton The Rev
H. L. Williams, branch chairman, conducted the annual
Animal Sunday service at St James’s Church, Sutton. The
lessons were read by Frances Platt, ﬁrst prize winner in the
junior section of the branch essay competition and by
Inspector Cook. The collection was for branch funds.

Mr A. Young, branch hon treasurer, presided over a
meeting in the parish room, Macclesﬁeld, when the Rev H. L.
Williams, Vicar of St James’s Church, Sutton, and branch

The water trough atLyndhurst which was moved by public

December 1953

chairman, presented prizes to six children who had written
winning essays in the branch essay competition. A vote of
thanks was proposed by Mrs D. Hall.

*
Inspector Cook spoke to members of the Buxton Young
Farmers’ Club on the work of the RSPCA.

*

Mrs Hawthorn, Sandbach auxiliary hon secretary, organ-

ized a whist drive at Sandbach and raised £15 for branch
funds.
Newcastle upon Tyne Mrs Coble, Newbiggin~by~Sea
auxiliary hon secretary, attended a whist drive at Ashington
which raised £2 10s. as a contribution to the branch bazaar.
Norfolk—Mid. and Norwich Mr Stanley Reed, joint hon
secretary of the branch, reports that Mrs Butler, hon secre-
tary of Long Stratton and Wacton auxiliary, organized a
whist drive and raised £24 195. 2d. for branch funds. Mr
Reed presented the prizes.

*

The whist drive, organized in aid of the Clinic by Mrs
fthilsken, hon clinic secretary, raised £11 103. 9d. for branch
un s. ,
Northamptonshire and District The annual jumble sale,
organized by the supervisors and staff of the Northampton
Telephone Exchange, raised £10 for branch funds. The sum
sent by Miss Gregory, supervisor.
Northumberland West A collection of 13s. 6d. was taken
for branch funds when Inspector Harﬂeet showed RSPCA
ﬁlms at Holy Trinity Church Guild, Hexham.
Oxford Senior Inspector Waite lectured recruits at No. 5
District Police Training School, Eynsham, near Witney, on
cruelty to animals and the law. »

 

subscription‘in from the main road. A plaque is to be put
up to this effect and will also say that the RSPCA Hamp-
shire—New Forest Branch is now responsible for the trough

Preston and District A public meeting was arranged by
Mrs Turner, representative for Standish, and Miss Brooks,
both members of the Chorley auxiliary committee, and was
held in the council , ofﬁces, Standish. .RSPCA ﬁlms were
shown. Mr J. Fletcher, JP, chairman of Chorley. auxiliary,
presided and introduced Mr C. O. Hockin, council member,
who Spoke about the RSPCA and its administration. The
chairman thankedboth Mrs Turner and Mrs Brooks for their
hard work in organizingthe meeting. Among those present
were Mrs H. Kay, branch hon secretary, Mrs France, hon
secretary of Chorley auxiliary, and Miss Grifﬁths, hon
treasurer, Chorley auxiliary.

Mrs Kay, branch hon. secretary, reports that a coffee
morning raised £91 153. for branch funds.
Rochdale Miss Osborne, branch secretary, reports: Animal

 

 

 




 

 

 

144 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1953

 

 

 

Mrs Collier, hon sec of the Sheffield branch, with the large-

sized begging-dog box. The box was on a prominent site

in Sheffield and, manned by Mrs Collier herself, raised £7
towards the flag day total of £8“ Os. 3d.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the name of the organizer or organizers.)
Watford, Mrs Jones, aux hon sec, £144 145. 161.;Raw—
marsh, Mrs Young, £22 185. 661.; Aughton and Swallow—
nest, Miss Samson, aux hon sec, £12 25. 961.; Wentworth,
Mrs Collinson, aux hon sec, £5; Kilnhurst, £3 55. 661.; Bram—
ley, £1 15. 861.; Harthill, Mrs Wall, aux hon sec, £8 25
Swinton, Mrs Firth and Mrs Jackson, £8 155. 261.; Risca,
Mrs W. Charkes, £11 35.; Cwm, Mrs F. Morgan, JP, aux
hon sec, £10 115. 10d.; Chepstow, Miss Dunne and Miss
Callaghan, co aux hon secs, £14 155. 661.; Llanwern, Mrs
Snowball, aux hon sec, £1 155.; St Mellons, £6 125. 861.;
Tintern, Miss M. Jones, £1 55. 161.; Undy, Mrs Leyshon,
£3 155. 261.; Roggiett, Mrs Pritchard, £3 55. 1061.; Roger—
stone, Mrs Williams, £5 115.; Coombe Martin, Miss H.
Preston, £14 85. 161.; Aberayron, Miss Jones and Mrs R. J.
Evans, co aux hon secs, £10 25. 4d.; Borth, Mrs James,
aux hon sec, £9 45. 161.; Cardigan, Mrs K. Key, £8 155. 661.;
Lampeter, Mrs Thomas, aux hon. sec, £39 95. 3d.; Lland—
dewi—Breﬁ, Mr B. James, £3 95. 6d.; Tregaron, Miss B.
Jones and Miss E. Howells, co aux hon secs, £3 155. 561.;
Pontrhydfendigaid, Rev J. Aubrey, aux hon sec, £8; Llan—
arth, Miss A. Lewis, aux hon sec, £4 25. 1161.; New Quay,
Mrs Phillips-Davies, aux hon sec, £12 75.; Ventnor, Miss I.
Jolliffe, aux hon sec, £22 85. 1061.; Oxhey, Mrs Muckelt,
aux h‘on sec, £53 185. 10d.; Fleetwood, Mr D. S. Wads—
worth, Fylde Branch hon sec, £18 195. 161.; Swaffham, Mrs
Fennell, aux hon sec, £14 25. 461.; Trowbridge, Mrs Pitt,
aux hon sec, £55 145. $61.; Chatham, Mrs E. F. Barrett,
division hon sec, £183 55.; Breconshire, Mrs Bagshawe,
branch hon. sec, £109 55. 361.; Colne, Mr J. N. Smith,
£58 135. 1061.; Henley—on—Thames, Miss Wadland, branch
sec, £88 175. 661.; Newquay, Mr J. A. N. Ralph, £100 45.;
Braunton, Mrs Phillips, aux hon sec, £28 155.; Castle Don—
nington (Heather Dav), Miss V. Hasard, aux hon sec,
£10 185. 1061.; Hemington (Heather Day), Miss M. J.
Hasard, aux hon sec, £1 55. 561.; Market Drayton, Mr C. D.
Abbott, aux hon sec, £44 115. 361.; South Molton, Mrs
Lewis, aux hon sec, £25 05. 561.; St Albans, Mrs Goodwin,
aux hon treas, £222 195. 961.; Barnstaple, Mrs McDavid,
aux hon sec, £133 145. 961.; Lincoln, Miss C. May Harrison,
branch hon sec, £120 125. 661.; West Bromwich, Mrs F.
Haywood, branch hon sec, £142 85. 4d.; Torrington, Mrs
Martin, aux hon sec, £27 45.; Bishop Auckland, Miss G. C.
Baines, aux hon sec, £59 115. 1161.; Welwyn Garden City,
£1 14; Ryde Borough, Isle of Wight, Mr Toms, aux hon sec,
£64 85. 561.; Shalﬂeet, Isle ofWight, Mrs Williams,£7 75. 361.;
Newport, Isle of Wight, Lady Lloyd, branch chairman,

£69 05. 1d.; Chesterﬁeld, £163; Pontypool, Miss Holmes, aux,

hon sec, £38 15. 861.; Cudworth, Miss Hill, aux hon sec,

 

£10; Consett, Mrs Bentham, aux hon sec, £23 125. 661.;
North Shields, Mrs Frier, aux hon sec, £154; Whitley Bay,
lvlrs Macklin, aux hon sec, £51; Forest Hall, Miss Moralee,
aux hon sec, £31; Morpeth, Miss Alder, aux hon sec, £57;
Newcastle upon Tyne, Mr H. A. B. Coulson and Miss E.
Jordan, £412; Usk, Mrs Probert, co aux hon sec, £12 75. 6d.;
Fleet and Crookham, £92 15. 1%61.; Loughborough and
North Leicestershire Branch (auxiliaries), £227 135. 861.;
Cheltenham, Mrs Clutterbuck and Col A. C. Hooton, co
branch hon sec, £313 65. 7d.; Bath, Mr J. S. Hobhouse,
£610; Fileyf' Mrs Macdonald, £61 35. 1161.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the collector or collectors.)
Barnburgh, Mrs Cook, £10 105.; Austwick, Mrs Bradley,
£10 65. 261.; Kimbolton, Miss Cheney and Miss Ellis,
£4 185. 10%d.; Tilbrook, Mrs J. Dawson, £1 55.; Stonely,
Mrs King, 135. 4%61.; Easingwold, Mr Dale, Alne aux hon
sec, £13 75. 1d.; Alne, Mr Dale, aux hon sec, £28; Quebec,
Mrs M. Wakerell, con aux hon sec, £8 95. 1d.; Thorpe
Salvin, Mrs Dunn, £2. 65. 861.; Sandwich, Miss G. Wood4
ruff, aux hon sec, £24 65. 661.; Mirfield, Miss Duxbury, aux
hon sec, £48 15. 1161.; Helston, Mrs Dransﬁeld, aux hon
sec, £6 35. 1061.; Ardingly, Mr Hett, aux hon sec, £6 85. 361.;
Woodford Halse, Miss Wootton, £6 65.; Maidencombe,‘
Mrs Guest, £5 05. 1061.; Newhaven, Mrs Clare, and Miss
Budd, co aux hon secs, £33 165. 761.; Wells, Mrs \Webb,
Walsingham and 'Wells aux hon sec, £35 05. 7d.

.........................................................................................................................

sends this picture which shows her with a decorated cart
taken on the Auxiliary Flag Day. The pony and cart were.
lent by a supporter and the cart was decorated by helpers.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

RSPCA ﬁlms were sent to the following places for showing
recently: .

Crawley, Standish, Crayford, Barking, Stonebroom, Gresr
ford, Herne Bay, Limpsﬁeld, Rotherham, Streatham,
Brocholes, Salisbury, Woolston, Ipswich, Cholsey, Leeds,
Hexham, Middlesbrough, Seaford, Gateshead, Clifton,
Hemel Hempstead, Chard, Bury, Bradford, Harpenden,
Lymington, Walsden, Leicester, Pensnett, Coventry, Hythe,
Gerrards Cross, Meldon, Collingham, Preston, Liverpool,
Bristol, Milnthorpe, Sidcup, Tottenham, Cullompton, Rei—
gate, Birmingham, Dalton—in’Furness, New Malden, Forest
Gate, Elsted, Southampton.

JUST A NOTE FOR THE DIARY—
London Joint Animal Flag Day
MAY 4, I954

 

 




 

 

grammars

Manufacturers of
UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every

A” .. description for ALL
enqulrzes [0

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH

and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SCPOCGA=

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex;

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliament Square, Hertford, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




