 

 

February 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 19

 

Parliamentary News
QUESTIONS

* The theft of a ginger cat in an initiative
test was mentioned by Mr Peter Freeman (Coun—
cil Member) in a Question addressed to the First
Lord of the Admiralty. Commander Noble
answered: N 0 tests are set involving the stealing of
animals. An exercise to test initiative included in a
programme of serious drills, involved the search for a
variety of objects, including a cat, all of which were
to be found in HMS ‘Vernon’. There was no intention
that a search should be made outside the establish—
ment; this was, however, misunderstood. The cat was
returned within half an hour to the place where it was
found, but unfortunately did not return to its owner.
I much regret any distress that has been caused;
the owner of the cat has been good enough to say that
he regards the matter as closed.

* The increased incidence of cat stealing

was the subject of a Question addressed to the
Secretary of State for the Home Department by
Mrs Sparkes. Major Lloyd George answered:
Fourteen cases involving the stealing of domestic cats
_ have been brought to the notice “of the Metropolitan
Police since the beginning of this year. This total is
not such as to suggest that additional measures on
the part of the police are called for. The Metro—
politan Police are not aware of any evidence to
indicate that the animals were stolen to obtain skins
for the purpose of fur making.

BILLS: THE BALLOT

Members of Parliament successful in the ballot
for Private Members’ Bill have introduced three
Bills of interest to the RSPCA. They are:

Slaughter of Animals (Amendment) Bill,
introduced by Mr R. F. Crouch, MP, who sea
cured sixth place. The object of this Bill is to
bring to an end the exemption of Jewish and
Mohammedan methods of slaughtering, under
the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933. It would lay
down that animals killed for Jewish and Mohamv
medan consumption must be rendered un’
conscious before the knife is used.

Animals (Cruel Poisons Bill): Lt—Colonel
J. C. Lockwood, MP (RSPCA hon treasurer),
secured thirteenth place and has introduced the
above Bill, which seeks to prohibit the use of
strychnine for the destruction of animals and to
establish an Animal Poisons Committee, which
shall be charged with the duty of investigating
the relative cruelty and effectiveness of poisons
and to recommend to the Secretary of State those
poisons which should not be used for the
destruction of animals. The Secretary of State
may on the committee’s recommendation ban
the use of such poisons.

Poaching of Deer (Scotland) Bill, intro;
duced by Mr John H. Mackie, MP, who secured
twentieth place. Its object is to lay down a close
season and to prevent the poaching of deer in
Scotland, etc. .

CURBING OIL POLLUTION
The Government Acts

A Bill that has for its object the prevention of
oil pollution of the seas has passed Second
Reading in the House of Lords and was due for
Committee Stage on February 1.

The drafting of the Bill, which has the Support
of the RSPCA, follows upon a conference held
in London last summer and attended by delegates

. from twenty maritime countries. The plenary

session of this conference, it will be recalled, was
attended by an observer from the RSPCA.
Known as the Oil in Navigable Waters Bill,
it seeks to make it an offence to discharge oil into
the sea in prohibited areas—areas which will vary
according to whether the vessel is a tanker or
not. Ships registered in the United Kingdom will
have to have equipment for preventing or re
ducing discharges of oil into the sea. The penalty
for infringing the regulations will be a ﬁne of
up to £1,000 on the master or owners of the ship,
or where the discharge is from land, the occupier

of the land. '

SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS

The Minister of Food, after having consulted the
RSPCA and other bodies, has made the Slaugh—
ter of Animals (Prevention of Cruelty) (No. 2)
Regulations, 1954, to secure humane conditions
in the slaughter of animals, “with special regard
for animals sick or in pain. .
Standards of construction and equipment in
lairages and slaughter halls are also laid down,
and there are special requirements for horses to
ensure that they are comfortably and separately
housed in the lairage and not exposed to any
distress by the sight or smell of slaughter. Occu—-
piers of slaughterahouses and knackers’ yards
where horses are 'slaughtered are required to
keep detailed records of numbers slaughtered or
carcasses received, and to make annual returns
to the local authority. ' » . :
The provisions concerning the treatment of
animals and the keeping of records came into
force on December 1, 1954', andthe remaining
provisions comeinto effect On July 1, 1955. ‘

 

Myxomatosis _ .
Since this scourge began to sweep the country

RSPCA mercy patrols have humanely despatchecl
over 323,000 rabbits. -» ~ - . . .

 




 

 

 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY
TUESDAY, 24 MAY

 

PLEASE HELP
By Collecting in London
—— if only for
an Hour or Two!

Oﬁers of help, please, to:—
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

Mrs Reay-Smith
of Corbridge-
on-Tyne with
Dally

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially’recommended and used by the RSPCA

'_ _"3.3..3 .3.3.3“..--_‘3.___3.':'.-.-.-.'.'.3.3.3~ 3.3.}. Mum-g.- -.- 3-3353 3,). .35! ...__.._<.3.3"~. 3 __ .. -._ _ ..3 _..3.‘
Mrs Lon gman, Council Member, offers

a tit-bit to Tim Longman, who was l5 THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
years old at the time this picture was
taken ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION
THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON co. LTD. TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
1.9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, 13.2 HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘_

 




 

 

 

 

 

February 1955

 

 

 

I.
5.
'3

‘Laddie doesn’t rattle any more’ is the title under which this picture was printed in the Mansfield
Chronicle & Advertiser by whose kind permission it is herewith reprinted. When the picture was
taken at the RSPCA clinic in Mansﬁeld, Laddie was still under the influence of the anaesthetic. Laddie’s
mistress heard a rattling sound which was explained when she took him to the clinic for an X-ray.
Ten steel balls are shown in a line after being removed from inside Laddie.

 

WIDESPREAD TRAFFIC IN WILD
BIRDS ’

Found guilty by Aldershot Magistrates on
charges of offering chafﬁnches and linnets for
sale ‘other than close ringed specimens bred in
captivity’, a man was ﬁned a total of £4 and
order to pay £10 103. costs. Counsel prosecuting
for the RSPCA said that efforts were being made
to 'stop the widespread traﬂic in wild birds.
There was a high mortality in wild birds after
they had been taken.

Chief Inspector Negus answered an advertiser
ment and ordered a pair of chafﬁnches and linnets,
sending £2 in payment. When received, the birds
had the appearance of being recently taken and

although ringed the rings were removed with the '

greatest of ease.

Chief Inspector Negus said that when the
birds were received they had all the charan
teristics of wild birds—sharp claws, dark—
coloured legs and sheen on their plumage.
The two linnets died a day after being re—
ceived. (A.8790.)

Oil Pollution

Inspector Hallam at Southampton has reported
another outbreak of oil pollution. Swans on the
River Itchen near the SouthamptonaWoolston
ﬂoating bridges were affected. Four that could be
induced to leave the water were cleaned. Later,
seagulls were found smeared with oil. Inspector

Burr helped in the handling of the oiled birds.

Humane—and Practical

It seems to me that in making a farm pay on a
permanent basis, the essential thing to realize is that
all life is one.—Laurence Easterbrook, in a letter

to the RSPCA.

From: THE CRY TO HEAVEN

A dog starved at his master’s gate
Predicts the ruin of the state.

A Skylark wounded on the wing
Doth make a cherub cease to sing.

WILLIAM BLAKE (1757—1827)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

Mrs G. F. Hart sends this picture, which
was taken at the RSPCA Home of Rest
for Horses, Ringwood, lsle, of .Wight

  




If!

 

 

(I.

-k’fﬂ

{Ill

 

 

  

«Ithl

 

 

A

.. Eh!.1wﬂ¢41ﬂnﬂmhil,f 1%,}! ll:

 

 

lf‘ﬂln‘llr yltnlyilnlgv
u
a
~
ﬂ.
1 r
l1‘
1' y‘ I
. inlLH‘th I}! ‘ v)<..(.ln. lul.
.
I i 1.. !L|J:t1 v V‘ Alxd’;v- ' I:

1« 1A.");U0Al4. u.

 

 

[Eric Hosking

. . ,. I. II’IYIWHR 4“ v,

MALE VARIANT WOOD WARBLER HAWKING FLIES

 

 

ﬂluu‘ll. Ildvall'llnéa-‘uryI/‘av u

) (“lufiv (ﬁt. I I .1 a umxbﬁfl

 

 

\. urn-x... 1.._.. ._._n

y... ﬁdux .

ails .., IVEWJL

 




 

ANIMAEHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol L No 2 New Series PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

FEBRUARY I 9 55

 

 

 

Photo by courtesy of Reynolds News

This is an actual picture of hare coursing. It was taken only a few years ago

Animals Coursed: Humans Coarsened

Crowds go , to Altcar and elsewhere to watch
greyhounds chase and pounce upon frightened
hares. This is known as hare coursing.

This is a legal pastime.

At Altcar—where coursing for the Waterloo
Cup is held—the hares are reared on land adjoin;
ing the coursing place. On days when there is
coursing men are engaged as heaters—each armed
with a ﬂag and a stick. They patrol the rearing
ground shouting hard and driving the hares
towards the coursing pitch.

Where the pitch begins the ‘slipper’, who
has charge of two greyhounds, is waiting.
After the hare has gone about ﬁfty yards be—
yond him he releases the two dogs. They then

go after the hare, who is already terriﬁed by
the noise made by the heaters. On each side
of the coursing ground are scores of shouting
people as well as many excited dogs waiting
for their turn to course. With this terrifying
audience on each side the hare must keep
something of a straight course.

At the end of the course is a fairly high sand’
bank with small holes in it. If the hares are lucky
enough to avoid the dogs and get through one of
these ‘soughs’, then they can escape.

It is because this chance of escape exists that
this odious ‘sport’ remains legal in this country.
In an enclosed space without egress, the ‘sport’
would be against existing laws.

 




 

 

 

February 1955

 

THEANIMALWORLD 21

 

FOR CHILDREN

 

(Actual size)

Two sides of the new RSPCA badge, which will be awarded
to children who have done outstanding acts of kindness to
animals and birds

A NECESSARY VISIT
One school lecturer reported that she encoun'
tered difficult children at a school. Her talk was
therefore more forthright than usual in its tone.
She was careful to mention this to the local
honorary secretary who will see that when talks

are arranged again in the area this particular

school is always included.

Since the last report 134 lectures were given
in schools in Devon, Sussex, Merionethshire,
Selsdon, Fleet, Whitby, Rotherham, HuddCI‘Sv
ﬁeld area and Newtown (Montgomery). A Youth
Fellowship in Thornton Heath and a Cub Pack
in Bexley Heath were also addressed. ‘

Twenty’five new Animal Defender groups
were formed; 187 children joined the Head—

quarters Group. ' ..
, OBITUARY
With sincere regret we report the following

deaths: .

Mr B. B. Booth, former hon sec of Greenmoor'
auxiliary, Miss Annie Reed, hon sec of Jesmond
auxiliary, Mrs H. Jay, former hon sec of Harold
Hill auxiliary, Lady Eva de Paravicini, member of
Sussex—West, and Brighton branch committee. A

 

BRANCH
NEWS

*

Tibby, adopted
as a stray
kitten, by

Mrs Percival

 

Birmingham and District A bazaar organized by Miss A.
Evans and friends at the Gas Showrooms, Northﬁeld, raised
£105 .for Branch funds. The grand Christmas bazaar
organized by the Solihull and District auxiliary committee
at the Council House, Solihull, was opened by Mrs David
Evans, RSPCA Council Member, and raised £250.
3139193001 Miss Violet Carson opened the branch’s annual
Chrlstmas fair at Jenkinson’s Cafe, Blackpool. Miss Carson
was introduced by Miss K. Milner and presented with a
spray of Chrysanthemums by Mrs M. Jordan. The sum of
£30 was raised for branch funds.

‘ Bromley and District (Kent) Mrs Grimshaw, Petts Wood
aux111ary hon secretary, reports that the annual bring and
buy sale raised £240 11s. 5d. for branch funds.
Burton-on-Trent Mrs Simpkin, Netherseal auxiliary hon
secretary, and Mr Simpkin organized an event and raised
£250 .for branch funds.

Cardlganshire A bring-and-buy coffee party organized by
Mrs David Evans, RSPCA Council member, at her home
ralsed £38 for branch funds. «

Cleveland and Tees Side Mrs Hart, branch hon secretary,
reports that Mrs Jefferies, Guisborough auxiliary hon
Sﬂcretary’ organized a supper and beetle drive and raised £6
for branch funds.

Coventry and District Miss Wright organized an animal
defenderdog show which raised £10 and a rummage sale
Wthh ralsed £26 10s. 6d. for branch funds.

Crowborough, East Grinstead and District Branch Major
C. A. Ogden, branch hon treas and hon sec, reports that a
fund to commemorate the late Miss Phoebe Thomas, who
was hon secretary for Buxted and Blackboys auxiliary, raised
£14 143. for branch fimds. "
CrOydon Borough Mrs Bagnall, branch hon secretary,
organized a Christmas bazaar in Croydon and raised £40
for the branch. Mrs J. Crooks, Thornton Heath auxiliary hon
sec, and Miss Francis, branch assist hon sec, attended.-
Sales raised £23 (organizer Miss Cullings) and £17 2s. 6d.
(Mr C. E. Roos, Shirley auxiliary hon secretary), both sums
for branch funds.
Cumberland—North and East Miss M. Beckton, Abbey
Town auxiliary hon sec, organized the annual whist drive in
her home and raised £9 14s. for branch funds. A dancing
display given by the pupils of Miss Florence Wilkinson
raised £9 16s. 3d. and a coffee morning £30. ‘
Devon—North A sale organized by Mrs M. du Sautoy
Newby, Ilfracombe auxiliary honorary secretary, and Mrs
Girdwood raised £30 25. 6d. for branch funds.
Dorset—South The Hon Lady Scott, branch hon secretary,
presided at the branch annual meeting held in Dorchester.
The report of the hon treasurer, Mr G. C. D. Heseltine,
showed a balance of £10. RSPCA certiﬁcates were presented
to Miss B. J. Croft, who rescued a dog from icy waters of the
River Frome, and to Mr Alec Jack, who was lowered down.
a well at Plush to rescue a calf. S/Insp Horner, in his report,-

Inspector
Silcock talks
aboutthe
RSPCA Sawyer
Humane Rabbit
Trap to visitors
at the Horn-
castle Show

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Leicester and South Leicestershire Branch stand at the
Leicester ‘Home Life’ exhibition

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Miss A. M.
Wain, branch hon secretary, reports that the branch
committee, through the kindness of Mrs Whitaker, held a
bring-and-buy coffee morning and raised £28 103. Mrs
Whitaker allowed the use of her rooms and provided the
refreshments.

Manchester and Salford Mrs M. Johnson, Northenden
and. Wythenshawe auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a
Christmas Bazaar held in the Church Room, Northenden
tralsed £56 for branch funds.

Monmouthshire Mrs H. Pughe-Evans, branch hon secre-
taryéi reports that a jumble sale raised over £36 for branch
un s.

Norfolk—Md and Norwich Bring-and-buy sales were
organized by Miss E. Cole, Cringleford auxiliary hon sec.,
Mrs Cubitt (whose sale, held at her home, raised £12 17s.)
and Miss M. S. Buchanan, Sheringham auxiliary hon sec
(£36 125'. 3d.). The sums raised were for branch funds. A
Jumble sale was organized by Mrs Whisken, clinic hon sec.

Pembrokeshire Lord Merthyr, chairman of the RSPCA
Council, attended the branch annual meeting. Sir Thomas
Meyrick, president, and Lord Merthyr, vice-president, were
re-elected. Mr Howell Williams was conﬁrmed as branch
hon secretary and Mr Phillips, branch hon treasurer. Wing
Commander Hillier attended.

The branch president presented awards. Chief Fire
Ofﬁcer S. Israel received a bar to an RSPCA silver medal
already held; this award was for rescuing sheep at Penycwm,
801%. and Fireman T. H. J. Lovell, who helped, got an
RSPCA bronze medal. Fireman D. J. Slater, who rescued a.
dog from a disused mine shaft at Freystrop, was awarded
a bronze medal. Fireman J. V. Hanley and Mr K. Wheeler
were presented with the Society’s bronze medal for rescumg
sheep at Haroldstone, and on behalf of the ﬁre station staff
at Pembroke, Station Ofﬁcer C. W. Puleston received a
certiﬁcate for the rescue of a cow at Angle.

Preston and District Mrs H. Kay, branch hon secretaryh

reports that a coffee morning and a bring-and-buy sale
ralsed £83 10s. for branch funds.
A Christmas effort raised over £70.

Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Miss E.. M.
Wadland, branch secretary, reports that 'a sale raised
£48 16s. for branch funds.

Rotherham and District Mrs S. Bayley, Mexborough
aux111ary hon secretary, presented to John North a book, and
to MT and Mrs Charles Bullock a certiﬁcate, for then cour-
age 1n rescuing cats. The presentations were made 1n Mex-
bOTOUgh and the three recipients of the awards were con-
gratulated by Mr W. Porritt, auxiliary chairman.

THEANIMALWORLD Z3

. .
. ,.
__Ae___

Shropshire Mr T. Jones, Oswestry auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that a coffee morning held in the home of Mrs G.
Wyse raised £8 11s. for branch funds. Whist drives organ-
ized by Mrs Brehany have raised £20.
Sittingbourne Division Mrs M. Draper, division hon
secretary, organized a jumble sale in the Crescent Street
Schoolroom and raised £12 103. for branch funds. A Whist
drive organized by Miss Godfrey, Lynsted auxiliary hon
s£e§c, and Mrs Rees, T eynham auxiliary hon secretary, raised
5s. ,
Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch Mrs
S. Nabb, branch secretary reports that £18 113. was raised
at a gift-day sale.
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham The branch hon secretary
held a small sale at her house, helped by a delightful ven-
triloccliuist entertainment, by Mr Curtin. Nearly £30 was
raise .
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Mrs Belcher, branch hon
secretary, organized a Christmas bazaar at the Crown
Hotel, Lowestoft. The Deputy Mayor opened the bazaar
and £28 was raised for branch funds.
Surrey—Purley and District Carol singers at Caterham
raised £13 5S. for branch funds. This event was organized
by Mrs Gardner.
Sussex—West, and Brighton Whist drives were organized
by Miss Johnson, Thakeham and West Chiltington auxiliary
hon sec (raised £30 15s.), Mrs Mant, Storrington auxiliary
hon sec (£13 5S. 6d.), and Mrs Jackson, Fulking auxiliary
hon sec (£4 ls. 5d.). Collections were organized by Mrs ,
Miller, East and West Wittering, Earnley and Birdham
auxiliary hon sec (raised £20 5s.) and Mr A. I. Hett, Ardingly
and Highbrook auxiliary hon secretary (£12 8s. 4d.).

A sale held at the Royal Pavilion, Brighton, raised
£109 12s. 2d. for Clinic funds.

Wimbledon and District A concert was given by the Prim-
rose Concert Party at the Central Methodist Hall, South-
ﬁelds, and raised over £9 for branch funds.

The branch’s stall at the Christmas Market raised £102.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mrs Butler,
Slough auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a play, ‘Miranda’,
at the Church Institute raised £23, and a jumble sale with
Animal Defenders’ Christmas stall raised £33 103. for
branch funds.

Yorkshire—Barnsley and District Miss Parker and Mrs
White organized a coffee morning and sale of work and
raised about £45 for branch funds.

Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs L. Gray,
branch hon secretary, reports that the annual Christmas
fair raised £81 for branch funds.

 

MISS P. Archer, Minehead aux hon sec, sends this picture.
It shows an aviary in the garden of Mr H. ]. Craske, aux
hon treas. Mr and Mrs Craske use the aviary as a place
where wounded and exhausted birds are kept until they are
well enough to be released. Mrs Craske is seen in the picture

 




 

February 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 17

 

 

Heroes’ Corner
RES CUE IN LIBYA

A foxhound was known to have been for
some days down a well at Tripoli, Libya.
The well was an old one, 110 feet deep; any
movement by a rescuer was likely to start
tons of sand sliding down the well. Twenty
feet down there was a mass of barbed wire
choking the well.

Called to the scene, the Army Fire Service '

admitted defeat and said any rescue was im’
possible. - ‘

Craftsman G. H. Luke, of the REME, volun‘
teered to descend. On the way down he was
caught in the barbed wire, but managed to reach
the bottom.

Then came the haul to the tOp. At 80 feet up,
the rescuer was caught in trying to pass the fox—
hound through the wire barrier. The dog slipped
and fell to the bottom.

By this time, the soldier was exhausted, but
desCended again after ﬁve minutes’ rest. ASM
Wilson went down as far as the barbed wire to
keep open a passage for Craftsman Luke. So

exhausted was the rescuer when he reached this .

barrier on his return journey with the dog that
he had to be hauled the rest of the way. Crafts—
man Luke’s, commanding ofﬁcer described ' the
soldier’s bravery in a letter to the RSPCA and
the Society has awarded a silver medal and
citation certiﬁcate.

Silver Medals

Another overseas rescue ﬁgures in the stories

behind the latest list of RSPCA awards.

A native boy named Bekabambo Mkize is
employed by the Durban SPCA, which is
afﬁliated to the RSPCA.

One day a call came that a dog had been
seen on a ledge 30 ft. down in a Krantz
(ﬁssure). From there it was a drop of 200 ft.
to the bottom.

These ﬁsSures are places in the burning
sun where the Black Mamba, a poisonous '
snake, lives. '

Bekabambo Mkize descended and secured the
dog, which he was able with the help of Inspector
Goetz and others to bring to the surface. Un—
fortunately, the dog died as the result of internal
injuries sustained during the fall.

An RSPCA silver medal and citation certiﬁcate
has gone to Bekabambo, and similar awards have
gone to. Mr B. Parfoot, who rescued ﬁve calves
from a ﬁre at Elsted ‘Manor Farm, near Midhurst,
Inspector Greenhalgh, who rescued a dog from a
disused shaft at Vear Mine, Zennor, Cornwall,
and to Mr J. Davy, who rescued a dog from a
mineshaft at Carn Gloose, St Just, Cornwall.

Cattle and Pigs in Burning Shippon

The hay loft of a shippon Was burning ﬁercely,
whilst eleven cows and seven pigs were housed
there.

Whilst three men who had gone to the
rescue of the animals were busy, sparks .and
burning wood were falling; there was thick
smoke everywhere and even the stalls were
aﬂame in places. By the time the cows were

Contd. overleaf

 

 

 

 

Photos by courtesy of Jim Parry, RhY'

Two farmers and Inspector Hughes were lowered IOO feet down a l,250-foot cliﬁ' near Aber Falls, Caernaryon-
shire, to rescue a sheep trapped on a ledge. Our pictures show the rescue, and after the rescue, left to right:
Inspector Thelwell, Inspector Hughes, Mr john Owen (farmer), Mr ldrisjones (shepherd) and Mr Glyn Thomas

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE

 

HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

 

THE COUNCIL

(1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 053, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
‘DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GASKOIN, C. J. B., ESQ, MA

*HARVEY, MRS .I. w., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG, S. R., ESQ, Dso, MC
HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ., MBE
*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS E. M.

LONGMAN, MRS W.
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS,

 

GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP

LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP

POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
*RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D

RISELEY, MRS, R. C.
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ

SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
SlBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 13., MBE, TD, JP
*TAIT, MRS, BA

TUFNELL, LlEUT—COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
*WAl.FORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*WHITE, HARRY. FSQ., FCA
*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FClS, FSS

CBE MP

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegram s—WHITEHALL 7177

USED &TRIISTEDTHE wonLII ovm 2

  

xi?) ,
Z'

   
    

I .
¢ /' .
, I I.
, 9/ {1/07/-

SIMPLE
SAIL. *
. SURE ﬁﬂxﬂ

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ~s

   

[Hills AND SHELVOKE llD ENGIAND

5456

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

What the UP-TO-DATE dog-owner knows—

SCRAPPY FEEDS ARE
NO GOOD TO A DOG!

Look at his teeth and see the reason! Designed
for crushing and grinding his food, his teeth show
he needs food that provides nourishment for his
body plus exercise for his jaws and teeth. Table
scraps are not what the canine digestion needs.
What he needs iS
something to get his
‘ ”~53, teeth into! He needs
3:? Spratt’s Biscuits t0

. ’ sustain him and give

3/ him energy, and

, vigour.
53v?“
(«8‘ Spratt‘s Guide to Dog Manage‘

ment, 88 pages, on all aspects
of Dog Ownership. From
your Spratt’s stockist, H6, or
a. l/8 post freefrom Dept.A.W-
T \ at the address below.
{w

SPRATT’S
DOG FOODS

r s
u BONIO MIXED OVALS WEETMEET

SPRATT’S PATENT LTD, 4I-47 BOW ROAD. E3
.1

  

See the name
SPRATT’S on Biscuits

\

and Package "~'::-.;'

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

14 THEANIMALWORLD

 

The fact that the spectacle of coursing
should still be permitted in this country is
itself sufﬁciently shameful, but the conscience
of every one of us must be pricked by the
knowledge that at least one country has
banned this decadent pastime.

- From the RSPCA, New South Wales, an
affiliated sister society of the RSPCA, has come
recently a copy of Act No. 35, 1953. This Act is
to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Act, 19014952, and the Gaming and Betting Act,
1912,1951. In the new Act, live hare coursing or
the coursing of any animal is an offence.
Humanitarians in New South Wales are to be con;
gratulated on having convinced their fellow citizens
that civilized people cannot tolerate the pursuit of
cruel pastimes. Their success will hearten all who
support the RSPCA’s view that hare coursing should
be forbidden in this country.

*

The RSPCA has a Parliamentary Bill, which
has for its object the prohibition of the hunting
of captive animals. The prohibition of coursing
is one of its objectives. The Measure has been
before Parliament on various occasions since a
time earlier than World War I.

Since that time it has been presented in each
consecutive year between 1924 and 1930 as well
as in 1937 and 1939. A Measure of this sort is
necessarily one which needs to be introduced as
a Private Member’s Bill. It is for this reason that
the Bill was not introduced after 1939, when
Private Members’ Time was discontinued. Now
that this Time has been reagranted, the RSPCA
is convinced that it will ﬁnd friends in Parliament
ready and willing to reintroduce it. In the mean;
time Animal World seeks to arouse public indig’
nation and to enlist the support without which no
reform can be obtained. EDITOR

 

Floods
Ordeal for Animals

Winter began with ﬂoods in many parts of
the country. Animals suffered and RSPCA
Inspectors were prominent in bringing relief.

Fire Brigades and other helpers were quick to
support the Inspectors.

In Kendal Inspector Harland said ﬂoods were
the worst for ﬁfty years. He and three helpers
made their way through swelling torrents to
rescue eight cattle. He cooperated with farmers
ﬁnding accommodation for animals from farms
that were worst affected.

Senior Inspector Pickett waded through water
that was pouring over the tops of his high rubber
boots to rescue tame rabbits from a ﬂooded
squatters’ camp.

At Oxford Inspector Heath and the Fire
Brigade rescued a dog huddled in the branches of
a tree which was surrounded by water, in places
waist high.

‘Noah of the ﬂoods’ was the name news-
papers gave Inspector Gardner, who, in a row-
ing boat, rescued pets left behind when fam-
ilies evacuated ﬂooded homes in the Severn
Valley. He collected 60 head of poultry,
12 dogs, 10 cats, 2 budgerigars, 2 pigs and
2 horses.

A difﬁcult task confronted Chief Inspector
Evans and helpers when a frightened yearling
heifer was marooned on a bridge. The Chief

. Inspector and another man waded out to where
the heifer was marooned and in torrential rain
they worked for over half an hour in four feet
of water before the rescue was completed. Senior
Inspector Proctor, in the Chester area, helped in
the rescue of farm animals.

Patrols were organized by Inspector Goreham
of ﬂooded areas round Newark. He found a pigeon
ﬂoating in a ﬂooded ﬁeld and dead rabbits which
he thought had been washed out of their burrows.

Inspector Lloyd gave help to farmers who
called upon him.

At the request of Chief Inspector Tye the
authorities allowed the race course at Great
Yarmouth to be used as a reception centre
for animals saved from the ﬂoods. The Chief
Inspector had lorries at strategic places. When
the ﬁrst ﬂoods broke Chief Inspector Tye
was able to move over 200 pigs from small'
holdings and allotments. He housed them at
the race course. Another arrangement made
by him was to have farmers move cattle to

high ground, when the ﬂoods were expected. .

FLOOD ORPHANS
Inspector Proctor
with a wild rabbit
whom he found
sitting on a fence
completely
surrounded by
water.

Photo by courtesy
of Chester Chronicle

 

 

February 1955 ‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

16 THEANIMALWORLD

February 1955

 

‘
‘-

THE RSPCA AT WORK.

DECEMBER 1954

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,005 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
48 Offenders ﬁned.
45 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
733 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state neglecting. . . 2
CATTLE~—Neglecting l
SHEEP—Conveying in improper manner 2
PIGS—Neglecting, injuring with missile 4
DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, attempting
to kill in improper manner, injuring with knife, etc. 14
CATS—Neglecting, injuring with steel tooth trap . .. 4
BOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,
killing in improper manner . . . . .. 6
. PIGEONs—Tying legs and using as kites 3
RABBITS—Neglecting 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning bird in small cage 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:
Offering for sale other than a close-ringed specimen
bredincaptivity 6
OFFBNCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds . .. 1
Using traps for the purpose of taking 1
VARIOUS OEPENCES:
Permitting in an ofence . . . 1
Infringement of the Transit of Animals (Amend
ment) Order, 1931 . 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 48

During DECEMBER 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed THREE persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; TWO for 5 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January 1st 27,790
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 872
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 9,657

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats 3,617 Dogs 3,582 Misc., 412 Total 7,611
Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,851

PHTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number of animals handled:

Cats, 25 Dogs 76 Misc., 1 Total, 102

NIGHT STAFF

Number of calls received: 1,433

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,167
Number of animals rescued :1 4

Number of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 237

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:

Cats, 8 Dogs, 14 Misc., 0 Total, 22
Number of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 30 Dogs, 42 Misc., 0 Total, 72

Number of miles covered by the Unit during the month: 2,075
AWARDS

Current awards at present under review.

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS 27,686
CONVICTIONS ... ... . .. 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls::20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled, 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross . .. 1
Silver Medals 6
Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10

Merit Certiﬁcates . . . . . . 12 1

 

 

 




 

18 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1955

 

 

Heroes’ Corner—~contd.

out, the terriﬁed pigs had to be carried bodily
to safety.

The three rescuers, Police Sergeant H. Claydon,
Mr F. Wilson and Mr J. Capstick, Junr, have
each been awarded the RSPCA bronze medal and

citation certiﬁcate.

Bronze Medals

Gallantry in the rescue of dogs has won the same
award for Station Ofﬁcer H. Allt, Mr E. Baldry,
and Sub Ofﬁcer H. R. Ireland. Coastguard G. A.
Ward rescued two puppies from rocks alongside
Marine Walk, Fishguard, and a Sheepdog from
a ledge at Penainglas Rock, Goodwick, North
Pembrokeshire.

RSPCA bronze medals for gallantry have been
awarded to Leading Fireman J. A. Beale, who
rescued a cow from a well at The Gate, Hook
Norton, Banbury, and to Mr H. Walmesley, who
attempted the rescue of a lamb from a ledge at
Great Orme, Llandudno. ‘

A GHASTLY VOYAGE

The Manchester Guardian deserves congratulaa
tion on having drawn attention to the plight of
horses who spent eleven stormy days at sea be—
tween Dublin and Antwerp—on a voyage that
generally occupies three days.

The boat left with a total cargo of 191
horses on a raw November morning when
gales were predicted. Three died at sea and
were thrown overboard.

Mr Patrick Keatley, the Manchester Guardian
correspondent, in a despatch from Antwerp,
listed the sufferings of the 188 surviving horses:

All appeared to have swollen legs, the inv
evitable result of standing in one place for
eleven days; at least a third of the horses
appeared to have places on their hides where
the hair and skin had been rubbed away,
exposing raw ﬂesh, which was suppurating or
bleeding; a number of the animals suffered
swellings of the joints, which impeded walk-
ing; some horses were suffering from a form
of dropsy (resulting from standing); during
the unloading many of the horses were
beaten with sticks to force them into boxes
suspended from the crane; manure accumu—
lated to a depth of twelve or ﬁfteen inches
under the rear legs of all animals; there were
no hay racks and the hay was badly trampled.

Branding and Tagging
The next source of suffering listed by Mr Keatley
was brandinglandtagging. He continued: "This
had nothing "to-do with the ship, but it is the

‘—

 

of Mr Brag...”
WIMBLEDON AND DISTRICT BRANCH

Battersea Animal Welfare Centre opened by the Mayoress
of Battersea, for ﬁrst-aid and painless destructions. The‘
opening of this centre has supplied a real need in Battersea,
and there is a steady stream of ‘patients’. Left to right:
Mrs V. Hobson (voluntary helper in surgery), Mrs D. L.
Turner (hon branch secretary), Patrol Oﬂicer P. Goodspeed

 

Belgian practice for horses arriving from Ireland
to be taken to No. 28 dock, where the letter “I”
is branded into the hide and a metal clip is ﬁxed
in the ear. The horses jump as this is done: To

keep them steady, a “twitch” is applied to the
ear. . . ."

What Can be Done?

The traffic in live horses destined for slaughter is
one that has caused concern to the RSPCA for
a long time. Under British law, the captain of a
boat carrying live—stock should not sail when
weather likely to cause suffering to the animals is
forecast.

Unfortunately, the animals in the present in—
stance were being carried between two countries
over which the British laws have no power: Eire
and Belgium. This does not lessen the concern
of the RSPCA for the sufferings of the 191
horses involved.

Improvement must be secured, and the
RSPCA will continue to advocate an inter—
national charter, so that all animals in this
type of trafﬁc are protected. Such suffering
must-be brought to an end.

Animal protection societies in Eire have already
made strenuous efforts to induce the Eire Govern
ment‘ to take some action——so far without success.
Societies in Belgium have helped to bring to
light the sufferings of these horses.

. Animal'welfare workers in both Eire and Belr
g1um are being given the strongest support. of the
RSPCA in their efforts to enlighten public opinion
(the forerunner to reform), and this is regarded

€18 astép towards. the securing of reform on an
mternatlonal basis. -

 

 

 




 

2.0 THEANIMALWORLD

February 1955

 

N ews. from Overseas

_ NEW ZEALAND‘

From November 1, 1954, the coursing of live
hares in any conﬁned space became illegal in
New Zealand. Under the same regulation, it is
‘ forbidden to liberate captive birds (whether

domestic birds or not) ‘for the purpose of
being shot at the time of their liberation’.

" ' NeWs of this regulation has reached the RSPCA
from an aﬂiliated sister society: The Royal
Federation of New Zealand Societies for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

The letter from Mr C. W. Halliwell, the
Federation Secretary, gives this information:
‘Live hare coursing relates in particular to what
is known as “Plumpton Coursing” for which the
tin hare is an alternative and the alternative to
live bird shooting from traps is the clay bird.’
The Executive of the Federation has been pressing
for the abolition of both ‘sports’ for a considera
able time; it is its policy to have an alternative
when pressing for the abolition of any activity
involving cruelty. '

The photograph
of a crocodile
comes from the
RSPCA Tanga
Branch. The
branch had to
solve the prob-
lem of persuad-
ing the reptile to
quit a children’s
bathing beach

 

 

TRIALS OF WORK IN
TANGANYIKA

‘ Mrs I. Slater, RSPCA Organizing Secretary
_ for'Tanganyika, reporting on a recent journey,
’ says: ‘On the way up to. Moshi from Tanga the

train got “lost” in the bush for twelve hours——

complete breakdown through lack of water!
~' *I lost a whole day, but there was nothing any,
_ body could do about it. N o telephone communi—
:,""cation available. After some hours a search
_- ,~nparty . came out frOm a station ﬁfteen miles
' distant. The previous week the mail train had
been derailed through Mau Mau, and it was
thought the same thing had happened again.
A hospital sister and myself were the only
white women on the train.’

 

 

 

PROGRESS IN THE ARGENTINE

A new law, increasing the legal protection ex—
tended to animals, has been enacted in the
Argentine. Mr Frank F. Bayne, who is associated
with the Associacion Protectora de Animales,
sends an English paraphrase of the Act.

‘Bad treatment’ listed in the Act comprises
under—feeding, incitement by instruments, ex—
cessive working, working unﬁt, stimulating with
drugs (except for veterinary purposes) and over—
loading.

Under Article 3, cruelty is deﬁned as vivi—
section (when unscientiﬁc or unauthorized), una
warranted mutilation, operations without anaes—
thetics, abandonment of animals used in experi—
ments, wounding, running down, torturing, in—
ﬂiction of unnecessary suffering, or ‘killing solely
for perversity’. Banned under this clause is the
organization of public or private spectacles in’
volvmg ﬁghts of animals, bullﬁghts, rodeos, or
parodies in which animals are slain, wounded or
frightened. ‘

Unborn Calves

There is a disquieting exception under clause
6 of the same article. This clause provides
that it shall be deemed an act of cruelty to
cause the death of pregnant animals when the

, condition is evident in the animals, except in

the case of legally established industries which
are founded on the exploitation of the un—
born. This exception will allow the exploita‘
tion of unborn calves, whose skin is used
extensively for the manufacture of coats,
handbags, shoes, etc.

:-:-:¢ob

From RSPCA Inspector H. D. Luetchford (seconded for duty
in Addis Ababa):

‘. . . Enclosed is a photograph [reproduced above] of four
Inspectors whom I trained during the ﬁrst year here. . .
They are stationed in varidus. parts of the town and each
has a special area to cover.

They will generally assist the Police, take cases and give
adwce where possible. Two further men may be selected
and their training will begin in the near future.’

The men are employees of the municipality and are
engaged on hygiene duties.

 

 

 

 




 

 

22 THEANIMAL WORLD

February 1955

 

said that there had been three convictions for cruelty to
animals and 59 verbal cautions were given. A total of 159
complaints were investigated.

Officers elected were: President, Lord Digby; Vice-
presidents, the Countess of Shaftesbury, the Countess of
Ilchester and Lady Digby; hon treasurer, Mr G. C. D.
Heseltine; hon secretary, Lady Scott; chairman, Miss
Wood-Homer.

Durham and District The Mayor of Durham, Coun Mrs
E. Blyth, accompanied by the Mayoress, Mrs A. Hauxwell,
. opened the branch sale in the Town Hall. [Lady Bradford,
branch chairman, congratulated Miss G. S. Wilkinson,
branch hon secretary, on the organization of the event.
A vote of thanks to the Mayor was proposed by Mr A. B.
Peacock, branch hon treasurer, and a presentation was
made to her by Miss H. Atkinson. .

Enﬁeld and District Mrs Tye, branch hon secretary,
reports that a jumble sale raised £55 63. 361’. for branch funds.

Miss Kathleen Ford and her sister organized a dancing

display and raised £48 12s. 6d.
Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
At the branch annual general meeting Lt-Colonel J. C.
Lockwood, hon treasurer of the RSPCA, presented two
members of the public with RSPCA certiﬁcates for their
bravery. One rescued a cat and the other rescued day-old
chicks from a blazing shed. Mrs Lewis was elected president
and the branch committee was re—elected. Lt-Col Lockwood
spoke on the work of the RSPCA.

Mrs Buckley, Upminster auxiliary hon secretary, organized
an animal Sunday Service in Upminster. A collection wa
taken fOr branch funds. '
Essex—South, Southend and District Mrs J. Underhill,
Canvey Island auxiliary hon sec, reports that The Pompa-
dours, a local amateur dramatic society, raised £5 63. 9d. for
branch funds. .

Essex—South-West Mrs Hoddell, branch hon secretary,
reports that Mr M. Wickens organized a dance ‘at the King’s
Head Hotel, Chigwell, and raised £23 43. 6d. for branch
funds.

Gloucester—East, and Cheltenham At the boys’ school at
Temple Guiting two boys received RSPCA special badges
for their kindness in rescuing a black and white kitten
stranded in a tree. Five boys helped in the rescue but three
of them could not attend to receive their awards as they had
’ﬂu. The presentations were made by Mrs Clutterbuck,
branch co hon sec. The Vicar, the Rev R. V. Butler, attended
the presentation, as did Mrs A. Rutland and Inspector
Butﬁeld.

 

Mrs Donovan, Essex Mid Branch Hon Secretary, sends this
flag day picture. The afternoon, Mrs Donovan said, was
‘fearful’ but as the picture shows loyal workers rallied to
help the flag day.

 

Pnoto uy Courtesy or Cneltennam newspaper Company Ltd
Photo was taken at the RSPCA sale at Tewskesbury which
was opened by Miss Ellis Powell (Mrs Dale, of Mrs Dale’s
Diary). Photo shows (left to right): Miss Ellis Powell (Mrs
Dale), Mrs Salmon (Tewkesbury aux hon sec), and the
Deputy Mayor of Tewkesbury

Great Yarmouth and District Mrs Scott, North Walsham
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that Mrs Myhill organized
a whist drive in Paston and raised £5 163. 9d. for branch
funds. Another whist drive was organized in Paston by Miss
I. Montford and Mrs Goold and raised £3 65. 3d.
Headquarters Clinics A dancing display given by the Vera
School of Stage Dancing at the Metropolitan Theatre raised
£106 183. for the funds of the Mayhew Home.
Hertfordshire——West Miss Micklethwait, St Albans aux-
iliary hon secretary, reports that a coffee party raised £22
for branch funds.
Hull and East Riding The Lord Mayor (Coun H. W.
Jackson) presided at the branch annual meeting held in the
Guildhall, Hull. Mr W. A. J. Iveson, branch chairman,
Mr H. Rhodes, branch hon treasurer, and Mr G. H. Jacob— ‘
sen, branch secretary, attended. Wing Commander Hillier
spoke on the work of the RSPCA.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mr and Mrs Dance, the
latter being branch hon secretary, organized a Christmas
Bazaar, with the help of Mr Spencer Smith and Inspector
and Mrs Rhodes, in the Slater Hall, Canterbury. The sum
of £105 was raised for branch funds. ‘

A rummage sale, reported by Mrs Dance, raised £20 for
Canterbury Clinic.

*

Miss V. Slingsbury, Whitstable auxiliary hon sec, reports
that a jumble sale raised £40 Os. 5d. for branch funds.
Kent—Folkestone and District Mrs Grace, branch hon ‘
secretary, reports that the Christmas fair in the Folkestone
Town Hall raised more than £200 for branch funds. (The
sum of £1 113. was collected in the large begging dog box.)
Kent——North-West Mrs I. C. Ransom, Dartford Town aux—
iliary hon sec, reports that Alderman C. Bareham opened the
Christmas bazaar. Mrs Bareham was present and £80 was
raised for branch funds.

Lincolnshire—Mid, and Lincoln The branch annual meeting
was held at the Kirkwhite Boys’ Club, Lincoln. Mrs D.
Bergne-Coupland, branch chairman, spoke. Reports were
submitted by Miss C. May Harrison, branch hon secretary,
and Inspector Silcock. .

Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham Miss N. V. M. le,
branch co hon secretary, reports that the branch annual
meeting was held at Grantham and the Mayor was in the
chair. Mr Camm, assistant secretary from Headquarters,
spoke on the work of the RSPCA. A bring-and-buy stall
raised £16 5s. 6d. for branch funds. .

Mrs Skinner, Pinchbeck auxiliary hon sec, held a Christ-
mas effort and raised £60 14s. for branch funds.

London South East A collection at Charlton Stadium
raised £3 11s. for branch funds.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

24 ' THEANIMAL WORLD

COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the collection
was made, and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

House to House

West Drayton, Mr H. Button, aux hon sec, £68 115. 4d.;
Sidmouth, Sidbury and S Regis, Miss Page, aux hon sec,
£94 75. 1d.; Wimbledon (Town Area), Miss Beel, £1 185.;
Groton, Miss E. Dawson, aux hon sec, £10 145. (correcv
tion); Aberdare, on behalf of Clinic, £57 65. 5d.-; Wiltshire
Mid Branch, Miss Goddard, branch hon sec, £29 155. 5d.;
Tewin Wood, Mrs Golding, aux hon sec, £13 55.; Padstow,
Mrs Grifﬁn, aux hon sec, £25 175. 6d.; Wigan, Mr Fenton,
branch hon sec, £67 15. 1d.; Adderbury, Miss Jackson,
aux hon sec, £8 75. 6d.; Falmouth, Penryn and Mylor, Mrs
Powell, aux hon sec, £13 15.; Newquay, Mrs Lukey, aux
hon sec, £46 75. 7d.; St Mawes, Mr Willmore, aux hon
sec, £31 15. 1d.; Perranporth and St Agnes, Mrs Peebles,
aux hon sec, £52 53. 9d.; Portscatho and District, Mrs
Upham, aux hon sec, £10 85., Mrs Dickson, asst aux hon
sec, £1 85.; Truro, Miss Taylor, aux hon sec, £46 175.;
Banbury Town, Mrs Brummitt, aux hon sec, £15 143. 5d.;
Budleigh Salterton, Dr Walters, aux hon sec, £68 75. 11d.;
ggking and District, Mrs Pelham Warner, branch hon sec,

4 195.

Flag Days

Stamford, Miss D. Blackstone, aux hon sec, £413
Torrington, Mrs L. Martin, aux hon sec, £32 123. 4d.;
Oakham, Miss S. Whadcoat, aux hon sec, £20 125. 4d.;
Ilkley, Mr A. B. Swaine, branch chairman, £134 143. 4d.;
Instow, Miss M. Peters, aux hon sec, £8 17s.; Merioneth,
Mrs Mather, branch hon sec, and aux hon secs,
£124 123. 10d.; West Bromwich, Mrs P. Haywood, branch
hon sec, £152 93. 10d.; Suffolk—West Branch (excluding
Bury St Edmunds), £244 195. 4d.

Birmingham and District Branch. Collections held in
the Birmingham and District Branch are as follows:

£ 5. cl.
Birmingham City 2,488 9 10
Halesowen 20 0 6
Warwickshire 639 O 0
Smethwick 138 16 9
Tipton, etc. 51 14 5
Dudley, 174 12 4

£3,512 13 10

Large Begging Dog Box

' Mrs Simmonds, hon secretary of the Kent—Mid, Maidstone
branch, has written to say that a large box placed in a local
store for eight days just before Christmas, brought in

£4 125. 3d. In a period of approximately six weeks, the box
collected £7 35. 1d.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Minehead, Dorchester, Bacton-onvSea,
Croydon, Nottingham, Bexleyheath, Wadhurst, Whittle‘
sey, Long Stratton, Spooner Row, Scunthorpe, Welburn,
Stafford, Burnham—onvSea, Sheerness, Normanton, Rain—
ham, Littlehampton, Birmingham, Gateshead, Isles of
Scilly, Gloucester, Horsham, Sidmouth, Hexham, Rugby,
Wellingborough, Widley, Knutsford, Hertford, Frizington,
Edgware, Leicester, Wandsworth, Conway, Bletchingley,
Gillingham, Bridlington, Appleby, Sale, Bishop Auckland,
Pulham Market, New Buckenham, Okehampton, Newport,
Putney, Doddington, Sidcup, Banbury, Boreham Wood,
East Ham, Plymouth, Audlem, Swansea, Carmarthen,
Chiswick, Tunbridge Wells, Chelsham, Eton, Skelmersdale,
Bermondsey, Acle, Hull, Chorley, Slough, Ewell, Durring-
ton, Egham.

February 1955

CHRISTMAS MARKET: SEYMOUR
HALL

A net proﬁt of over £4,218 was raised for RSPCA funds
by a Christmas market, organized by Headquarters, and
held in the Seymour Hall, London.

Amounts raised by the various branches, auxiliaries and
clinics participating were:

£ 3. d.
Headquarters 1,243 8 10
Animal Aid and Welfare Club 66 12 O
Mayhew Home 55 3 2
South Harrow Clinic 24 19 O
Ealing and Hanwell Shelter 15 11 0
Animal Rescue League 84 19 9
St John Partridge Memorial Clinic 316 7 10
Balham Clinic 33 15 4
Animal War Memorial Dispensary 275 13 3
Bow Clinic 3917 l
Bethnal Green Clinic 3 13 0
Putney and Barnes Clinics 182 6 10
Overseas Fund... 202 2 9
BirdFund 210 0 2
Highgate Branch 95 7 4
Ealing Branch 27 1 6
Paddington Auxiliary . .. . . . 174 3 11
Marylebone Auxiliary 52 15 0
Knightsbridge Auxiliary 346 1 3
Kensington Auxiliary . . . 77 19 0
East Finchley and Church End Clinic 40 1 3
London, NE Branch 22 10 0
Richmond Branch 74 13 2
Golders Green Auxiliary 186 16 7
Crystal Palace Branch 98 9 2
Wimbledon Branch (including Battersea Ani—
mal Welfare Centre) . .. 102 4 3
Essex Mid Branch 23 O 7
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Branch 36 1 O
Wandsworth Common Auxiliary 55 10 0
, Balham and Tooting Branch 94 0 4
Hants and Surrey Border Branch 107 16 3
Thornton Heath Auxiliary 240 O O
Barnet Branch... 11 1 0
Forest Hill and Sydenham Branch 151 16 3
Chiswick Branch 65 16 ‘3
Hemel Hempstead Clinic 32 0 0

 

‘Housewives’ Choice’ was the title of this stall—not at the
Headquarters market, but at the Kent—Folkestone and
District Branch Christmas Fair. (Organizers of this attrac-
tive stall were Miss Katinakis and Miss Barton)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

@WDFORMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All enquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. S.P.C.A.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:——

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, Cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press. Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




