 

 

4 . A *V____._ﬁw_.

 

IN THE NEWS PARADE

ANIMAL ANTICS

A shaken visitor walked into the Copen-
hagen zoo office and reported an elephant
had just swallowed his camera. He was about
to take a close-up shot of the elephant when
it. snatched the camera from his hands. Zoo
officials reassured the man that no harm had
been done. They said the camera would
“surely dissolve completely.”

‘ l l I
7: 9r 5‘:

A University of Wisconsin psychologist
reported that too much mother love can be
bad for baby monkeys. He was convinced
that if an infant boy monkey has too much
mother love, he becomes indifferent to little
girl monkeys. Once the baby monkey has
been spoiled, he added, even adulthood and
removal from his mother does not bring about
normal relationships with other monkeys.

.x. {1.

A prize Ayrshire hull, ordered de-
stroyed by the British Minister of Agricul-
ture because he looked too much like a cow,
won an eleventh hour reprieve by going on
British television.

e:- -.\: ~23

Old Army pigeons don’t seem to fade
away. Carrier pigeons trained and lofted at
Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, were mustered
out of service when electronic communica-
tions made them obsolete, but recently a
retired Army pigeon came back to Fort
Monmouth to roost.

4’: '3’: 1‘?

Within 48 hours the canine population
in a California household rose from two to
32, when their two female boxers, Friskie
and Cindy each gave birth to puppies. Friskie
delivered 16 pups on Monday, Cindy gave
birth to 14 on Wednesday. The father was a
neighbor’s year-and-a-half old boxer.

A tuckered-out sparrow hawk ﬂew
through the open hatch of a Navy helicopter
200 miles at sea, as the aircraft was landing
on a carrier. Far from her usual ashore habi-
tat, the hawk was the only female aboard.
She recovered from her long ﬂight on a steak
diet — the only food she would accept.

 

In San Paulo, Brazil, a female rhi-
noceros named Skinny was elected to a seat
in the municipal council chamber. Skinny
became the people’s dark-horse candidate in
a protest against corruption of the politicians.
She won by a two-thirds majority over her
closest contender, San Paulo’s mayor.

e:- -:<- 4:.

Bird watchers near Fort Frances, On-
tario, who reported a new species of rufﬂed
grouse with bright yellow back and wings.
were told the bird just got in the way of a
forestry service timber marker’s paint spray
gun and flew off a gleaming yellow.

96 96 at

Los Alamos Scientiﬁc Laboratory is
about as modern an institution as can be
found in this atomic age. But some vestiges
of the wilderness remain. A meeting was
recently called between state game officials
and executives of an airline to seek an answer
to a flying hazard—too many deer on the
Los Alamos airstrip.

23

 




 

Foreign Legion spoils
Mascot donkey

The very spoiled donkey that chews to-
bacco, drinks wine and goes to the movies,
has come a long way from the day last
year when he was found half dead in the
Sahara Desert by the French Foreign Legion.
The donkey was carried back to the post
on the back of the Legionnaire and im-
mediately established himself as mascot of
the unit.

The 13th Demi Brigade received the
ASPCA Medal of Honor for the rescue.

Meantime . .

An ASPCA contributor, Mrs. Claire
Gardes, was corresponding with Rene Roche-
chouar, a Legionnaire in the very same unit.
When she read about the Medal of Honor
in ANIMAL PROTECTION she sent him the
article. In reply he sent this picture of

himself and Bambi.

According to Legionnaire Rochechouar
the donkey behaves himself like a gentle-

 

Bambi with French Legionnaire Rochechouar.

man when he goes to the theatre with the
men, but when he doesn’t get what he wants
fast enough he charges the men from be-
hind. Bambi always gets his way! Bambi
is very spoiled.

 

The Right Dog
(Continued from page 9)

trainable and loyal. Remember, the paws are
a dead giveaway as to the potential size of
a puppy. If they’re large, he’s going to be
a big dog.

Health check points

Here’s how to check on the pup’s health.
Make sure his coat is smooth and glossy. The
nose and eyes should be clear. Look for pep
and sparkling eyes. The ears should be
smooth and pink inside, free from wax and
inflammation. Check the skin for rashes or
patches that may indicate skin lesions. The
teeth should be white and the gums ﬁrm
and pink. Snap your ﬁngers before the dog
to see if he’s deaf.

20

Find out what immunization shots have
been given and what you will need to have
done. Don’t neglect the inoculations, an im-
portant safeguard to your pet’s health. Ani-
mals adopted from the ASPCA are entitled
to a free examination at the ASPCA Hospital
and Clinic. Included free are temporary
immunization shots and advice on diets and
care.

If after all this you feel a dog would bur-
den your family too much, don’t be discour-
aged. You need not face a petless future.
You can get pleasure when a canary sings
as you enter a room, when your tropical ﬁsh
swim to the side of the tank or when your
parakeet says, “Hello, big boy.” (See page
17). If you choose a dog, be prepared for a
pet which shares your whole life and makes
your home his castle.

 

 




 

THE D

on LISTEN

 

 

 

Foreign obiects
swallowed by pets

by the Veterinary Staff
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

The number and types of objects swal-
lowed by dogs and cats is indeed amazing.
Veterinarians are called on to remove every-
thing from ﬁsh hooks to diamond rings from
the throat, stomach or intestines of pets. ln-
cluded are rubber balls, pins and needles,
baby bottle nipples, bottle caps, small bells
from inside rubber balls, nylon sponges,
nylon stockings, corn cobs, coins, lead sinkers,
cord and string, broken razor blades and
stones. The problem is extremely serious be-
cause injury or even death may result.

Bones most dangerous

The most troublesome foreign body swal-
lowed by dogs is bones which splinter and
lodge in the digestive tract. Often these
splinters are impossible to remove and when
they have pierced the digestive wall may
cause death. Chicken, turkey or other fowl
bones are particularly dangerous because
they splinter so easily.

In his primitive state, the dog needed
bones for the minerals they provided. But
today’s diets contain enough minerals so that
bones can be eliminated entirely. It is a
fallacy too that bones are needed to keep the
dog’s teeth in good condition. On the con-
trary, gnawing bones may actually wear
down a dog’s teeth unnecessarily.

Needles, pins and twine
Baby bottle nipples and needles are the next

most frequently swallowed objects. Keep
them where animals can’t reach or grab
them. W hen an object falls on the floor pick
it up immediately.

Cord and string are very dangerous be-
cause when they travel as far as the intes-
tines the chances for removal are slim. Even
during an operation, and after the cord is
located, it may not be possible to remove it.
Sometimes string will twist around the base
of the tongue and cause severe injury.

Rubber balls small enough to be swallowed
should not be given to a pet. Animals who
chew balls should not be allowed to have
them.

In the case of cats, they can too easily
jump on a table, get into the sewing basket
and before you realize it, adopt the pin
cushion as a toy. So keep all needles and
pins in closed containers.

Removal diﬁ‘lcult

If your animal swallows a dangerous ob-
ject, or if you even suspect he has, consult
your veterinarian immediately. The earlier
he can work on the case the better the chance
for removal.

X-rays will show where the object is and
the veterinarian can decide the best course
of treatment. Some objects may be eliminated
with emetics, mineral oil, lubricants or ene-
mas. If the object is still in the throat or
stomach, it may be possible to remove it
with a long, forceps-like instrument while
the animal is under anesthesia. If this doesn’t
work, surgery must be performed to open the
abdomen and take out the object.

 

CORRECTION

A typographical error in The Doctor
Listens column of the winter issue
stated: “If you intend to breed your
female dog or cat, spaying is recom-
mended.” This should have read, “If
you do not intend to breed your female
dog or cat, spaying is recommended.”

 

 

 

11

 

 




 

 

 

 

school. It is to help individual blind men
and women maintain their self-respect. Many
pay out of their earnings after they have
left Seeing Eye and found employment.”

Hair stylist uses a guide dog

Ninety percent of all graduates from
guide dog schools are employed. Occupations
range from newspaper reporter to piano
tuner. Included are clergymen, teachers, law-
yers, insurance agents, musicians, students,
housewives, ranchers, chiropractors, judges,
social workers and doctors.

One of the most unusual jobs is held by a
graduate of Guide Dogs for the Blind in San
Rafael, California. A Hollywood hair stylist,
he is so professional in his work that he has
several TV personalities among his regular
customers. Another graduate learned to oper-
ate the Braille switchboard. But when she
returned to her home town in Oregon no
one would hire her. Undaunted, she opened
her own answering service.

A Norfolk, Virginia, graduate of the Pilot
Dog Foundation in Chicago wanted to be a
teacher. At ﬁrst school authorities hesitated.
But his doberman Gwen helped him con-
vince ofﬁcials he would make an excellent
teacher. Now his students make it a point of
honor not to take advantage of his handicap.

Gainful employment is not the only bene-
ﬁt the sightless derive from guide dogs. They
gain independence and better health be-
cause they can get out and around more.

A 39-year-old father of three, who was a
student at Pilot Dogs in Columbus, Ohio, is
more active in community affairs now than
he was before he was afﬂicted. He sings in
the church choir, holds office in two fra-
ternal organizations and goes on speaking
engagements for the foundation.

Who is eligible for a guide dog

Not every blind person can beneﬁt from a
guide dog. At present only about one per-
cent of the country’s 350,000 sightless are
using guide dogs. One third are women.

Foundations will accept only applicants

14

 

GUIDE DOG ORGANIZATIONS
LISTED BY THE AMERICAN
FOUNDATION FOR THE BLIND

The Seeing Eye, Inc.
Morristown, N J.

Second Sight Guide Dog Foundataion
for the Blind, Inc.
Smithtown, L. I.

Pilot Dogs
625 West Town St., Columbus Ohio

Guiding Eye for the Blind
11 W. 42nd St., New York 36, N. Y.

Leader Dogs for the Blind
1039 South Rochester Rd.
Rochester, Mich.
Pilot Guide Dog Foundation
31 Congress St., Chicago, Ill.
International Seeing Eyes, Inc.
11408 Collins Street
No. Hollywood, Calif.
Our Dog Foundation
P.O. Box 815, Beaumont, Calif.
Guide Dogs for the Blind
P.O. Box 235, San Rafael, Calif.

 

 

 

who are emotionally stable and healthy
enough to undergo the tough training which
involves walking several miles a day at a
brisk pace. They must be of good moral
character and need the dog for constructive
purposes. They must be able to provide ade-
quate housing and care for the dog. No
mendicants are ever given guide dogs.

Generally speaking, applicants must be be-
tween 16 and 55. But there are exceptions.
A - 78-year-old former radio actor turned
author' recently got his second German shep-
herd from Guide Dogs for the Blind in Cali-
fornia. His ﬁrst dog died of cancer after
serving him for seven years.

Children were once considered unsuitable
for guide dogs. But a nine-year-old Tacoma,
Washington, boy, blind since birth, changed
all that. A woman doctor bred a strain of
short-haired smooth collies which she hoped
would be suitable as pilot dogs for children.
She gave the boy a dog named Thunder and
ﬁnally got them both placed with Pilot Dogs
of Columbus, Ohio.

Thunder and the small boy passed the
course with ﬂying colors and opened the
doors to normalcy for other blind children.

 




  

fresh. Every week hang a stalk of millet in
the cage. Once or twice a week feed a bit of
carefully washed green vegetable. But if the
droppings become watery, eliminate the
greens until they return to normal. Occa-
sionally feed a slice of apple, banana, pear
or hardboiled egg. Always have cuttlebone
in the cage to keep your bird’s beak trimmed
and aid his digestion. Change the water
daily, twice daily in summer.

Place the cage in a light, airy room, free
from drafts and preferably at least ﬁve feet
from the floor. Don’t keep your bird near a
door, window, radiator, or in the kitchen.
Sudden temperature changes are bad and
kitchen fumes could be poisonous.

Cover your parakeet at night, even in
summer. Clean the cage twice a week, and
spread clean gravel or gravel paper on the
bottom. The parakeet has no teeth and gravel
is essential for digestion. Scrape perches with
a perch brush. If they must be washed occa-
sionally, dry them before replacing.

Only a solitary bird will learn to talk. A
younger bird is easier to train. For ten
minutes twice a day repeat over and over
one simple word or phrase, like “hello” or
“pretty bird.” Speak clearly and distinctly. It
may be several months before he talks, but
the thrill you get when he utters his ﬁrst
word will be worth the effort.

If your bird mopes in a corner with feath-
ers ﬂuffed up, he may have a cold. Cover the
cage, place a lamp nearby for warmth and
boil his water for a few days. If symptoms
continue, take your bird to a veterinarian.

Parakeets are easy to breed, but shouldn’t
be allowed to have more than two or three
families a year. Start with two healthy, un-
related adult birds. Don’t try to mate tame
or talking pets. The breeding cage should be
at least 18x 14x 12 inches. Put in a nest
box, available at pet stores. Within a short
time after the birds are put together you
should ﬁnd the ﬁrst egg. Thereafter, eggs
are laid every other day and hatch in the
same order, in about 18 days.

    

 

Hamsters

All hamsters today are descended from
one litter discovered in Syria in 1930. The
golden hamster looks like a tiny bear, but is
actually a rodent. He makes an ideal apart-
ment house pet as he thrives in small quar-
ters, is free of vermin and has no body odor.

Feed your hamster small amounts once a
day, always at the same time. He will soon
learn the routine and be waiting at his door
for dinner. Feed a prepared hamster mix, or
a varied diet of bread, nuts, dry cereals,
cookies, raisins, sunflower seeds and rabbit
pellets. For variety add carrots, potatoes,
peas, lettuce, apples, bananas, parsnips and
grapes. Wash fruits and vegetables.

Hamsters love to hoard food and should
be allowed to do so. Check the larder every
day and remove any stale food. Fresh water
should always be available. To insure clean-
liness, buy a gravity ﬂow water bottle.

Most pet stores sell hamster cages equipped
with a wooden platform, an exercise wheel
and a removable metal tray to simplify clean-
ing. Or a small aquarium or a wire bird
cage makes a satisfactory home.

Line the floor with an inch of sand, saw-
dust or shredded newspaper. The hamster
will select one corner as a permanent bath-
room. Only this section needs daily cleaning.
Once a week scrub the entire cage with mild
antiseptic and change the bedding.

Put in a handful of cotton wool and your
pet will construct a snug nest, especially
necessary during winter. Provide hard puppy
biscuits or hard wood for gnawing.

Hamsters are proliﬁc. They are ready to
mate when only eight weeks old and may
produce a litter of between three and twelve
young in only 16 days. Put the male and
female together daily until she accepts him
without resentment. After about ten days
isolate the female in a clean cage with plenty
of dry food, bedding and cotton wool. After
the babies are born do not clean the cage or
disturb the mother for at least two weeks. In

(Continued on page 24)

17




in one can of Red Heart
than any dry dog foOd
. . . most canned dog foods

Red Heart comes in three
tasty varieties: Beef, Beef-
plus-Fish, Beef-plus-Liver!

©1959. Red Heart Div.. John Morrell & Co.

 




 

 

 

 

4, . (44/
a , 9/ 09%,, ,,
.a . ”7/1 INN II”
I. /

,M

/

 

 

 

 




New York’s miniature iungles

Visits to 2008 can be fun and educational

o ne of the greatest pleasures for children,
and for adults too, if they would ever admit
it, is to visit a zoo. New Yorkers are lucky
to have several miniature jungles in the
heart of their city, where children who
have never seen a cow can become ac-
quainted with live farm animals, as well as
exotic creatures from all over the world.
Spring is the ideal time for a visit. Wear
comfortable shoes and take along a camera.

Bronx Zoo

The Bronx Zoo is the largest zoo in the
country, with over 1,000 different kinds of
animals. More than 2,800 animals are on
exhibit, many outside of cages. The zoo is
especially famous for zoological rarities.
some never before shown.

Located on 252 acres of wooded land,
dotted with ponds and streams, this zoo has
elephants, lions, tigers, monkeys, penguins,
seals, birds, camels, ﬂamingos, among others.
A highlight for children is the public feed—
ing of sea lions, pelicans, gibbons, penguins,
lions and alligators at regular hours during
the day. Vending machines also dispense
food children can feed the animals.

The refurbished monkey house was re-
cently re-opened after being closed for ten
years. The newly remodeled reptile house
has been called the most beautiful in the
world. In spring and fall a tractor train
runs through the zoo at 15¢ a ride.

Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day through-
out the year. Admission free. Pelham Park-
way and Bronx Parkway Extension, Bronx.

The Farm in the Zoo is a special portion
of the Bronx Zoo featuring barnyard animals
in a farm setting. Cows are milked twice
daily at 2:30 p.m. and 4 p.m. Open after

6

Easter. Admission 15¢. Free to organized
groups.

The Children’s Zoo is another special area
in the Bronx Zoo, where youngsters are per-
mitted to play with tame animals in a story-
book setting. There are lambs, ducks, deer,
fawns, geese, goats, rabbits and deodorized
skunks. Adults are not permitted unless ac-
companied by a child. Open after Easter,
10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission 25¢ for
children, 15¢ for adults.

Central Park and Prospect Park

The Central Park and Prospect Park Zoos
are operated by the New York City Depart-
ment of Parks. Both feature bears, tigers,
lions, elephants, raccoons, leopards, camels,
rhinoceroses, zebras, deer, monkeys, birds,
llamas and hippopotomi.

Visitors may watch the seals being fed
daily at 1:30 p.m. Merry-go-round rides at
10¢ and pony rides at 15¢ are available.
Buildings are open 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
Free. Prospect Park Zoo is at Flatbush
Avenue and Empire Boulevard, Brooklyn.
Central Park Zoo is at Fifth Avenue and
64th Street, Manhattan.

Staten Island Zoo

The Staten Island Zoo is an educational-
hobby zoo with exhibits of mammals, birds,
ﬁsh and the country’s largest reptile collec-
tion. It has 400 reptiles, including 24 differ-
ent kinds of rattlesnakes—the largest variety
anywhere. A 20-foot regal python, an 18-foot
king cobra, plus alligators, lizards and turtles
are on exhibit.

The collection is all in one building, mak-
ing it easy on the feet. Lectures by natural-

 

 

 

 

ists and zoologists are given the second Sun-
day of each month. Admission to lectures is
35¢. Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily through-
out the year. Free. Broadway, West Brighton,
Staten Island.

Aquarium

The Aquarium that used to be down at the
Battery in Manhattan now has a new home in
Coney Island. Big plans for the $10,000,000
ﬁsh house are unfolding gradually. Thus far
only the ﬁrst stage has been completed.

On exhibit are brilliantly colored ﬁsh of
the tropical coral reefs, marine mammals,
birds, reptiles and underwater gardens.
Every hour on the hour an electrical eel sets
off electronic devices and lights.

One of the major attractions is Olaf, a
1,500-pound walrus, and Ookie, his female
playmate, the only two captive walruses in
the Western Hemisphere. Along with sea
lions, seals and other aquatic mammals, the
walruses are housed in an outdoor oceanic
pool that can be Viewed from above or from
an underwater level. Olaf and his friends are

fed at 11:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.

Two outdoor pools contain collections of
sea turtles, pelicans and penguins. Indoor
tanks have sharks, bass, blue ﬁsh, tarpan. A
headset can be rented which gives a re-
corded explanation of each exhibit. The top
deck affords an excellent view across the
Boardwalk to the ocean and liners approach-

ing New York harbor.

Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in winter, 10 a.m.
to 10 p.m. in summer. Closed Monday and
Tuesday, except holidays during winter. Ad-
mission 90¢ for adults, 45¢ for children.
Boardwalk and West 8th Street, Brooklyn.

(Continued on page 21)

The Children’s Zoo at the Bronx Zoo where farm
animals can be fed and pettecl.
New York Zoological Society photo

7

 

 




t this moment, at a Nike missile site a
few miles outside New York City, two alert
sentries march side by side, guarding our
nation’s defenses. One is a soldier. His part-
ner —— a German shepherd dog.

These missile guardians represent one of
the last remaining military alliances between
man and animal. Down through the cen-
turies such animals as dogs, horses, mules,
elephants, cats, pigeons and camels have
been utilized in battle. Today all but the
sentry dog and the cavalry horse are obsolete,
replaced by tanks, radar, jeeps and jets.

The K-9 Corps
During World War II 250,000 dogs were

trained as messengers, mine detectors, scouts,
sentries and pack carriers. Germany alone
used 200,000 dogs. Russia, France and Eng-
land also had powerful canine forces. In
1942 the US. Army established the K-9
Corps, which trained 10,000 dogs for active
service in all theatres of operation.

One dog named Teddy made 15 parachute
jumps from a plane along with his corporal
handler. Another dog, Gray, was cited for
distinguished service for performing 132
combat patrols. His master won the Bronze
Star. Flash, a German shepherd, saved an
entire outpost by warning of an approaching
enemy patrol.

Caesar, Alexander,
Napoleon used dogs

Man’s ﬁrst wartime alliance with dogs is
lost in antiquity, but they often decided the
issue in early conﬂicts. C. C. “Tex” Fawcett,
director of the Dog Care Division, Ralston
Purina Co., recently uncovered some early
uses for the dog in war.

The ancient Greeks seem to have been the
ﬁrst to use dogs for military work. The

2

ANIMALS

Painted Porch of the Acropolis shows a man
and dog who fought at the Battle of Mara-
thon. The dog received an award for heroism
along with the soldier. The Gauls used packs
of dogs wearing armor covered with sharp
spikes and knives, training them to run
among the enemy inﬂicting wounds.

History’s greatest military leaders— Cae-
sar, Alexander the Great, Napoleon— all
used war dogs.

Charles V of Spain held up his war dogs
to the troops as examples of courage and
loyalty. The 4400 dogs had accompanied Eng-
lish troops sent by King Henry VIII to help
Charles in his war with France. Later, the
Spanish king kept the dogs and sent the
soldiers home.

The Conquistadors took man-killing mas-
tiffs into Peru, and the natives and their
hairless dogs were equally helpless against
them. “It was by the horse and dog they
conquered,” said the Inca, “not with men.”

Horses drew war chariots in 1700 B.C.

The horse was undoubtedly man’s most
useful war tool. Horses were used by the
Babylonians to draw their war chariots be-
ginning about 1700 B.C. It was the horse
that made possible the far-ﬂung conquests
Of Alexander the Great and Ghengis Khan.
The medieval knights and the Crusaders
were equally dependent on their horses.

In American history we ﬁnd the same
pattern in the Indian warriors of the plains.
the gallant cavalry ﬁghting of the Civil War
and World War 1. During the Civil War,
Union forces alone relied on some 650,000
horses and 450,000 mules to mount troops,
and haul guns, supplies and ambulances.

As late as World War I the Cavalry was

a vital branch of the armed services, whose

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
William F. Morgan, Vice-President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
William A. Meyerhofl, Treasurer
James H. Jenkins, Asst. Treasurer

R. W. Allen, Asst. Treasurer

John W. Ream, Asst. Secretary
Arthur L. Amundsen, Asst. Secretary

Board of Managers

William Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton
John W. Cross, Jr.
José A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
Joseph B. Murray
Horace H. Nahm
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
George B. Wagstafi

Managers Emeritus

F. Ambrose Clark
Robert L. Jones
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank

96

**

9(-

Administration Oﬂices TRafalgar 6-7700

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations

George H. Tuscher, Director of Humane Work
Katherine M. Lehr, Secretary to Committees

Diana Henley, Director of Education

Thacher, Profﬁtt, Prizer, Crawley 81 Wood,
Attorney and Counsel

Hospital and Clinic TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Chief of Stay?

Thomas A. Fegan, Business Manager

Public Relations Department PLaza 5-l650

30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.

June Eliot, Director

Animalport OLympia 6-6042
Air Cargo Center, New York International

Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.

George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

Bronx Shelter T Yrone 2-8500
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N". Michael Bromley, District Manager

Brooklyn Shelter

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

Manhattan Shelter
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Francis Melvin, District Manager

TBafalgar 6-7700

Nassau County Shelters ORiole 6-5913

Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. 1.
Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1.
James J. McKenna, Shelter Manager

GEneral 1-0660

Queens Shelter

94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
Robert B. Ferris, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

Richmond Shelter

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

Western Westchester Shelter

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

LYric 2-7890

Serving Glen Cove, Sea Cliff, Bayville, East Hills.

Serving Tarrytown, North Tarrytown, Mount Pleasant, Irvington, Dobbs
Ferry.

 




 

 

World War II recruiting poster for dogs.

motto was: “The horses eat before the men;
the men eat before the officers.”

Today a few countries like Yugoslavia
and Turkey still have cavalry regiments, but
the American Army boasts a grand total of
only 17 picked steeds. The famous funeral
horses at Arlington National Cemetery form
the last surviving link to time past when
American soldiers and their horses lived,
fought and died together.

Pigeons delivered vital messages

Old Army pigeons have faded away, too.
Three years ago the Signal Corps mustered
out the last of its pigeon corps at Fort Mon-
mouth, N. J. Electronics had made obsolete
one of the oldest means of communication
known to man. Over 50,000 of the plucky
birds ﬂew through shellﬁre and storms to
deliver vital and super-secret messages dur-
ing World War 11.

During combat 99 percent of all pigeon-
carried messages were delivered~the highest
record of any means of communication.
Jungle Joe parachuted behind enemy lines
carrying vital information 225 miles over

4

some of the steepest mountains in Asia.
Severely wounded, Blackie Halligan carried
a message revealing the position of 300
enemy troops on Guadalcanal.

One of the most famous pigeons was G. 1.
Joe, who saved a thousand British troops
from a bombing in Italy and received a
medal from the Lord Mayor of London.

Cal's served as mousers and mascots

Many World War 11 citations were also
awarded to cats, who served well, but in a
less spectacular way. Working at their regu-
lar job of cleaning up rats and mice, many
of them saw service in barracks, military
depots, docks, war plants, the Pentagon
Building and on naval and merchant-marine
vessels. There was hardly a military base or
depot which did not have its faithful mousers.

A Marine cat named Dammit ﬂew 15,000
miles with members of a dive-bombing
squadron and learned to give air-raid warn-
ings by scrambling for shelter. Maizie, a sea-
going cat, was torpedoed and spent 56 hours
on a life raft, keeping up the morale of six
shipwrecked sailors. “If Maizie hadn’t been
with us, we might have gone nuts,” one
of the sailors said later.

Camels used in Asia

It has been said that camels obey orders
like good soldiers, though they grunt and
protest when being loaded. Camels have been
in man’s service at least 5,000 years, or since
the beginning of recorded history.

From earliest ages dromedaries were used
in Asia for military transport. The famous
Zemboureks, dromedary artillery of Persia,
were used for centuries in war against the

Turks.

Napoleon organized a highly successful
dromedary regiment in Egypt. The British
used camels for cavalry service and as litter
bearers in India and Crimea. As late as 1913
the British War Ofﬁce issued a manual on
Camel Corps Training, which included in-
structions on riding, training, saddling,

 

 




 

 

 

SECOND SIGHT

Guide dogs open new vistas for the blind

In the hustle and bustle of New York City

people watch with admiration as an attrac-
tive young housewife and her dog walk
conﬁdently into the bank to make a deposit
and then move with certainty across a busy
traffic intersection to the supermarket to
shop. The woman is blind and Tammy is
her guide dog.

Tammy has opened a whole new adventure
to this 35-year-old woman: the thrills of
boarding subways, wending her way through
New York crowds, crossing busy streets,
visiting friends and going to church.

This new lease on life was given the
housewife last year by a guide dog organiza-
tion. Each year hundreds of blind are given
second sight through one of the country’s
dozen or so non-proﬁt, non-sectarian groups
which not only supply guide dogs, but school
dog and master in a rigorous, highly-scien-
tiﬁc training program.

Typical of the guide dog organizations is
The Seeing Eye, Inc., the country’s oldest
and largest, which has trained over 3,300
blind persons and 3,700 dogs since it was
founded in 1929. It was at the Seeing Eye’s
Morristown, N. 1., training center where
Tammy and her sightless owner met.

Dogs tested and trained

Tammy, a German shepherd, was donated
to Seeing Eye when she was a year old, and
had to pass a strict test for temperament,
health and stability before she was accepted
for her exacting job. Not just any dog can
lead a blind person. Only one out of six dogs
donated makes the grade. Dogs must be
fairly good looking, easy to groom, friendly,
alert, intelligent and emotionally stable.

More than half of all guide dogs are
German shepherds. Trainers claim they are

12

exceptionally smart, courageous, patient,
poised, gentle and have a strong desire to
learn. Other popular breeds are boxers,
dobermans and retrievers. Some trainers pre-
fer females, but most organizations accept
males or females between one and two years
of age and have them neutered.

Matching dog and master is a highly sci-
entiﬁc matter. They are matchmated only
after the most exacting study of the physical
and emotional traits of each.

When Tammy arrived at the Morristown
training center, she was taken in tow by a
Seeing Eye instructor and given a three-
month preliminary curriculum. Before she
ever met her new sightless owner, she learned
obedience to both hand and voice signals.
She was introduced to a harness, crowds and
trafﬁc, and was taught to ignore cats, other
dogs and loud noises. The trainer then took
her to a quiet residential street and taught
her to halt at intersections, avoid obstacles,
gradually progressing into congested areas,
traffic, restaurants, stores, buses and subways.

Tammy then learned the hardest lesson of
all — intelligent disobedience. For there
would be times when she would have to dis-
obey her master when there was danger ahead.

Four-week training program

Then came the most dramatic moment of
all. Tammy was introduced to the woman
whose constant companion she would be for
the rest of her life. Totally blind since birth,
the housewife had come to Seeing Eye be-
cause she hated to depend on other people.

Together they began four weeks of hard
work in which dog and master were welded
into one smoothly integrated unit.

During the training period students live
at the training center. Guide Dogs for the




 

 

Mrs. Louise Brown, graduate of Guide Dogs for
the Blind, in California, operates her own answer-
ing service with the help of her dog Willie.

The use of dogs by blind people is not new.
They had been used in rudimentary fashion
as early as the middle ages. Their true capa-
bilities, however, remained untapped until
after World War I, when Germany created
the ﬁrst systematic program for training

dog guides to help blinded soldiers.

History of guide dog use

Mrs. Dorothy Eustis, who was training
German shepherds for the Swiss Army, vis-
ited Potsdam in 1927 and described the Ger-
man program in a magazine article. This
evoked an immediate response from Morris
Frank, 4,000 miles away in Tennessee.

A young insurance salesman recently
blinded, he wrote: “How can we establish
a similar service in America?” Mrs. Eustis
invited him to come to Switzerland and
trained him to work with Buddy, ﬁrst of
the Seeing Eye dogs. After weeks of inten-
sive training, Morris Frank and Buddy
toured America, demonstrating that real free-
dom was at last possible for blind men and
women. In 1929 the Seeing Eye was incorpo-
rated. Since then it has inspired similar
organizations throughout the US. and many
foreign countries.

In Memoriam

The Board of Managers sorrowfully an-
nounces the sudden death of Louis Reyna},
Secretary of the Society, who died of a heart
attack on Feb. 20. He was 54.

Mr. Reynal was a true and loyal friend of
animals and a constant worker in their be-
half. A Board member since 1950, he was
named Assistant Secretary in 1952 and Sec-
retary in 1958. He was also a director of the
Animal Medical Center and the Speyer
Hospital for Animals, and was a member of
the Westminster Kennel Club.

An artist and industrial designer, Mr.
Reynal graduated from Harvard University
in 1928 and later studied painting for two
years in Paris. In World War II he served
in the Paciﬁc area as a Navy lieutenant
commander.

 

Bank to Exhibit
ASPCA Services

An exhibit depicting ASPCA services will
appear in ofﬁces of the East River Savings
Bank during the month of May. Hand
painted cutouts showing the hospital, ambu-
lance, education, adoption and rescue services,
among others, will be shown in seven side-
walk windows of the Rockefeller Center
branch at Rockefeller Plaza and 50th Street.
In addition, there will be displays on the
banking ﬂoor inside this bank and four other
East River Savings Bank ofﬁces at 26 Cort—
landt Street, 110 William Street, 60 Spring
Street and 96th Street at Amsterdam Avenue.

 

 

April 30 is the deadline for
renewing New York City dog li-
censes, required by law for all
dogs, regardless of age. License is
$3 at ASPCA shelter in your
borough.

 

 

 

 

 

 




Study ﬁnds most dog bites
caused by teasing children

A four-man research team made a study
of dogs most likely to bite and came up with
some unexpected results. The researchers
said up to half of all dog bites could be pre-
vented if children weren’t allowed to have
dogs for pets before age six, and if older
youngsters were taught “how to care for
their pets and not to abuse or tease dogs.”

These ﬁndings came from a 1958 study in
Pittsburgh conducted by Dr. Henry M. Par-
rish and three associates, and recently re-
ported by the U. 5. Public Health Service.

The study also observed that the principal
victims are children under ten who own dogs

or live within three doors of one. Next are
delivery boys, mailmen, etc. In the number
three spot are veterinarians.

The report also revealed that:

0 Only one out of every three bites is
malicious. In other cases. there is some hu-
man provocation.

0 Female dogs are more likely to bite
than males, even when they aren’t guarding
puppies.

° Young dogs, particularly between six
and 11 months, are prime offenders because
they aren’t old enough to know better.

Hound dogs were rated as the safest canine
pets because they are least likely to bite.
Working dogs and sporting dogs were found
to snap at people with the greatest frequency.

 

NEW WINNER!

  

ALSO

 
  

 

 

AV AlLABLE
N 50 ‘3'
BAGS F0“ .
KENNELS. ' ~ ..........
. ASK YOUR
951 FOOD
suPPUER

 
 

 

 
   
   
   
 

     
  
 

Sizes: lO‘/4 02s., 30 025., 4 lbs., 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER

(REPLACES PAL TINY BITS) ®

Now—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

18

 




The right dog for the right owner

What you should know before choosing a dog

 

 

omewhere a small boy, his eyes shining
S with delight, is sizing up a kennel full of
puppies. He acts like a kid in a candy shop
who’s been given a choice of anything he
wants. “Mommy, that’s the one I want,”
he ﬁnally declares, and races home, cradling
the puppy of his choice in his arms.

If he’s lucky the pet will be loved and
cared for. If not, he may ﬁnd himself alone,
cold and hungry, suffering at a garbage pail
or shivering along a highway.

The difference depends on how well-
thought-out the choice was and how much
preparation was made for the pet. The trick
is to ﬁnd the right pet for the right owner.

If you’re contemplating a dog for your
family, there are some questions you’ll want
to ask yourself. First of all, analyze your
own habits, personality, and living condi-
tions, the size of your family, the size of
your children and the time you have to
devote to a pet.

Chihauhua or St. Bernard

For example, small dogs are generally bet-
ter adapted to city life and large dogs do
better in the country. Don’t put a Great
Dane in a Pomeranian-sized apartment. Truly
large dogs like Newfoundlands and St. Ber-
nards belong on farms or estates Where they
can get the exercise they need.

If you’re sedentary, don’t pick a hunting
dog that needs to run and frolic. If you’re
a fussy housekeeper, stay away from long-
haired dogs that shed. If you don’t have
much time for brushing and grooming, a
small short-haired dog is the answer.

Decide whether you want a puppy or an
older dog. If you pick a puppy, be prepared
for mischief like chewed slippers, torn cur-
tains and plenty of accidents on the beige
carpet. But the advantages of a puppy are
also great. A dog carries his training with
him throughout life. If you have reared him,
you know his fears, likes, habits and inter-
ests. You know what to expect. If you select a
puppy, be sure he’s at least two months old.
A younger puppy is not ready to leave its
mother.

Grown dogs are desirable for older people
since they don’t require training, won’t turn
the house into a shambles and won’t need
long, tiring walks.

Cost of upkeep may be a consideration for
you. Feeding a dachshund will be far less
costly than feeding a St. Bernard. Poodles
require expensive clipping and some terriers
must be plucked or stripped to keep their
coats trim.

Sir or madam

The female-male controversy boils down
to this: a female is generally more affec-
tionate, friendlier, less aggressive and more
pliable. However, twice annually, for three-
Week periods, she will be in heat and will
have to be conﬁned. Spaying eliminates this
problem, without affecting her desirable
qualities. Contrary to the old wives’ tale, a
neutered animal does not become lethargic
and fat. Males usually have a livelier, more
vigorous personality than females, but given
equal training, both sexes make good pets.

What if there are children in the family?
Generally speaking, up to about ﬁve years
old children are not ready for puppies or
kittens. From ﬁve to seven they need close
supervision from their parents. They can
help With the feeding, but don’t expect them
to take over any real responsibility. It’s im-
portant to teach a child such things as con-
sideration in dealing with animals. This will
add up to a loving pet-child relationship.
Children will learn to share and give—an
important lesson. Let the children have a vote
in the selection of the pet.

Pedigreed or mixed

Shall it be a pedigreed dog with “papers”
or a mixed breed? This is an explosive ques-
tion and there can be no ready answer. As
far as character is concerned, dogs are as
individual as humans. It’s a matter of per-
sonal preference. If you get a purebred
puppy you know what it will look like when
it grows up. Mixed breeds may be more of a
surprise, but they are just as affectionate,

(Continued on page 20)

9

 

 




 

 

 

 

New York’s Miniature J ungles

( Continued from page 7)

Lollipop Farm

If you care to travel only about a half
hour outside the city, Lollipop Farm in Syos-
set, L. 1., is worth a visit. Only 27 miles from
New York, it is on an old ﬁve-acre farm with
the original barns, ice house, corrals and
pond. Children are invited to pet and feed
ducks, cows, goats and other barnyards ani-
mals. A pet care display is designed to help
youngsters explore the pros and cons of own-
ing an animal.

Open daily 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admis-
sion 50¢. Route 25, Jericho Turnpike, Syos-
set, L. 1.

Catskill Game Farm

A full day’s outing is available at the Cats-
kill Game Farm, 120 miles from New York.
The farm has nearly 3,000 wild animals——
everything from wombats to cassowaries, in-
cluding kangaroos, llamas, water buffaloes,
snakes, ostriches, antelopes, elephant, wild
sheep, etc.

There are more than 500 tame, hand-
raised animals children can pet and feet.
Most popular feature is the nursery where
new-born animals are kept. Babies are fed
every hour. Visitors can buy bottles of milk
for a dime and feed them.

A trackless train takes leg-weary visitors
through the bird gardens for 25¢ for adults,
15¢ for children. The 26-year-old farm not
only is a vast zoo itself, but imports and
breeds animals which are supplied to zoos
throughout the nation. It is said to have on
hand more animals than any zoo in the coun-
try.

Open 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., April 15 to Novem-
ber 15. Admission $1.25 for adults, 50¢
for children. Easiest way to get there is
north on the New York Thruway to Exit 20,
and then follow Route 32 to Catskill, N.Y.

 

 

Inspired by Anlmal Kingdom Ball decor, Fred
Frederics of John Frederics, Inc., designs alum-
inum foil hat for actress Jean Martin.

Adoption Service Beneﬁts
Over $10,000 to beneﬁt the Adoption Ser-

vice was raised at the Animal Kingdom Ball
held at the Sheraton-East on January 28.
Mrs. Walter S. Mack was chairman of the
dinner-dance which featured a carnival mid-
way and a merry-go-round with animals
made of thousands of yards of aluminum foil
donated by Reynolds Metals Company.

The Society’s Adoption Service was pub-
licized in two other events on Valentine’s
Day with the theme “Have a heart for ani-
mals.” The Long Island Committee of the
Women’s Volunteer Division held the Car-
nival for Animals at the Creek Club in Locust
Valley. Mrs. Bouvier Beale was chairman.
Hi-Jinx for Animals was held at the Ardsley
Country Club, Ardsley-on-Hudson, by the
Wrestchester Committee. Mrs. Nelson W. Kim-
ball and Mrs. Ashley Thorndike were co-
chairmen.

A fourth event beneﬁting the Adoption
Service will be the Adopt-a-Pet Parade on
Easter Sunday at the Hotel Pierre. Actress-
singer Jean Martin will sponsor the tea
dance.

21

 




 

 

 

 

The Pet for You
(Continued from page 17)

another ten days the babies are ready to be
weaned. Separate males and females. Males
have a tapered, elongated rear end, and the
females’ are rounded.

Turtles

Turtles are very popular pets. With intel-
ligent care the semi-aquatic baby turtles
bought in pet stores will live many years and
grow to six or seven inches. They become
very tame if handled frequently and will
learn to recognize the person who feeds them.

A good basic diet, fed three times a week,
should include scraps of lean, chopped meat,
shredded raw ﬁsh and pieces of cooked
chicken. For variety add freshly caught in-
sects, earthworms and meal worms sold in
pet shops, and occasionally a fresh piece of
lettuce or tomato. Don’t use the packaged
food containing dried ant eggs. Remove all
uneaten food within an hour or it will decay.

Build a terrarium in a box, a rust-proof
pan or a glass aquarium. It should be at
least ﬁfteen inches long by eight inches wide
and eight inches deep.

Build up a land area several inches deep
of sand or soil into which you can sink a
bowl of water. The pan can be easily re-
moved for cleaning without disturbing the
land area. Change the water daily. Fresh
water should be room temperature to prevent
a severe shock to the turtle. Scrub the con-
tainer thoroughly so no slime collects.

The water level should be deep enough so
the pet can swim freely and eat his food
under water. The pool temperature should
never fall below 68 degrees. At night or in
cold weather keep the terrarium warm with a
lS-watt bulb. Direct sun is beneﬁcial, but
always provide a shady spot. During winter
add a drop of cod liver oil to the food.

Painting the backs of baby turtles prevents
normal growth and can cause death. If you’re
given a painted turtle, remove the paint by
flaking it off gently with a fingernail. Or

24

apply a drop or two of nail polish remover.

Lack of calcium in the diet can cause
softening of the shell. Correct this by feeding
bonemeal or crushed ﬁsh backbone. Dical-
cium phosphate capsules, available at drug-
stores, can be mixed into the food once a week.

Blindness often results from longtime feed-
ing of commercial ant eggs. Wash the eyes
with a mild boric acid solution and correct
the diet immediately.

Fish

A ten-gallon rectangular or square aquar-
ium is a good size for a beginner. Fish must
have plenty of room and oxygen, so don’t
overcrowd the tank. First scrub the aquarium
and line the bottom with two inches of clean
coarse sand, sloped so that it is deepest at
the back. Next pour water in slowly until the
tank is half full.

Plan your underwater garden of rocks
and plants carefully. Set carefully rinsed
plants into the gravel, tall ones to the back,
short plants in front. Besides being decora-
tive, plants are valuable as food, absorb ﬁsh
excreta and provide hiding places for ﬁsh.

Fill the tank with water. Then wait a few
days for the plants to root and the water to
adjust to room temperature. Tropical ﬁsh
need a temperature of about 75 degrees.

Take great care in choosing your ﬁsh.
Some are quarrelsome, some delicate and
others require special tank conditions.

You can’t go wrong with guppies. They’re
colorful, peaceful and proliﬁc. The lively
zebra, which requires little oxygen, is also
good for group living and shows up best
when flashing in a lively school. Also good
are the hardy and showy platies, neons and
glow-light tetras. A pair or a single male
Siamese ﬁghting ﬁsh will add color and be
quite harmless to other species.

Snails and clams help to keep the water
clear and free of algae. But be sure to re-
move dead plants, snails, decayed food and
ﬁsh excreta regularly.

Feed sparingly. Dried food is good, along
with live daphnia, brine shrimps, mealworms
or earthworms.

 

 




 

 

EDITORIAL

Live animal experiments
in public schools

The ASPCA is fully in accord with the
view expressed by Dorothy Thompson in the
February Ladies’ Home Journal that the
spreading practice of experimentation on
live animals in U. S. public high schools
should be stopped.

In more and more biology classes live
mice, rats, rabbits, kittens and other animals
are starved, or kept lingering on unbalanced
diets, or injected with cancer cells, or actu-
ally dissected while under anesthetics admin-
istered by inexperienced young people.

These experiments are worthless cruelties
that add nothing to scientiﬁc knowledge, as
do some experiments by scientists who know
what they are looking for.

“I am not an anti-vivisectionist like George
Bernard Shaw,” writes Miss Thompson,
“who falsely claimed that nothing had been
added to knowledge of the treatment of

disease in both humans and animals by ViVi-v

section. The National Academy of Sciences
lays down, however, strict principles of
laboratory-animal care which are unlikely to
be completely observed in school.”

The medical student, she says, is indoc-
trinated with Albert Schweitzer’s “reverence
for life.” He is concentrated, not on experi-
menting for experimentation’s sake but on
ﬁnding ways to prolong life and health.

New York’s high schools, we are happy
to say, limit animal experimentation to
dissection of frogs after they have been put
under anesthesia and painlessly killed. There
is no experimentation on animals in ele-
mentary or junior high schools.

As for the rest of America’s public schools,
we hope they will lose no time in adopting
Miss Thompson’s suggestion that youngsters
study nature by observing plants and ani-
mals in their natural environments rather
than “cutting into living animals to see
what makes them tick.”

 
     
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
   
     

VOL. 14, NO. 1

Janice Paprin, Editor

SPRING 1960

IN THIS ISSUE

Animals in War ................. 2
New York’s Miniature Jungles . . . . 6

The Right Dog for the

Right Owner .................. 8
The Doctor Listens ............... 11
Second Sight ................. .. . . 12
The Pet for You .................. 16
Tennessee Walking Horses ........ 19
Animal Antics .................... 23
Please Help ......... Inside back cover

 

Cover picture

Our cover puppies—a beagle and a spaniel—
represent two of the country’s most popular
breeds of dogs. But are they right for you?
See page 3 for hints on choosing the right
dog for your family.

 

Animal Protection is published three times yearly
by The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Editorial Ofﬁce, 30 East 60th
Street, New York 22, N. Y.

 




 

mounting and dismounting with and without
rifles, drilling, marching and saluting.

Most Americans would be surprised to
learn camels came close to being adopted by
the U. S. Army for use in desert garrisons
in the southwest. In 1855 Congress appro-
priated $30,000 for the import of 75 camels.
Secretary of War Jefferson Davis placed
Major Henry C. Wayne in charge of the
experiment and for several years camels
were imported and trained for military duty.
However, the camels did not prove success-
ful and the project was abandoned.

Oxen toted guns for Washington

Eighty years earlier, during the American
Revolution, another beast of burden was
more successful. Eighty oxen helped save
Boston for the colonists. They toted a train
of sleds carrying muskets, cannons, mortars,
Hints and howitzers, captured from the
British at Fort Ticonderoga, a perilous 300
miles to Boston across the frozen Hudson
and down dangerous mountain trails. On
March 2, 1776, the ox-drawn heavy artillery
from Ticonderoga bombarded Boston and
the British evacuated the city.

Elephants fought in decisive battles

One of the strangest beasts to play an
important role in warfare is the elephant.
Every school child learns that Hannibal
crossed the Alps with 37 elephants to do
battle with the Romans.

In the early days of Asiatic civilization
this massive giant was used chiefly to batter
down fortiﬁed defenses. Many of the gates
of. Indian cities were covered with long
iron spikes as protection against elephants’
forcing open the city’s barriers.

During the Civil War the King of Siam
offered to donate some elephants to the Union
Army. President Lincoln politely turned them
down. He replied that elephants were nice,
but unfortunately the places where they
would be most useful weren’t in Union

hands

     
    
   
  
   

 

Vices F0! Dogs \_‘/;,‘/’—.3 :_
Are Very Few,
But Qomeﬁmes, tit:

WE GOTTA 9’ )

CHEW!

hammé‘fen‘“

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

:::: ”‘5”M’V. ”494V
. :5 com tree 7
limiter?" 7 than anything ;
ﬂaw“!!! 'J else lordogs T
'WOlF-QIZEZ‘YIE'! i0 chew upon -'
“New ,3 . .in the long run!

Slightly Higher In Canada ’

 

I PROVE" 9m toeroue DOG!
. . . .AQK YOUR VETERINARIAN

JFQJQED 2v lEADING ANIMAL "099nm.

‘ KENNELQ, AND HUMANE SOCIETIES

4&9»: 9M 0009' um. no coenv
SURGERY

{Kg} Ill em mum: mmrv
neon DETRUCTION

"(new mom CLEANING Auo

cuu txmclct. .. no room me

{Do upenc. . .no EMEARRASQIMG
voumuc no mnermu
eromctc

NYLABONE ConpbnAnéni

P.0. Box 7222 Oklahoma City 12,0kln. .

 

 

 

 

  

Great way
to buy stocks

Requires only $40 a month, or
every 3 months. Choice of any
of 1,200 stocks listed on New
York Stock Exchange. Start any
time.Quitanytime—nopenalties.
Write for free booklet

THOMSON & MeKlNNON

2 Broadway, New York
MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

 

  
  

 

 




 

 

 

 

when regular/y fed a balanced diet

A cat’s prime of life—the period of its greatest breeding
potential and award-winning beauty—will be longer
and healthier if it’s nourished consistently on a diet
abundant with health-giving nutrients.

And Puss ’n Boots, as cat fanciers and breeders know,
contains every nutrient a cat is known to need. Fresh-
caught whole ﬁsh are a natural storehouse of vitamins,
minerals, and proteins; whole-grain cereals supply

EVERY DA Y—ALL THIS NOURISHMENT IN EVERY 8 OZ. CAN

 

carbohydrates; and extra Vitamins Bl and E are added
to round out the complete range of nutrients in every
can. As the chart shows, there’s a world of variety in
every Puss in Boots meal, too.

Feed whole-fish Puss ’11 Boots regularly, beginning
today. You’ll see the improvement—in glossier coats,
more even dispositions, and brighter eyes—within less
than three short weeks.

PU33'n
wwssaooTS

 

SUNDAY A can of Puss '11 Boots has mire as

much calcium—for strong bones—
MONDAY a’lsha 10.02. glass of milk. { 0 d E d

ere is more prOtein in a can 0 — ver a -—
TUESDAY f Puss 'n Boots than in a juicy lamb ”C6. a 3y . y y
WEDNESDAY > 43% 131199; ‘ g . for lifelong nutrition
uss n Boots contains/1m times as Available in 8_°Z and 1502 size:

THURSDAY much blood-building iron as a cup ' '

of steamed spinach.
FRIDAY 5/ In Puss 'n Boats there is as mueh

é- % riboﬂavin—for healthy eyes—as in

SATURDAY % an equal serving of lean raw beef.

Plus other vita/nutrients essential to your cat’s well-being.

10

Coast Fisheries Division of
The Quaker Oats. Company,
Chicago 54, Illinois

 




 

Joe Fleming attends church with his dog Tassy.
They were trained by Second Sight Guide Dog
Foundation for the Blind, Inc., in Smithtown, L. l.

 

Hair stylist Maurice les Vesque has several TV
personalities among his regular customers. His
guide dog Kaleen snooze: at his feet.

Blind, Inc., in San Rafael, California, has
a typical center on an 11-acre campus which
houses an administration building, kennels
and a student dormitory with twin-bedded
rooms, each with private bath, built to meet
the speciﬁc needs of the blind.

Teamwork for guide dog and student he-
gins on the grounds of the center under the
watchful eyes of the instructor. A home atmo-
sphere is maintained. Children are around.
Visitors and tradesmen drop in. Pet cats and
other dogs are kept on the property.

Simple short walks on the grounds pro-
gress to increasingly more difﬁcult walks and
obstacles in neighboring towns. The student
relies more and more on his dog, until
ﬁnally the pair ﬁnd their way about the
largest department stores, off and on buses
and across busy thoroughfares by themselves.

Graduation day

Graduation for the Guiding Eyes for the
Blind student in Yorktown Heights, N. Y., is
a sightseeing trip to the busiest sections of
New York City. Said one student: “I had
never seen New York before and I was so
thrilled by my Visits with Charlene to Grant’s
Tomb and Times Square.”

How do dogs know if the traffic light is
red or green? The answer is, they don’t. So
far as is known, dogs are color blind. Dog
and owner are guided by the sounds of trafﬁc.
Blind people develop a mental picture of
their own communities and direct the dog to
go forward, right or left as they approach
familiar landmarks. The dog’s job is to watch
for hazards like low awnings, parking meters,
and broken sidewalks. In a strange city the
blind person asks directions like anyone else.

Training a guide dog and student costs a
foundation between $1,500 and $2,000. Most
foundations, supported by contributions,
make no charge to the student. Training,
room and board, and in some cases trans-
portation to and from the school, are free.

Only Guiding Eyes for the Blind in New
York and the Seeing Eye in New Jersey
make a charge of $150. Says the Seeing Eye:

“The charge is not made to reimburse the

13

 

 




 

 

 

16

By Diana Henley
ASPCA Director of Educatien

Hamsters,
turtles,
parakeets
and fish

are easy to
care for and
inexpensive
to own

 

Over 17 million families in the country
own dogs. Almost as many own cats.
But nobody has yet ﬁgured out how many
hamsters. ﬁsh, turtles or birds are ﬁrmly en-
sconsed as household pets. These small ani-
mals are gaining popularity with apartment
house dwellers and families with a minimum
of time to devote to a pet. Their basic cost
and subsequent upkeep are small. They re-
quire little attenion and minimum space.

If a dog or cat is out of the question for
you, consider one of these smaller pets.

Parakeets

The parakeet is playful, easily tamed,
and with patience can be taught to speak.
With proper care this popular pet can live
twelve or more years.

A parakeet’s staple diet is a mixture of
canary seed and millet, available in pet stores
and markets. Be sure the seed is absolutely

 




 

 

 

Cruelty to Tennessee Walking

Horses arouses public

An article in Sports Illustrated on Janu-
ary 11 stated: “Shamefully brutal treatment
of the Tennessee Walking Horse is generally
practiced by breeders, trainers and exhib-

itors and is tolerated by the ASPCA.”

The author erroneously assumed the
ASPCA to be a national organization with
jurisdiction at horse shows throughout the
country. In fact, our authority is limited to
New York State. In actual practice we in-
spect horse shows in New York State within
65 miles from the center of Manhattan.
Tennessee Walking Horses have not been
exhibited in any of these shows in nearly
20 years.

While the ASPCA is not involved, the
Society and many of its members are con-
cerned with cruelty that exists at horse
shows anywhere. In answer to the ﬂood of
inquiries regarding Tennessee Walking
Horses, here are the up-to-date facts:

The Tennessee Walking Horse is judged
primarily for its unique running walk in
which length of stride is especially desired.

Unscrupulous trainers soon learned that
if the horse’s front feet are sore he will lift
them quickly from the ground, shift his
weight to his sound hindquarters and take
the much-desired long-striding step. The feet
were made sore with chains and tacks inside
the boot worn by walking horses, or by
blistering the foot with a burning ointment.

Rule III of the American Horse Shows
Association rule book forbids cruelty at
horse shows under its jurisdiction. This rule
was adopted in cooperation with the ASPCA.
But James H. Blackwell, executive secretary
of the AHSA, which is responsible for en-
forcing the regulation at 400 recognized
shows throughout the country, admits that
there may have been violations, and that the

rules on cruelty may have been loosely in-
terpreted.

At its annual convention in Detroit on
January 7 the AHSA acted to partially cor-
rect these abuses by tightening certain loop-
holes and pin-pointing responsibility for en-
forcing the anti-cruelty provisions.

Two new rules were adopted. First, a new
type of cut away quarter boot must be used
in walking horse classes which will make any
concealment of sores impossible. The weight
of the new boot is set at eight ounces, which
will make it impossible to add any concealed
metal Without passing the weight limit.

The second provision of the new rules
makes the judges responsible for checking
the condition of walking horses before pin-
ning the championship ribbons. Any evi-
dence of chains or blisters will penalize the
horse, and horses that show any open marks
or blisters will be disqualiﬁed. This inspec-
tion is mandatory in championship classes.
However, if there is any suspicion of viola-
tion in earlier classes, the judge may inspect
the horse.

Identical resolutions have also been passed
by two promoters of the walking horse class:
the Tennessee Walking Horse Breeders As-
sociation and the American Walking Horse
Association, Inc.

H. Karl Yenser, president of the Ameri-
can Walking Horse Association, wrote the
ASPCA: “I will be quite frank in saying
that the new rules are not as stringent as
I would like to see them. I do feel that the
new rules are at least a step in the right
direction. It is unfortunate that the ASPCA
is not a national organization for we could
certainly use your organization to aid us in
our campaign to eliminate the practices
which are abhorrent to any true lover of
horses.”

19

 




PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

 

 

 

AN

CAT BOX LITTER

 

IMAL PHOTOGRAPHERS

 

PORTRAITS OF PETS
TAKEN AT HOME
IN COLOR OR
BLACK AND WHITE

BY ALEX

MURRAY HILL 7-4700
ANYTIME

 

 

 

 

 

KATGO “"5“ F0“
CAT BOXES

Has the added instant deodorizer

Pleasant CEDAR aroma. Dries instantly

—no unpleasant odor.

FLUSHES AWAY—no disposal problem.

At all leading pet and department stores.

NATIONAL DISPLAY MATERIALS

 

 

BROOKLYN II. N. Y. EV 8-7510

A Dog’s Life Can Be Beautiful . . . (A Cat’s Too)
with VlT-A-BlTS :43; ﬁg

Once-a-day multi vitamin, min- a.
eral and anti-biotic tablets
specifically designed for pets . . .
for a stronger, healthier, better look-
ing animal. Prolong lifespan, make
for lively, cheerful companions. Give
as extra tidbits, or mix with regular
food. Contain vitamin 312, Niacm, Thiamin, Wheat Germ
Oil, Riboflavin and other health elements . . . certified
to meet same standards prescribed by government for
humans. Start pet on VlT-A-BITS and you will soon note
Sllklel' coat, brighter e es, happier behavior!
A full 3 months suppy-BO VlT-A-BITS—$2.98 ppd.
(2 Jars — $5.50 ppd.)
Send Check, Money Order. If C.().D., fees extra.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE!

scorr MITCHELL HOUSE, Inc. 415 SEPErﬁlfiway

Yon ers, N. Y

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP.

Importers and Distributors

 

 

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21. N. Y.
GLenmore 5-2719

 

 

TRO

PICAL FISH

A must for
Aquarium
Enthusiasts!

ALL NEW
IN COLOR!

Golden Anniversary

TROPICAL FISH HANDBOOK CATALOG

The most complete selection of tropical fish, beauti-
fully illustrated in natural colors. This 60-page hand-
book is an encyclopedia of tropical fish. breeding.
care, do-it-yourself, etc., etc. Only 50¢

AQUARIUM STOCK COMPANY, INC.

 

 

31 Warren St.. N. Y. 7. N. Y

 

 

22

 

DOG KENNELS

 

CH. MAXIMIAN VON GROSSLAND
AND HIS SIRE AT STUD
CH. OUESTOR MAXIMIAM V GROSSLAND
T

TEMPERAMENT! TYPE! TRAINABILITY!

   

tion stock available.
Temperament guaranteed.
GROSSLAND KENNELS, Reg.
- ..... James E. Grosselin
Oran

 

 

Tel. Closter 5-1768

U.D. .
0 BEAUTIFUL PUPPIES and ADULT founda-

gem; g Road, Old Tappan, R.D. 1, Westwood, N. I.

 

 

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and Importers
o

FINEST TYPES OF SKYE TERRIERS ALSO TOY POODLES
AND SILKY TERRIERS
Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl, Jr. John J. Keyes
Owner Manager
Ridgefield, Conn. ldlewood 8-3400
Walter 0. Foster, handler

 

 

 

 

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY
Good Bone Structure, Good Temperament, Con-
formity and Coat, for Show or Obedience.
Boarding and Training.
WILLANA-HENKEL KENNELS

Boardman, New Milford, Conn. Route 7

 

 

 

 

DOG TRAINING

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING — TRIMMING — SUPPLIES

BOARDING
New York Office Conn. Office
449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING. CONN.
TRafalgar 6-24l7 WEbster 8-2l24

 

 

 

PET SUPPLIES

 

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TlCKS. MlTES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M l T - E - K I L
HlNTON & 00.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY

 

 

 

TROPICAL FISH FOOD

 

PROTECT THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
OF YOUR PETS WITH
LONGLIFE®

AQUARIUM FISH FOODS AND REMEDIES

Longlife Fish Food Products
707 New York Ave. Union City, N. J.

 

 

 

 




 

help the
SPCA

find us a

Last year the ASPCA Adoption Service
found homes for 199039 homeless

and kittens. This record ﬁgure is triple
the number adopted ten years ago.

We hope to keep up this {good work—
and will—as long as you continue to
contribute to

THE ASPCA ADOPTION SERVICE

 




