 

 

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

'7?

 

 

 

   
   

J
)j

 

The Bears’ Bath-tub

MABEL OLDMAN

EVERAL years ago someone threw away a portable zinc
S bath-tub when leaving Giant Forest, Sequoia National
Park, California. The tub was rescued fro-m the dump and
taken to the bear feeding—place by the keeper, Ed. Metzgar, and
filled with water.

The bears enjoved their baths very much on hot days and
their antics amused the hundreds of visitors immensely. Later
the National Park Service built a large sunken cement pool for
them, hauling water in a tank half a mile to fill it every day.

Forty or fifty bears come in from the woods at feeding time
to eat scraps from garbage collected through camp and hotel
grounds. Seats are provided for visitors and at times in the
afternoon over a thousand persons are watching the bears eat
or bathe. A ranger-naturalist gives a very instructive and en-
tertaining talk about California brown bears and their habits.

The Scrambled Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HE keeper of the zoo decided it was time to put new
names on the bird—cages, so he got some of those gold
letters that you stick on, and told the janitor to ﬁx them to
the cages. Now the janitor couldn’t read, so he got a friend
to pick out the letters for him and lay the names on a board
in the same order in which the cages came. But a mischiev-
ous monkey got loose and jumbled the letters of each name,
though fortunately he didn’t get the name-groups mixed with
each other. Anyway, the janitor came back and proceeded to
letter the cages, and here are the names he put on them.
Can you unscramble the letters and tell the names of the
birds?

ONE PIG ROUGES GREAT DRIP
TEA LEG GUN PINE NICE LAP

IN LENT GAS BROKE HEAT SNAP
GIRLS TAN AIM PEG OMAR WALKED
IS TORCH RAIN CLAD ROAST SLAB

Correct answers will be given on Children’s Page next
month.

 

If I can stop one heart from breaking,
I shall not live in vain;
If I can ease one life the aching,
Or cool one pain,
Or help one fainting robin
Unto his nest again,
I shall not live in vain.
EMILY DICKINSON

Taming and Photographing Gophers
LE S TAYLOR

was working in a gold mine that is isolated in the mountains
down in the southern part of Montana where there is very
little recreation. It was in the spring of the year, and I hardly
knew what to do to pass the time away when I saw a half
starved gopher come out of a hole in the ground after many
months of hibernating.

The first thing I thought of when I saw this pathetic ani-
mal was to tame and photograph it. To tame a gopher in the
spring is easy, for their staple diet consists of weeds and grass,
and in the spring there are very few spears of green grass for
them to eat. After watching them searching for something
to eat I felt sorry for them and started to feed them table
scraps which they relished as they came back for more.

In about three weeks, the gophers were eating out of my
hands, and would sit on my feet. I thought I had them tame
enough to photograph, but when I brought the camera out to
their feeding-ground
they got scared and
ran away from it as
if it were their enemy.

To get the gophers
accustomed to the
camera was a difﬁcult
task which required
ever so much time
and patience, but I
can truthfully say
that as long as I had
the camera around
them there was only
one time that one of
them acted natural.
and that was when a
gopher jumped up on
a log and stood
straight as a soldier
with his front feet
doubled up in front
of him.

, This pose is where
he got his nickname
in the western states
as a “picket pin,” for
at a distance he re-
sembles a piCket pin.

 

THE “PICKET PIN” POSE OF ONE
OF THE GOPHERS

Answers to “Jumbled Animals” puzzle last month: Ele-
phant, Kittens, Tapir, Chipmunk, Sea-lion, Rhinoceros, Por-
cupine, Leviathan, Marten, Antelope, Coyote, Leopard.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1935

Banqueting the Birds

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

IRDS do not migrate so much on ac-
B count of cold as because of the les-
sened food supply. Especially is this the
case with insectivorous birds. If food is
offered to them early, more will remain
through the winter; but after they have
once left for warmer regions none will re-
turn until spring.

Often neighborhoods only a mile or two
apart and with practically the same en-
vironment show a great difference in their
bird population. Gunners have something
to do with driving them away, and farms
which have been closed to sportsmen for
years are the most favored. We have more
than once heard hunters comment on how
the game when hard pressed knew to take
refuge in “Putnam’s woods,” closed against.
hunting for more than half a century. And
it is true that both birds and animals soon
learn the havens of safety.

There are numerous ways to attract
birds in winter. One of the simplest is to
tie suet and berries to the branches of
trees, none being better for this than the
Norway spruce. Its spiny leaves are not
inviting to cats and the evergreen foliage
is a good shelter from storm. Another sim—
ple method is to place a long perch across
a living-room windOw a few inches be-
low the top. This will be safe from cats
and in plain view so that the bird maneu-
vers may be enjoyed by the family. By
lowering the window from the top the suet
can easily be renewed without going out
into the snow. Suspend pieces as large as
the fist just above the perch; and be sure
that it is real suet instead of the half gris-
tle sometimes offered as such. The birds
will soon find it, and the news spreads in
birdland like gossip in a country town. In
our own experience there is scarcely a mo-
ment during the day when there is not a
tap-tap announcing the presence of some
bird nibbling the suet.

There is no substitute for insect life
better than suet, though many other things
may be added for variety. Some prefer to
melt the fat, stirring in millet, hemp, dried
ground meat scraps, bread crumbs, sunflow-
er seeds, nut meats, and wild berries of
many sorts. None of these are more ac—
ceptable than elderberries, though shad
dogwood, mountain ash, wild cherry, bitter—
sweet, black alder, and many others are
greedily devoured. Let this get very cold
to insure firmness. If preferred it may be
poured into pans of convenient size.

For the grain lovers, as the cardinal,
junco, and various sparrows, a tray is eas-
ily made from a wide board two or three
feet long with strips of lath nailed along
the sides to prevent the grain. from spill-
ing. A food hopper similar to that used for
poultry is another convenience. These
should be on poles away from cats, and a
roof for shelter will protect both birds and
food from snow. Trial and observation will
suggest the best methods for your own use;
and while some elaborate ones have advan—
tages, much can be done in a very simple
Way.

For the bobwhite or quail and ring-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

necked pheasant grain may be scattered in
one corner of the yard, the snow having
been first tramped down rather than re-
moved. Scatter fresh grain in the same
place at practically the same time daily, and
the birds will learn to associate your coming
with good things, thereby gaining confi—
dence in your friendship. True, at times
the grain may soon be covered with snow;
but it will eventually all be garnered, and
the pleasure of seeing how the bobwhites
congregate in a circle for a nap after feast—
ing is worth the trouble. Note that the for—
mation is always with heads out, ready to
scatter in all directions if disturbed; also
that the last one or two back into the circle.

For the bird lovers, (and all who follow
their movements will eventually become
such) these bird banquets will have an in—
creased fascination. There are so many
more kinds in your own vicinity than you
ever realized. The table manners of the
different species are as interesting as var—
ied. The tiny Chickadee leaves the feeding-
perch for a near-by tree as soon as the
sharp-billed nuthatch appears. The latter
gives way to the downy or hairy wood—
pecker. This in turn retreats for the jay,
which gobbles up the food so fast that it
seems as if nothing would be left for the
rest. Even the cardinal and its mate show
a respectful deference for each other. And
among all there is always a quiet yielding
of place, never a suggestion of a scrap or
quarrel!

Shares

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Of every field of grain I plant
The birds may have their share,
And mice and moles may have their bit,
For I shall never care.

Let rabbits come, and tell the squirrels
I will not point a gun;

For all the grain in all the world
I’d never spoil their fun.

I plant my fields on shares each year,
The sun and rain are free;

And all the hungry birds and beasts
May share alike with me.

Page 167 it

Praise for the Starling

HE aggressive European starling which n,

is frowned upon in the United States
justifies its existence nowadays by the fact
that it is a first—class fighter against the
destructive Japanese beetle, says a bulletin
from the Biological Survey, United States
Department of Agriculture.

Food—habit experts of the bureau have
found this bird one of the most effective
enemies of the Oriental pest of early ripen-
ing fruit, corn and truck crops. In one 10—
cality fourteen out of twenty-three starlings
collected had fed on Japanese beetles. In
some instances, nearly all the birds’ food
was from this source. In certain limited
localities starlings are known to have re-
duced the population of grubs of the beetle
from 100 per square foot to five or six.

The starling, however, says the Biological
Survey, is only one of seventeen bird species
in whose stomachs Japanese beetles are
found. The other birds are the ring—necked
pheasant, bobwhite, eastern kingbird, crest-
ed flycatcher, common crow, catbird, brown
thrasher, robin, wood thrush, English spar—
row, meadowlark, red—winged blackbird,
purple grackle, cardinal, vesper sparrow
and song sparrow.

G. M. Haushalter of Wiscasset, Me., writ—
ing to the New York Times, tells his expe-
rience with starlings: “Believing that the
starling is unjustly condemned, I am observ—
ing his habits. Our birds have no fear of
the starling. There are more young birds
on our lawn this year than formerly. This
acquits the starling of murder. Since the
invasion of the gypsy moth I have not seen
a native bird eat one nor destroy a cocoon
or caterpillar. Starlings not only catch
moths on the wing but hunt cocoons under
our fence rail. The starlings, therefore,
should be acquitted of all unproved charges
and given legal protection.”

New Blotters Available

Write for free sample of the new blot-
ters, printed with “Be Kind to Animals
Week” cut and giving the dates of Be Kind
to Animals Week and Humane Sunday for
1986. Assorted colors, price 50 cents per
100. American Humane Education Society,
Boston.

 

THE GOOSE GIRL IN A BELGIAN VILLAGE

 

 

 




‘7‘".

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 191

 

_ Dec. 1935

  

 

A Dog’s Letter to Santa Claus

CARROLL VAN COURT

l\\\\\\\\\““‘ , “Willy/W
/7//

Dear Santa Claus, I’m writing you,
(No doubt you are surprised;)
Because I heard no letter from
A youngster is despised.

I heard a boy across the street,
When talking with his friend,

Remark that Santa Claus is glad
To read what youngsters send.

$
.. \\\\\\\\\\I

 

And since I am but just a pup,
And Clhristmas time is near;

I’m writing here and now to you,—
My plea I hope you’ll hear:

For Christmas won’t you bring to me,
If you have time to find,

A master honest, fair, and true,
And one who’ll treat me kind?

I have no stocking to hang up,
But you will understand;

Just find a master with a heart,
Where love is in command.

Missing “Animal” Words
ALFRED I. TOOKE

AVE you ever noticed that the names of several animals

are used as ordinary words in regular conversation

quite often. In the following sentences the “animal” words

have been left out and dashes put in their places — - - one dash

for each letter in the missing word, which may help you to
guess them.

1. For ballast, the vessel carried several tons of - - - iron.
2. Our model yacht turned ------ when we tried to sail it.
3. We added a keel, and then it would not ----- Without
a helm.
4. We got home late because we stopped to watch a ------
engine.
5. The ----- that fasten my new pajama coat are very
ornamental.
6. If you - - - - your food like that you will get indigestion.
7. I cannot - - - - to touch my aching tooth.
8 “You can’t - - — me with your bullying,” the accused man
said.
9. “I won’t be made the- — - -for a crime I did not commit.”
10. “You had better hire a detective to ------ out the true
criminal.”
11. “Then he can - - - the man’s footsteps to find Where the

loot is hidden.”

12. Let’s get down to work, fellows, and no more ------
business.

13. When driving a car, consider the other fellow and do not
- - - the road.

Correct answers will be given on Children’s Page next month.

    
  

  
 
  
    

  
 

ll '
, Ill “’3:
willie:

“mum l 2
Ha»
13‘7”

 

       
  

  
 

  

l
\mml

 

“Billy White,” a School Pet

VIVIAN IRENE ROSS

“NSIDE a snug stable in the Orchard School grounds, Indi-
anapolis, Indiana, lives “Billy White,” the pet goat of the
third grade girls and boys. The children saw Billy last year
on their visit to a goat farm, and they were so impressed with
his size and appearance that they decided at once he must be
their pet. They remodeled a playhouse, working busily with
hammers and saws to make a manger, feed-box, hayloft, and
even a wire-fenced corral.

The goat took his small owners riding in a little sulky and
on his back. He even knew a trick or two, such as “shaking
hands” when he felt particularly companionable. Usually he
displayed a well-mannered fondness for good food, although he
lapsed occasionally, eating his crepe paper decorations when on
parade, and another time having a stolen dessert of tempting
violets fro-m a flower box.

But such happenings furnished subjects for stories, verse
and news items, so Billy White was really helping the children
to spell, read, and write. He helped them in arithmetic, too.
When gift foods ran low, the girls and boys opened a candy
shOp once a week at recess time. With the assistance of their
teacher, Mrs. Mabel Culmer, they selected simple recipes,
bought materials, made the candy and sold it. They even
counted change and figured profits. Doing arithmetic? Of
course not! Just shop—keeping to buy Billy White food.

By invitation Billy White spent the summer vacation at a
day camp for girls and boys near the city, but when school
opened he was waiting in his corral to say “Good morning” to
his friends, with a nice bunch of carrots within graceful
stretching distance.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 144

On to Washington

American Humane Association Offers Un-
usual Program, Sept. 30— Oct. 3, 1935

UST twenty-five years ago the Amer—
J] ican Humane Association held a mem—
orable international convention at Wash—
ington, D. C., marked by the attendance of
many foreign delegates. This year, begin-
ning Monday, September 30, and continu-
ing through Thursday, October 3, the
annual meeting will be held again in Wash—
ington, with headquarters at the Mayflower
Hotel, where the sessions will be in the
Chinese room. Among outstanding partic—
ipants are Mrs. C. Rowland Johns of Lon—
don, England, who will speak on “Child
Welfare in England Today,” at the Tuesday
morning session. The remainder of Tues-
day forenoon and both sessions Monday will
be devoted to work for children, with ad-
dresses on a variety of topics by experts
from Boston, Buffalo, Rochester, Brooklyn
and Washington, D. C.

Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons and
Monday evening will be left free for sight—
seeing and informal group gatherings. Wed—
nesday morning and both sessions Thursday
will be devoted to work for animals. M.
W. Skipper of Baltimore, Frank B. Ruther—
ford of Philadelphia, W. J. Dethloff of Mil—-
waukee, and J. R. Mohler, chief of the Bu—
reau of Animal Industry, Washington, will
speak on Wednesday, the last-named dis—
cussing “Federal Influence in Humane
Treatment of Livestock.” Wednesday even-
ing will be devoted to an A. B. C. session,
with Mrs. Charles M. Kindel, J r., of Grand
Rapids, Mich., in the chair, when opportu—
nity will be given for informal discussions
on subjects to be presented by delegates.

Thursday morning Mr. C. Rowland Johns,
secretary, National Canine Defence League,
London, will speak on “Telling the People
How to Keep Dogs”; and there will also be
addresses by Wm. F. H. Wentzel of Pitts-
burgh, Mrs. Edwin 0. Lewis of Philadel-
phia, and Seymour Carroll of Columbia, S.
C., field representative of the American
Humane Education Society. At the final
session, Thursday afternoon, there will be
talks by Matthew McCurrie of San Fran-
cisco; John Collier, Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, Washington; and Charles A. Wil-
liams, Monte Carlo, Monaco, secretary of
American Fondouk Maintenance Committee.
Miss E. Maud Phillips of the Animal Res-
cue League, Boston, will again present her
popular marionettes.

The annual banquet will take place
Tuesday evening with C01. E. K. Coulter
of New York City as toastmaster. Former

 

OUR DUMB ANIJALS

Governor A. E. Eberhart of Minnesota,
now of the Federal Housing Administra-
tion; Miss Katherine F. Lenroot, chief of
the Children’s Bureau, U. S. Dept. of La-
bor; Mrs. Frances Hawks Cameron Burnett
of Washington; Capt. Fergus MacCunn,
chief secretary of the Royal S. P. C. A.,
London; and Judge Frank L. Baldwin of
Youngstown, 0., will be the principal
speakers.

The entire program is under the direction
of President Sydney H. Coleman of the As—
sociation, whose annual address at the open-
ing session will summarize humane activi-
ties and present conditions as they exist
today.

Ventriloquist Birds

MORRIS SALKIND

MONG all the accomplishments of the

feathered tribes their art of ventrilo—

un

learned the trick of making their voices

heard from a different part of the forest
than they are in.

In the South the chief ventriloquists are
the rain crows. They use their powers to
good purpose. Whenever anyone approaches
their nests they make their voices ring out.
The hoarse croakings appear to be coming
from the opposite direction and lead the
curious one away. Thus the nest is safe-
guarded.

The corncrake is another specialist at
this game of leading away unwanted vis—
itors. Should anyone come too close he
causes a “crake, crake, crake” to be heard
from an entirely different place. The noise
rises and falls and echoes through the
woods.

Perhaps the ablest of all the ventrilo-
quists amongst the birds is the mocking-
bird. The imitations of other birds and of
many different sounds is only comparable
with its ability to throw its voice. It can
make its voice ring from any corner of the
room that it may be in, or, if in the forest,
it can make the trees resound with calls of
birds that come from all about.

The bell—bird of South America has well—
earned its name. It produces a bell-like
sound that can be heard for great distances.
At regular intervals the bird reproduces the
clear ringing of the bell. Distant tinkles
of a bell may be produced by a bird that
is standing above one’s head hidden by the
protective branches.

It is said that none of these birds could be
made to perform upon a stage. They could,
especially the mocking-bird, excel the best
performers of the art of ventriloquy.

 

to Animals “for the use of the

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”:
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.
Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

Hospital” as the Hos 'tal is not incor orated but '3 th
property of that Society and is conducted by it. p1 p 1 e

that it is the second

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Preventio f '
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of. . .n. .0 . Cruelty if). did??? .(or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

is most amazing. Numerous birds have '

Sept. 1935
Cup Awarded by S. P. C. A.

Mrs. Dibble Receives Recognition for Driv-
ing Undocked Horses

RS. Florence F. Dibble, famous horse-

woman of “Old Town Hill,” Newbury,
Mass., who drove a coach with four hand-
some horses in front of the Rockingham
grandstand at Salem, N. H., on August 8,
was presented with a silver cup by the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., in recognition of
her custom of always exhibiting horses with
natural tails, instead of those with docked
or set-up tails.

In the absence of President Francis H.
Rowley of the Society the presentation was
made by Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Mrs. Dibble’s
team set the record for coaching matched
fours at 2:45%.

The Bull-snake a Benefactor

A few years ago my clover and timothy
meadow was almost ruined by gophers.
These little pests would throw up great
mounds of dirt in the meadow and when I
would come along with the mower the sickle
would clog up in these mounds and could
not cut. I would hire boys to dig out the
gophers but they seldom got one. But the
gophers finally disappeared and after a
time I learned the cause. Big bull-snakes
had become plentiful in the meadow and
they destroyed some of the gophers and
scared others away. While a big bull—snake
is not a pleasant sight to be surprised by,
they are far less of a menace than gophers.
Also the snakes destroy rats and mice and
none of these small pests will stay in fields
where the bull-snake lives. This species does
not climb trees so it cannot be much of a

menace to bird life. WILLIS MEHANNA

“Hundreds of millions of dollars are
spent annually on war materials. In 1930
the total cost of maintaining the armies
and navies of the world amounted to $4,-
500,000,000, a large proportion of which
was used for the purchase or manufacture
of armaments. The Editorial Research Re-
ports for June 1, 1934, said: ‘World arm-
ament expenditures were $6,000,000,000 in
1931 and have probably increased since. ’ ”

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

Postage free to any part of

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SO IETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P C X.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
11:. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
os on. ' '

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston. .

 

:2
5"

 




 

 

 

 

Page 168

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood _Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.
Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL. Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
slx lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The San Francisco S. P. C. A.

HE rapid growth of the San Francisco

S. P. C. A. during recent years re—
flects great credit both upon the manage-
ment and the Secretary, Mr. McCurrie. The
annual report stands for a year of unusu—
ally fine service. Since its Clinic was
opened in 1924 it has given free service to
13,646 animals. The western coast has to
deal with many a cruelty that is unknown

here in the East. For example, we quote
this: i

“A Spanish sport “saco el gallo” in which
a live rooster is buried with his head above
ground for horsemen on a gallop to pull
his head off was prevented in San Benito
County by officers of the Society.

“A shipment of 168 horses en route from
Mexico to Petaluma was unloaded at San
Francisco to comply with the Federal Law.
Forty horses were down in the cars, live
ones being trampled by the others. The
strongest horses were able to proceed after
resting 24 hours but 15 of the weaker horses
were killed. The officer followed the ship—
ment to Petaluma. No one was in charge
of the shipment and no arrest could be made
on account of failure to place responsibility.
The Bureau of Animal Industry, United
States Department of Agriculture, was ap—
pealed to and started an investigation.”

An S. P. C. A. in China

Correspondence with the S. P. C. A. in
Shanghai, China, reveals most excellent
work done by this Society in a land where
no humane legislation for the protection
of animals exists. This organization has
even compelled the Jewish slaughterers of
food animals to import a Weinberg Pen
for use in killing cattle. The beef animals
can no longer be jacked from the floor and
thrown but must be driven into this pen
which revolves until the animal is in a po-
sition to have the throat opened with the
knife. While the Society cannot compel
the stunning of the animal before the use
of the knife, it does save it from the cruelty
of the casting act. We do not know of a
humane society in this country that has
succeeded in compelling the use of the
Weinberg Pen.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Cr1t1c1$m

N the September issue of this magazine
1] we wrote a brief editorial wholly op-
posed, we thought, to the freezing of help-
less monkeys to prove that certain malig-
nant organisms and dead tissues could be
killed by freezing. We said that from the
research point of View we were not com-
petent to judge of the necessity of freezing
these monkeys to prove that such organ-
isms could be killed by such a method. We
also said that the whole profession to which
this Russian experimenter belonged would
save itself much bitter criticism if it would
keep reporters out of its laboratories and
the story of its deeds from the public.
Some of our readers seem to have thought
we approved of such experiments. Here
is our reply to the letters received:

Mr. Richardson has just handed me your
letter with regard to the article in OUR
DUMB ANIMALS to which you take ex-
ception. You can take no more hostile ex~
ception than I have taken toward that
whole wretched business. I wrote the ar-
ticle, as I write very much of everything
else where the writer’s name is not given.
I took it for granted that I would be un—
derstood as condemning the whole prac-
tice in every sense, and thought the reader
would appreciate what lay concealed behind
what I really said. Of course, from the
point of View of research I could not tell
whether if you wanted to freeze malig—
nant germs it would. be necessary to freeze
an animal, but could I ever imagine that
anybody would think that the President of
a Humane Society would deem it necessary
to freeze an animal for any purpose?

Now as to the concluding paragraph, you
must know as well as I that many of the
charges made against vivisection are exag—
gerated. In that sense it may be said that
any criticism of them may be justified or
unjustified. No matter how much one
may disagree with any practice which to
him seems in any way evil or unjustified,
he certainly has no right to be unjust or
unfair in his criticism.

I felt perfectly justified in saying that
if a vivisector was to carry on his work
he would save himself a lot of criticism by
not publishing to the world all he had done.
If that is in any sense a justification of
his work, I cannot so understand it. I
meant just what I said. Why should med—
ical experts in this country increase the
hostility that is aroused against them by
telling so repeatedly to the public the
things that they must know will antagon—
ize the public. It seems bad enough for a
man to believe he is justified in doing what
to many seems a cruel thing without hav-
ing to notify the public of it.

The latest information regarding this so-
called doctor who claimed to have frozen a
monkey and then restored it to life shows
him evidently more or less of a fraud. He
has been arrested twice, and so far as we
can learn is repudiated by the entire Med-
ical Profession.

Very truly yours,
FRANCIS H. ROWLEY,
, , President

In making your will, remember the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, Boston.

Nov. 1935

George Arliss Again

NCE more, in a letter to the London

Times, this distinguished actor and
lover of animals writes of the cruelties in—
volved in the production of many moving
pictures. He says:

“In my opinion there is much useless and
preventable cruelty in many films in which
animals appear. The slogan in film pro-
ducing is “any sacrifice for the good of the
picture.” Many human beings suffer con-
siderably for the good of the film—they
suffer fatigue, they suffer pain, and they
endure considerable hardship, in order that
the picture may be a success. But the hu-
man being is a free agent, and has the op—
tion of refusing to undergo this suffering,
so that this cannot be used as an argument
in favor of allowing animals to suffer
equally, and, in my opinion, there should be
the sternest legislation against any kind of
cruelty to animals in films.”

“Believe me to remain yours very truly,”

Replying to Mr. Arliss’ letter to The
Times, Mr. Alexander Korda, the Chair—
man of London Film Productions, asserted
that Mr. Arliss’ statements were far from
the facts, that in his long experience he had
never seen any such evidences of cruelty.
To this Colonel James L. Sleeman replies
with the following:

“Sir,—As one experienced in big game
life I should like to know whether Mr.
Alexander Korda seriously suggests that
the following incidents which I have seen
in big game films were not cruel to the
wretched animals compelled to play such
detestable parts:—

(I.) Hippopotami driven over a high
cliff. (II.) A wretched wart hog compelled
to be seized by a presumably starving lion.
( III.) A tiger compelled (by means un—
known) to be mauled by a crocodile and
enveloped by a python. (IV.) Exhausted
and rare wild game pursued by motorcars
and aeroplanes. (V.) Caged wild animals
terrified by fire.

Will Rogers

We have just received from James H.
Cruikshank of New York, a well—known
lover of animals, a letter to him from Will
Rogers, which reads as follows:

“That’s a lot of bunk. I know no more
about that article or the source of it than
you do, and you will do me a favor by deny-
ing it in any paper that is confined to those
things. Miss Kate Cameron of the News
evidently wanted to fill up her column, and
me studying bull—fights was certainly an
original idea. I can’t even stand a prize
fight. I love Mexico, and the Mexicans,
and you would be surprised the things
there to enjoy besides bull—fights.”

No one can imagine that fine, kindly
soul taking any pleasure either in bull-
fights or prize fights.

Several veteran humane workers who at-
tended the meeting of the American Hu—
mane Association at Washington in Octo-
ber recalled the memorable convention in
the same city just twenty-five years before.
What strides the anti—cruelty cause, and
particularly humane education, have taken
during this past. quarter of a century!

 




 

 

 

Page 192

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for September, 1935 — 30 Days
0.6

Daily average large animals 4
Forage for same $ 65.83
Daily average dogs 4.8
Forage for same 4.72
Put to sleep 29 15.17
Transportation 13.33
Wages, grooms, etc. 56.07
Resident secretary’s salary 131.93
Superintendent’s salary 82.45
Veterinary’s salary 29.68
Sundries 43.30
$ 442.48

Entries: 17 horses, 13 mules, 48 donkeys.
Exits: 8 horses, 6 mules, 30 donkeys.
Outpatients treated: 40 horses, 39 mules, 40 don-

keys, 37 dogs.
SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometres trav-
eled, 126; cases investigated, 287; animals seen,

6,353; animals treated, 1,443; pack-saddles (infected)
destroyed, 18; animals transferred to Fondouk Ameri-
cain, 32.

JUST TWO DAYS’ WORK

Monday, 23rd: Beginning work at 7:30 am. Wrote
to the Commissariat to advise M. Bounia that his ani—
mals are in a fair way of cure and can be returned
to him by Sunday. Wrote to Institut Pasteur Casa-
blanca asking to send us six ampoula of serum an-
titetanique. Usual work of treating animals.

Made my inspection at Bab Jedid and stayed there
from 2.30 to 5 o’clock. I was able to inspect many
animals, ordering every driver to take off the pack-
saddles from their donkeys’ backs, ﬁnding and treat—
ing wounds and sores with Bleu de Methylene, While
ordering others to modify their pack-saddles, and
hospitalized two donkeys, one with wound on the left
side of the back, and other with wounds on the leg
occasioned by needle; and ordered others to bring
their animals to a morning visit of “outpatients,”
a method that I should like increased, as it is a
great help to the donkeys and no cost for us. Yes-
terday at 8 a. m. 7 donkeys were brought in by
their drivers for treatment. Confiscated a number
of needles and threatened the drivers that in case
of “recidive” I should hospitalize one of their don-
keys at the Fondouk. (Each driver drives 4 animals.)
Inspected 88 animals, treated 47, hospitalized 2.

I think the best method to prevent drivers using
needles or goads is to take away one of their don-
keys for some days at the Fondouk. I am happy
to say that some of them ask me to take their don-
keys to the Hospital, but I am obliged sometimes to
refuse (when not a very bad case), as we have today
49 animals in Hospital.

Tuesday, 24th: Beginning work at 7.15 a. m. Sent
to the Service de l’Elevage a donkey suspect of Dour-
ine. Seven donkeys loading stones seen yesterday
and I asked drivers that all become morning out-
patients. Drivers asked us to hospitalize one of
them.

From 2.30 p. m. to 6 Bab Ftouh inspection. In-
spected 28 native fondouks and stables, 268 animals,
treated 95, hospitalized 1 donkey. Inspected stable of
Bel Haj, freight animals at Bab Khoukha and poters.
Returning to the Fondouk at 5:30. .

A SAMPLE WEEK

Horses Illules Donkeys Dogs Totals

Monday 1 1 1 3
Tuesday 1 8 1 10
Wednesday 3 4 4 11
Thursday 3 6 1 10
Friday 3 1 1 5
Saturday 2 1 2 5
12 4 21 7 44

GENERAL SECRETARY’S NOTE: The League
of Nations secretary (English) left here Saturday
and in bidding me good-bye said “That Fondouk
Americain is a surprising and impressive creation.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Christmas Invitation

You are cordially invited to attend
the Annual Fair of the
VVomen’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., at Hotel Vendome, Boston
Wednesday, December 11, 1935

10 a. m., to 5 p. m.

Holiday Articles, Foods, Candies,etc.,

on attractive sales tables

LUNCHEON
BRIDGE
FASHION SHOW
CRYSTAL GAZER
MUSIC

.Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarice, President
General Chairman

Mrs. Harry Cole, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Ave.,
Boston, to whom all contributions of merchan-
dise or cash should be sent.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE CAT IN VERSE, Carolyn Wells
and Louella D. Everett.

One hundred and fifty-seven poems, all
on the cat, are presented in this attractive
volume compiled by two discriminating WO-
men. One of them, Miss Wells, a well known
writer, contributes herself three of the se—
lections. Several of the choices have been
made from the columns of Our Dumb Ani-
mals where our readers will recognize the
work of Louella C. Poole, Margaret E.
Bruner and others. The book is not with—
out a classic touch, as the German Heine,
the French Baudelaire, the English Mat~
thew Arnold, COWper, Gray, Keats, Chris-
tina Rossetti, Shelley, Swift, Swinburne,
and Wordsworth, as well as our own Whit-
tier, are each represented by some gem of
feline verse. The publishers call attention
to the inclusion of “many half-remembered
poems,” such as the anonymous “The Rob-
ber Kitten,” “The Suicidal Cat,” and
“Mother Tabbyskins,” not one of which
could be admitted appropriately to any an-
thology of strictly humane verse. However,
the collection as a whole appears to be well
chosen and one which will appeal strongly
to any lover of cats.

289 pp. $2. Little, Brown, and Company,
Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt ’
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............. y . .ti) Animals (or
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property). ---------

 

 

 

Dec. 1935

THE LIGHT THAT DID NOT FAIL,
Clarence Hawkes.

A new book by Clarence Hawkes, the
blind writer of Hadley, Massachusetts, is
an event to awaken ardent expectations a-
mong his host of readers. But when that
new book tells the magic story of so dra-
matic and useful a life as does “The Light
That Did Not Fail,” the admirers of Mr.
Hawkes will read it with an interest not
second to that found in thrilling fiction.
One is not surprised to find, in this inti-
mate chronicle of a wonder writer, that the
author has been praised by many famous
men and women from Presidents down. And
justly, too, in the opinion of those of us who
have followed Mr. Hawkes in his rapidly
rising literary career. It is not given to
many, though unhandicapped by such phys-
ical disabilities as his, to put out, in one’s
sixty-sixth year, two substantial volumes of
real merit. And Mr. Hawkes is still go—
ing strong. Long life to him, and may
many more volumes be added to the two
score now to his credit! The present book
contains several half-tones of Mr. Hawkes
in various poses.

178 pp. $2.00 Chapman & Grimes, Boston.

ROANY, THE HORSE THAT SMELL-
ED SMOKE, Clarence Hawkes.

This is the second book put out by that
indefatigable writer, Clarence Hawkes, this
fall. From our point of View the best part
of it is the Introduction, which the author
has permitted us to reprint, in part, in an
earlier section of this issue. “Roany” was
born on a Montana ranch, lovingly cared
for by his fearless rider, proved his mettle
at San Juan Hill, was then ridden by a
forest ranger, and finally served as a fire
horse in Helena. The story is told with un—
derstanding, sympathy and love for that
noble animal, the horse. There are numer-
ous illustrations.

251 pp. $1.00. Milton Bradley C0., Spring~
field, Mass.

 

 

NEW HUMANE CALENDAR
FOR 1936

Colored picture, “Green Pastures,” showing
cows in field. Humane hints on leaves of pad.

Price, 20 cents per single copy, two for 35
cents; $1.80 per dozen, postpaid to any ad-
dress. Special rates to Societies with name and
list of ofﬁcers, for immediate orders only. Ad-
dress, AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of”
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood.

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of‘
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two

Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00'

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00'
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLL-ARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180'l
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

I. III.IIIII|IIIIII.II I II‘II II

 

 

 

 

N SOCIETY

ETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

R
E
B
O
T
C
0

AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATIO

THE MASSACHUS
PREVENTION OF

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1935

.\

or?”

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁce-rs
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAs-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston -—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary— MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary -—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRs. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers. . 13,308
Cases investigated . . ............. 501
Animals examined ............... 11,715

Animals placed in homes .......... 113
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 37
Number of prosecutions ........... 3
Horses taken from work .......... 15
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 44

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,914
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 67,915
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep. . ............ . ..... 13

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the Wills of Mary L. Crawford
of Boston, and Mrs. Caroline E. Littlefield

Of Worcester.
October 8, 1935.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 LongWOOd Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oeomwm
bownmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 790 Cases 2,549
Dogs 598. Dogs 2,028
Cats 186 Cats 456
Horses 4 Birds 57
Birds 4 Horses 2
Rabbits 2
Goat 1
Squirrel 1
Monkey 1
Rat 1
Operations 7 93

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ........................ 132,532
Dispensary Cases ................ 317,053
Total ........................ 449,585

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ............ 108
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 363
Operations .......................... 139

After the flood Noah told all the ani—
mals to go forth and multiply. They all
left but two snakes, and they were crying.
“What’s the matter?” asked Noah. “You
said,” they replied, “to go forth and multi-
ply, and we can’t because we’re adders.”

—Jr. Christian Endeavor World

 

ONE OF THE FOUR FREE WATER—STA-

TIONS MAINTAINED ON STREETS OF
BOSTON LAST SUMMER

Page 169

Our New Attleboro Branch

E have just opened our new Attle-

boro Branch with small animal shel-
ter and headquarters for our Officer for
Bristol County. The formal and public
Opening will occur the first week in this
month. The house and shelter are located
at the corner of Commonwealth Avenue and
North Main Street. The place is very at-
tractive and just at the edge of the city Of
Attleboro.

The first Of September our representative
for Bristol County, Mr. Winfield E. Dun-
ham, was transferred from New Bedford
to our new quarters at Attleboro, but, alas,
to our deep regret, died very suddenly with-
in a few days of the change. He was a
trusted and faithful Officer. Mr. Charles
E. Brown of Attleboro has been appointed
as his successor. Mr. Brown has long been
a resident of Attleboro, has been a well-
known and highly regarded member Of the
police force, is familiar with the entire
county, is a lover Of animals, and comes
into our service with the best Of testimonies
from a host Of leading residents of the city.

New Fitchburg Branch

Through the interest of Mrs. Grace D.
Proctor, who for years has been actively
engaged in humane work in Fitchburg, and
with the advice Of Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke Of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, Boston, a Fitchburg branch
Of the American Humane Education Socie-
ty was organized at Chamber of Commerce
hall, September 23. Officers elected are:
President, Mrs. Clarke; vice-president, Mrs.
Grace D. Proctor; secretary, Mrs. Bernard
T. Kelly; treasurer, Capt. William K.
Younglove; directors, Bigelow Crocker,
Mrs. Edwin R. Lewis, James M. McNa—
mara and Miss Mary A. Dunn.

On the afternoon of October 4 a lecture
on the proper care of animal pets by Dr.
G. B. Schnelle of the Angell Memorial Hos-
pital, Boston, was given to school children
under the auspices Of the Branch, and In
the evening Morgan Dennis, author
and artist, gave an address illustrated
by his own etchings, and presented a
film showing the training and tricks
Of the dogs used as “eyes” for the
blind, before a large and appreciative
audience in City Hall. On Saturday,
October 5, a tag day was held to raise
funds for promoting a humane edu-
cational campaign in Fitchburg.

Winfield E. Dunham

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. lost,
in the death of Winfield E. Dunham.
which occurred in early September, a
faithful and efficient Officer who had
served it for many years. He had just
changed his headquarters from New
Bedford to Attleboro, where he had
formerly lived for nearly all his life,

to take up his new work there, as is
said elsewhere in this issue of the
magazine. He left a host of friends
and good wishers.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ New England
Trust Company

Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

Main Ofﬁce

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET NO. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

FOR DOGS

a...
. .NI A

TRAcl-ILORE'I'HYLENE c.1'.

WORM CAPSULES

eﬂectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment
Helps keep your dog thrifty! -

For Free Booklet write to Desk N-56 K
Ammal Industry Dept,
PARKE, DAVIS & CO., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

     
    

 
  

     
 

)

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes ................ .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................. 1.00

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, i11us., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs.., Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2 00 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 :50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ ‘:
The Story of Barry . .................. .30 “ ‘

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.g0 per 120

.50 t‘ (‘

Surplus Cats .......................... 0

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............... .00 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper,7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael (Brother of Jerry” .30
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .00

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ............ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

.Friends, 29 pp., paper covers. many

.1llus. . . ............ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ....................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight .......................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3.00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—-Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”
play . . . . .............. 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 p .......................

p . 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. 50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .........

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only .............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .5“0 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less them $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

FILMS ILLUSTRATING KINDNESS TO ANIMALS

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the AMERICAN,HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY some years ago, but still in great demand

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing activities of the Angell Animal HOSpital of the ‘Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses
of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 189 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Two reels, 15 minutes each.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’70

 
 
  
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusnce 0
AND Mencv TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

 
 
  
      

7
$ .
m
9?.

 

Founded by Geo. '1‘. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back c’over. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 161
Number of addresses made, 193

Number of persons in audiences, 22,557

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (01‘)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..................................
Age ..................................

Address ..........

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 1935

New Building of the Anti-Cruelty Society, Chicago

 

HE new structure of the Anti-Cruelty
Society, Chicago will be a combination
Administration Building and Shelter for

animals. The building is 55 feet by 95
feet. It is located at 157-159 West Grand
Avenue. There are alleys on the south
and west sides of the new building and
there will be a yard 42 feet by 100 feet on
the east which will be used for open air
kennels and runways for dogs.

The kennels on lower floor of the build-
ing are 6 feet above the open yard and
therefore not in a basement. Practically all
of this floor is given over to kennels ex—
cepting the rear which is used for a boiler
room. This floor also contains a contagi-
ous ward, kitchen, supply room, grooming
room, and a room for small animals.

The front of the first floor is given over
to a large reception room, general office,
surgical and veterinarian rooms, an X—ray
room, and two offices and conference rooms
and a superintendent’s office. Back of
these quarters is a space 27 feet by 55 feet
to be used as kennels on this first floor,

and back of that is a large six-car garage,
and at one end of this garage there is a
morgue and a lethal room.

The second floor of the building is given
over to a large lecture hall across the front
80 feet wide, and four large offices for com~
mittees and officials.

The building will be faced with Bedford
stone and the street exposed side walls are
of light gray face brick to match the stone.
It will be fireproof throughout and all win—
dows will have steel frames and sash. All
contracts have now been let, and it is ex-
pected the building will be ready for oc-
cupancy about the middle of December.

The work this year is increasing tremen-
dously and greater progress is anticipated
when the new building will permit enlarge—
ment of activities through a much needed
publicity committee. It is hoped also in due
time to establish an efficient humane edu-
cational committee, which is, of course, the
foundation stone of all Anti—Cruelty activ-
ity.

 

A Sermon on the Dog

N the Boston Evening Transcript of

September 18, Mr. Frank T. Eskrigge
has an article, the appeal of which every
dog lover must feel. He tells us of a move-
ment to have a National Dog Week that
the value of the dog in the home may be
clearly understood and its influence in
shaping character more widely perceived.
We wonder what the average minister will
think of the paragraphs we quote from Mr.
Eskrigge’s article. We are certain many a
less interesting and spiritually valuable
sermon has been preached than the one
suggested. He writes:

I often think what a wonderful sermon
could be preached by a minister who was
not ashamed to admit he had a liking for
dogs and other animals. A most striking
lesson might be drawn, and while the iron
was hot, kindness to all created things in
the world might be inculcated into youth-
ful minds to such a degree that the cruel-
ties which are practised on dogs, cats and
other pets might be prevented and the
youngsters might receive a training which
would cling to them through their mature

years.

If some courageous minister would an-
nounce that on National Dog Week Sun-
day, he intended to speak on the subject
of dogs and their value to mankind he
might have a larger audience than he had
enjoyed for some time. Wherein does a
dog actually benefit mankind? A fair ques—
tion. No person can own and train a dog
without the exercise of considerable pa—
tience and self-control. He must be patient,
else the high—strung dog goes off at a
tangent. The trainer soon realizes that un—
til he has won the dog’s complete trust and
confidence, and, therefore, his love, he can
never accomplish the fine points of the de-
sired training. And he cannot win the dog’s
love without that love evoking a similar
feeling in his own heart, and he then be—
comes a better man. And so it goes
throughout their entire lives—better dog—
better man—better pair of true friends
brought about by patience and love. Then
a better husband, father, or son, a better
neighbor and citizen. All because a dog’s
love won the heart of a boy. Is it worth a
sermon, my reverend gentlemen whose aim
is to point the way to better things, to a
land where sorrow will be no more?

w ..,, w

 




 

 

 

u U. S.Trade Mark, Registered \

1 ANGELL XN 1868.AND FOR FORTY~ ONE
0- ’

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

—-COW'PER

.9117;

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 70*
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Pubhshed monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts
Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 68

Sir Robert Gower, M. P., London, Eng-
land, and Captain Fergus MacCunn, secre~
tary, Royal S. P. C. A., it is expected, will
attend the Washington meeting of the
American Humane Association.

A visitor to Athens reports that so great
is the menace of rabies in Greece that once
a year the police scatter poisoned bait on
the streets. Alas for the dogs! It is hoped
that by some method of restraint the dis—
ease may ultimately be wiped out.

When one reads of the excellent work of
the S. P. C. A. in Greece, the Government
entrusting to it the collecting and caring
for all stray and lost dogs, his mind goes
far back to that dying dog of Ithaca who
alone among all the servants and relatives
recognized his old master Ulysses.

One of the finest tributes paid to the
greatly loved Will Rogers was in the words,
“He never made anyone unhappy till he
went away.” We have heard nothing of
his relation to animals, but are confident
that in his great heart they found a friend
and protector and that those that were his
own will miss his voice and the touch of
his gentle hand.

Word comes from the State of Washing-
ton that at the Army headquarters two
birds had built a nest in the mouth of a
cannon a few yards from Where the sen—
tries pass back and forth. An order was
given that the birds should not be disturbed
until the eggs were hatched. Surely noth—
ing finer ever came out of the mouth of a
cannon than those young fledglings.

' It is said that before the island of Capri
was made a sanctuary more than 2,000,000
quail were killed on the island and more
than 10,000 “blind singers” were exported
everyr season. Millions of birds have stop-
ped for generations on this island on their
migratory flights from Africa. Money and
men are still needed to protect the birds
from vandals who evade the law.

October, 1935
No Cruelty in Dog Racing ?

HE San Francisco S. P. C. A. has intro-
duced into the State Legislature a bill
to prohibit coursing or killing of hares or
rabbits by dogs and also to prohibit tying
live hares or rabbits to a machine for the
purpose of causing such hares or rabbits to
be pursued by dogs. Unfortunately the bill
was so amended that it only prohibits tying
live rabbits or hares to a machine propelled
by power for the purpose of causing such
animals to be pursued by a dog or dogs.
The bill, as amended, is now law. Yet
why such a law if this abominable cruelty
is not practised in training dogs for dog
racing? Of course you do not see it at the
races. There you are told all is done by
kindness. If Massachusetts doesn’t reverse
its vote on dog racing by the referendum
next year, we shall be greatly surprised. At
one dog race track in this state, at Revere,
the money taken in by the people running
the gambling amounted to $6,127,374, and
this betting was done by 700,000 peOple. One
wonders how many of these night gamblers
will be wanting the city or state to be tak-
ing care of them next winter!

Our Schools and Crime

HE average age of the criminal of the

United States is 23 years. In all the
prisons of the United States the largest age
group is around 19, and the next largest
age group 18.

These words are quoted from reports
made before a Senate Hearing Committee
upon the subject of “Character Education.”
At that hearing Dr. John A. Randan, of
Rochester, New York, regarded as an au-
thority on the subject, said: “The home, the
church and other agencies in contact with
children have a major responsibility for the
character training of youth. Nevertheless,
the public school system is the Only Govern-
ment—supported agency through which de—
ficiencies in the training of children may be
remedied, the public schools must do the job
if character building efforts are to be con—

879
3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

No. 10

ducted and co—ordinated.”

This was always Mr. Angell’s contention
when talking or writing about Humane Ed—
ucation. Of the possible criminals of the
future only a few can be reached in the
home or the church, but, with few excep—
tions, they are in our schools. Years of ex—
perience have taught a great multitude of
teachers that Humane Education in the
schools is a vital factor in character build—
ing. Rarely will you find in our jails or
prisons, either among the young or old, one
who in childhood days was taught to be just
and kind to helpless animals. All prison
records bear out this statement.

Since Mr. Angell founded the American
Humane Education Society there have been
organized, chiefly in the schools of the Uni—
ted States by workers of this Society, 210,—
809 Bands ‘of Mercy with a total member-
ship of between five and six million chil-
dren. Can one estimate what this has meant
for a better citizenship? The Society now
has thirteen paid humane education work-
ers visiting the schools of their ' several
states. In addition, it is one of the Societies
federated with the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion and through that organization, with its
million and a half members, is reaching an-
nually many thousands of parents, teachers
and children. ' ‘

Compulsory Military
Training

A bill is before Congress to amend the
National Defense Act so that “no Reserve
Officers Training Corps unit shall be es-
tablished in any school or college until such
institution shall have satisfied the Secre-
tary of War that the enrollment is elective
and not compulsory.” If you are opposed to
this military training where students are
expelled from our schools and colleges who
have conscientious objections to war and all
it stands for, write to your senator and
representative when Congress assembles
again and ask for a copy of the law and his
attitude toward it.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




“ f vr

w- ., ...

 

Nov. 1935

I Wonder Why?

Only a little, wondering calf,
Here in the crowded car I lie,
With many more on the slippery floor,
All sick, and as sad as I!

The world seemed such a happy place
Till yesterday—all bright and sweet,
With sunny space to roam and race
And green shade from the heat.

And water, fresh and cool and clear,
And friendly hands to pat my head,

And always food, so sweet and good,
And such a soft, dry bed!

There is no water here, nor food!
I called and called—so did they all!
But no one heard—or no one cared——
And now we cannot call.

Only a little, helpless calf,
Here in the crowded car I lie,
With many more on the slippery floor,
And, oh, I wonder why!

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for August, 1935 -—— 31 Days

 

Daily average large animals 36.4
Forage for same $ 76.50
Daily average dogs 6.3
Forage for same 6.48
Put to sleep 24 13.61
Transportation 11.23
Wages, grooms, etc_ 64.11
Resident Secretary’s salary 132.19
Superintendent’s salary 82.62
Veterinary’s salary 29.74
Sundries 59.96
$476.44

Entries: 12 horses, 9 mules, 53 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 10 mules, 33 donkeys.

Out Patients treated, 124: 48 horses, 36 mules, 33
donkeys, 7 dogs.

Superintendent’s Notes: Kilometres traveled. 132;
cases investigated, 318-; pack-saddles destroyed, 9; an-
imals seen, 5,969; animals treated, 1,377 ; animals
transferred to Fondouk American, 34.

Secretary General’s Notes: First ten days reported.
On leave from August 15, for 20 days.

We have room for only the report of one or two
days’ work of the Superintendent at the Fondouk.

Wednesday, 18th: Beginning work at 7:15. A
native of Fes (an exception here as he is a friend
of animals) brings in a donkey which he saw being
ill-treated by its driver. Inspected native fondouks
Fes Jedid and Bab Jiaf from 8 to 10. Sent for the
Veterinary to visit horse of voiture de place No. 13,
horribly burnt at pasterns with hot irons. Vet. or-
dered it to Fondouk at once.

From 2 :30 to 6 p. m., visited 24 fondouks, saw 392
animals, treated 114, visited stable of Marnissi—in«
spected 18 native fondouks and stable in Kasba de
Nouar, saw 302 animals, treated 73. From 6 to 7
p. m. at Fondouk.

Thursday, 19th: Beginning work at 7:30 a. m.
From 7 :30 to 10, first at Souk el Khemis. Remained
half an hour at Bab Mahrouk. Then to Souk e1 Khem-
is, inspected 415 animals, treated 52, hospitalized 4
donkeys. Asked help of Mokhaznis of the Pacha as
a driver refused to give me the needle he had in his
hand. Name of this native has been taken and ad-
dress in case of a second offense.

From 3 to 5 p. m. Inspected all freight animals on
place Baghdadi (Bou Jeloud). Saw 81 animals,
treated 22, hospitalized 1 donkey. Then to Bab
Makina and Bab Segma. Inspected 43 animals,
treated 12, hospitalized 1 donkey. Returning through
Fes Jedid and Bab Jiaf. At 5 visit of Mme. Parlet,
the wife of a military officer who had told me of the
sick animals working at Dar Mahres. She thanked
me very much for having hospitalized two of these
animals and for the work we are doing here since
over 4 years. She said ever since I have seen a great
improvement in the treatment of animals, and she
does not find nearly so many needles as formerly.

Q a
C

An enemy conquered is not subdued, and
will always hate his new master.

GENGHIS KHAN

0 UR» D UMB ANIMALS

Page 171

Federal Influence in the Humane Treatment of
Livestock

Excerpts from address by Dr. JOHN R. MOHLER, Chief, Bureau of Animal Industry, United States Department
of Agriculture, at Convention of the American Humane Association, Washington, D. (3.. October 2, 1935.

PHSHIS branch of the Government deals
with research and regulatory work af-
fecting the health and general welfare

of livestock in the United States. Our aim is

to foster, improve, promote, and protect the
livestock industry of the Nation. The dc-
mestic animals of this country, as most of
you are doubtless aware, greatly outnum—
ber the human population. Cattle, sheep,
swine, and equine stock aggregate normally
about 180,000,000 head and in addition
there are about 400,000,000 domestic fowls.
The Bureau of Animal Industry also deals

shipment. The law requires, in substance,
that animals be unloaded for feed, water,
and rest at intervals of 28 hours. There
are certain exceptions to this law.

This law has been responsible for great
improvement in the care of animals shipped
to the principal livestock markets. The num—
ber of violations is a small fraction of 1
per cent of the total movement of livestock.

I wish to lay stress on the vast amount
of animal suffering that has been and is
now being prevented by the measures de-
scribed thus far. In this motorized age the

 

THE MOVEMENT OF LIVESTOCK FROM PRODUCING AREAS
TO MARKET CENTERS EXCEEDS 200,000 A DAY

to a considerable extent with health prob-
lems affecting several million other an-
imals kept for pets, exhibition, or utility
purposes. Several laws concerning live-
stock have been a blessing to the multitudes
of dumb animals over which man has such
complete dominion.

Livestock Shipping Facilities Improved

Let us consider a few examples. Like
your own association, the Bureau of Ani-
mal Industry has had more than a half
century of experience in the care of ani—
mals. In the 80’s there was considerable
public protest, especially in Great Britain,
concerning the cruel treatment of animals
in trans—Atlantic shipments. Ivestigators
showed that, frequently, vessels unsuited to
the purpose were used, that the feed and
water carried were sometimes inadequate
for the size of livestock shipments, that
many animals died, and others arrived in
a deplorable condition. Under authority
from Congress, the Bureau of Animal In—
dustry set about to require humane and safe
handling of livestock on ocean vessels. An-
imals were soon arriving at foreign desti-
nations in good condition, often with a gain
in weight. The heavy losses in transit
diminished to about a third of 1 per cent
and later to only about a tenth of 1 per
cent. . . .

Several years later Congress applied the
same principle to rail shipments of live—
stock within the United States. Common—
ly known as the 28-hour law, this legisla-
tion had for its chief purpose the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals during interstate

average citizen, especially the city dweller,
sees comparatively few animals of any
kind, even fewer of those raised for food.
Yet, as previously stated, there is a steady
flow of livestock from producing areas to
market centers. The movement exceeds
200,000 a day, day after day, week after
week, month after month, and year after
year. Although you may seldom see this
huge volume of animal traffic, I know that
you, as members and friends of the Ameri-
can Humane Association, are interested in
its management. In a figurative yet accur—
ate sense, Federal inspectors are virtually
the traffic officers of this movement.

The activities I have described thus far
may be considered as examples of direct
and positive Federal influence in the hu—
mane treatment of livestock. . . .

Certain problems have been studied in
detail. The custom of roping and throwing
cattle is rapidly giving way to more general
use of corrals and sorting gates and pens.
The practice of de-horning cattle by knock-
ing off the horns and other crude methods
has been largely replaced by the use of
special instruments used in a humane man-
ner. And even these practices are yielding
to the still more advanced methods of ap-
plying chemicals to prevent horn growth or,
through knowledge of genetics, breeding
cattle that are naturally hornless. Details
of feeding have been approved.

From the foregoing remarks, I trust you
have gained certain definite impressions
concerning the scope of Federal influence in
the humane treatment of livestock. As ex-
pressed through both law enforcement and

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fagsy. M. Wr-..— ‘v Jug—«w... .7

W»:,—=;v=:.r .-——.~;_:- ..

”‘1'; ,Tv—:~_—‘=v.;r,f—vr—

Page 11,8
Song for a New Calf

JUDY VAN DER VEER

It came in the morning, in the newness of
the morning,
And it shivered in the early morning
breeze;
And the meadow larks were singing and
the mocking birds were singing,
And it heard a whispered singing in the
trees.

It came in the morning, in the sweetness of
the morning,
When the mist was hanging low across
the hill,
And it staggered on its feet, on its small
unsteady feet,
And. the mother stood and watched it
and was still.

It came in the morning, in the gladness of
the morning,
With the softness of the morning in its
eye;
And I think the morning loved it and the
trees and birds all loved it,
And the sun shown down to bless it
from the sky.

Performing Animals

T needs imagination to realize that what

we cannot see is there all the same; and
there is need for some awakening of the
public mind to the methods by which ani—
mals are trained to give performances al-
together outside their natural aptitudes. If
once we could be made to understand how
and why the animals do their tricks, only
the most callous among us would remain in—
different. How can we be made to under-
stand?

I do not know. Like the keen huntsman
who is offended by the suggestion that he
is blameworthy, the animal—trainer indig—
nantly denies that he is cruel. But he is
cruel. He does not mean to be cruel. He
thinks he is not cruel. That is a kind of
invincible ignorance; for he is a man with-
out imagination. The only thing to be done,
therefore, is to ask the public if it realizes
how the performances it enjoys are pro-
duced. ‘

Unfortunately, the opponents of cruelty
to animals are too often fanatical. They
spoil a good case, an unanswerable case, by
extravagance. They shout, “You brutes!”
when they should try to explain to the
trainers, with such kindness as they can
muster (for in this they, too, must be ani-
mal-trainers), what is wrong with the
whole business. If they explained, it is
probable that the trainers, poor souls,
would not be able quite to understand; but
at least others, who are not trainers, might
awaken to the fact that unseen and undelib-
erate cruelty is still a cause of indescribable
pain and fear. The slogan, “whatever is
natural is right,” may be questionable, it
is certainly true that whatever is unnatural
is wrong. The performances of animals on
the stage are unnatural. If we all refused
any longer to witness them, they would
cease.

FRANK SWINNERTON in Foreword to
“Heaven’s Rage”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1935

 

IN THE MEADOWS (Le Rolle)

 

Our Hats Off to George
Arliss

N the Film Weekly appeared, August 4,

an interview with Mr. Arliss, the actor.

We reproduce a paragraph or two which
will delight our readers:

Mr. Arliss: I have a definite rule that
animals shall not be introduced in my films.
My reason is, firstly, because I feel that
animals should not be exploited in any way
for our benefit, and, secondly, because I
know that when animals have been used in
films there has always been a certain a-
mount of cruelty. I have frequently cut
from scenarios incidents introducing fights
of birds, monkeys, or dogs, and it has been
my experience that such cuts always im—
proved the play because the incidents were
really irrelevant to the story.

It is difficult to prove the existence of
cruelty to a person who has made up his
mind there is no cruelty. It may be argued,
for example, that the feelings of a horse
are different from a human being. But
how can a human being estimate the feel—
ings of a horse? I do not say that all an—
imal films are cruel, but cruelty cannot be
judged from apparently harmless screen ef—
fects, and as a practical policy, the only
remedy is to stop the use of animals in
films.

I, myself, know many films, especially
wild animal films, which could not have
been produced without considerable cruelty.
It may be taken for granted that it is prac-
tically impossible to get effective screen re-
sults Without considerable cruelty in any
film where animals are largely exploited.

So strongly do I feel on this question that
I have had serious thoughts of abandoning
my career as an actor and going around the
country lecturing against animal pictures.
I have already written strong letters of pro—
test to heads of the film business, and I
have warned them that, if the exhibition
of cruel animal pictures is not stopped,
there will be trouble.

The only practical remedy is to render
such pictures unprofitable to produce by
inciting public opinion against them.

The Black Sheep of Aran

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

ANY people who saw the beautiful

film “The Man of Aran,” shown re-
cently in various parts of the country, be—
came acquainted for the first time with the
Aran Islands, the spot where the picture
showing the natives’ struggle for a living
in a rocky, barren place, was filmed.

The Aran Islands are like the Galapagos
Islands. Everyone has heard of them, but.
few know where they are. They are situ-
ated about thirty miles out from Galway, on
the West Coast of Ireland; three in number.

The first thing the visitor notices on his
trip to Aran are the black sheep, rather
strange to behold, if one has never seen
them before. Browsing about the rock
strewn fields, they present an odd appear—
ance, but somehow fit in well with the wild
and beautiful countryside.

Aran black sheep are inquisitive. They
stop their task of pulling at the green
grasses to stare at you, and they will con-
tinue looking at you as long as you keep
observing them. Of course they are unac-
customed to spectators, as visitors to Aran
are few, and the natives have no time to
stand idly watching sheep.

These black sheep have a saucy appear—
ance, and their black curly wool accentu-
ates their glowing eyes. Sometimes one
finds a flock of white sheep in a field, with
two or three black ones sporting about, and
these look like proverbial black sheep who
have strayed away from their own fold.

The Aran Islanders would be sorely lost
without their sheep, both black and white.
Their fleece provides the clothing that keeps
out the chill wet winds. The women wear
large red woolen skirts of generous pro—
portions that are very picturesque. The
wool is dyed, spun and woven into cloth on
the island. Jerseys and trousers for the
men, who need to be warmly dressed on
their fishing trips, are made from the wool
of the black sheep. Fine warm stockings,
too, are made for everyone from the black
wool.

The supply of animals on the islands is

 

 




 

 

Page 17.?

educational influence I feel that the results
speak largely for themselves. But I want
you to know also that the Bureau of Ani—
mal Industry is more than a regulatory and
scientific organization. . .

In closing, my chief regret is that a cer-
tain degree of animal suffering still exists.
Much more work remains to be done.

For building up a strong local sentiment
for humane work there is particular need
also for the active interest and support of
local officials. By such combined efforts I
am confident that this great altruistic
movement will go forward rapidly, and
make the earth a better place of abode for
both man and beast.

A Snowshoe’s Premises

CORNELIA BENNINGHOFF

ANY persons living in the western
country for years, have told me
they never have had the good fortune to
see a snowshoe rabbit. In summer his color
blends with earth and sagebrush and in
winter he melts into the snowy landscape.
Lately I had a close acquaintance with a
rabbit who seemed as curious about me as
I was about him. At daybreak, one morn—
ing, there was introduced into the usual
noises made by scampering chipmunks, a
sort of rythmic clump-clump of heavy feet
and through the door of my sleeping tent
hopped a large rabbit. He was brown, but
I knew him for a snowshoe by his prepos-
terous feet. He bounced around my bed
several times. Cautiously I raised my head
to watch his antics. The slight movement
attracted his attention. He was not fright-
ened. He stopped and we stared at each
other, eye to eye.

He came about the same time each morn-
ing, always behaving in the same way, but
the high point in our acquaintance was
when he leaped upon my low bed and
bunched himself about a foot from my pil—
low. We gazed at each other, but he out-
stared me and I dozed off. On game pre-
serves where animals are not molested they
show little fear of humans, no doubt be-
lieving them to be just other animals of the
forest. Doubtless the snowshoe thought it
strange that a moose or something should
be sleeping under blankets!

That day I laid a large biscuit on the
floor and afterward each time he came he
ate part of it, turning it around in his
paws like a wheel and nibbling the edges.

Unknowingly, my tent had been pitched
on his private domain for I found several
of his little retreats close by. Sometimes
in the warmest part of the day I found
him in one of his grassy cubbyholes stretch-
ed on his side like a cat, his absurd feet
sprawled comfortably. How he loved the
hot sunshine!

He was very fond of lupine seeds. While
eating, his long silky ears were held closely
together. They much resembled a brown
butterfly at rest. The time of which I write
was the middle of August, but already a
small patch of white showed on the top of
his head between his butterfly ears.

The Annual Fair, Women’s Auxiliary,
M. S. P. C. A., will be held at Hotel Ven-
dome, Boston, Wednesday, Dec. 11, 1935.

OUR DUiMB ANIMALS

 

A CAT OF HOLLAND

 

Cats Wear Bells

In the Chicago suburban village of Lake
Bluff an ancient ordinance is again being
enforced, due to the many complaints that
have been registered by bird lovers that
pet cats are getting fat on feathered meals.
The ordinance provides that all cats run-
ning at large must wear bells so the birds
may have warning of the cat’s presence.
Cat owners may be fined $1 to $25'a day
for failing to see their feline has a tinkle.

—Oar Animals

Charms of Mice

A contributor to the New York Times
calls attention to the following quotation
from “A Hungarian Nabob,” by Maurus
Jokai:

“And here I may say, by the way, that
a mouse is such a nice, pretty little ani-
mal that I cannot conceive why folks
should hold it in such horror. It is very
much the same thing as a squirrel or a
guinea pig, which we keep in our rooms
and pet and play with; nay, it is cleverer
far than they. What a delicate little snout
it has, what sweet little ears, what wee
little pets of feet! And then, its comically
big mustache, and its quick black eyes like
sparkling diamonds! And when it plays.
when it squeaks, when it stands up to beat
the air on its hind legs, it is as clever and
as comely as any other animal.”

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

Nov. 1935

Spirit of Assisi

From Radio Address given over Station KDKA,
Pittsburgh, Pa., October 4, by Sister Fides Shepper-
son, Ph. D., Mount Mercy College.

T ODAY, Oct. 4, is World Day for Ani-
mals—under the patronage of Saint
Francis of Assisi. It is also the Feast Day
of this genial Saint and as such it is com—
memorated by millions of men and women
throughout the world. A saint is honored
on the day of his death rather than on the
day of his birth; it is the end that crowns
the work, not the beginning—for death in
sanctity is birth into Life.

This “little poor man,” as Francis called
himself, died October 4, 1226, more than
seven hundred years ago, yet his spirit lives
today and flourishes. Why?

Francis of Assisi has become a symbol
of joyous goodness; of the primal and eter-
nal charm in living creatures; of the laugh
rippling through nature because of beauty
everywhere and reaching up even to na-
ture’s God. Like the angelic painter, Fra
Angelico, Francis could not see evil. It sim—
ply did not exist for him; at worst it was
just something hideously grotesque, like
those gargoyles grinning on cathedrals, and
at best it was just darkness waiting for
the light. His was an intoxication of
praise because of the goodness and gladness
of the world. All men were his comrades
and friends; and all the birds of the air
and the fishes of the sea, and all the crea-
tures of the field and of the forest were
his little brothers and sisters. The spirit
of Saint Francis of Assisi may be well de-
fined as—deep joy in God because of love
of all God’s world.

The Society of Saint Francis

The hope of those who look for the aboli—
tion of war is in humane education among
the youth of all lands. A fairer deal to-
wards the dumb and the defenseless, a chiv-
alrous recognition of the rightful claims of
those who are not able to enforce their
claims, will ultimately develop the mentali-
ty to which War is not possible.

Mr. William F. H. Wentzel, Director of
Humane Education of Western Pennsyl-
vania, is doing splendid work in our schools,
both public and parochial. Membership
cards in the Society of Saint Francis may
be obtained from him, quite free of charge,
for use in schools, private and public, Sun—
day schools, clubs, and youth organizations
of all kinds. Address: Western Pennsyl-
vania Humane Society, 832 Bigelow Boule-
vard, Pittsburgh.

The object of the Society is, ( 1) to reach
the plastic minds of children and to infuse
therein the spirit of Saint Francis, lover
of all life from highest down to and in-
clusive of the lowest, and (2) the ultimate
aim is to effect the abolition of war by
developing among the youth of all nations
the type of mind to which the physical
brutalities of war are not possible. The
pledge reads simply: “I promise to be
kind to all living creatures.”

“Kindness ennobles, cruelty degrades.
The greatest men and women and the best
Are such as note a little fallen bird.
And, steeping, place it back within its
nest.”

 




 

 

 

 

Junc,1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

  
  

.14‘

AFmﬁg

“ I, ~
,, :J’Kfrﬁ " . a
_ J, ._ _ -.-

     
 
  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

     
   

. ”ll/“T-

' A "Q? 7 ‘ ’
’L'4/KQ Q

Forget-Me-Not Day
CARROLL VAN COURT

My “Scottie” needs no calendar,
He never stops to wait,

To see when there’s a holiday;
He doesn’t watch the date.

He doesn’t wait till
To do a kindly act;

He’ll give me, every day he can,
His courage, love, or tact.

Christmas comes

Forget-me—nots should be his crown,
And he would wear it well;

For many a goodly deed he’s done
For me, that I could tell.

So let’s be kind to dog or horse,
So noble in his giving;

I’m sure his pattern would be quite
A good design for living!

Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

OME animals are very adept at hiding when they want
to, and one is hidden in each of the following sen-
tences. See if you can ﬁnd them all:
. We arranged to go at seven o’clock.
Jim came late, so delayed us.
An Arab bit an egg and a ﬂower came out.
We saw him ﬂick it tenderly and it vanished.
He played at Blind Man’s Buff a long time.
He would say “Under the tap I rinse my hands.”
Then he would put his hand upon yours.
Though blindfolded, he was smart enough to name any-
thing you touched.
I don’t remember whether he wore a new tunic or not.

ponmgxinmgop—a

'9

See next month’s Children’s Page for correct answers.

 

STRANGE COMPANIONS

Cl‘l lLDREN 5 PAGE a ,,
@:;A u/- 7 ‘ _-m »

 

r,
<L ///ln

//

K " “gig-{’74 _; ; . ‘ ‘

ﬂ ;.1\
\\ ; la;

  

 

FRIENDLY GREETINGS

 

Shep Counts the Sheep

MYRON A. PATCH

FARMER friend of ours had a small flock of sheep,
_ eighteen head. And these sheep were the especial
charge of the two small boys of the family. As a matter of
fact the most care they received was that given them by
“Shep,” the Scotch collie pet of the two boys.

The boys would open the gate of the sheep-yard in the
morning, and Shep would take the ﬂock away to. the pasture,
where they would stay till about sundown. The boys never
went after the sheep in the evening, but would tell the dog
“Time to get the sheep, Shep,” when he would go to the pas-
ture, round up the ﬂock and bring them home.

When he got them to the sheep-yard, before he would let
them enter, he would give three short, sharp barks, that the
boys could hear from the house, a hundred yards away.
Then he would let the sheep into the yard, one at a time,
and as each sheep went in through the gate, he would give
one short, sharp bark. The boys at the house would count
the numb-er of times he barked, and know that their sheep
were all there. Then Shep would lay down in the gateway
and wait till the boys came down and fastened the gate for
the night. But one evening Shep had brought up the sheep,
and the boys had counted the signals. One—two—three—and
on, up to eighteen, and then one more—nineteen.

“Ho!” They cried to their mother, “Even Shep makes mis-
takes. Eighteen sheep and he barks nineteen times.”

But when they went down to fasten the gate for the
night, Shep proudly led them into the yard, and there were
the eighteen sheep as usual. But one ewe with a wobbly-
legged lamb, born since morning. The ﬁrst one of the spring
lamb crop, and good and sufﬁcient reason for Shep’s extra
signal.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 150 '

Man’s Oldest Animal Friend

CLARA RADER

T is said that there is a queer link be-
tween man and dog that exists. between
man and no other creature and ’that the
himself by man’s
when or where this
began authorities on
The origin of the

dog voluntarily ranged
side ages ago, but why,
friendly relationship
“dogs are not certain.

 

“MAN’S ALLY, FRIEND AND GUARDIAN”

dog remains hidden, but there is much evi-
dence that he was the helper and compan-
ion of man in prehistoric times.

In China the dog appears to have been
domesticated and greatly prized some thou—
sands of years before the Christian era, for
one of the most ancient manuscripts in a
Thibetan monastery says that dogs were
used to destroy wolves and to protect sheep
in the remotest times of man’s history. This
manuscript is believed to have been written
about 3000 B. C.

The earliest recorded reference in Egypt
to the dog is the picture of “Abakaru,” the
dog of Cheops, the Pharaoh who, in 3783
B. C., commenced the structure of the great
pyramid at Ghizeh. Rameses II. had the
images of his four favorite hounds buried
with him, Tutankhamen had the effigies of
his two favorite mastiffs in his tomb, and
other Pharaohs had their favOrite dogs
sculptured or pictured on the walls of their
burial sites.

In certain parts of Egypt the dog was
held in veneration and members of a house
went into mourning for the death of their
dog. Anubis, the Egyptian God of the
dead, was represented by a dog's head
emblematic of his character of fidelity
and watchfulness. The Ethiopians at one
time held the dog in such high esteem that
they crowned one king and kept him in
great estate. He lived in royal splendor
surrounded by a retinue of attendants.

In Assyria the dog was undoubtedly
man’s companion in the chase, for many
carvmgs in stone depicting hunting scenes
show an animal very like the greyhound

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

today. Instances of the use of war dogs
[are also numerous in ancient times. They
were not only used for combat, but also
for following up fugitives and for the pro—
tection of the camps. We also find many
historical cases of dogs being used for per-
sonal guardianship. Plutarch tells the
story of a watch dog of an Athenian temple
that tracked a thief who had stolen valu-
ables from the house of the gods, following
the man many days
and refusing to eat
poisoned food that the
thief tried to make
him take.
The Hindu and the
Mohammedan dislike
dogs, but in the an-
cient books of India
are legends and sto—
ries showing that the
dog’s fidelity and so-
cial attractions were
once prized even in
that country. One
story is of a righteous
pilgrim coming to the
gates of heaven with
his dog. He was told
to enter but his dog
must be left outside.
“All right then, I
don’t go in,” said the
pilgrim, who thought
heaven would be no
heaven for him with-
out his faithful
friend.

In the legends and traditions of every
country the figure of the dog appears. Un—
til very recently the people of Borneo be-
lieved that a dog watched at the Gates of
Paradise. Ancient proverbs and supersti-
tions about the dog have come down to us
and history bears out the fact that the dog
was from earliest times man’s ally, friend
and guardian, as he is today.

Little Shadow Pets

MINA M. TITUS

When all the house is still and dark
And M emory’s Lamp is lit,

Those little ghosts of pets we’ve owned
Steal back and by us sit.

With bright, dark eyes they speak to us
Of distant yesterdays,

With tail a-wag and head a—tilt
In dear, remembered ways.

So real they seem, we reach a hand
To stroke a silken head,

And think we hear familiar barks
When well—loved name is said.

No human heart that once has known
A furry comradeship

But when the house is still and dark
Hears tiny ghost paws trip.

They’re with us still in memory’s niche,
Tho’ Starry Fields they’ve crossed,

Those furry wraiths of shadow pets
That we have loved and lost.

 

Oct. 1935

“Piper”
HILDA BRUCE

0 one knew where he came from, but
N joyous, carefree, and nonchalant, he
had appeared on the scene. Something about
his gay, careless air suggested the Pied
Piper (not that he piped sweet, entrancing
music, or came with lilting step, or had an
enthralled following, for he didn’t). His
only music was a deep, discordant bark;
his lilting step, a clumsy gallop; and his
only following, the numerous fleas which
annoyed him by day and night. But as I
say there was something about him that led
us to name him “Piper,” and he assumed
the name without question, only an affirm-
ing wag of his tail and an expectant glint in
his brown eyes. Of course, I am sure he
would have assumed any appellation just
as readily, for it mattered little to him——
“A rose by any other name—” and he could
appreciate juicy bones and affection no
matter what his cognomen.

The momentous question of a name hav—
ing been decided upon, and so willingly as-
sented to, Piper firmly implanted himself
on the front doorstep and refused to be
moved. He was a permanent fixture and
no amount of “shooing” and “scatting” by
the gentle gray-haired lady next door could
depress his exuberant spirit or budge him
from his seat in her best porch chairs.
Driving away was interpreted by him as
“come hither,” and he established himself

as guard and protector of our humble Ari-
zona home.
He was a young dog, chronologically

speaking, but a patriarch in the art of dep—
redation and destruction. He was without
a pedigree, or if he did have one it was
safely buried in a deep, dark past. His ap—
pearance was not an‘ asset or added attrac-
tion. He was mud—colored, and usually mud-
covered, for his» greatest delight was to
scout around in the irrigation canal when
it was empty, or to give his fleas a bath
when the ditch was partially full. Always
after his strenuous ablutions he chose the
white cover of the day bed for his resting-
place. His ungainly size and general ap-
pearance was accountable only to the fact
that his forbears must have been part camel
——for he truly seemed a product of the
desert. His affection was unlimited, and
loyally and protectively he barked every
agent, friend, or casual acquaintance off
the premises. In fact every passer—by,
should one but turn an eye toward the
house, was heralded as a potential enemy;
but one had only to speak kindly and Piper
greeted him with a vociferous welcome, as
would be accorded an old-time friend.

His protective nature made him the
champion of all the small dogs, and, strange
as it may seem, the cats, of the neighbor-
hood. But his special object of affection
was a Pekingese. To every large dog Piper
bristled up in great consternation, and it
was with dire forebodings that the family
set out for a walk if Piper was about——
and he always was about. A walk with
Piper meant the company of at least an-
other half-dozen dogs. The first dog would
be met and barked at, and if he accepted the
welcome he could trot along in our trail.

1' ,5 .n... ‘5. "J3, '
- ﬁrm-m. r.- -

 




 

 

Page 171;
@112 Tﬁanh nf ﬂung

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

Iwill try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage. .

The American Humane Education Society w111 send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the preSI-

dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a. gilt badge for the pre51dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and seventy-six new Bands
of Mercy were reported during September.
Of these 54 were in Georgia, 51 in New
York, 45 in North Carolina, eight in Vir-
ginia, six in Texas, ﬁve in Illinois, four in
Pennsylvania, two in Florida, and one in
Indiana.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 210,985

A Fine Lad

correspondent from Lockport, New

York, sends us the following which we
are glad to publish not only for the sake of
the young humanitarian but for all other
kind-hearted lads who go to the rescue of
some suffering animal:

A kitten was saved from drowning in the
Barge canal a short distance above the
locks here today when Michael Carey, Jr.,
of this city, climbed down a rope from the
old towpath to remove the animal from a
crevice near the water’s edge.

Persons crossing the Big Bridge first
noticed the kitten swimming about in the
water and making repeated attempts to
climb up the perpendicular rock on the
north side of the canal near the bridge.

The kitten would get several feet up the
wall and then fall back. Finally it reached
a crevice and crawled in. Carey tried un-
successfully to get the kitten to crawl up
a board which he lowered. Finally he se-
cured a rope, fastened one end to a post
and climbed down.

The frightened kitten resisted Carey’s;
efforts to rescue it and he was forced to
climb back up and secure a glove from fire
headquarters before he was able to bring
the kitten to safety.

Band of Mercy Outing

The girls and boys of the active Band
of Mercy in Brookline, Mass., were ten-
dered a delightful lawn party, September
14, at the home of their friend and men-
tor, Mrs. Alice B. Hutchins. For several
years past Mrs. Hutchins has arranged
many humane features in which her pupils
and their friends have shown the keenest
interest. The grounds were decorated with
Band of Mercy banners and flags. Peanut
races and potato races, with other games,
were enjoyed by the children. Refresh-
ments were served at small tables on the
lawn.

New Humane Calendar for 1936 shows
colored picture of cows in ﬁeld; humane
hints on leaves of pad. 20 cents each,
postpaid.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 1935

 

Without a Dog

ROBERT

STANLEY

ELL, you see, we haven’t got one, not

being doggy people.” So said my
hostess, poor thing, in answer to my ques—
tion, “What’s the dog’s name?” I always
ask that with new acquaintances. “We
haven’t got one,” what a sorry answer.
Dogs, dear things, are a little touchy about
their names. Call “Towser,” “Rumbo,” or
Rumbo, Towser, and look out, but get it
right beforehand and you’ve got a pal
straight away, and more so if you add “ﬁnd
’em.” “Find ’em” is the sure password to
canine friendship, especially if you help in
the finding. It doesn’t always lead to pop—
ularity with a fussy housewife, mats in all
directions, a small table knocked over and
scratches on the varnished parquet sur-
round, in fact a general disturbance, but
never mind you have greatly pleased “Mr.
Darkie” and he’ll watch and wait all the
evening in the hope that you’ll say it again.
“Without a dog!!!” Fancy never saying,
“Come on old boy, I’m a bit down the line,
cheer me up.” He knows, just puts a cold
wet nose in your hand and looks his sym-
pathy. He doesn’t say, “Well it’s your own
fault,” or, “Of course,” or “I told you so,”
or “Serves you right,” he just smiles and
wags and perhaps asks, “Better now old
man?”

Oh, I know the geranium bed is a bit
sideways and there’s a delphinium that
won’t bloom again this summer and the fern
bank doesn’t look too gay, but as Darkie
says, “Someone’s got to deal with the cats,
and as for the fern bank, well I killed a rat
there, that one that frightened the Missis,
now what about it? Tie up the geraniums,
bend the fern leaves right again and hand
out an extra good biscuit, that’s ‘what
about it,’ see?” Again, consider, (ra-
ther mean thought this), but think what an
excuse for slipping out, “You’ll stay in to-
night won’t you dear?” “Yes, rather—but-
I must just give Darkie a run, you know
how little exercise he gets.” “Oh Darkie—
yes—well mind he doesn’t run away again;
you know how long you took to find him
last night.” We are in this together aren’t

 

we, doggie, old man—you know where they
give you a bone or a biscuit don’t you?
None of your household bones that have
been used for soup for three days, but a nice
meaty one that you can enjoy while Master
———but enough of that.

“Without a dog,” no the idea is too
pathetic to enlarge upon, let’s cheer up, and
instead say “With a dog.”

That’s better. Take the summer holiday,
let’s go down to the beach and you, doggie,
shall fetch my stick, (or for choice some—
body else’s—in case you miss it) ; last year
you brought me a trail of sea—weed instead
of my malaca, but never mind, they both
look alike on the waving billow, you’re for—
given, Darkie, have another go, “throw your
umbrella in Sir don’t be afraid: he’ll fetch
it all right, oh sorry it’s sunk, well now
that’s not altogether his fault is it?” No,
Mr., Sir or Mrs. Madam, whatever else you
may happen to be without, don’t, mark my
words please, do not be without a dog.

An Active Band of Mercy

GEORGENA BERGTOLD

The children of the Sixth Grade in the
Washburn School of Duluth, Minnesota, are
very enthusiastic about their Band of Mercy
Club. They are ever on the alert for cases
of cruelty and report same to the teacher
who investigates the case, and takes further
action against the offender as he may deem
fit to prevent a repetition of such an of-
fense.

These boys and girls have shown a fine
spirit of consideration and friendliness to-
ward their animal friends by returning lost
animals to owners, sheltering poor home~
less creatures, and caring for those that
are injured.

Sometime this fall, the boys and girls of
the Club who have pets will have the pri-
vilege of taking their pictures. These pic-
tures will be placed on a poster and exhib-
ited on the bulletin board. There will be
a place on the poster for expressions of
“Daily Kindness to Our Pets.”

We enjoy our Band of Mercy Club be-
cause we know we are doing something
worthwhile.

 




45‘ﬁL‘L A“

 

 

Oct. 1935

If, however, he barked back, Piper after
much ado WOuld pounce to my side for pro-
tection, leaving the other dog to go on
about its business. A following of one dog
is not bad, even three or four was to be
endured, but when a stroll of a pleasant
Sunday afternoon ends with a following of
thirteen dogs, even the least superstitious
feels a sense of annoyance.

After this episode Piper was firmly and
distinctly ordered to stay at home. Satis—
fied that he was securely fastened, we
started out without so much as a backward
glance at the downhearted, but silent dog.
After walking a few blocks we had an un«
canny feeling that someone was following
us. On turning we found Piper, however,
sitting dejectedly in the road a block behind,
never offering to come farther. We went
on a few blocks; again there was the feel—
ing of being followed, and again we turned.
Piper was still motionless in the road, but
the space between us was still just a block.
We went on—we looked back. Piper still
sat with the same woebegone expression,
but always only a block behind. However,
when we arrived at our destination, in some
mystifying way Piper was waiting at the
entrance—waiting to welcome us without
rebuke or comment—only a triumphant
gleam in his eyes.

Later we left the desert and with it we
left Piper—Piper, the awkward, flea—ridden
mongrel whose market value was null and
void, but whose affection, love, and faith
could not be price—tagged. It was with a
queer lump in our throats that we left him
with the kindly friends across the way.

Again the West calls us, but sometimes I
wonder if it is entirely the gorgeous splen—
dor of snow—capped mountains, the smell
of pungent sagebrush, the peace and soli-
tude of the desert, the promise of health
that lure us. Rather, perhaps, it is the
hope of seeing once more an ungainly, mud—
colored, mud-covered dog of no definable
breed, but with a bit of camel in his ances-
try, sitting in the middle of the sun—baked
adobe road, waiting with wistful expectancy
to thump forth his warm, clumsy, affection—
ate welcome. '

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Poetic Protest Against
Dog Racing

Protests against dog racing continue to
come in and the latest is in poetic form. The
contributor is George Murphy of 1’79 Lex—
ington Street, East Boston.

I’m the Dog
Now, I’m the Dog!
Does anyone think of me?
I’m Man’s best friend—-
That is, I used to be.
I s’pose I’ve had my day
To bark and run, carefree;
So now, I stand condemned
To die an early death—commercially!

I’m not a horse!
Or 090, or mule, or ass;
But love like mine, for man,
No creature can surpass.
The horse—for race and war;
The oat—to heed the goad;
The dog—t0 lead the blind——
Man’s dangers to forebode.

N0 dog was born to race
In this unhindly way;
0, Mr. Angell, dear,
Look down on us, we pray!
Or Man! our years are few, .
We live to hunt and play;
Where is our constant friend—
The S. P. C. A.?

Dog Races

The New Jersey Supreme Court, in de—
claring unconstitutional an act permitting
dog races with pari-mutuel betting, dismis-
ses the “emergency” claim' of the propon-
ents of the measure. “It can never,” says
the court, “be said to justify a gambling en-
terprise, so that municipalities may obtain
revenue to the great prejudice of some fam—
ilies and the hindrance of trade and indus-
try and the corruption of morals of youth.”

And this is good doctrine irrespective of
constitutional considerations.

—Springfield Republican

 

TEACH YOUR DOGS TO BE GENTLEMEN

Page 151

Do Your Friends Like Your
Dog?
IVIARJORIE R. STANLEY

F you want your friends to like your dog
you must teach him manners. He’s a

lovable rascal, but he has no way of know-
ing that people don’t like him to bark at
them when they come to see you, or to
jump on them, or climb in their laps and
lick them behind the ear. Neither does he
know that your neighbor friends object to
his coming over and tracking up their porch-
es, chasing their cats, and digging in
their flower beds; or that more than any-
thing they hate to have him trying to scare
the man out of the moon with his barking
at night. -

Well what can be done about it? Let’s
take that first trick of barking at callers.
It’s a dog’s nature to bark, you say, and
he isn’t cross—he’s just talking. All right.
You like to talk and laugh, but your mother
wouldn’t stand for your shouting at her
friends every step of the way from the gate
to the door, would she? She’d tell you in
no uncertain terms to behave yourself and
stop your noise. Well then, that’s what you
should do to Tige. Make him understand
it just isn’t done in better class dog fam-
ilies. .

In the same way teach him what “down”
means. No matter how much your friends
like dogs they don’t want their good clothes
ruined with sharp claws and muddy feet.
Don’t be half—hearted in your training.
Make him understand he must mind. This
doesn’t mean you have to banish him from
the room. Every dog loves company, so
let him come up in a dignified manner
to be greeted and petted a bit. Then make
him lie down. It is better not to take your
dog with you when you go to see your
friends, but if you do, put him on a leash.
A strange place excites him into unnatural
behavior. He wants to sniff and snoop in-
to every corner, and it takes a pretty good
friend to overlook your dog’s prying ways.
Teach him to lie quietly beside you, and not
whine nor fuss. .,

As far as this barkinglat night business
is concerned, shutting him up is a good
preventative. A watch dog is better in the
house anyway, where he can waken the
family and not the neighbors when occasion
demands. If he is roaming about outside
he’s sure to get into mischief. He’llprob-
ably race about all night, barking at noth—
ing, and then want to sleep all day instead
of playing with you. Some of the most
rascally chicken thieves in dogdom are made
by the habit of allowing a dog to run loose
at night.

Keep him home in the daytime by making
a playmate of him. He won’t want to run
off and snoop into the neighbors’ yards if
there’s danger of missing some fun at home.
If you do see him out of bounds whistle him
back, and pet him when he comes. He’ll
soon learn that home is the nicest place to
be. '

In short, teach your dog to be a gentle-
man. Then instead of “i a sly kick, your
friends will give him a pat on the head and
say, “I like your dog—he’s such a nice fel—
low! ”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

May, 1935

Sober-sides
GERTRUDE EWING

The blackbird always makes me laugh;
(He’s such a sober fellow).

I think he’s funnier than if
His coat were red or yellow.

He walks along the garden path
With very solemn tread:

You’d almost think he really knew
Some dear bird friend was dead.

But when he comes quite up to me,
I’m sure I’ve seen him wink;

As if he’d have me understand,
He’s not just what I think.

A Plea for the Shore Birds

DANIEL W. SLIYTHE

HE way of a hunter has always
appeared to me exceedingly strange
and inexplicable. He will stalk through
woodland and pasture, along the ponds, or
through the briar and swamps, carrying a
deadly weapon for the sole purpose of
spraying pellets of death into the ranks of
our fearful bird and- animal friends. He
will tear down a stone-wall to get .a. rabbit,
or crouch all morning in the pickere‘l weed
to get a shot at a duck—and call it sport!
As a general rule, a duck is a. duck to him:
he would ﬁnd it impossible to explain the
difference between the less-er scaup and the
pintail; and any duc'k that divest is. a
“dipper duck.” Needless to say, he is
absolutely blind to the beauty of the
golden-eye duck or a ﬂock of white-winged
scoters skimming the water. They are
merely something to be brought down with
his carefully aimed miniature cannon. The
bird hasn’t much chance against the devices
of the modern hunter.

Will they ever recognize the tremendous
value of the birds, their value alive and
not dead? It is a forlorn hope. And it gets
under my skin when I consider the indis—
putable facts proving that there is a steady
reduction from year to year in the numbers
of pheasants and ducks. When I see in this
section the fewness of them as compared
with the year before, the bitter fact strikes
me that complete extermination, especially
where .scaups, ringnecks and teals are con-
cerned, is only a matter of time. If some-
thing is not done about it, they will go the
way of the passenger pigeon and the heath
hen.

Last year, they had a particularly poor
breeding season owing to the drouth; but
that fact did not stop hunters from coming
out in increasing numbers to kill the breed-
ers of this year. For me, at least, there has
ever been something inestimably thrilling
in discovering ducks, their beauty and
swiftness in ﬂying. And how it hurts to
think we may no long-er see: them rising
from the water and stringing out in their
swift lines, or hear the whistle of their
wings! N o scoters, blue-winged? teals,
grebes or mergansers! What will the shore
be like without them? Fortunately there
is still time, and We can only hope that the
government will take steps in behalf of
the birds.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page ’71

The Australian Emu

EWEN K. PATTERSON

THE EMU OF THE WILD IS DOOMED
TO EXTINCTION

HE noble emu is the most distinctive
member of Australia’s great feath-
ered tribe. This huge bird, which is

found nowhere else in the world in a wild
state, is second largest of all living kinds
of birds, being surpassed, in size only by the
ostrich. Not so many years ago countless
millions of these splendid birds roamed the
whole of the Australian continent, but to-
day they are rarely encountered, except in
isolated and little-visited country. This is
because the emu is now regarded as a pest
by settlers, and is being ruthlessly slaugh-
tered in thousands every year. The bird has
even received the attention of the military!
Despite strong public indignation, the army
has gone to the aid of farmers with ma-
chine guns and mowed the birds down in
hundreds! Yet the emu is not a pest in
the real sense of the word; its natural food
consists of grass, leaves, native berries, and
fruits, but it has come into disfavor among
the men on the land because in its search
for food and water it frequently trespasses
across farm lands and in so doing uncon—
sciously tramples down the valuable crops,
And so the bird is destroyed. Advancing
settlement continues to narrow the emu’s
realm; and it is doomed to extinction as a
wild bird. Soon the only remnants of the
hosts that once roamed the land will be
those that are being wisely preserved in
national parks and other wild life sanctu-
aries.

But it is remarkable to note that while
these “pests” are being destroyed in Aus-
tralia, they have became valuable “live-
stock” in another country. This is Russia,
and it is the ﬁrst time that bird “pests” of
one country have been introduced by an-
other for the purpose of assisting that coun-

 

try. Emu culture has been commenced by
the Russian Soviet’s Central Zoological De-
partment at Moscow. The meat is to be
used for providing the starving masses of
that country with food. Experiments have
shown that the birds will breed and thrive
there.

Authorities differ a good deal as to the
merits of emu ﬂesh as a food. But it all
depends on the emu. The ﬂesh resembles
coarse beef in appearance, and that from a
young bird is good and sweet eating. The
bird has never been hunted for food pur-
poses in Australia, but the "creature’s large
eggs are very popular there for they are
delicious eating, and one egg is a meal in
itself. The emu nests between April and
July, and her eggs are large, elliptical dark-
green with granulated surface. The aver-
age egg is about ﬁve and a half inches long,
and weighs about twenty-four ounces. The
pretty shells are much in demand for orna-
mental purposes.

It is difﬁcult to locate an emu’s nest in
the bush. The nest is generally nothing
more than a scanty bed of grass or herb-
age under a bush or tussock, or at the edge
of a shrub. The female lays from six to
eighteen eggs, and she is assisted in hatch-
ing them by the male, who takes his turn at
sitting on the eggs.

The. sitting emu will not leave the nest
unless disturbed. On the approach of a
human, for example, the bird stretches its
neck ﬂat on the ground, and in such a posi-
tion its dusky gray body resembles from
the distance a rock or an ant-heap. But
should the intruder come too close the bird
is up and away in an instant and will not
return until the intruder has departed and
is out of sight. That is why few persons
have ever witnessed the sight shown in the
accompanying unique photograph—a fe-
male emu turning over the eggs in her nest.
The picture, which was secured after hours
of crawling’through long grass, is the clos-
est view of the incident ever secured in the
Australian bush. The camera was not more
than six feet away from the nest, but the
bird was too engrossed in tending her eggs
to hear the grass parted as the camera came
through. But at the fall of the shutter, she
was away in an instant.

For a long time Australia has been fa-
mous for its remarkable animals and birds,
but slowly and surely the extraordinary
creatures which brought the country thlS
fame are becoming rarer and rarer.

 

ATTENTION
Cruelty to Animals in

MOTION PICTURES
Involves Maiming, Killing and Abuse

NOT SHOWN ON SCREEN
A Menace to Good Cltlzenship

JOIN
The Jack London Club

FOR THE ABOLITION OF
PERFORMING ANIMAL TURNS

By sending your name to

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

IVov.1935

     

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Magic of the Woods

ALFRED I. TOOKE

I think I like the woods the best, for in them magic dwells.
A rustle in the bushes of some hidden presence tells.

It could have been a squirrel, but you cannot see one, so

It might have been a fairy flitting past! You never know!

You see a sudden movement in the tapestry of green,

Was it a jay that hopped from sight before it could be seen?
It might have been a robin—or a broken twig that fell;
Or it might have been a fairy! You can never, never tell.

You find a little winding trail that leads you know not where.
It could have been some tiny padded feet that made it there;
But all is still and silent, and there’s quite a bit of doubt,

So it might be where the fairies walk, when nobody’s about!

That splash upon the pool! Was that a. beaver, or a trout?
Or do you think it could have been a fairy popping out

To see what prying mortal came to interrupt her bath

By peeping through the curtains of the leafy woodland path?

I think I like the woods the best, for you can never tell

Just when you might see fairies in a sunshine-speckled dell;

For though I’ve never quite been just in time to see them
there,

I’m sure the woods are simply full of fairies everywhere.

Manx Cat Adopts Baby Robin

EUGENIA B. TROW

Abeautiful seven-year—old calico Manx cat belonging to
Mrs. Clinton W. Baker of Brewster Road, Kingston,
Mass, has adopted a baby robin and makes it her special care
to protect it from. other cats. One day recently children in the
neighborhood noticed a baby robin in the road apparently
crippled by a fall from the nest in a tall elm tree. Later in
the day the pet eat of Mrs. Baker came to her with the same
bird held gently in her mouth. The fledgling was taken into
the house where it soon began to hop about and later to fly

 

“LINDY” PERCHES SAFELY ON KITTY’S OUT-
STRETCHED PAW

around the room and look for food. From that moment the
cat assumed guardianship over the bird and they have been
close pals. As soon as the robin was able to fly, it was taken
out of doors and given its freedom. But it seldom ventures
far from the house. It eats everything that the family has and
is especially fond of beef stew with the vegetables. If it is out
doors at meal times it will call to be let into the house. After
dinner it snuggles up with the cat for a nap. It shows fear
of strangers and other cats but is perfectly happy in the com-
pany of its friend. The name “Lindy” has been given to the

baby bird. There is always an answering chirp when his name
is called.

 

The Baby Burro

MARGERY BEDINGER

THIS little burro and his mother live in Northern Arizona.
The country is beautiful. The ground is red and yellow
sand: the sky is brilliant blue and there are high mountains on
the horizon. But while there are some trees and grass, these
are scanty, for it is a desert country, with only a little rain
and water. Because there is so little rain, there are only a few
springs, and water is very precious. Only a few people live
on the Arizona desert and most of them are Navajo Indians.
One of these Indians is the master of the little burro and his
mother. The only place where this Indian can get water is
fro-m a spring about half a mile from his home. So every
morning and every evening, the Indian puts a little pack-sad-
dle on the burro’s mother and ties a water keg on the pack-
saddle. Then the Indian’s little son drives the burro to the
spring, fills the keg with water, straps it back on the saddle
again, and drives the burro back home. And each time they
make this trip the baby burro goes too, for he will not be left
behind and his mother will not go anywhere without him.

When he grows up he will carry water and loads of wood for
his master also.

“Be Kind to Animals,” as a motto for every school-room in
the United States, conspicuously and constantly displayed by
teachers upon wall or blackboard, will go far and help greatly
towards inculcating a spirit of kindness to animals and edu-
cating humanely the boys and girls who are to be future citi-
zens of this great country.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1935

 

Founded by Geo. Ti Angell. Incorporated March. 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman Of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwo )d 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUN'HAM. Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A.. 180
Longwood Avenue. Bos+0n ~—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary— MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary ——MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

Horses Watered

During July and August the Massachu—
setts S. P. C. A. maintained four stations
in Boston for the watering of horses. At-
tendants at these places gave water to 13,—
760 animals—an average of 287 for each
working day.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D, Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. ,R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oammwm
rewnmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 915 Cases 2,579
Dogs 644 Dogs 2,065
Cats 256 Cats 459
Horses '7 Birds 44
Birds 4 Horses 7
Monkeys 2 Goats 2
Rabbit 1 Rabbits 2
Squirrel 1.
Operations 864
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ........................ 131,742
Dispensary Cases ................ 814,504
Total ....................... 446,246
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 101
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 405
Operations .......................... 143

MASS. S. P. C. A. IN THE COURTS

Some Prosecutions in August

For cruelly inflicting injuries upon a dog,
a hit-and—run motorist was convicted and.
fined $25.

Driving a horse unfit by reason Of har-
ness galls, a defendant was fined $10.

For cruelly stoning a cat and injuring it
so badly that it had to be killed, Offender
fined $10.

Working a lame and sore—backed horse
which the court ordered destroyed, a de-
fendant was given a three months’ sus-
pended sentence to the House Of Correction.

Please remember the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. in your will.

Page 153

Annual Auxiliary Fair

HE Annual Fair Day, for the beneﬁt of

the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

of the Massachusetts Society for the Pre—

vention of Cruelty to Animals, will be held

by the Women’s Auxiliary of the Society at

Hotel Vendome, Commonwealth Avenue,

Boston, Wednesday, December 11, 1935,
from 10 A. M. to 5 P. M.

There will be luncheon at 12:80, after-
noon tea, and bridge from 2 to 4.

Contributions of funds or articles for sale
will be greatly appreciated and may be sent
to Mrs. Harry Cole, treasurer, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

The work of the Women’s Auxiliary is
primarily for the benefit Of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, helping, par—
ticularly, to provide special and needed
equipment.

Any articles that are contributed to be
sold at the tables will be gratefully received
and promptly acknowledged. It is to be hop-
ed that any financial contributions will not
interfere with the regular gifts of any
member Of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Contributions of gauze, blankets and ma-
terials for pads for cages for small animals
are solicited by the Work Committee of the
Auxiliary.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane Oﬁcers. . 18,853

Cases investigated . . ............. 619
Animals examined . .............. 3,722
Animals placed in homes .......... 123
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 33
Number of prosecutions ........... 6
Number of convictions ............ 4
Horses taken from work. . . ....... 20
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 39

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,114
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 77,240
Cattle, swine and Sheep humanely
put to sleep. ................... 13

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re—
membered in the wills of Beatrice L. Hall
of North Attleboro, and Katherine C. Davis
of Boston.

September 10, 1985.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ESY
HLT

S TAE

m RMm

E 0N3

C _.r

a Tom

0 ET”

m‘ C C

P OVIU “
SHR
E
mum
TRA
ECM
s w
UF
HON

”cu C A

9 ANK

I SCH

R SIM

E ATA

B MN

m i...

C VT

E EE

D HRW
TPA .

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back dover. Checks should be mad-e payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, BostOn, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF’I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. lshkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 18
Number of addresses made, 128

19,450

Number of persons in audiences,

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..................................

Age

......
............................

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1935

Teaching Children Kindness to Animals

J. J. KELSO, TORONTO, ONTARIO

HEN a young man and that
means turning back about forty
pages—it was my privilege to ad—

dress many classes of school children on
Bands of Mercy, and the memory of those
eager, happy little faces has always been
a joy and inspiration. There is no subject
that carries with it such a strong appeal
to the child-heart as the care and protection
of birds and dumb animals. While they are
still unsullied by harsh contact with the
rough world, children are affectionate and
trustful and ready to give themselves un-
stintedly in love for some dog or cat or bird
that they have adopted as their own. Any
mother or teacher will bear testimony to
this. It is not at all difficult to talk to
children when the subject is dumb animals.
One has merely to take the canary—a fam-
iliar object to all children—and describe
what would happen if the seed and water
were forgotten—a lesson in thoughtfulness;
or the strange fact that so many millions
Of animals are deprived of a voice by which
to make their wants known, depending en-
tirely upon the mercy of man who was
“given dominion over them.”

Stories about the tricks and antics of dogs
and cats are familiar to everyone, and the
children become so thoroughly absorbed that
they will listen with deepest interest to
even the most trival incidents. Talking to
a group of children one day, I was explain-
ing that every created thing had its own
particular and definite work to do. A lit—
tle hand went up and a voice asked, “Please,
sir, what use is a rat?” The explanation
was given that the rat was exceedingly
useful as it ate up all the scraps Of food
and refuse that otherwise might cause dis-
ease. Another small child came along
with the question, “What is a fly good for?”
and she was informed that flies were sent
along to teach the girls how to be good
housekeepers—not to leave sugar or crumbs
on the table, or allow garbage to be thrown
out in a careless way; that their presence
was always an indication of poor manage—
ment in the home. But the hardest ques—
tion of all was presented by a boy of seven
or eight, who demanded that I should tell
them just what a mosquito was good for—-
a question that, notwithstanding the lapse
Of years, I am still unable to answer.

Perhaps they are sent along as a protest
against stagnant pools and puddles; against
half—filled rain barrels and other vessels re-
maining unchanged and uncleansed. For
water, to be pure and wholesome, must be
kept in motion, subject to the constant in—
fluence of sun and air. Mosquitoes never
thrive in running streams.

In a practical way, also, the children,

 

when their interest is aroused, can be en-

couraged in politeness, courtesy, thoughtful-
ness, and helpfulness. At the conclusion of
a talk I gave once, the teacher told of an
old woman who lived in a small hovel not
far from the school and who had very little
support. She suggested that each child
might bring one potato the next day, and
in this simple way both children and teach—
er were surprised at the accumulation of

potatoes—one bag and a half—enough to
keep the old lady for several weeks.

Years After

With the passing years the children have
grown to be men and women. One day at
a social gathering a lady reminded me that
when a girl of thirteen she had been present
at one of these talks; that now she was
married and was telling her children the
same stories and lessons on kindness to an-
imals.

A business man, when I was introduced
to him one day, told me that he had never
forgotten a Band of Mercy address he heard
when he was a lad and that he still had in
his possession a book he received for writ-
ing an essay on “Kindness.”

Probably the most important outcome of
one of these addresses is the following
story, told me by a clergyman, who claimed
I had been the means of putting him in the
pulpit. It happened that a day or two af—
ter I had addressed] a Band of Mercy meet—
ing, his chum’s dog died, and the boys, in
View of their humane principles, decided to
give it a proper funeral. To him was as-
signed the part of clergyman, and in order
to do the work properly he memorized the
burial service and had his sisters dress him
up in full clerical costume. He became so
much impressed with the appropriate man—
ner in which he carried through his duties
that he decided then and there to become
a clergyman, and in due time his ambition
was realized.

How One Society Does It

ROM the fifteenth annual report of the

Susquehanna County Humane Society,

Montrose, Pa., recently received, we quote
the following:—

We Visit the Schools

We have always placed great emphasis
on humane education. During our 15 years
we have distributed over 52,000 pamphlets
and leaflets teaching kindness to animals.
Part of this distribution was at county
fairs, but over half of it through teachers
at their annual institutes. But we have al—
ways wanted to meet the scholars at close
range, and during the past year we have
made a good start in this direction.

Mrs. Wood, wife of our chief agent, her-
self a former teacher, has taken up this
work. This is how she proceeds; she tells a
few stories about dogs and cats that have
saved human lives, then talks about our
duty to treat animals kindly and finally di-—
rects attention to the work of our society.
The children are asked to report and to
have their parents report cases of cruelty
to us and to bring all unwanted animals to
our shelter. Attractive humane posters are
placed on the walls and the children are
given blotters reproducing the poster pic-
ture, both posters and blotters giving the
address and ’phone number of our shelter.
The whole program occupies only from ten
to twelve minutes.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

1936 1936

Humane Calendar
“Servants of Man”

12 PICTURES - - ALL IN COLORS

El

Our 1936 Humane Calendar contains 12
photographs of interesting animals
from all parts of the world that work
for mankind. Every photograph was
taken in the actual country which the
animal inhabits and the colors are nat-
ural and beautiful.

Beneath each picture is an authentic

description of the animal, its habits,
etc. These calendars will make charm-

ing Christmas presents and will be es- ‘

pecially valuable to teachers.

Price 50c., postage prepaid, to any part
of the world.

The Toronto Humane Society

11 St. Albans St.

TORONTO, ONTARIO, CANADA

 

 

 

 

 

y ”Red Rough Hands
uticura

0| N'l'MEN'I'
pot/wag

36

  

 

0”
Sample free ~- Cuticura, Dept R2, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET NO. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

FOR DOGS

   
   
      

(tstnAcHLoRETHrLENE’c.T

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to- give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!

For Free ”Booklet write to Desk N- 58—M
zmal Industry Dept. .,
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 00., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Mnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

3911mm: literature for «Christmas elite

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. ., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold- face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1936 ............ each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1934, bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes ................ .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................ 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x33/8 ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.
Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp. 5 cts. each or 5. 00

The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. 60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... 30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. :50 “

The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ...... small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider , Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card . $1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease 6.0
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2. 00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4.50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50
The Air- -gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats 50

..........................

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation .......... _ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “

Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............... 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special . .................... boards. 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ................. paper, 50138.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’ 5 Rage, Helen Trevelyan . . . . 25 cts.

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1. 00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? . 30

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp... 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ........... .50 “ ‘
Leaflets No.7. Farm Animals ........ .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... 50 “ ‘

A Wise Fish .......................... I50 “ "
Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp, paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for ..$1 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades . . ......................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ................. 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each,25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ...... , each, 3 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ........... cloth, 35 cts. ;paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp... ........... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2. 00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “
The B——K——T——A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢
Fred Changes His Mind. play, 5cts. each, six for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each, ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 pel 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class- -room

project, 8 pp. ................ 2.00 “
Humane Education the vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; 75 “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4pp. .50 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .. ....... .50 ‘
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 ‘
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “

A Talk with the Teacher ..... .50 ‘
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ......... 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “
The Coming Education ............... 30 “

A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles——Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ............... $1. 00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

‘6 ((

Badges. gold finish. large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ........... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ....... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “

N0 order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses
of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two Reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow's Poem

Made for the American Humane Educution Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston:

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1935

My Vagabond Prince

ELIZABETH GRIMM SISK

Flowing mane and flashing eyes

With fire in them that never dies;

Coal—black coat and wavy tail,

Shining hooves that seem to sail
Over the road.

Four white stockings to the knees,

Nostrils keen to scent each breeze,

Spirit brave, untiring, true;

Many a mile I’ve gone on you
Along the trails.

Fleet of foot and strong of frame,

Among the stars of equine fame

You rate with me as one of these,

Your beauty never fails to please
The passers—by.

The rhythm of your restless feet
Shall haunt me with their steady beat
When years have passed and memory roves
To the dark prince of twinkling toes

So dear to me.

“Black George”

GENEVIEVE V. HUNT

EORGE” was a glossy black in color,

with a white star in the center of his
forehead. He was tall of stature with slen—
der legs, and a well—shaped head that was
held so proudly no check strap was ever
needed.

Of the many ancedotes attesting to the in-
telligence and fidelity of this noble horse,
there is one that is ever foremost in my
memory.

On the 22nd of December, almost twenty—
eight years ago, I accompanied my husband
on a trip to the country to purchase a tur-
key for our Christmas dinner. It was a
grand sunny day, unusually pleasant for
that time of the year, so I took our baby
daughter with us.

We enjoyed every minute of the ride
along the road that wound through the
woods—past fields of winter wheat, and
pastures with friendly horses that whinnied
a greeting to Black George.

After our turkey was dressed, the owner
of the farm insisted that we stay for din—
ner, and it was almost five o’clock in the
afternoon when we prepared for our home-
ward trip.

“I’m afraid we’re going to have a storm,”
the farmer predicted; “better stay here for
the night.”

It was true, the weather was changing,
ugly gray clouds were forming in the sky,
and a cold wind was beginning to stir. But
it was essential that we return to town as
my husband had an important business en-
gagement in the morning.

Black George acted like a two-year-old
when he was led from the barn. Wild-eyed,
he sniffed the air and refused to stand still.
Hardly had we seated ourselves in the
buggy when he was off and down the road
like a horse possessed.

We had covered perhaps seven miles
when the Wind began to blow in freezing,
tearing blasts, and the snow and sleet came

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

down with such force that soon the whole
countryside was a glittering icy mass.

We were on the point of turning back to
the farm, when almost as quickly as if a
black curtain had been thrown over us, it
became dark—so dark we could not see our
hands before our face. Losing all sense
of direction we decided to let George have
his head. He was still keeping up a good
pace in spite of the blizzard, but as to where
he was going we did not know.

“You had better close your eyes,” my
husband suggested. But I could not. I
kept staring into that blackness until it
felt as though my eyes would pop from their
sockets. To make matters worse, I began
to think about the narrow road that we had
to pass over in Salt Creek. There was a
deep ravine on one side that fell to a depth
of fifty feet. Suppose Black George should
stumble or slip on the frozen road at that
point—perhaps he wasn’t even on the main
road, maybe he was lost like we were. Oh,
why had I brought my baby along?

After awhile George began to slow up
and to pick his footing more carefully. We
rode like that for an eternity, it seemed to
me, when suddenly with a startling jolt my
side of the buggy went down—then up
again. My husband found several matches
in his pocket and finally succeeded in light—
ing one long enough to see what had hap—
pened.

We were on that narrow road that I had
been worrying about, and the buggy wheel
had slid over the edge. If Black George
had not pulled up just at the right moment,
we, no doubt, would have been lying on the
bottom of that ravine—dead.

Again we rode through that terrible,
never ending darkness, and I was beginning
to fear that we would be frozen before we
reached a place of refuge, when it gradu-
ally grew lighter, and we discovered that we
were on the outskirts of town.

Black George refused to rest even for a
moment, and kept up a steady gait until
we were safe at home. _

Except for slight colds, we were none the
worse for our harrowing experience, and
all George needed was a good night’s rest
to make him as fresh as ever.

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day, April 19, and Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20—25, 1936.

 

MISS SISK AND HER “VAGABOND PRINCE”

Page 155

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for July, 1935 — 31 Days

 

Forage for large animals 3 85.41
Daily average dogs 7.3
Forage for same 7.49
Put to sleep 19 7.45
Transportation 9.01
Wages, grooms, etc. 72.23
Resident secretary’s salary 132.54
Superintendent’s salary 82.84
Veterinary’s salary 29.82
Sundries 36.15
$462.94

Entries: 7 horses, 11 mules, 43 donkeys.
Exits: 2 horses, 9 mules, 32 donkeys.
Out Patients Treated: 91.

Superintendent’s Notes: Kilometers traveled, 140;
cases investigated, 378; animals seen, 5,736; animals
treated, 1,256; animals transferred to Fondouk Amer-
ican, 21; pack-saddles (infected) destroyed, 6.

We have room only for report of two days’ work
of the Superintendent in July, but they represent
well the daily service:

Monday, July 1, 1935: This morning inspected
roads and alleys between Place Batha, the Souks Ben
Safi, then the Medina Souks, returning through Talaa
Kebira to Bou Jeloud. Did not see any needles or
goads in whole course.

After looking over all donkeys at Place Baghdadi.
through Bou Touil to Bad Jdid Market, where had
some pack saddles removed and examined all donkeys
there.

During this morning’s work I saw many results of
Delon’s rounds in the native fondouks, proving the
scrupulous attention to these pack animals in Old
Fez, impossible to thoroughly examine otherwise, ex-
cept as this most valuable work is now being carried
on. Thirty animals today. Two out-patients.

Thermometer at 116 degrees (Fahrenheit) for heat.

Wednesday, July 3: Inspected the Mellah dis-
trict this morning en route to the Fondouk. After-
wards drove to the Cattle Market with Dr. Grimpret.
Many donkeys pass here, coming in from the country.
These Arabs are mostly of the nomadic class and very
far behind the city dwellers. Confiscated two needles
and later saw an Arab pricking his donkey with a
bent needle. Marched him off to the Police post at
Bou Jeloud; saw Mr. Chancogne, the Commissaire,
who will charge him before the Pasha Thursday
morning.

In Fondouk thirty-four animals today. Three out-
patients.

Delon began work at 7:00 A. M., putting to sleep
an old and suffering dog brought by Dr. Grimpret
to be cured.

Whole afternoon at Bab Ftouh (the great gate for
all traffic into the Northern Sahara.) Looked
through twenty-seven Fondouks, saw two hundred
fifty-eight draught animals and medically treated sev-
enty.

The Hon. Secretary, Mr. Charles A. Wil-
liams, writes that for the ﬁrst six months of
1934 there was an average at the Fondouk
of 35 large animals daily at a cost of $3,—
064.89. The figures for the first six months
of 1935 show an average of 38.5 large ani—
mals daily at a cost of $2,742.94. That
means that there were 643 more hospital—
ized cases in the six months of 1935 than in
the six months of
1934 at a saving of
$321.95. This saving
was due to a very
rigid economy an d
careful buying which,
not reducing the ef-
ficiency of the Fon—
douk, made the in-
creased work possible.

Our readers are
urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals’ ’
various articles and
request their local ed-
itors to republish.
Copies so mutilated
will be made good by
us upon application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ANGELL \N 1868. AND FOR FORW‘ONE

55—1

lye-k.

 

 

u. 5. Trade Mark Registered 1) 1
£0-

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

———COWPER

AND MERCY 1"0'
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 68

“They that take the sword shall perish
with the sword.” Words spoken more than
1900 years ago. Do you question their
truth? Read the Book of History.

Any humane society, if the courts will
back it up in enforcing the law, can pre—
vent the cruelties of the rodeo once so com—
mon. Read elsewhere in this issue the
rules under which the rodeo in this state
may operate without prosecution.

To read of the incredible cruelties to
which domestic animals were subjected one.
hundred years ago, and then to know of
the legislation passed in every civilized
country since then for animal protection is
to marvel at the growth of the humane
sentiment throughout the world.

It was one hundred years ago this au-
tumn that the ﬁrst Act of the British
Parliament was passed which gave protec~
tion to all domestic animals. Today in the
United States, at least, even all wild ani-
mals are protected against any deliberate
or wilful cruelty if it can be detected.

Hamilton Fyfe, in Cruel Sports, London,
tells us that the House of Commons laughed
long and loudly when it was ﬁrst suggested
that a bill to protect donkeys as Well as
horses from cruelty be proposed: “Why
not dogs?” some one called out. Another
member shouted, “And why not cats?”
which excited great hilarity.

We hope every S. P. C. A. in the United
States will subscribe for the new Interna-
tional Journal of Animal Protection, the
ﬁrst issue of which appeared last month.
This new publication was unanimously ap-
proved by the recent International Congress
which was held in Brussels. Annual sub-
scription, including postage, 1s 6d, about 36
cents. Address Mr. Lyndesay G. Langwill,
Hon. Editor, 19 Melville Street, Edinburgh
3, Scotland.

December, 1935

Another Christmas

N spite of wars and rumors of war

Christmas still comes and goes with its
story of peace on earth, good will to men.
More than once over fields of battle silence
has fallen as the sun has gone down on
Christmas Eve. So violating all for which
the spirit and teachings of Him born in
Bethlehem of Judea has seemed the strife
and hate of war, that men, feeling the un—
seen but appealing presence of the Prince
of Peace, have refused to desecrate the
hours that recall His birth.

To all our readers may there come this
Christmas of 1935 a goodly share of the
joy and pleasure we wish each other on that
day.

That these are days that try men’s faith
in the ultimate triumph of all that Christ-
mas has meant for the world, we do not
doubt. But through darker days than
these men have kept the faith and unnum—
bered millions again this Christmas will
re—affirm it. So may we with them
“Lift our eyes unto the hills whence has
come our help . . to that high region where
above the mists and clouds surrounding us,
the will of God, silent, patient, sure, is
reigning.”

Robbing the Ocean

When Mr. Hoover was President he said,
in an address to a national convention of
the Isaac Walton League:

“The history of our food fisheries over
the last fifty years is a melancholy book
that would have taken some of the calm
and optimism out of Izaak Walton. At one
time our littoral waters teemed with huge
runs of salmon, shad, and sturgeon. But
they were easy of capture because they
come right up to the fisherman’s hands
once a year en route to spawn in our
streams.”

“We are richer for what we give,
And only by giving we live.”

No. 12

War and Patriotism

R. HARRY EMERSON FOSDICK
D very truly said in his sermon the
other Sunday, “War and Patriotism are by
10 means synonymous terms.” A young
man asked, “Aren’t you willing to die for
your country?” might well, he said, be ask—
ed, “Are you willing to plunge your bay-
onet into the body of a human brother,
blow him to pieces with a deadly bomb,
leave him dying in agony as you trample
over his body and rush on to kill another
mortal who never harmed you or whose
face you have never seen before?” We
have not quoted perhaps the exact words
of the sermon, as we quote from memory,
but have varied but little from them. Can
no man be ready to die for his country who
is not willing to cripple for life, to blind,
to multilate, to kill his human brothers?

Kind Words from Abroad

Mr. C. Rowland Johns, secretary of the
National Canine Defence League, London,
England, on his return from the Washing
ton Convention, visited the Angell Animal
Hospital and gave an interview published
at some length by the Boston Evening
Transcript, whereupon the Boston Ameri-
can commented as follows:

BOSTON IN THE LEAD
Dog Lovers, Read This
Secretary Johns of the British Canine
Defence League, visiting Boston, ﬁnds the
Angell Memorial Hospital is the biggest
and best equipped animal haven in the
world.

“We have nothing like this hospital in Eng-
land, ’declared Mr. Johns.

Praise like this is praise indeed.

And may well delight all New England
humanitarians whose gifts and interest
have made it possible.

Remember the Mass. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

 




 

 

 

Feb. 1935
Old “ King”

MYRTLE G.BURGER

He was only a horse who was old and blind,
Who had left his working days behind.

“He’ll eat his head of,” the neigbhors said,
“Time and again, before he’s dead.

“You should sell him now to a certain man
Who buys up all the old ones he can.”

But my father said, in his quiet way,
“I will not part with old ‘King’ for pay.

“He served me well when he was strong.
I’ll keep him and feed him; it won’t be long.

“No factory shall have his meat
To put into cans for dogs to eat.”

And so the last of King’s earthly days
My father cast in pleasant ways.

In a wide green pasture his hours were
spent
With grass to eat to his heart’s content.

The Docile Irish Donkey

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

NE of the most lasting impressions the

visitor to Ireland takes home with
him is the sight of the ever present don-
key, or ass, as he is always referred to
over there, grazing peacefully in the green
ﬁelds, or trudging along the road pulling a
little wooden car. Though he may be
loaded down with provisions, turf, or a
happy family going off to town on a shop-
ping jaunt, he shows no displeasure at his
burden, but trots along at his usual slow
pace, and always gets there.

Although horses and ponies abound in
Ireland in great numbers, and do a large
share of the work, the ass is really the
beast of burden, and without him the Irish
people could hardly get along. He is as
necessary to the household as the tea ket-
tle.

It is a common belief that the donkey
is a stubborn sort of creature. The Irish
variety must be different. They are as
meek and as willing as the most exacting
taskmaster could expect. Sometimes one
strays out on the road, and if you pass
him he will look at you with startled eyes,
and shy away up against the fence or hedge
that bounds each ﬁeld. They are so gentle
and safe that a little Irish lad of six or
seven drives the ass and car on a neces-
sary errand. Many times, too, the little
girl of the family uses him to go for some-
thing that is needed in a hurry.

It is a common practice to keep gently
prodding the little fellow as he ambles
along, otherwise he will fall into a snail-
like pace. One could easily walk faster.
A few taps with a little stick remind him
that he must not linger, and he will break
into an ambitious trot for a while.

The Irish ass earns the bit of oats, grass,
and turnips that he favors. Sometimes his
day begins as early as ﬁve o’clock and it
may be sundown before he is ﬁnished. His
ﬁrst duty is to take the big shiny milk cans

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

Page 28

 

CHRISTMAS COMES TO BOSTON HORSES AND THEIR DRIVERS

A truck, decorated with a Christmas tree and loaded with oats, apples and carrots
for horses, and coffee and sandwiches for the teamsters, was sent out by the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. the Saturday before Christmas to down-town Boston where many
hundreds of bags of feed were distributed throughout the market district. The men
standing in the picture are ofﬁcers of the Society.

 

to town to the creamery, sometimes two or
three miles from home. Perhaps on the
homeward journey he has to bear the
weight of a sack of grain and other pro-
visions that his master or mistress may
purchase while in town.

He may perform a dozen different duties
in the course of the day. Perhaps he will
have to carry the children off to school,
or go down to the depot loaded with the
luggage of one of the boys or girls going
on a holiday. If it is market day in town,
he will be weighted down with choice veg-
etables, butter, eggs or fowl that his mas-
ter wants to dispose of. Sometimes the
little donkey’s journey is a sad one as, for
instance, when he must carry the cofﬁn of
one of the household to the little church-
yard. All these trips are considerable dis-
tances from home, as Ireland has a large
rural population living far away from the
towns.

The Irish people are especially fond of
the little ass. They do not like to whip him
very hard, no matter how slowly he goes.
“God bless the ass,” they always say when
they talk of him, and they will tell you he
is blessed for he carries upon his back the
imprint of a cross.

The more common color of the ass is a
slaty gray, though some are dark brown.
They have sort of touseled fur, and always
look like tired little boys who never want
to comb their hair.

These docile creatures live a long time.
A person seldom hears of one passing
away. When too old to work they are
turned loose. to enjoy themselves in the
green ﬁelds laden with buttercups, clover
and sweet herbs. They eat away in con-
tentment, pausing every once in a while

to gaze on sWiftly ﬂying automobiles and
spirited ponies speeding along the road
they so often traveled.

One never leaves Ireland that he does
not wish he could take home with him a
little ass and car, for these docile crea-
tures have a look of peace and domesticity
about them that grips a weary-worn trav-
eler. They add greatly to the charm and
beauty of Irish country life.

We Hope So

In his last book “Vale,” Dean Inge says,
“Militarism has dug its own grave.”
Heaven grant that these words prove true!
He also says, “There is a chance of making
patriotism what it should be, a strong sen-
timent like the loyalty a man feels for his
old school, or his native town, a spirit of
emulation purged of rancor and jealousy, a
part of the poetry of life.” Another saying
is worth quoting: “To die in faith, not hav-
ing received the promises, is the lot of all
who work for-humanity.”

More than 40,000 boys and girls, repre-
senting seventeen states of the Union and
three foreign countries, were reported in
the single month of Decmber, 1934, to have
joined the American Band of Mercy. Thir-
teen hundred and sixty-seven different units
were organized. What an army is this for
peace and kindness to every living creature.

“Motoring is surely a great thing. I used
to be fat and sluggish before the motoring
craze, but now I’m spry and energetic.”

“I didn’t know you motored.”

“I don’t. I dodge.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

J @i‘Sﬁ;

ca; .

gﬁﬁ J ah 3’}

(31"
U

i

{3:1

.—

f
1“

333'}.
3:?!"

v”:
k,

V“ A A '.."'~

\

‘, ”T '2 3’1“!
* «J

 

 




 

 

 

Oct. / 935

this move and waits then with a certain
patience until his master has finished his
reading. He is fond of toast, especially
the hot buttered variety and sits at the
table of a morning as a member of the
family.

Several weeks ago he decided to do some
exploring. He flew away. The Fraibergs
were concerned for his safety, thinking he
had become so used to domesticity that he
would surely come to harm. Their fears
were unnecessary. Mr. Fraiberg was busy
in his charming garden the next morning
when he heard a familiar tune. It was an
apologetic little speech; the prodigal had
returned and wanted to know how the
chances were for getting home again. He
was welcomed!

Three weeks ago Mr. Fraiberg brought
home a little Boston puppy. An adorable,
round, pink-bellied little fellow. The quail
was slightly disconcerted at this usurper of
his domain and decided to be just as indif—
ferent as possible by ignoring the creature.
But who can resist a puppy? The quail
couldn’t. They are the best of friends now.
At first the skirmishes were a bit one-sided.
It was so easy for the quail to side step
the advances of the wobbly puppy, but now
he plays until he is weary and hops just
a safe distance from the paws of his play—
mate. The puppy barks furiously at the
quail by way of invitation to play and the
romp is on. They are a darling pair!

The Beauty of Pigeons

I do not know what it is that makes pig.-
eons so interesting to me, unless it is that
this flight of theirs into the upper world is
to me the essence of things poetic, the one
thing which I would like to do myself. The
sunny sides of the barnyard roofs they oc-
cupy, the quiet beauty of the yards in which
they live, their graceful and contented ac-
ceptance of the simple and the common—
place, their cooing ease, the charm of the
landscapes over which they fly and against
the outlines of which they are so often ar-
tistically engraved, are to me of the essence
of the beautiful.

THEODORE DREISER

 

/// - .... v.;.

HOME OF THE WESTERN MEADOWLARK

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 157

Bird Architecture

ETHEL MARY BAKER

ideas when it comes to building homes,

and, in their way, exercise just as
much ingenuity as do humans. Usually they
are quick to take advantage of the protec-
tion with which Mother Nature endows
them, but not always, for there are times
when they actually seem to court danger.

For instance, perhaps because they in—
stinctively love human companionship, rob—
ins have been known to build in most out—
landish places. Our mountain bluebirds
do the same, usurping a mailbox or crawl—
ing through a hole in a porch roof to build
among the rafters if houses are not pro-
vided for them.

Ordinarily, humming-birds build in trees
with the nest not far from the ground, an
artistic piece of work covered with lichens
and lined with gossamer cobwebs or thistle--
down, and so much a part of the tree that
to the casual eye, it’s just another bump
on a limb. But out in California, a daring
little hummer perched her nest on the
socket of an electric light bulb hanging on
a front porch, and she liked this homesite
so well that she returned year after year,
building a new addition at the top, and se—
curing each one firmly to the cord!

BIRDS, as well as people, have their own

Mourning doves are downright lazy when
it comes to home making. A few sticks
thrown carelessly together, are all that they
deem necessary. I have seen this shacky
nest on a bare flat rock, with nothing at all
in the bottom to protect the tender skin
of the baby birds. The flute—voiced bird of
our plains, the western meadowlark, usu—
ally builds a tunnel several inches long lead-
ing to the nest—which is invariably tucked.
away in a clump of dried grass—with an
opening so inconspicuous that it seems im—
possible for so large a bird to go back and
forth so easily.

The western lark sparrow also builds on
the ground, a round cup beautifully made
from sticks and dried grasses, but so clev-
erly concealed in a clump of weeds that

unless you happen to get close enough to
frighten the mother, you’re not very apt
to find it, and the baby birds are so like
the nest that one must look twice to be cer—
tain they are there.

Another example of splendid collabora—
tion with nature, is the nest of the ring—
necked pheasant. Although it is necessarily
large to accommodate the numerous eggs,
the coarse, loose straws that form the nest
are carefully placed flat on the ground in
a field of grain or alfalfa, and the eggs,
both olive-green and mud—brown in the
same nest, are effectively concealed by per-
fect blending with the shadows and sway-
ing blades above. This plain, shy mother
is perhaps the most loyal to her nest of all
the feathered clan, for although she can
hear and see the machinery approaching,
she never deserts it until the last moment—
Which is often just a moment too late.

The untidy home of the magpie resem-
bles a basket of strawy rubbish dumped into
the top of a tree, preferably a naked, dead
tree, and straws at loose ends hang in every
direction. That interesting bird of our
mountain streams the water ouzel, that can
swim, dive or float as well as fly above the
water and hop up and down on the rocks
as though the slim dark legs concealed min-
iature coiled springs, is another expert ar—
chitect. The nest of moss and lichens is
built close enough to the stream to enable
the spray to keep the outside moist, yet
the downy inside where the babies are,
entered by a side door, is always dry.

When it comes to careful weaving and
intricate design, the little bush—tits have
accomplished something still better than
the hanging nests of orioles. They might
have taken a huge, long gourd for a pat-
tern, and they certainly have big ideas, for
the nest is a mansion in proportion to the
size of the birds, and they use for materials,
fibers, grass and moss, finishing the inside
with the softest of feathers and wool, leav-
ing a small opening at the top for a door-

way.

 

THE PHEASANT’S NEST

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 181"

 

The Christmas Calf

JUDY VAN DER VEER

The cows are milked, the horses fed;
And nestled in the sweet warm hay,

There sleeps a little spotted calf
Born early on this Christmas day.

I found it when I came to milk,
Before the stars had left the sky;
Its mother standing over it,
With deep and watchful eye.

And though the wind outside was cold,
The big barn was a kindly place;

I moved my lantern back and forth
And saw it light each creature’s face.

I pitched down hay and thought how good
And sweet a place a barn may be;

I heard the pigeons move about
On rafters where I could not see.

The barn was filled with sound of wings
As pigeons wakened into flight;

And then I thought of Angel wings
Above a barn one Holy Night. . .

Of barns made sacred by a Child

Who came to bless all helpless things—
(The little spotted calf slept on,

All unaware of shining wings.)

Fun!

When the sky is as blue as a summer sea,
and the brown and the red and the yellow
of the leaves seem etched against it, and
there is a Sabbath peace on the hills, what.
a shame for a gun to blot such a day with
blood and torn pelts and feathers!

Some call it fun or sport, but I am
too dull-witted to see it so. The creatures
of the wild enjoy these autumn days in
their way as much as we; but for them
by the drowsy stream and on the sparkling
sea and in the twilight of the woods Death
watches and waits, clad in khaki and armed
with gun and knife.

C. E. DEIBERT

. ‘0
0

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day and Be Kind to Animals Week next
year. The dates selected are: Humane
Sunday, April 19; Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20—25. 1936.

Man’s Faithful Friend, the

florse

CLARENCE HAWKES

From Introduction to his new bOok, “Roany,” published by Milton Bradley Company, Springﬁeld, Mass.

toed small animal about the size of a

collie dog which geology tells us is the
progenitor of the horse. Fossils and rock
never attracted me much, but I am deeply
interested in that sentient, vital, intelli-
gent, responsive animal which we call the
modern horse. He has been so closely as—
sociated with man that his own and man’s
history as far back as we have records are
closely parallel. So the history of man
and this beast seems almost identical ever
since the earliest times. If you read the
history of one you are almost sure to run
across references to the other. Thus, it
was that when Elisha and Elijah came
down to the River Jordan and Elijah was
translated, they both exclaimed, “Behold
the chariots of the Lord,” as they discerned
a certain apparition in the sky. The Bible
away back to the beginning of the history
of man is filled with references to the
horse, and the donkey or mule, who are
both distant relatives of the more splendid
horse. _

In most of his great adventures, the
horse has accompanied man. The faithful
dog who ate his heart out because he could
not go, sat at the gate and saw the master
ride away on his favorite horse. Some-
times it was war, sometimes it was explo-
ration, and often only a long journey of
perhaps a hunting trip; but the horse
went while the dog stayed behind, or if he
did go, it was on shorter trips which did
not count for so much in the man’s life.

Horse authorities agree that the progen—
itor of the modern horse came from the
plains of Asia, but he was crossed with
many other strains, such as the Barb which
came from Africa, and which did much to
improve the horse of today.

The earliest use to which the horse was
put, sad to say, was the drawing of two-
wheeled war chariots, which were prob—
ably covered with sharp spears or blades
which did much execution to the enemy.
So it is that the very earliest history is
filled with references to the war horse and
war chariots.

Alexander

H AM not much interested in the multiple-

The Great, who flourished

several centuries before Christ, had very
celebrated cavalry which did much execu-

tion to his enemies and greatly helped him
to conquer the then known world.

The Medes and the Persians always used
cavalry, especially the latter when they at-
tacked Egypt.

The horse of early history was rather
smaller than the horse of today. Whenever
we see representations of the horse and
rider upon ancient bas reliefs or tapestries,
the man’s legs always hang down nearly
to the horse’s knees, showing that the horse
of that period was much smaller than the
horse of today. But the ancients did know
good horses, and they did produce them
even as early as the beginning of the
Christian era. A historian of military af-
fairs, writing as early as the fourth cen-
tury, B. 0., describes the ideal cavalry
horse in terms that no modern cavalryman
would take exception to, showing that they
knew even then how a fine horse should
look and what his qualifications should be.
The Roman chariot horses are famed in
both history and fiction. If you do not
believe this, read the account of the thrill-
ing chariot race in “Ben Hur,” by Lew
Wallace. If you are a horse lover, it will
make your blood throb in your veins and
your heart thrill with emotion.

The crusaders rode away on their pranc—
ing horses in the eleventh century and did
many of their deeds of valor around J e-
rusalem upon horseback. The Knights-er—
rant and all the Knights of old rode on
prancing chargers, who shared their mas-
ter’s glory, and did much to help him in his
deeds of valor.

One of the sights that used to make the

' horse lover’s heart burn with indignation

was to see a faithful horse who had seen
better days feebly hauling the junk man’s
wagon, often under the lash. But the So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to An-
imals took care of many of those cases.

I know of few things more contemptible
than for a man who has had the services
of a fine horse for the better part of the
faithful animal’s life to finally sell him
for a few dollars to someone who will drain
the noble animal’s last pound of strength
from his failing body and often abuse him,
and not give him enough to eat.

At the very other end of the scale from

 

 

 




 

 

Page 158
@119 Earth nf ﬁllerrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON. Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nineteen new Bands of Mercy were re-
ported during August. Of these, thirteen
were in Virginia, five in North Carolina,
and one in Massachusetts.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 210,809

Hospital‘Visitors Form Band

N this page is pictured a group of about

sixty members of the Community
Church of North Cambridge, Mass, Rev. S.
O. Weems, pastor. By special invitation they
visited the Angell Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. one day in Au-
gust. After being shown through the Hos—
pital, in which they were much interested,
they gathered in the main corridor of the
executive department and listened to a
brief talk by the Secretary of the Society
who closed his remarks by an explanation
of the Band of Mercy. The pastor, Mr.
VVeems, asked if they could not form a
Band right there and then. This happy
suggestion was immediately accepted, and
the. North Cambridge Community Church
Band of Mercy was organized, all the mem-
bers present enthusiastically assenting to
the pledge.

In the annual essay competition spon-
sored by the Humane Society of Ottawa,
Ontario, 3,000 pupils between the ages of
nine and thirteen competed. Eighteen
schools were represented and a cup and
eighty-eight other prizes were awarded.

Garden Visitor

BETSEY MANN COLLINS

The rabbits ate my tulips,
They ate some larkspur, too.
They did the thieving little tricks
That all wild rabbits do!

I vowed I’d get the rascals!
Indeed, I'd worked too hard

To have some thieving bunnies come
And spoil my little yard!

Grimly I lay waiting—
Pretty soon arose

A pair of startled eyes and ears
Above a twitching nose.

Their owner sat quite gravely,
Loo/ting at my gun—

Somehow, I missed him—4naybe I
Was blinded by the sun.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1935

 

THIS ENTIRE CONGREGATION

BECAME A BAND OF MERCY

 

Mind Your Own Business

EDNA M. ALLEN

F all the small animals which seem to

be able to say this successfully, the
skunk has the lead. Others, the porcupine
and hedgehog, not to mention a few others
who can make it unpleasant for humanity,
are left far behind.

However, while they can be extremely

unpleasant if disturbed, these pretty little
creatures are indifferent as to what you
may do, so long as you give them plenty
of room and, as a Hollywood artist found
out, they are not particularly concerned as
to whom that room belongs.

This man was building a studio in the
hills back of the town, residing meanwhile
in one partly finished room and doing his
cooking under a canvas shelter outside, and
on coming home one evening, he discovered
that a pair of skunks had taken possession
of his room in his absence. They were of
the variety known to old-time Californians
as “hydrophoby skunks,” because their bite
was believed to cause madness in dogs.

This pair had no intention of giving up
their new home, and the artist, who was a
brave man as well as a lover of animals,
had the courage to get into his bed, which
was fortunately near the door. For a long
time before he went to sleep he lay watch-
ing them as they crossed and re—crossed a
patch of moonlight on the floor, playing
like kittens.

Morning found them more at home than
ever, having made a nest in the bottom
drawer of an old dresser. The room was
built on a hillside, and they found a hole in
the outside wall through which they went
in and out as they pleased. For several
weeks these unusual roomers persisted in
staying, but when their family increased
to seven the artist decided it was getting
too crowded to be comfortable, and that he
wduld have to give them notice to leave. He
waited until the baby skunks were big
enough to run around and then, putting a
pan of hot coals just inside the door of the
room, he Sprinkled a little sulphur over it.
As the thick yellow smoke began to roll out
into the room, the skunk family left in a

hurry. Watching through a window the
man saw the father and mother, one on
each side, boosting the babies up over a
beam to the hole in the wall, and a few min—
utes later they disappeared in the Chaparral
covered hillside. Then, breathing a sigh of
relief, he went inside and stopped up their
doorway.

Not once in all the time, five weeks, that
they lived in the corner of his room did
they try to make it uncomfortable for him.
They were willing to let him alone as long
as he did the same for them. However, it
was a long time before he got over the
habit of moving carefully around the room
so as not to disturb them.

On the Streets of New York

Horses seem to have a strange fascina-
tion for New Yorkers, writes Paul Harrison
in the Gazette, Haverhill, Mass. You never
see a policeman’s mount or even a dray
horse standing at a curb that he doesn’t
receive pats and friendly scratches, and
now and then a hunk of apple. Patting a
horse probably means, to some city folk, a
slight satisfaction of their thwarted bucolic
urge. A friend reports seeing a trim old
gentleman. dodge around a corner from his
Fifth Avenue club and approach a standing
team with a handful of sugar cubes. The
near horse grabbed it and the old gentle-
man turned away, to be halted by a roar
from the truckman: “Hey, mister, that
other horse ain’t no stepchild!” So he went
back to his club, got another handful of
sugar, and fed the other horse.

Every morning for years a milk wagon on
its dawning rounds has stopped at an all--
night restaurant on Ninth Avenue. The
horse stops, that is, and tosses an expectant
glance over his shoulder. The driver goes
into the restaurant and, at this time of year,
buys a strawberry ice cream cone. Takes
it out and feeds it to his horse. On cold
winter mornings he buys the horse a ham—
burger. -With plenty of onion!

Join the Jack London Club—a great move-
ment whose goal is the prevention of cruelty
to performing animals.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 160

 

The Four Stages of Love

D. W.

HITCHNER

When she’s stretched across your knee,
In abandonment of glee,
That’s toleration.

When her furry body hurns,
Like the throbbing beat of drums,
That’s approbation.

When claws thrust out and in,
On a tender knee or chin,
It’s adoration,

But the greatest gift of grace,
Is the washing of your face——
Her complete abdication.

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.
Already several cases have come to our at—
tention and are being relieved in this way.

Gifts already received for this purpose
now amount to $7,087.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the
Humane Education Trust Fund.

to Animals “for the use of the Hospita

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Real, Live, Hallowe’en
Cat

ALICE B. PALMER

W ITH unbelievable certainty ’twas Hal.-
lowe’en night, October 31, the night
of “spirits and witches,” so they say, that
this particular, real, live black cat walked in
out of the darkness. His sudden appear-
ance was quite unannounced and unexpect—
ed. I had long been hoping for just such
an opportunity of adopting a stray cat, but
most certainly did not expect to be thus pre—
sented with one and a black one, on Hal—
lowe’en of all calendar nights. Some may
conjecture all sorts of things such as “bad
luck,” “uncanny” and so on, but this spe-
cial, coal—black cat brought exceeding good
luck, (if there is such a thing).

He staunchly refused to be ushered out
that evening and was still more reluctant
to depart in the morning. I wanted to give
him an opportunity of returning to his own—
ers, if there were any. He absolutely re-
fused to leave the premises and lingered on
for several days displaying a very meek,
desirous attitude, which won me over and
he was promptly adopted and named Hal—
lowe’en or “Hal” for short. He was truly
a handsome creature, black coat and emer-
ald eyes—yet just plain “cat,” no pedigree.

As I went about my household tasks he
followed from room to room and if I re—
mained long in one spot he settled down as
close as possible, curled up into a ball and
watched with one eye open to see that I did
not escape without him. He had learned
through constant vigilance, of my various
morning activities. I was awakened regu—
larly at the proper time by Hal’s soft paw
gently passing over my eyes. When I open—
ed them he gently licked my chin and ex—
pected the usual display of affection on my
part which consisted of long gentle strokes
while telling him what a lovely, shiny black
cat he was. While I dressed he watched my
every movement with a wise, almost human
expression. He knew I crossed the hall to
the shower room, so instead of running
downstairs he calmly walked past them and
over to the door and sat waiting. He walk-
ed in when it opened and sat wholly recon—

.ciled to await my performance. Then I al—

ways carried him down to the breakfast
nook where he ate a full-fledged human re—
past consisting of bacon, eggs and milk.
While I washed the dishes he sat perform--
ing his usual morning toilet, all the time
keeping an understanding eye on me.

He had a most inveterate desire to follow

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate ti
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the

tle of our Society is “The

Prevention of Cruelty

. . 1,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and 1s conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

Oct. 1935

me on shopping tours. It seemed almost im-
possible to make my escape without him
and I was obliged to resort to all sorts of
tricks in order to do so. Once, however, he
did escape and trailed me right into the
center of town before I noticed him. He
remained right at my heels in and out of
stores placing me in a very embarrassing
position but there was nothing to do about
it.

I was mentally preparing a scolding for
Hal on the return trip, but he out—witted
me again. A lady with a small water-
spaniel was coming toward us, when sud—
denly a huge dog charged out unexpectedly
from a side street and attacked the spaniel.
Instead of climbing a tree, cat fashion, Hal
rushed to the rescue of the little dog. Pounc-
ing upon the great hound he spat and
growled and fought angrily until the dog
was obliged to drop his victim and flee for
his life.

This incident, however, drew a great
crowd and I received several offers for the
purchase of Hal. But I only realized how
precious he was to me and proceeded on
my way homeward, trying to tell him of
the great saucer of milk he was to receive
for his bravery.

This same “Black Feller,” as I sometimes
affectionately called him, proved his hero-
ism in many similar cases over a period of
ten years and had thus become endeared
to the whole community who literally show-
ered him with their attentions. He lived
on the “fat of the land” and refused to
even notice such an insigniﬁcant creature as
a mouse or a bird. He would look at them
with a certain dignity but never, in all his
life, did he show any sign of enmity to—
ward them.

The neighborhood children were planning
to present Hal with a medal for his hero-
ism when he disappeared, never to be heard
of again. Perhaps it was a case of “The
Cat Came Back.” Perhaps he remembered
his original home and returned to it. But
his charming and wholesome presence will
ever be remembered in the hearts of those
he left behind, specially on the anniversary
of his appearing—Hallowe’en.

The Annual Fair, Women’s Auxiliary,
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., will be held at
Hotel Vendome, Boston, Wednesday, De-
cember 11, 1935.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT‘
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue_
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

Page 182

the draft horse are the ponies which mean
so much to children, both the Welch and
the Shetland, especially the latter. How
many children’s lives are made happy in
both this country and in Europe by the
possession of a faithful little Shetland,
who will run his legs off for his young
master. Child life would not be what it is
without the Shetland pony.

I am greatly rejoiced that more and more
the horse is being emancipated from his
former drudgery, and again coming into
his own as the companion of man and as a
driving horse.

I congratulate the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals upon the
great work that it is doing for the protec—
tion of horses. The horses’ Christmas Din-
ner, given each year in Boston, is truly a
fine expression of the kind—heartedness of
man and his appreciation of his wonderful
pal, the horse.

It is my great desire that gradually the
horse will come into his own as a compan-
ion of man and the best friend man has,
next to the faithful dog. Certainly God has
created no nobler animal than a good horse.
Long may he thrive to whinny each morn-
ing when the barn door is opened and nib—
ble playfully at his master’s coat sleeve.
May men in time grow to be worthy of the
faithful horse.

Consider the Snake

MAX GRAY

OYISH energy that once spent itself in
thoughtless cruelty upon some helpless
living thing now more often finds an outlet
in befriending and protecting those same
helpless creatures.
Instead of trying to shoot every bird,

trap every animal, and club every snake,_

we find that boys have a feeling of friend—
liness toward wild things, a feeling incul—
cated by knowledge gained through Boy
Scout activities, nature study clubs, boys’
camps, and other educational agencies.
Many living creatures that have long been
victims of boyish ignorance go unmolested,
even aided.

An instance that strikingly illustrated
the trend of education in protecting wild
things occurred at a Boy Scout camp near
Wabash, Indiana, when some boys discov—
ered a large bull-snake near a pile of boul—
ders not far from the camp.

Instead of attempting to kill the snake,
one of the boys raced for his leader. Coming
on the run, he identified it as harmless,
and the snake, sluggish and bulging in the
middle from a recent meal, was brought in-
to the camp and placed in a box covered
with screen wire, for observation.

Soon the entire camp was gathered about,
while the leader explained how helpful the
dangerous looking, but harmless, reptile is
in exterminating harmful vermin.

With a new respect for the value of the
scaly captive, the boys carefully returned
the box to a place near the boulder pile,
and opened the door, knowing that they
were releasing a potential friend and not
a deadly enemy.

“Blessed are the peacemakers; for

shall be called the children of God.”

they

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Mules of the Sierras

G. H. LAW

0 THE coffee planter of the Venezue—
lan Cordillera de los Andes the mule is
a valuable ally. Working throughout the
year on the “haciendas,” the animals are
particularly useful during the harvest sea«
son, when they transport the garnered crop
to the main dispatching points.
Throughout the Sierras mule—trains are
to be met with, laden with produce. The

PACK MULES IN MAIN STREET OF
TYPICAL ANDEAN TOWN

drivers of these trains, picturesque fellows,
handle their charges with great skill, urg—
ing them along with rough yet kindly cries.

In the remote fastnesses of the upper
heights, where the rarified atmosphere
makes sustained physical effort extremely
arduous, the dwellers rely to a great ex—
tent upon mountain-bred mules when trav—
eling from place to place. Rugged trails
traverse these lonely regions, leading from
the great jungles of the lower levels up
through the sparse shrub patches marking
the limit of the timber-line, to the desolate
wind—swept passes, culminating in the Pass
of El Paramo del Mucuchies, where the
Trans-Andean road crosses the crest of the
range at 13,511 feet above sea-level. Be-
yond the next valley rise the mighty peaks
of the Sierra de Santo Domingo, capped
with everlasting snow and ice, the cradle of
bitter winds which rake the high exposed
points.

In these unfrequented areas, the traveler
will often journey for hours on end without
encountering a single soul, his animal pick-
ing its way carefully along the desolate
trails, bordered in season by bright Alpine
flowers.

The mules of this region possess great
stamina and powers of endurance, enabling
them to withstand to a remarkable degree
the fatiguing effects of the rarified atmos-
phere and the steep trails over which they
travel. Their coats are thick and shaggy,
serving as protection against the icy winds
which sweep the exposed ridges, and the
damp cloudbanks that envelope the heights
for hours and even days at a time.

 

Dec. 1935

The mountain man looks after his ani—
mal with care; for away from the Trans—
Andean road, it is his sole means of trans-
portation; and he may be seen clad in a
thick “poncho”—a blanket-like cape—with
a woollen helmet covering his head and
most of his face, pursuing his solitary way
amid an awe-inspiring grandeur of scenery.

The Charity of Cardinal

Newman

MADELEINE AARON

HENEVER a Christian of the Eng-

lish—speaking world encounters on
the printed page the name of Cardinal
John Henry Newman, the opening lines of
“Lead, Kindly Light” flash through his
mind. The scholarly author of this immor—
tal hymn, whose fame steadily grows, was
noted for his gentleness and for his kind—
ness toward every creature. He chose to
follow the example of St. Philip Neri, an
Italian nobleman of the sixteenth century,
who, like St. Francis of Assisi, is remem-
bered for his kindness toward animals, and
especially toward birds and domestic ani-
mals, creatures most often mistreated by
men.

Cardinal Newman so greatly admired the
charity of St. Philip Neri that he once com—
posed this prayer to him, asking the “friend
of God” to obtain for him a great favor—
that of realizing his brotherhood with all
creatures:

“Philip, my glorious advocate, teach me
to look at all I see around me after thy
pattern as the creatures of God. Let me
never forget that the same God who made
me made the whole world and all men and
animals that live in it. Gain me the grace
to love all God’s works for God’s sake, and
all men for the sake of my Lord and Savior
who redeemed them on the cross.”

Selassie Likes Cats

Haile Selassie, king of kings, lion of
Judah, emperor of Ethiopia, likes cats, says
the Cat Courier. The emperor owns ﬁfty-
seven lions that stroll about with him in
the palace gardens. DeSpite his weighty
anxieties as sovereign, he supervises the
daily care and feeding of his “big cats.”

Grace

E. LOUISE M. JENKINS

I sit down at the table with the prayer
welling up that no animal goes hungry
today.

I thank God for my good food; I wish my
plate no fuller for my need than are the
mangers of my dumb friends.

I cannot eat more than I need, remember-
ing them.

I put from my thought the memory of every
starving animal;

I hold in my mind the picture of each one,
fed and cared for, useful, strong and con-
tent.

This is the ideal for which you strive, and
I strive. By faith and work and wisdom
we shall one day bring it into manifesta-
tion.

 

 




 

 

 

Dec. 1935

Entice the Birds

ARJORIE TERHUNE, devoted lover

of all wild life, writes what all bird
lovers will be glad to know, if already not
familiar with the facts. Mr. Winthrop
Packard of the Audubon Society says of
her article, “Good medicine from both the
botanist’s and the ornithologist’s stand-
point.”

We all know the practical uses of the
sassafras, the familiar tree of the roadside,
Whose ﬂaming colors in autumn mix with
those of the gum and maples. The tree
grows in our neighborhood where we may
observe it closely and ﬁnd that month by
month throughout the year this beauty is
justiﬁed in its selection for planting it on
our home grounds.

Hungry birds and beasts will plunge, if
possible, beneath the snows for the delicious
mealy fruit that hangs on the spicebush.
Such berries as the black alder and others,
which are strikingly adorned with close—
crowded berries, are planted by Mother Na-
ture for wild creatures’ food, so, this fall
when the glossy bronze carpet of old leaves,
dotted with vivid berries, lures you to the
woods, leave the berries where they belong
and become a wild-life conservationist.

Such Ornamental berries as sumac, dog—
wood, pepperidge, sassafras, bayberries and
others lend their part in adding beauty to
the landscape, and a great temptation it is
to refrain from picking them.

Most people that pick the fall berries
are totally unaware that they are taking
the .food right out of the mouths of our
winter birds. They do not know that our
feathered beauties depend absolutely on
these berries to carry them over the mid-
winter danger line of starvation.

In the fall when the leaves pass through
their changing hues from green to rose, and
later, still glossy and smooth, turn to scar—
let, the once green berries are brighter
still. These berries are loved by the birds
and it’s a joy to watch all species, large and
small, come from all directions to enjoy the
repast. I cannot urge my readers and
friends too strongly to leave the berries
where the birds may enjoy them.

Another berry popular with the fall pick-
ers is the bayberry, which is also called
the waxberry. Its rigid leaves are dull
dark green and oblong in shape. When
the leaves fall from their stems, we see
clusters of light gray berries. These were
utilized by early colonists who boiled the
berries and made candles from their float—
ing wax. These berries constitute almost
all of the goldﬁnch’s diet. During the dread-
ful snowstorms of 1933 the smaller bay-
berry bushes were covered entirely by snow,
the larger bushes having been already
stripped, cutting off the food for the gold-
finch in our vicinity. I, wrapped in warm
clothing, dug away the snow so that the
birds could eat and have a chance to live.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon

application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 183

— Staging a Beaver Come-back

JAMES MONTAGNES

FFORTS are being made by the Na—
tional Parks branch of the Canadian.
government to rehabilitate the beaver. Once
the coin of the realm, beavers became so
scare that today no white man may trap
them in the Dominion, and Indians may do
so only in limited areas.
In order to bring the beaver back to its
once multitudinous population, studies are

 

on several occasions taken beaver along
with him in boxes, in his canoe, and by
other means including wagons and trains.

Other experiments have shown that beav-
ers brought up from kittens on special foods
and kept in a tank in a cottage for the
winter will in summer go back to the
streams and the woods, to fell trees, build
dams and lead their natural life.

 

CUROSITY LEADS THE BEAVER TO INVESTIGATE THE

CAMERA EQUIPMENT ‘

being made of beaver life to ﬁnd the best
ways in which the beaver can become nu-
merous again in the woods of the Dominion.
Besides being a valuable fur-bearing animal
the beaver is considered by government au~
thorities as one of the best means towards
forest ﬁre prevention, for it has been found

that in regions in which the beaver is pop-

ulous the least ﬁres occur, and in those
where the beaver has been wiped out by
hunters and forestry operations, the great-
est ﬁre hazard is to be found.

An Indian naturalist, Grey Owl, has been
made the ofﬁcial doctor and nurse of the
beaver. He makes his home in various
parks of the government where the beaver
is found in some numbers, so that he can
study the habits of the animal. He has
made friends with the beavers wherever he
has gone, so that they come to him at his
call, invade his house, and become attached
enough for him to ﬁnd out what foods
besides twigs and leaves they like best and
are most nourishing.

He has gone so far in this study, that
where he has found orphaned beaver kittens
he has fed the youngsters from a bottle and
even a syringe, giving them milk diets. As
they grew older he fed them bannock, boiled

rice, apples, and other foods which are not
The beavers which he

found in the woods.
has fed in this way have thrived.

Grey Owl has learned also that beavers
can be transported from one section of the
country to another without harm. He has

Grey Owl’s activities as guardian of the
beaver include the breeding of strong virile
colonies. Through trapping the interbreed-
ing among some of the colonies of beavers
has weakened their resistance to weather
and other animals. In such cases beavers
from vigorous colonies are brought in to
strengthen the weaker groups.

Beavers have a sense of humor, and at
times are almost human in their reactions.
They have a manner of expressing them-
selves in the inﬂection of their sounds. They
play about, are mischievous, show their af-
fection and their dislikes. They answer to
calls up to distances of half a mile, are
curious and very industrious.

Grey Owl’s experiments show that with
proper scientiﬁc care the beavers can again
become numerous.

Rarely Beautiful

As a white candle
In a holy place,
So is the beauty
Of an aged face.
As the spent radiance
Of the winter sun,
S0 is a woman
With her travail done,
Her brood gone from her,
And her thoughts as still
As the waters
Under a ruined mill.

JOSEPH CAMPBELL, the Ulster poet

 

 




The American Oﬂicers of Both Societies The Massachusetts Society

. . DR. FRANCIS H. IKOWLEY', President FOR THE
Humane Education Somety GUY RICHARDSON’ sec'emy Prevention of Cruelt toAnimal
ALBERT A. POLIIARD, Treasurer , y s

Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY

    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by CEO. T. ANGELL in 1868

Ofﬁcial organ of all our Societies

   
       
   

170-184 Longwood Avenue, Boston

  

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-Pres., United Shoe Machinery Corp.
PHILIP STOCKTON. President, First National Bank of Boston

The Societies have had bequests from one thousand one hundred and forty-two
deceased friends. The Societies are supported by gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State.

RATES or MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual,$1.;
Children’s $0.75.

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free.

.The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work, i
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even
than m the cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

.The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at

53:57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931. Altogether we have treated 460,119
animals, 135,303 m the Hospital and 324,816 in the Dispensary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIETY

 

IO CENTS

FWMCE

 

 

 

I

AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION

 

 

 

 

$35

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOVEMBER

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 




 

 

Dec. 1935

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, L-ynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. T‘Hos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. 5. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas. ; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. M. F. PETERSEN, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres. ; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—

MRs. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,627

Cases investigated . . ............. 504
Animals examined ............... 6380
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . . . . 174
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 43
Number of prosecutions ........... 4
Number of convictions ........... 3
Horses taken from work .......... 12
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 71

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,803
Stock—yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 67,247
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ............. . ...... 6

Have you seen the 1936 Humane Calendar,
issued by the American Humane Education
Society? It shows a colored picture, “Green
Pastures.” The leaves of the pad contain
humane hints appropriate for each month.
Price, 20 cts. each; six for $1; twelve for $1.80.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oeomwm
bownmn

mi>

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary

Cases entered 951 Cases 2,678
Dogs 697 Dogs 2,132
Cats 236 Cats 511
Birds 9 Birds 28
Goats 3 Monkeys 3
Horses 3 Coats 2
Rats 2 Horse 1
Rabbit 1 Turtle 1
Operations 981

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 . . . . . . . ............. 133,483
Dispensary Cases .............. 319,731
Total ................. . 453,214
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 124
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 380
Operations .................... 164

 

Free Dinners for Horses

The annual custom of distributing
Christmas dinners for horses will be
observed by the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. on Tuesday, December 24, 1935.
Generous bags of feed will be given to
drivers, or placed on their trucks for
home consumption, at the most ad-
vantageous places available. A Visit
will be made to the horses of “ped—
dlers’ row” and each supplied with a
twenty-pound bag of oats, cut-up ap-
ples and carrots. Any surplus will be
carried to stables where it will be
most acceptable.

We believe that many friends who
have contributed to this holiday cele—
bration in the past will very gladly
contribute again, to insure its repeti-
tion. NO individual appeals will be
sent out.

 

 

 

 

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re—
membered in the wills of Sarah L. Whit-
marsh of Beverly; Joseph B. Tilton of Mt.
Desert, Maine; Elizabeth P. L. Emmons of
Hingham; Leota Saladie von Kieffer of
Marblehead; Myra R. Knowlton of Boston;
David J. Edwards of Boston; and Marion
G. Pratt of Middleboro.

November 12, 1935.

 

Page 185
Rules for Rodeos

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Rules for Rodeos in Massachusetts

These regulations carried out, there will
be no interference on the part of the SO-
ciety. Its officers will be stationed at the
arena to see that there is no violation of
them.

NO sharp spurs.

NO wide wood paddles. If horses need
starting, use snap of whip or strap.

NO “busting of calves” purposely will be
tolerated. Horse to come to standstill and
hold his position. NO backing. No jerking
horses or setting them back on haunches re-
sulting in “calf busting.” (If the calf is
not roped within 65 seconds the whistle will
be blown and the man retire from the
arena.)

Not more than seven calves to be roped
at any one performance and these calves
strong and in good condition.

Placing fingers in eyes, lips or nose while
wrestling steers forbidden.

No sore, lame or injured animal permit-
ted in any performance.

A drag provided to carry injured steers
or horses from arena.

No cruel bits permitted.

Cinches, saddle girths and flank strap
shall be covered on bucking horses.

No Unfit Horses to Be Used

No rope or strap flank cinch to be used
independent of. the saddle in connection
with saddled broncos.

A loose rope will be used in bareback
riding. There will be no knots or clinch-
1ng.

Clowns not to ride calves or haze calves.

Animals must be properly fed and water—
ed prior to and during rodeo.

Contestants failing to Observe above rules
must be ordered from the arena and de-
barred from the competition.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY,
President

 

This is “Jack,” at the age of 21, in mem-
ory of whom one Of our horse stalls in the
Angell Animal Hospital is endowed for a
year. His picture is hung in the stall and
a brass plate, which bears his name and
that of his owner, is attached to the stall.

 




 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET N0. 652
on the practical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

,, FOR noes

1' TRAGHLORETHYLENE cur.

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk N-58-L
mmal Industry Dept,

A
PARKE, DAVIS 8: (30., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

  
  
       
  
 

     

)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW HUMANE CALENDAR
FOR 1936

Colored picture, “Green Pastures,” showing
cows in field. Humane hints on leaves of pad.

Price, 20 cents per single copy, two for 35 cents;
$1.80 per dozen, postpaid to any address. Special
rates to Societies with name and list of ofﬁcers, for
immediate orders only. Address, AM. HUMANE
EDUCATION SOC., Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

thcrcqular use of

u inure

' ___

”l wees...

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
@thertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 19136 .......... each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1934, bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes ................ .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, _with

attractive pictures and verses, SIX in

the set .......................... . . . 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/3x3% .. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................... . $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, N0. 5 ...... .50 :: ::
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 .. ,,
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 ‘
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ ‘
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 200' “ “ .

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 :50
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen .Trevelyan ..... 2.5 cts.

vFirst Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.,$1.g8 per 100

W hata’is the ‘Jack London Club? .......
ForevVord frOm “MichaeLBrother of Jerry” .30
Grip‘ped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . 1 00

"How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. 2 cents each ; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care. and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers. many

illus. . . . ._ ............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ................. * ..... e ach, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ....................
An .Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48»pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

each, 10 cts.

each, 10 cts.

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals 3 00‘ “ "

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.

Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall LeadThem.”

play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

. 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exerc1ses .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp. ....................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “

Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “

Need of Humane Education Societies and
Methods of Forming Them ......... .
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. . A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

‘6 Cl

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

‘6 ‘6

How to Form Bands of Mercy ..........

.50
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

FILMS ILLUSTRATING KINDNESS TO ANIMALS
THE BELL OF ATRI

Blade for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

This Film is being used by the Departments of Visual Education
in the public schools of Detroit and Chicago

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s
Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 15 minutes each.

State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PageQZ;
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS I-I. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1 935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Deadly Oil in Coastal
Waters

HOSE of our readers interested in the

campaign to stop the discharging into
the sea of the waste oili that is annually
killing millions of our attractive water fowl
will learn with pleasure that this subject
is more and more claiming a place in the
public mind. More than 7,000 of the pam-
phlets we published, “An International Ap-
peal,” have been sent out, over half of this
number having been asked, for by various
national and international organizations,
and requests keep coming for more.

From Norway came a letter asking for
100 copies and later a letter saying these
had been “distributed among leading news-
papers, the harbor masters of the towns
along the coast, and prominent members of
our societies for animal protection and per-
sonal friends in this country and Sweden
and Denmark.” The letter continues,
“Many who have seen the dreadful waste
of bird life will feel it a relief that you
have taken up this question.” Also from
Norway came a request from the Bruun &
von der Lippe steamship line asking for
copies to be given to each of the command-
ers of their ships. From Sweden has come
a request for a general supply of copies,
also a request for 450 copies came from the
Durban and Coast Society, South Africa.

We have been told, on what seems trust-
worthy authority, that 80 per cent of broad—
bill ducks have their feathers matted with
oil and that more than a million ducks were
killed following the wreck of the oil-laden
steamship Luckenbach three years ago.

If all the organizations in the United
States interested in wild life would unite
in a conference at Washington to urge upon
Congress action in this matter, we are con-
ﬁdent something very real could be ac-
complished.

Despise not the sorrows of a frog,
God’s creature too and that’s enough to
plead.
CHRISTINA ROSSETTI

Remember the American Humane Edu-
cation Society in your will.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Private Slaughter-house

E are in fullest agreement with the
following from the humane publica-

tion, Progress Today, London, England:
“The private slaughter-house should be
abolished in the interests of humane slaugh-
ter and hygiene. There is carried on at
the present time, despite recent Acts of
Parliament, an enormous amount of Jewish
slaughter, which is not limited to Jewish
consumption. The existence of the private
slaughter-house makes the computation and

control of Jewish slaughter impossible.”

The Jewish method of slaughter, claimed
to be demanded by orthodox Jews as part
of their religious ritual, we deplore as we
do all slaughtering where quick and com-
plete stunning does not precede the use
of the knife. The Jewish officials who are
supposed to kill only for their own religion-
ists are employed by scores, yes, hundreds,
of Gentiles, to kill for them, and to kill
according to the Jewish method. Either
way is associated with enough cruelty, and
the more cruel should be limited as far as
possible. As the orthodox Jews eat only
the forepart of cattle and sheep they kill,
the rest of the carcass is, of course, sold
to the Gentile trade. Hundreds of thou-
sands of ordinary meat eaters eat the ﬂesh
of animals killed by the Jewish method.

Children Burn Their Toys

But what kind of toys? Here’s the story:
December 11, last, in a section of Chicago
largely foreign in character, the children
of the Ryerson Elementary School, through
the co-operation of the teaching staff and
representatives of the Parent—Teacher As-
sociation, voluntarily brought their cher-
ished toys, guns and pistols, built a good
sized bonﬁre and committed the-m to the
ﬂames. Surely these children will grow
up less inclined to want revolvers and
sawed-off shot guns and machine guns and
to join the gangs that live by violence and
plunder. It was a ﬁne example to set and
we hope may be followed by other schools.
Sir Philip Gibbs tells us in his “European
Journey” that in France so great is the
fear of another war that parents no longer
give their children for presents such toys as
miniature guns, pistols and tin soldiers.
Away from all that could awaken or foster
the very thought of strife and war they
seek to train them. This in spite of all the
government may do to insure security
against a possible foe.

Mrs. Dow, president of the Chi-
cago Humane Education Society,
a branch of our own, who sends us
this word, also says in a letter to
the Attorney General of the United
States, Homer Cummings, relative
to this bonﬁre:

“Those of us in close touch
with children know how strong
a hold stickup and Dillin-
ger games have taken on
young imaginations. In Sep-
tember a youthful gang was
rounded up, ranging in ages
from 9 to 15, all wanted for
dog and bicycle stealing, and
arson. They were of Polish,
Armenian and Jewish descent.”

 

JUNEAU’S “OFFICIAL GREETER”

Feb. 1935

An Interesting Letter

HURLBURT, JONES & HALL
ATTORNEYS AT LAW

530 EXCHANGE BUILDING
53 STATE STREET, BOSTON

December 21, 1934
My dear Dr. Rowley:

I have read Our Dumb Animals for a good
many years and it is a constant visitor to
my home in Belmont.

I thought you might be interested in the
following dog story which I am informed
is absolutely true.

This summer we thoroughly enjoyed a
trip to Alaska, otherwise known as “Uncle
Sam’s Attic.” Nearing Juneau, the terri-
torial capitol of Alaska, the ofﬁcers of the
SS. Aleutian told us to be on the lookout
for Juneau’s “ofﬁcial greeter.”

As the ship came to the pier, they pointed
him out—a brown dog of uncertain age at
the very edge of the pier. Attached to his
collar was a tag conferred upon him by the
citizens of Juneau announcing that he had
been duly designated “ofﬁcial greeter” for
the capital city.

This is his story:

Four or ﬁve years ago he disembarked
from a steamer with his master. In some
way they became separated. Whether the
master sailed away or met with some ill fate
is a mystery. But from that day to this
whenever a steamship Whistles its apprOach
the dog rushes to the pie-r looking for the
master who never returns. In all these years
he has never missed a boat, whether it
comes in at noonday or at midnight, whether
it is: in the warm summer days or in the
storms of winter. There he stands or lies
with a look of ineffable longing in his eyes,
waiting and watching for the one he loved
and lost.

There have been many tragedies in Alas-
ka both before and since the days of the
gold rush and this is only another in the
long list. But one who has seen the “Of-
ﬁcial Greeter” and has looked into his eyes,
can never forget the story of his faithful-
ness.

I am sending you the picture of the dog
taken as our steamer left the pier after
his most recent vain search for his master.

Very sincerely yours,
DAMON E. HALL

“The world would be a dismal place with-
out horses, dogs and cats.”

AT PIER

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET N0. 652
on the practical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

   
 

eﬂeetz’vely remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk N-58 I
Animal Industry Dept, _ _
PARKE, DAVIS 8: (20., Detrolt, Mlch

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers for 1934
Beautifully bound in cloth and stamped in gold
Ideal gift for humane friends and for institutions of
all kinds. 192 Pages—150 Illustrations

Postpaid to any part of the world for One Dollar

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

éﬁgst Cl’sset

Bar A CL€AR SKIN

. ember Be
(talcum Soap

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Wuhartakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINIii—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-oI-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes ................ .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, .with

attractive pictures and verses, Six in .1

the set .............................. " 1.00

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ ‘:
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ ‘
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... 50 :‘ ‘:
The Story of Barry .................... .30 ‘ ‘
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............... 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 3O cts. .. paper,7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 2.5 cts.

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael «Brother of J erry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . . .. .00

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .............. 1 ...... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. .. . . ............ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

.Friends, 29 pp., paper covers. many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 t .
Humane, Education—for Parents and c 8
Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.

An .Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3cts.
TIE: Il-Iumane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
OW ey ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; a er, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections forp p
school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3.00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—-Club, play, 3 cts. each;ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts.each;six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”
play .................... 3 cts. each;ten for 25 cts.
Frie ds of Fur and Feather, play,
' cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp ....................... 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A.

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts

Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

$1.00 per 100

H 6‘

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 :: L
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FILMS ILLUSTRAT‘ING KlNDNESS To ANIMALS
THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

f the public schools of Detroit, Michigan, has just
This makes a total of eight prints of thls

The Visual Education Department. 0
ordered two more prints of the 35 mm. size.
popular ﬁlm that. have been used in the schools of Detroit during the last few years.

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s

Rest Farm for HOI‘SGS, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 15 minutes each.

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 




 

 

,Page164 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Nov.1935

ICould Not Sleep at Night

MINA M. TITUS

l E If I had set a trap of steel,
I could not sleep at night—
The pain—crazed eyes of dying things
Would shine so fiercely bright.

There in the dark around my bed
Shy creatures I would see

With swollen, frozen, bleeding limbs,
For mercy begging me.

I’d hear the anguished, frightened cries
2 Of little furry balls

5 Imprisoned, struggling through long days
While no one heeds their calls.

 

E I’d see small paws, half-twisted off
E And twice their normal size,
l Being licked with parched and pain-foamed
E tongue
E Before my sleepless eyes.

I’d see those wild and free—born things
E Which should live on in peace,

E With glazing eyes look up at me
E In pleading for release.

If I had set a trap of steel,

I could not sleep at night——
The pain-crazed eyes of dying things
’ Would shine so fiercely bright.

 

Here is the report that comes to us from Venice, California, through a

E . regular news agency:
1 CI'UCltY to AllCllCIlCCS Evenoa human being would have more than a little difficulty on this
slack Wire, but “King Tuffy,” 511—p0und African lion, is able to do it. He

, Editorial in Christian Science Monitor - . . . , .
I holds the distinction of being the only trained lion who performs on a

HE protest against employment of a tight wire. Owned and trained by Bob Matthews of Venice California

performing dog in a London theatrical the four—year—old jungle king learned to perform on a ten-fobt wire only
show has raised again the question of cruel— two months ago, and now graces the feat with all the care-free efficiency
ty to animals in the entertainment world, of a tight-rope artist—although the presence of a camera-man made him
especially in the cinema. a little skittish, as his picture shows.

 

The cinema, indeed, has introduced an en—

tirely new development into the problem of

the proper treatment of animals in enter- VlClOUS AdVCl'IlSng fensive manner.
tainment. The cinema is the only form of BY each Of this company’s stations, con-

entertainment that shows animals apparent— ' B R U C E J E N N I N G s 31910110113137 displayed for the benefit of the
1y being tortured. Film animals do not . . . passing motorist, was a cage in which were
merely “do a turn;” they are worked into IIE exhibition of wild animals for gain confined some wild animals. Sometimes a
E the plot, and often appear to undergo ter- is little more than a base appeal to coyote or a brown bear was staked outside,
rific discomforts. Even if these discom- the 10W“ aSPeCtS 0f human nature. It has Which paced its days away wearily follow-
E forts are a trick of the camera, they give sometimes occurred to me that the person ing a tiny Circle that could only lead to
the audience sadistic pleasure only, and who can relish the sight of a captive bear madness. Sometimes an eagle was perched
hence are intolerable. or coyote or puma, as the animal hopelessly upon the cage, one leg securely fastened,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ l ' It is an old jibe that the Puritans hated and yet persistently paces its cage, iS the the miserable Victim of some enterprising
E bear—baiting, not because it gave pain to same sort 0f person who can regard de- tradesman.
E the bear, but because it gave pleasure to formed human beings with morbid curiosity. It was a cruel business, I thought; and
E E the spectators. This was a perfectly legit- In both instances, psychological traits are I wondered how many passing motorists
E imate cause for detesting bear-baiting, for such as I10.01.19: Should be proud to confess. were induced to stop at the sight of such
it is demoralizing to enjoy the pain of II} 011.? ClVlllzatiOIl We usually term the entertainment. I wondered, too, if the
. E others. Audiences as well as animals re- cultivation of such traits a vice, and we cages were ever cleaned, and how often the
E quire protection from certain types of en- frequently prohibit any pandering to them captives were fed and watered, and how
E tertainment. 1n the name 0f PUbliC decency. In the case many of them were teased into insanity by
E if Quilt treatment of wild animals, however, people with a peculiarly morbid sense of hu-
E E JOIN THE t e 1(1) en seem to be sadly remiss, and ac- mor. I wondered, too, if the individuals who
01113er foergrliit theﬂ’forturebocf1 animal life in could do such teasing were a whit superior
ease e mor i curious, the to the hel less r ~
E JACK LONDON CLUB cowardly, and the innately 0137161. amuseme 11ft. c eatures that afforded them
, and SO help to stop cruelty in Nthlliﬂe on a. trip through the Pacific There was something about the business
connection With trained animal onoer “was; ﬂrlgﬁlthe past summer, I saw that was revolting to the decent and the
E erformances N ff . s t th _ OS agrant Instances of this fair-minded, and I could not find it in me
E E p , ' .0 0 lcers , n0 0.1' at It has ever been my misfortune to to believe that the American motorist would
i :1 dues. Write for information to Wltﬁeis' A EaFge company which operates ever let it become worth while to treat an-
? l80 Longwood Avenue, Boston a c. am 012' filling stations throughout this imals in such fashion. Cruelty to wild an-
E E ' reigion.was usmg captive wild animals for imals should never help to make an Amer—
E E a vertismg purposes in a particularly of— ican holiday.
l1! E
* E

 

 




Oct. 1935

limited, as the people have but little money
to buy stock. As long as they are able to
get enoughto eat by fishing and raising
fowl, they do not complain. An occasional
feast of Aran lamb makes the day a well
remembered one.

Sights familiar to all Irish countrysides
are seen in Aran. The pony and trap, lit-
tle donkeys pulling tiny cars, and an odd
horse, pass one on the road. Cows are
scarce, but here and there one may be seen
grazing in silence with the sheep. Pigs
are more plentiful, and nearly every little
cottage has a fat little fellow grunting
away in satisfaction, or perhaps displeas~
ure, at his fare.

The birds of Aran are numerous and var—
ied, especially birds found about the water.
Fish of all kinds help to feed the people,
and in an emergency one can make a meal
of an assortment of shellfish found near the
shore.

One who likes a simple life, where nature
is always near, can find it in the Aran Is—
lands. They are becoming better known,
since the natives speak the old Irish lan—
guage, Gaelic, which the Irish government
is now trying to revive. Teachers and stu—
dents come from all over Ireland to talk
to the people and get the true pronuncia—
tion.

The people are most agreeable, too, with
the patience that comes from the struggle
they put forth to wrest a living from fields
that are rock strewn. Some one has said
the Aran Islands are nature’s own rock
garden. There is scarcely a foot of ground
that hasn’t rocks, boulders, and pebbles in—
termixed with the crops and grass.

Anyone who has been to Aran will find
his thoughts turning to them often, and,
strange as it may seem, he recalls most
easily the black sheep, with elf-like expres-
sion. Their haunting look stays with one,
and seems to beckon the traveler back.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 1.49

On Cussedness in Animals
WALTER A. DYER

however fond of animals, who is not

sometimes exasperated by them. There is
something about a balky horse, for example,
that causes the gorge to rise, and only se-
vere self-control prohibits the angry use of
the whip.

There are times when my cow is most
irritating. \Vhen I am leading her in from
pasture she suddenly spies a bit of clover
or some other dainty and stops short. There
are days when she will not stand still for
the milking. I no sooner get the stream
coming well than she shifts just enough to
spoil the rhythm and I have to stop and
hitch the stool nearer. Then I soon have to
hitch it back again. Pure cussedness, it
seems, and I am strongly tempted to rise
and give her a resounding crack with the
milking stool.

There are times when my dog takes it into
his funny head to disobey—or, what is even
more trying, to appear stupid. I call him
as he goes trotting down the road. He
turns and looks at me with uncomprehend—
ing eyes. “I’m sorry,” he seems to say, “but
I don’t understand you. I think I’ll be on
on my way.” Or he remains just out of
reach when I want to leash him, and when
I make a lunge for him he playfully prances
off. Just a game, he seems to think. He
is normally most intelligent, and I know
that he knows exactly what I mean all the
time. He is recalcitrant and obstinate and
I boil inwardly at my impotence. “If I
ever get my hands on that dog—” I mutter.

I believe this to be a common experience,
and there is something about it that tries
human patience to the utmost. The reaction
of anger is inevitable. The sin, however,

“HAVE yet to find the man or woman,

 

is not in feeling exasperated but in yielding
to the exasperation. The truly humane
person will get mad and not punish.

I have never owned a donkey, but I think
that this animal must be the most exasper-
ating of all living creatures. I am sure that
it is one of the most beaten. The donkey
is undeniably stubborn, and stubbornness
inevitably awakens human ire. You remem-
ber the story of Balaam. He was a hard,
cruel, tyrannical sort of man who considered
his ass his property, to do with as hechose.
He beat the ass three times because she
shied at the sight of the bright angel of
the Lord, a vision at first ,withheld from
the eyes of her master. Of course he was
exasperated. ~ .

“And the Lord opened the mouth of the
ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have
I done unto thee, that , thou hast smitten
me these three times?

“And Balaam said unto the ass, Because
thou hast mocked me: I would there were
a sword in my hand, for now I would kill
thee.”

Oh, he was very angry, Balaam was.
Quite beside himself with rage. Almost to
the point of destroying his own property,
which of course is madness.

“And the ass said unto Balaam, Am I not
thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever
since I was thine unto this day? was I ever
wont to do so unto thee?”

You will recall also Stevenson’s donkey,
“Modestine.” “Father Adam had a cart,
and to draw the cart a diminutive she-ass,
not much bigger than a dog, the color of a
mouse, with a kindly eye and a determined
under—jaw. There was something neat and
high-bred, a quakerish elegance, about the
rogue that hit my fancy on the spot.”

Yet is was not long before Stevenson lost
his temper with Modestine. He fell a vic—
tim to the donkey’s curious power to arouse
human wrath. Several times he beat her.
In the end, however, he relented. He be-
came aware of the donkey’s true character
and there was awakened in him some of
that sympathy which too often slumbers in
us.

“For twelve days we had been fast com-
panions; we had traveled upward of a hun—
dred and twenty miles, crossed several re-
spectable ranges, and jogged along with our
six legs by many a rocky and many a boggy
byroad. After the first day, though some-
times I was hurt and distant in manner, I
still kept my patience; and as for her, poor
soul! she had come to regard me as a god.
She loved to eat out of my hand. She was
patient, elegant in form, the color of an
ideal mouse, and inimitably small. Her
faults were those of her race and sex; her
virtues were her own.”

I am glad that Stevenson associated with
Modestine long enough to come to under—

 

 

stand her. His experience contradicts the
belief that beating a donkey is a necessity.
Nor is beating a horse or a cow or a dog.
Exasperating at times they are, but kind-
ness will win in the long run. And I some-
times wonder if we are never exasperating
to them. '

A HORSE OF THE WAR

4 Of this handsome horse, Major Hume Pollock, Hon. Treasurer of Our Dumb Friends’

‘ League, London, England, says, “He carried me for three and a half years in France
and Flanders. I brought him home. He went over the Great Divide in 1932. As kind
as a child with the courage of a lion.” ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 
 
  
     

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusnce- 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

 
    
     
 

7
g .
m
'2';

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR OCTOBER, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 627
Number of addresses made, 428
Number of persons in audiences, 65,968

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-
eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free

folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)

The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..................................

Age

.................................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

My Calendar of Saints

This beautiful poem, with its accompanying note,
sent to Dr. Rowley, we are more than glad to repro-
duce in our magazine.

“Everyone of us has his own private calendar of

saints.”
The Reverend Norman B. Nash, D. D.

My calendar of saints is strange to read,
The friends who’ve led me paces nearer

God,

My partial Christs, who by some word or
deed,

Have made more living, aspects of the
Lord.

My calendar of saints counts young and old,
The youths who call to mind that Christ
was young,
Who choose so bravely from the dross, the
gold,
(They’d laugh to hear with saints their
praises sung!)

My calendar of saints must hold each one.
They show that joy and brilliancy are
God’s, no less,
That Christlike kindness can be gayly done,
And valor grow unmarred by modern
dress.

My calendar of saints, a varied roll,
A colored mother, an Italian lad,

Her gracious welcome, his responsive soul,
Each gives his best to make another glad.

My stranger saints, whose fleeting acts are

signs
Of gracious, tender souls, whose every
word
Explains the truth in good St. Patrick’s
lines,

And “Christ in mouth of friend and
stranger,” heard.

My friendship saints, whose care and
thought, besides,
To one so little worthy, show, again
The Good Samaritan our country rides,
Who sees the need and worth in stricken
men.

My doctor saints! They give themselves in
care
For body ills; but kindness, wisdom,tact,
And understanding trust, their spirits
share,
Do heal as part of ev’ry expert act.

My teaching saints, who widen life and

bring
New worlds—all God’s—to contemplate
with awe,

Explore with zest. The realm where
thought is king
They charter clear to Him who gave its
law.

My CLERGY SAINTS! whose lives of vi—
brant prayer
So dearly human seem so near divine,
That kneeling at the rail, I feel Him there
As truly in the hand, as in the wine.

For all my saints who by their labors, live
As lenses, letting God, Himself, reach
through,
My humble, simple, hearty thanks, I give,
That God is shown to even me, by you.
A member of the Cathedral Church of St. Paul,

Boston, and one who has much to thank you for
when she was young.

 

Dec. 1935

An Announcement

E are glad to announce that the very

efficient secretary of our Humane
Press Bureau, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke
has just been elected chairman of the
Humane Education work of the Parent-
Teacher Association of Massachusetts, and
a member of its executive board. This fur-
ther allies us with this nation-wide organ-
ization through being able to co-operate
with it in one more state. In nearly every
state in the Union we are a part of the As—
sociation.

Mrs. Clarke has rendered excellent ser-
vice in affiliating our Humane Education
Society and our Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
with the activities of the Women’s Clubs
of the Commonwealth and other organiza—
tions.

The History of Humane

Education

HIS is the title of a thesis chosen by

Dean W. Kuykendall, Fort Worth,
Texas, as “a partial fulfillment of the re-
quirements for the degree of Master of
Arts” from the University of Texas. Its
author, for good and sufficient reasons, has
limited the scope of his work to the field of
animal rights and protection, and refers
but briefly to its kindred movement in be-
half of child welfare.

Availing himself of the best sources of in-
formation, he has traced the growth and
development of the idea of humaneness
down through the centuries, as expressed
in the writings of priests, poets and phi-
losophers, from whose works liberal quota-
tion is made. Among those kindly souls
imbued with the humane spirit there are
noted the names of St. Francis, Plutarch,
Porphyry, Seneca, Montaigne and others.

Later champions of the humane idea,
within the past century, against stout op-
position—Erskine, Martin, Bergh and An—
gell, secured justice and legal protection for
dumb animals and made their goal secure
by the organization of societies for the pre-
vention of cruelty to them. From this back—
ground sprung the broader movement for
the promotio/n of humane education.

The greater part of Mr. Kuykendall’s
thesis treats of the progress of this move—
ment, principally in the United States. He
points out the organizations, foundations,
and other influences which have induced
both voluntary and compulsory humane in—
struction upon the broadest lines.

In a concluding word the author of this
thesis of one hundred and seventy-eight
type-written pages, expresses an optimistic
view of the future of the humane education—
a1 movement. He has appended a most val-
uable bibliography which, with the addition
of his own contribution, merit a far wider
publication, for the beneﬁt of those actively
engaged or interested in the work of hu—
mane education.

The small delivery boy was delivering to
a new customer, and had encountered a
huge dog in the yard.

“Come in,” said the lady of the house, “he
doesn’t bite.” The boy still hung back.

“Does he swallow?” he asked.

 

 




 

 

 

Dec. 1935

Results of Humane
Education

0ST encouraging is the work being

accomplished by Mrs. Bernice Scott
Hoge of The Women’s Pennsylvania Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
Philadelphia, speaking each day in large
assemblies of the public schools. Andre
Dalrymple, age eleven years, was inspired
to write this verse after one of Mrs. Hoge’s
addresses at the Powers School:

The Gunner
Hark, it is the sound of a gun!
The wounded bird flutters and dies.
Surely, it is wicked for nothing but fun.
To shoot the poor thing, as it flies.
If men would think of the torture they give
To creatures who cannot complain,
I think they would let the poor animals live
And never go hunting again.

Drinking Water for Cats

A valued correspondent asks us to pub-
lish the following suggestion, based on her
own experience: .

How many owners of cats keep a bowl
of fresh water always standing on the
floor, to which the cat can have frequent
access? Many people who know that dogs
need such a bowl, seem to forget that cats
should have water also. The water must be
kept fresh. Dogs and cats appreciate cool
water drawn several times a day.

“Bachelor of Caninology”

“Sig,” for four years the campus and
classroom pet of students and faculty at
the James Millikin University, Decatur,
Illinois, is the first dog, it is believed, to
have high collegiate honors conferred upon
him. President John C. Hessler of the Uni~
versity conferred the degree upon Sig and
reviewed his career and record in the fol--
lowing statement:

“Sig is a medium-sized, light-brown dog
of mixed ancestry, who came to some mem-
ber of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity
four years ago and has been the fraternity
mascot ever since. He has come to Chapel
regularly and behaved himself most proper—
ly. He has attended certain classes, es-
pecially those in economics, and has partic-
ipated frequently in the flag-raising cere—
monies.

“The degree—conferring came about in
this way. Some of the students asked that
the last student assembly but one be made
a general jollification, and that the central
feature be the ceremony of giving the
bachelor’s degree to Sig because of his
four-year attendance at university doings.
He was made the recipient of a new blank-
et, done in the college colors, and a mortar
board neatly tied under his chin. The
coach, a member of the faculty, and a stu-
dent gave the reasons why the degree
should be conferred. A formal address in
Latin was made to him by the president of
the college, and there was a specially pre—
pared diploma with appropriate script. His
degree was that of Bachelor of Caninology.

“The auditorium of the college was filled
with students and visitors, and photographs
were prepared for the press and for the
college annual, the Millidek.”

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

Page 187

 

THEIR FIRST CHRISTMAS

 

Dogs in Australia
EWEN K. PATTERSON

ROBABLY no other natives in the

world are as fond of dogs as the dwell-
ers of the Australian bush. Dogs are in all
the native camps, and are treated by the
natives with the same kindness with which
they treat their children. Hordes of dogs
of every description, size, and color are a
feature of every camp, and it is by no
means unusual to see as many as two dozen
dogs with one family group. The animals
are the natives’ best friends, and the surest
way of giving offense is to show animosity
against or ill—treat the dogs. In fact, among
the really wild natives any such treatment
is likely to mean death.

Most white men who work alone in the
lonely bush country also invariably keep
several dogs for the sake of company, and
in many cases the animals have rendered
heroic service. For instance, on a moun-
tain of the Blackall Range, in Queensland,
is a memorial which was erected by a man
named Paterson in honor of a dog which
saved his life. The story of that incident
is one of the epics of the Australian timber
industry. Paterson, a timber-«getter, was
felling a giant tree by himself, and as the
tree commenced to fall a piece of branch
snapped off and struck him a terrific blow
on the side of the head, knocking him sense-
less to the ground. He was found thus
several hours later by another timber—get—
ter, and at the unconscious man’s feet lay
the dead body of his dog, wrapped in the
coils of a large black venomous snake. The
snake’s head was firmly gripped in the
dead animal’s jaws. It was obvious that
the snake had been about to attack the
helpless man when the dog intervened, and
although fatally bitten by the reptile the
brave animal managed to get a grip on the
creature’s head and retain it until both
were dead. The dog was buried on the
spot, and above the grave Paterson erected
a cross with a brass plate bearing the fol—
lowing inscription:—— “In Memory of Tiger,

who saved my life here.”

Another notable Australian dog hero was
a collie owned by James McQueen, a pros-
pector. For many years this animal ac—
companied McQueen on his gold prospecting
trips into the lonely and uninhabited wilds
of North Queensland. Then one day the
prospector was speared to death by natives,
and seven days later when a police party
reached the scene of the tragedy they
found the dead man’s collie dog guarding
his remains.

The dog was in a pitiful state, being ema-
ciated by starvation and thirst, but even
so it made ferocious attacks on the rescu-
ers whenever they attempted to draw near.
For two days it kept the men at bay, at
the same time driving off crows and hawks
and dingoes (wild dogs like the wolf) that
made frequent attempts to make a meal
off the dead body. Only once during the
two days did the dog leave the body; that
was about midnight the second day when
it trotted away to a near-by creek to have
a drink. During its absence the men made
an attempt to bury the body, but they had
barely commenced to dig the grave when
the faithful animal rushed back and at-
tacked them so savagely that they were
forced to retire.

Another day passed, and as the dog re—
fused all efforts to make friends (disdain-
ing even to eat food that was thrown to
it , the police were finally forced to shoot
the faithful creature in order that its mas-
ter could be buried. Both man and dog
were buried in the same grave. The dog’s
body was found to have several deep spear
wounds, which clearly indicated that the
brave animal had fought with the natives
in an attempt to save its master.

A woman entered a grocery store, drag-
ging a child by the hand, and asked for the
cheapest grade of salmon—explaining to
the grocer that she wanted it for the cat.

Whereupon the helpful child spoke up,
“0, mama, are we going to buy a cat?”

——Cleveland Plain Dealer

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Nov. 1935

' In the Animals’ Heaven
CARROLL VAN COURT

“I move we make exception to our rule,
And let this good man come inside our
gates;”
So spoke the collie dog upon the stand,
As witness No. 1 before his mates.

The Scottie, too, said, “Let the man inside,
He fed me once, when I was at his door;
I was a stranger, and he took me in,
And cared for me, when I was faint and
soref’

The little robin said, “You both are right;
He never kicked a dog, while down below;
He never hunted birds with loaded gun,
Nor shot a deer; I watched him, and I
know.”

And so the Council voted to admit
A human being to their Paradise;
An honor earned by only kindly hearts,
Of gentle men, with pity in their eyes.

The Useful Sparrow

The English Sparrow has changed his
ways, just as every other living creature
does when forced by circumstances, observes
a writer in the Waterbury (Conn) Repub—
lican. The result is that the sparrow may
become a far more useful bird than in the
past.

For the first time, in years of amateur
bird study, we noticed last spring, English
sparrows catching up green worms from
trees, carrying them to the ground and
tearing them to pieces. In one single day
sparrows were observed catching and de-
stroying these green worms (presumably
the canker worm) on six different occasions.
Since, in a small area, a few sparrows were
seen to destroy six harmful worms, it is
logical to assume that in an area 1,000
times as large, the net catch observed may
be multiplied by that number.

If this is the case, it may develop that
the English sparrow will prove to be as
great a boon as are many of the other so-
called beneficial birds.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wild-life Refuges

ILD—life refuges maintained by the

Bureau of Biological Survey at the
end of the fiscal year 1935 numbered 106.
All species of wild animals and birds are
protected on these areas, although six are
maintained primarily as big-game pre—
serves. Included among the bird refuges
are those for migratory birds established
under the Migratory Bird Conservation Act,
which provides for the acquisition of lands
suitable as feeding, resting, and breeding
grounds for the various species. There are
also represented the beginnings of the mi—
gratory waterfowl refuges being established
with emergency funds under the migratory
waterfowl restoration program inaugurated
in 1934. This list does not include migra—
tory—waterfowl refuges in process of estab—
lishment but not yet under administration
by the Bureau.

The big—game preserves, maintained prin-
cipally for the perpetuation of buffalo, elk,
deer, mountain sheep, and antelope, are Na—
tional Bison Range, Montana; Elk Refuge
(winter feeding ground), Wyoming; Sullys
Hill Game Preserve, North Dakota; Wich—
ita Mountains Wild—life Research Station,
Oklahoma; Niobrara Game Preserve, Ne—
braska; and Charles Sheldon Antelope Ref-
uge, Nevada.

Tortugas Keys Bird Refuge, Florida, es-
tablished on recommendation of the Biolog~
ical Survey in 1908, on which is located
Fort Jefferson, was transferred to the De-
partment of the Interior, under which it
will be administered as a national monu—
ment and continue to serve as a nesting-
ground for sooty and noddy terns, which
nest nowhere else in continental United
States.

Wild—life and Federal property on these
refuges and preserves are protected by Fed—
eral law. The regulations thereunder are
administered by the Biological Survey.
Copies of the regulations can be had from
the Bureau at Washington, or from the 10-
cal representative in charge.

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun—
day, April 19, and Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20—25, 1936.

 

FEDERAL LAW PROTECTS THE ELK IN BIG—GAME PRESERVES

Page 1’73
Nimrods of the North

ELIZABETH ROONEY

E ACH deer season the highways of nor~
thern Minnesota are blackened with
the cars of “sportsmen” from all over the
state. In the vicinity of Gheen, Orr, and In-
ternational Falls, where the “pickings are
good,” the motorcades spread out and begin
blasting right and left, and sad indeed is
the nimrod who must return empty handed
to meet the derision of his neighbors. The
thought produces a zealous spirit which of—
ten leads to carelessness and numerous cas-
ualties and natives of Lake, Koochiching
and Lake—of—the-Woods counties breathe
sighs of relief when the visitors have de-
parted homeward. Truly, the North faces
a reign of terror while amateur hunters
stalk the woods with itchy trigger fingers.
The wearing of red caps, scarfs, and other
garments often allays the danger of being
shot at, but even this precaution falls short
of guaranteeing immunity. Several years
ago, a youth from St. Paul shot and killed
a native who wore a red jacket, and he
explained at the inquest that he mistook

the man for some large bird of red plu-
mage.

Nor is the wounding of men and women
the only deplorable condition of the hunting
season. Most of the “hunters” don’t know
how to shoot, and they often wound a deer
in the back or thighs, allowing the poor
creature to run away and suffer a slow and
painful death. Itjis not uncommon for one
to come across deer that have suffered this
fate. Another disgusting sight is the body
of a deer that met instant death—one that
was killed for the satisfaction of killing.
The perpetrator of such a deed no doubt

had killed his quota and still remained un~
satisfied.

The North has many semi-domesticated
deer—deer that were raised as pets and
allowed to run free in the woods. Their
instincts of preservation are naturally
blunted to a great extent, leaving them but
targets for the invaders. Several seasons
ago, “Spotty,” a buck I had raised, was shot
down within a few hundred feet of my cabin
by an inexperienced hunter from Duluth.
The poor animal did not know the fear of
man and guns, and instead of running, he
stared wonderingly at the stranger while
the gun was being aimed.

Since that tragedy I decided never to
tame another deer. The next spring after
the occurrence, another young buck was on
my hands, the result of his mother rushing
to her death against a barbed wire fence.
(One of the barbs severed her jugular.)

I took care of the young animal for sev-
eral months, finally shooing him off into the
woods. He returned half a dozen times,
but on each occasion I pretended to be his
enemy, whipping him with a light willow
branch until he scampered into the thicket.
The act produced the desired psychological
effect. “Spotty Junior” became wild. The
sight of me caused him to leap for protec-
tive regions, and finally he stayed away al-
together, content to band with his brethren
in the swamp. There is no danger that he
will ever invite death from a gun.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Aug. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Birds’ Symphony Orchestra

ALETHEA M. BONNER

Nature—the man—made orchestra is

indebted; for on visiting woodland
haunts the music lover hears, not a series of
aimless trills and twitterings, as some folk
classify bird-song, but a symphonic pro-
gram sounding forth the tonal qualities of
the strings, woodwinds, brasses, and the
percussion instruments so well-known in
orchestral circles.

Beginning with the string division of a
Bird Symphony, it will be discovered that
many members belong to this group; among
the most important are the silver-toned
wood-thrush, and the higher-pitched Balti-
more oriole—these two birds, with their ex-
pressive notes, belong in the ﬁrst violin sec-
tion. The mezzo parts of the second violins
are supplied by the call of the quail, and the
rippling tremolo of the house wren.

The soft, sweet scorings of the blue—bird
and the tranquil tones of the hermit thrush,
ﬁrst-cousin to the wood, well demonstrate
the voices of the viola and the ’cello. This
“hermit” member of the string-group sings
a many-syllabled song, which is yodel-like
in structure: “uoli-a- e—o—li—lo-lee-lee !”

In the wind instrument section, the scin-
tillating music of the nightingale possesses
such ‘ﬂute-like qualities as to be called the

T O the birds—master music-makers of

 

THE VERSATILE MOCKING—BIRD

ﬂautist of the wood-winds. Being a bird
universally loved by musicians, his elaborate
trillings have been given place in many mu-
sic scores of the masters; and from the days
of the French composer, Francois Couperin
(1668-1733), who featured the bird in one
of his “Suites,” and who wrote in the score
margin, “This nightingale cannot succeed
better than on the flute,” down to the pres-

 

ent time, musical successors have proﬁted
by Couperin’s suggestion, with the result
that ﬂutes and nightingales have become
musically inseparable.

Continuing the list of wood-winds, the
vivacious—voiced song-sparrow, the highest-
pitched singer of Nature, supplies the modu-
lations of the piccolo, in turn the shrillest-
toned instrument of the true orchestra.
Then, the red-bird’s “chee-o, chee-o, ch:e—o”
is a brilliant imitation of the like-wise high-
pitched ﬁfe.

In pleasing contrast is the pensive note of
the peewee. Long-drawn—out, as it is, the
tone possesses oboe-like qualities, the bur-
den of the melody being the paraphrased
version of the dusky-coated performer’s own
name: “pee-a-wee, pee-apeer ! ”

The English horn has its liquid-like tones
sounded in the lyric cooings of the dove;
while the clarinet, with its varying register,
is well represented by the “kong—quer—ree”
of the red-winged blackbird. According to
Emerson, “The blackbirds make the maples
ring, with social cheer and jubilee.”

The scorings of the brasses are suggested
by the tuba-toned gutteral hootings of the
“who’s who” bird, as someone has humor-
ously called the owl; and the weird voice
of the raven brings out still more somber
qualities of the instrument in question. The
mellow notes of the French-horns are
sounded by the clear-toned purple martin.
The plaintive parts being supplied by the
whippoorwill.

From the barnyard comes the trombone
player, the same being none other than the
humble hen; and her prosaic cackle, on as-
cending scale— “co-co-co—co—day—ee” —rings
out with all the sliding intonations of
the trombone. The more strident-voiced
trumpet-calls are sounded by the saucy blue
jay, who though not counted a very popular
orchestral member is, nevertheless, an in-
sistent performer! Closely associated with
the trumpet is the cornet, and here the
robin’s penetrating crescendo takes the lead
of the instrument as named. This same
robin redbreast has been called the “bird of
the morning,” and his dominating song car-
ries with it the freshness of dawn.

The last section of the orchestra—the
percussion group—is not crowded with per-
formers, yet there are some outstanding
“battery” members worthy of honorable
mention. On first hearing the noisy “k3r-r-
ruck, ker-r-ruch” of the red—crested wood-
pecker reminds one of the click of castin-
ets, but professionally speaking the “pecker”
is a drummer, and on a resounding tree
trunk he taps his rhythmic tattoo.

The diatonic cuckoo, whose tones are sub-
ject to major and minor changes without no-
tice, may be called the xylophonist of the
symphony. Of all the feathered musi-
cians, the notes of this bird have seemingly
been the most frequently imitated by com-
posers: An examination of musical litera-
ture from the time of the famous old Eng—
lish folk—song, “Sumer is icumen in, lhoud
sing cuccu,” dating from about 1250 down
through the centuries, the cuckoo’s call has
been given most ingenious featuring by
Bach, Beethoven, Mahler, and countless

Page 119

 

THE SWEET-VOICED BLUEBIRD

other composers of musical consequence.

No orchestral personnel is complete with-
out the conductor, a leader acquainted with
the entire instrumentation of his orchestra,
and in Birdland’s Symphonic Organization
the versatile mocking-bird serves in this im-
portant capacity. All the notes of the
forest-symphony are his to utter; and if one
member of the Bird Orchestra falls out of
line in musical phrasing, trust the “mocker”
to correct the scoring with a faultlessly
sung measure of melody!

A Bird-Saving Device

A simple device, called a ﬂushing bar, is
said to have already saved thousands of nests
of bob—white, quail, prairie chickens, ring-
neck pheasants, Hungarian partridges, wild
ducks and meadow larks.

This ﬂushing device consists of a light
pole, about ten to twelve feet long, attached
at right angles to the front of the tongue
of the mower. From this pole, to the right
of the horses, short lengths of old discarded
chain are suspended by light wires, spaced
about ten to twelve inches apart, so they
just drag on the ground when the machine
is in action.

These chains sweep the ground well ahead
of the cutter bar and ﬂush the setting birds
from their nests in advance of the deadly
knives. The alert driver usually has ample
time to raise the cutter bar, pass over the
nest, and leave it intact.

Yellow-headed Blackbird

MAUD E. USCHOLD

Where the restless water gushes
Through the rush-es, hangs the nest
0f the yellow-headed blackbird;
And his sunny golden crest

Glints among the reeds and willows
Where the lazy billows run,

And he sways upon an alder
As he whistles to the sun;

As he ﬂits among the sedges
At the edges of the bogs,
Singing queer and squeaky duos
With the drowsy croaking frogs.

 

 




 

 

 

Nov..1935

WOrds with a Swan
LEA ABERNATHY

. . . . but until they saw you, Oh beautiful
and white,

They knew no alabaster life,
Nor saw sly Juno in disguise . . .

Oh, true, they spoke of the trees and sky,
And heralded the dawn’s red rays,

Held lilacs to be lonelier than gems,

And thought the rhythm of a bird in flight
More ecstasy than a burst of song——

. . . . but until they saw you, Oh beautiful
and white,

They had not known a poem could be
Clear-carved and etched upon a lake.

Animal Symbolism

ANY terms descriptive of animal life
M and character have been incorporated
in the lexicon of human endeavor. Signi-
ficant indeed has been such word—coining;
for to the every-day life of man these ani—
mal symbolisms are closely linked.

But to explain: One often speaks of an
industrious person as being, “busy as a
bee.” Again, to us an irritable individual
is as “cross as a bear.”

“Motherly as a hen,” “blind as a bat;”
and as “cunning as a fox,” are not uncom-
mon phrases: while to be as “wise as an
owl,” as “graceful as a swan,” or as “cheer-
ful as a lark,” are complimentary terms
ever welcomed.

Richard I, of England, won the title
“Lion—hearted,” because of his courage.
Louis VIII, of France, also gained the lion-
sobriquet for a like reason, as did the Swed—
ish king, Gustavus Adolphus, he being call-
ed “Lion of the North.” Jenny Lind, the
world-famed soprano, was given the endear—
ing name of Swedish Nightingale, because
of her exquisite voice; and Georges Clem-
enceau, the French statesman, won the
name of the Tiger, for obvious reasons.

While many a person has been described
as being as greedy as a pig, as cringing as
a worm, dumb as an oyster, slow as a snail,
obstinate as a mule, or as proud as a pea-
cock—it seems unfair to our bird and ani-
mal friends to feature them thus symboli-
cally, since, sad to relate, mankind’s failings
far exceed the advertised faults of the crea—
tures in question.

When aping' the airs, arts, and actions of
lower animal life, it behooves humanity to
select the noblest qualities; as, for example,
the fidelity of the dog, the industry of the
ant, the meekness of the hare, the majesty
of the eagle, the innocence of the lamb, the
watchfulness of the hawk, the playfulness
of the kitten, and the patience of an ox—-
for these are characteristics worthy of
emulation. ALETHEA M. BONNER

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day and Be Kind to Animals Week next
year. The dates selected are: Humane
Sunday, April 19; Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20—25, 1936. Because of va-
cation in the Boston schools, Friday, April
17, will be observed as Humane Day in
schools of that city.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 165

Gentling an Outlaw Horse

WINIFRED BATES

§§ 7 ES, one must be very quiet indeed in
handling animals. The success that
I have had in reclaiming outlaw
horses for many years I can lay to the fore-
going. I am a woman and I weigh ninety-
one pounds. Perhaps this is also as good
a place as any to mention that I am con—
fined to my bed most of the time. A heart
cripple. -

A relative scouts for me and brings to
the ranch corral high—blooded horses who
have been sold because they were ruined
by thoughtless handling. It seems neces—
sary for me to crawl most of the time. I
can be that strong for an hour or so each
day. Yet, because of my quiet approach
and treatment, I have never been shoved or
jerked or injured in any way by these so-
called outlaws.

Some of the time I am strong enough to
come into the corral with my squatting
crab—like walk that one would imagine
enough to strike terror into a wild horse.
On the contrary it does not. I go up to
them with pity. Understand how their life
has been ruined. For it is the nature of a
horse to want to do something for a human
being. Just like a child wants to help.

As I crawl among them I talk constantly.
Explaining both of our positions—my utter
helplessness and their need. Of course they
do not understand the words but they get
the general thought. To a certain degree
animals read thoughts. I have never failed
to get an understanding with an outlaw
horse on my first trip to his corral. My
frail condition is a guarantee to them that
I come with good will.

PRIZE WINNERS AT THE FAIR

   

—THE LARGEST (PERCHERON)

Take the instance of “Shosis,” a beautiful
bay mare, with the name of a killer. She
had killed two men in one day and very
nearly mauled the life out of one of their
wives. She still had parts of the harness
on when the relative brought her to me. She
saw me coming and raced defiantly to the
fence that I was crawling under.

I squatted there and talked to her, almost
overcome at the sight of the beaten, bruised,
unfortunate mare. She stared madly at me
out of the one eye that was not swollen and
closed. She had made up her mind that no
human could ever get his hands on her
again. Aimed to die first.

She read the pity in my heart and closed
her eyes and groaned so sadly, it honestly
seemed like she was trying to explain how
her ruin had been brought about.

How they had come in and slapped ropes
on her and pinned her on the ground, while
two of them held her, the other branded a
huge brand on her high-bred, tender hide.
Then they wrapped a gunny sack about her
eyes, cinched a breath—cutting saddle on her
back, and one of them got up and raked
her gallant shoulders with spurs until—well
—no use to go into that—I saw their deep
wounds.

She decided they were trying to kill her
by torture. When she fought the gunny
sack from her eyes she went after her be-
trayers and killed the older in a flash. That
day passed with no food or water.

Another man bought her and came into
the corral, swinging his rope. Here was
another enemy. She flew at him. His wife,
hearing his screams rushed in to his aid

 

2,300 POUNDS; THE SMALLEST (SHETLAND) 75 POUNDS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 166

with a pitchfork and the mare attacked
her. “Finally—they drove me to you-—and
it took four cow men on good horses to do
it.”

My children brought a bucket of hot
water. With a turkish towel I crawled up
to the mare, telling her I knew just how
she felt and that everything was changed
and she was to stay with me in peace for—
ever. (You know that occasionally if you
are a horse lover you will see such a perfect
specimen that you will keep it against all
comers. She was a gorgeous animal.)

Well, I bathed and soaked the wounds.
She held down her gallant head for me to
soak the horribly injured eye. I saved it,
too, by the way. In a week my little chil—
dren were all three riding her bare-backed
down the road and in the traffic. All three
at once, clinching on to each other, laughing
and singing the happy songs of childhood.

And many the other horses—all high bred
——that I have turned back to a useful life,
by the same method. If you have any love
and understanding in your heart—you
MUST believe me—you can not fail. That’s
all it takes.

Remember the first rule—HAVE PITY.
Then, go kindly. Go very slow. They are
voiceless. HAVE PITY.

EDITOR’S NOTE :—The above story is so re~
markable and almost unbelievable that we did not
wish to publish it without confirmation. We accord-
ingly wrote to the author, asking her if she could
have the facts confirmed by a reliable witness. In
reply, we received the following letter, which speaks
for itself:

Ridgway, Colorado,
September 4, 1935
To Whom It May Concern:—

I knew Mrs. Bates at the time when she
and her two children tamed the outlaw
horses!

They moved into this section as Eastern—
ers and apparently did not realize the dan—
ger or something. Anyway we neighbors
saw the animals completely under control
in a few hours!

We saw her two children go out in the
corral and both climb on the back of a bay
mare who had just killed a man, without
either bridle or saddle, and the next day
saw the two children riding by with two
empty five-gallon cream cans swinging
across the mare’s shoulders in front of them
by a rope.

I, personally, have seen this same mare
quiver in every muscle and break out in a
cold sweat at the sound of a rustling news—
paper.

We have often talked of the confidence
that horses we called outlaws had in
Mrs. Bates and her two children. We have
no explanation for these things that we saw
with our own eyes. Mrs. Bates was a
semi-invalid, and so weak she could not
have lifted a hand in her own defense, had
those horses seen fit to rebel against her.
They must have sensed this. But once this
woman and her children had had these
horses a few days anyone could use them
as long as they did not abuse them.

(Signed) MRS. D. ELDRIDGE

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so

mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

Nov. 1935

 

 

REDWING BLACKBIRD YOUNGSTERS IN VARIOUS MOODS

One is hungry and says so, another one is asleep, while the first one is a happy
medium and will either sleep or eat, whichever is handiest.

 

 

 

The Nightingale’s Song

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HE song of the nightingale has long
T been praised in poetry and prose. Ever
since man learned to set his thoughts down
in writing.

While the nightingale holds a place in
classical mythology, it remained for Plu—
tarch to record what is probably the first
appreciation of the lyric beauty of the
nightingale’s song in his “Life of Agesi-
laus.” This old Spartan king, who lived
in the fourth century B. C., was urged by
his courtiers to go and hear a man who
imitated the nightingale to great perfec-
tion. The king refused, with the simple
retort: “I have heard the nightingale it-
self!”

While the name itself may be literally
interpreted as “singer of the night,” it is
quite true that the European nightingale
sings at all hours of the day and night for
several weeks following its return from the
south.

Several references to this bird may be
found in the poetry of John Milton. He
calls it the “most musical, most melancholy”
of all birds, while in a sonnet to the night--
ingale he penned this line: “Thy liquid
notes, that close the eye of day.”

Again Milton writes of the peacefulness
of night:

“All but the wakefal nightingale;

She all night long her amoaroas deseant
sang;

Silence was pleased.”

James Thomson, the Scottish poet, refers
to this bird of song as “the sober—suited
songstress.”

Like other poets who have been struck
by the plaintive melody of the nightingale,
Thomas Hood sings of “The bird forlorn,
That singeth with her breast against a
thorn.”

John Fletcher, a sixteenth century Eng-
lish poet, adds this bit of verse to the poetic
lore of the nightingale:

“The nightingale among the thick—leaned
spring
That sits alone in sorrow, and doth sing
Whole nights away in mourning.”

Strangely enough, almost every poet that
has sung of the lyric voice of the nightin‘
gale uses the feminine pronoun, despite
the fact that it is the male bird alone that
trills softly through the evening hours!

Smallest Bird

MORRIS SALKIND

MONG the many wonders of the New

World there stands out the remarkable
humming—bird. Remarkable, not for its
greatness, but for its smallness. It is the
smallest bird in the entire world. It moves.
its wings so rapidly in its flight through
the air that a humming noise is produced.
This is how the bird receives its name.

The rate of the movement of the wings
is five and six times as fast as the propeller
of an airplane usually travels! They move
so rapidly that all that is seen by the eye is
a blur. Two hundred times per second is
the surprising beat of these birds! This
motion of the wings drives them through
space at the rate of a mile a minute.

Much of the life of these birds is spent
on the wing and they develop strong wing»
muscles. These are used by them to great
advantage. They can hover over the mouth.
of a flower while they dip out the nectar.
Their size is so small that while they are
near a large flower, they are completely
dwarfed. They are no bigger than a half—
dollar!

These tiny specks are the only birds that
can fly backwards. They merely reverse
the beat of their wings. No other bird has
this power. They can also use their air
powers to rise straight up in the air direct-
ly over any point. Although they are no
bigger than one and oneei‘fourth inches in
length, they have no hesitancy in attacking
the crow and the hawk.

Two small pea-like objects are the eggs
that the humming-bird lays. These are
watched over very carefully by the parents.
After the eggs are hatched, the father helps
to feed the bird babies. The food, which
consists chiefly of insects and nectar, is
deposited down their throats by the long
bills of the parents. These small birds,
however, can be trained to take sugar water
from the palm of a hand.

.......

 

 




 

 

 

Dec. 1935

Helping Bobwhite in
Winter

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

WHEN we recall that birds have a
body temperature ranging from 2
to 14. degrees F. higher than that of man
and the other animals, we see how neces-
sary it is that in winter especially an un—
believably large quantity of food must be
consumed to maintain life. When the food
supply runs low, birds have no reserve to
draw upon except the small amount stored
in the fatty tissues of their own bodies. In
winter we must help them to keep this re-
serve above the danger point.

Our cheery friend Mr. Bobwhite deserves
our help when the cold snowy days come.
There are a number of things we can do to
assist him and his family. One is to leave
standing corn in our fields. This is a nat—
ural way to aid the Bobwhite family. The
food is always present when needed and re-
mains in good condition. Some is always
available, even when the snow is deep. Corn
stalks gradually break over, regularly pro-
viding a new supply of grain. So leave a
few rows for the White family this late fall.

A strip of unharvested oats close to nat—
ural cover will also provide much food for
these birds. This makes an excellent com-
bination as oats and adequate protection
are both desirable in the life of the Bob-
white family.

It is a good practice to leave shocks of
corn in the field especially if they are not
too distant from some suitable cover. It
has been found that the presence or absence
of corn shocks in a locality during the win—
ter season often has an important effect
upon the Bobwhite population the following
year. Quite commonly the Bobwhite roosts
in corn shocks. Here he is comparatively
safe from the devastating effects of long
drawn out winter sleet storms. Corn
shocks should be opened up and grain ex-
posed at low elevation. Their likelihood of
being accepted as roosting sites will be in-
creased when thrown open somewhat to
easy entrance.

Feeding from constructed shelters has an
advantage in that a sufficient supply of
food can always be kept accessible regard-
less of weather conditions or the depth of
the snow. Feeding should be done at reg—
ular hours. Shelters near natural covers
are best. Research has found that tangles
of grapevines, wild roses, briars or saplings,
large tree trunks, stumps, or the spreading
branches of some evergreen tree make de-
sirable shelters. Good shelters can be made
by utilizing abandoned cow or pig sheds,
straw piles, or other structures near barn-
yards.

The Bobwhite appreciates water during
freezing weather. See that he has a sup~
ply of this along with grain. Among the
foods which he likes the best of all are
cracked corn, wheat, haymow chaff, oats,
buckwheat. and such fruits and berries as
mulberry, wild grape, blueberry, raspberry,
blackberry, huckleberry, and bittersweet.

Please remember the American Humane

Education Society, of Boston, when mak-
ing your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 189

Give the Birds a Christmas Dinner

F. B. M. COLLIER

HEN you are preparing for Christ-
W mas feasts do not forget the birds.
The fowls of the air and the
beasts of the field should share in the gen-
eral celebration of the Christ-child. For all
through the ages the sheep and the wolf,

l

 

 

 

the camel and the ass, the ox, the raven
and the robin have been associated with
the yuletide festival.

Robin Redbreast is the Christmas bird
of the old land, and has become England’s
standard symbol for Christmas cards. To
hear a robin piping cheerily from the coun-
try trees whilst Christmas congregations
chant their morning carols is a common
experience in the British Isles. Bishop
Stanley, a great lover of birds, tells of a
robin which “would hop upon his open Bible
as he read the lessons Christmas morning.”
Perhaps Robin felt religious attendance at
Church was due mortals who cherished such
a lovely legend concerning the origin of his
scarlet vest. For it is said that as the
robin in tender pity tried to draw a thorn
from the brow of the suffering Christ a
drop of the sacred blood fell upon his
breast and ever since he has worn that
magic crimson stomacher of beauty, hence-
forth he was under God’s special protec«
tion, and the quaint fancy still lives in the
ancient couplet:

“Robinets and Jenny Wrens
Are God Almighty/s cocks and hens.”

Besides, if the birds and beasts celebrate
Christmas, why should we not provide them
with a banquet? And for centuries the
mind of man has loved to believe as

“Some say, that ever ’gaz'nst that season
comes

Wherein Our Savior’s birth is celebrate

The bird of dawning singeth all night long.”

Most people know the story about the
oxen that kneel in their stalls on Christmas
Eve. And our forefathers loved the fanci-
ful belief that at Christmas this Chanti-
cleer, the bird of dawning, leads the 'Christ«
mas drama of nature’s children as he
crows, “Christ is born.” Then the raven
demands gravely, “When?” The cow mur-
murs, “This night.” The oxen bellow,
“Where?” and the sheep bleat, “Be-the-le—

 

JUNCO AND CHICKADEE ENJOYING A LUNCH

hem.” Then the ass brays, “Let us go.”
Think, too, what the beast and the bird
have contributed to man’s religious obser~
vances both pagan and Christian. Old
Egypt knew the goose as a domestic fowl
and frescoes in the British museum pre-

    

.r:-;v.-.: . .&4

served from earliest Pharaoh days repre-
sent the goose being stuffed for sacrifice.
Our Christmas goose is a descendant of the
wild species that nests in England, the
gray goose. The turkey was brought from
Mexico by the Spaniards in the sixteenth
century, and had been domesticated by the
Indians from the wild flock common to
America.

Moreover, remember how few berries re-
main for the little feathered singers at
Christmas. Such quantities of holly and
mistletoe (their winter diet in Europe) are
cut. And yet it is the mistle thrush who
so diligently propagates the mistletoe by
wiping its beak on the bark of the apple
trees. After eating the glutinous sweet-
meat it invariably cleanses its bill in this
fashion and rubs off the seed of the berry
which creeps into hiding and generates on
the apple limb.

Nothing could be more exciting for the
young folk than preparing a bird feast out
of doors at Christmas. If cats are about,
raise a small board tray or old tin boiler
lid on the handle of a broomstick driven in-
to the ground, or swing a board table by
wire or cord from a projecting house ledge
or shade tree. Scatter upon it crumbs, bits
of fat, meat and tiny seeds. A few cents
will buy a handful of clover, corn or grass
seed. Buy a cocoanut, cut it in halves, and
suspend each half sideways from a tree so
that the sparrows, and the chickadees,
and the owls, robins or small birds of your
locality, can perch and help themselves.
And if you have no garden, spread a ban—
quet on your window ledge. Waiting to see
what feathered guests come to the party is
just as exciting for young and old as light-
ing the Christmas tree. In any event, re—
member the free Christmas dinner due
Mother Earth’s songsters.

Join the Jack London Club—a great
movement whose goal is the prevention of
cruelty to performing animals.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page72
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

MAY, 1935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thlrty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Oil Pollution and the League

of Nations

COMMITTEE of experts, members of
A the Assembly of the League of Nations,
met in Geneva November 19-23, 1934, rep-
resenting the United Kingdom, Denmark,
France, Italy, Japan and the United States
and, recognizing the fatal consequences to
millions of sea fowl of discharging oil into
coastal waters and the danger to the ﬁsh-
eries of many countries, agreed that inter-
national measures should be taken to call
an international convention to act upon
the matter. This is greatly encouraging.
Let us hope that this committee will not be
allowed to forget their action.

Two Letters that Speak for
Themselves

HE ﬁrst says in part:

T “I have read your various editorials
for the past few years in regard to your
opposition to military training for youths.
I believe .you have diverted the purpose of
the Society from which it was founded, and
so well loved by Mr. Angell, from one hav-
ing to do with animal and bird life, to
using its good name for other purposes.
I believe the Society has a great work to
perform by devoting its entire energy to
the purposes for which it was founded.

“In the article in your magazine for
March, regarding ‘Compulsory Military
Training in America’ when you go so far as
to state, ‘Let the Government get into an-
other war and it will be surprised to ﬁnd
the number of citizens who will refuse to
obey its mandate, Constitution or no Con-
stitution,’ I think it is pretty near time you
change the name of your organization, or
conﬁne yourself to enlarging the scope of
the work for which the Society was
foundedf’

And the second:

“Of course I am very sorry when any
reader of our magazine is disturbed by its
editorials or its policies. However, if at any
time you will come to our ofﬁce and look
back over the copies of Our Dumb Animals
during the years from the time Mr. Angell
founded it until his death you will see that
he was far from conﬁning himself purely

OUR DUMB

to questions that had to do with animals.

“From the beginning Mr. Angell worked
both by word of mouth and through the
magazine for reform in the matter, even, of
the adulterating of foods and in whatever
could injure the people’s health. He was
constantly writing and speaking against
war, against strikes and violence of every
sort, against race prejudice and all un-
brotherliness among men and nations. If
I know anything about the history of this
movement, the policy of Mr. Angell has
been thoroughly carried out.

“You must also remember that Our Dumb
Animals is the organ of the American Hu-
mane Education Society, which is purely
educational in its work and is national in
its extent as well as international. Its
motto is ‘Glory to God, Peace on Earth,
Good Will to Men.’ ”

The Menace of the Gun

HE toy pistol, the air riﬂe, and then

the real thing. That’s about the way
it goes. Why should the purchase of a
deadly weapon be allowed without a per-
mit from some proper authority any more
than the purchase of poison? We quote
the following from a letter written by Dr.
George P. LeBrun, for thirty—ﬁve years
in the oﬂice of the Chief Medical Exam-
iner, of New York.

I have come into personal contact with
thousands of shootings, homicides, suicides
and accidents, and many of these were
caused just because a pistol was at hand.
Time and again, I have pointed out that
the pistol in the home was more of a men—
ace than a protection and I can verify all
you say regarding the danger of having
a pistol in the home where there are child-
ren. I could give you a long record of
these cases in the past 20 years. I wish
the women’s organizations would take up
this question of uniform pistol legislation
as it is impossible to stop their manu-
facture.

There should be a ban on toy guns.
The young boy four or ﬁve years old starts
out with a toy pistol and as he grows up
he gets the pistol habit and commits a
tragedy. I was surprised the other day
while in one of the ﬁve and ten cent chain
stores to hear a boy in front of a counter
of toy pistols say to his mother, “Mother
I want a machine gun.”

We believe a movement has been started
by the Parent-Teacher Association in Chi-
cago to discourage the sale of the toy pistol.

“The Isle of Capri”

Many who have heard of this island as
having been made a bird sanctuary by
Mussolini will read the following with inter-
est from a letter to us written by one who
is perfectly familiar with the story.

“The Island of Capri is not, strictly
speaking, a bird sanctuary, for the shoot-
1ng and netting of birds there was forbid-
den only ‘until further orders,’ not by Mus-
solini but by Acerbo, the recent Minister
of Agriculture. Moreover, the shooting and
netting of birds still continue there to a
small extent, and birds are shot even in

Dr. Munthe’s own garden when he is not in
res1dence.”

ANIMALS

 

M ay, 1935

A Loss in South Africa

OR years we have been in correspond-

ence with a friend in South Africa
who, with her husband, has been a devoted
worker in the ﬁeld of Human-e Education
and animal welfare. To some of our read-
ers their names will be familiar, Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. P. A. Van der Linde. Now
comes the sad news of Mr. Van der Linde’s
death. All too few such men do Africa
and many other countries possess. His
rarely beautiful character appears in the
tribute paid him in the Johannesburg pa-
pers which we quote in part:

The things nearest to his heart were
charitable institutions, the uplifting of the
natives, and the care of dumb animals.
He was a staunch supporter of the S.P.C.A.
Sunday after Sunday he preached to na-
tives. Hundreds of natives and colored
people regarded him as a father and guide
in all their troubles.

He was known in business as a man
who never went back on his word, no mat-
ter how later circumstances might react to
his disadvantage. Time and time again he
proved his word to be his bond. He was
the senior partner in the ﬁrm of Van der
Linde and Son. As chairman of various
companies his desire to protect the inter-
est of shareholders was ever crystal clear,
and almost, in the opinion of some, became
an obsession.

From the Chicago Press

Preparatory to the national observance
of “Be. Kind to Animals week,” which be-
gan on April 8, the Illinois Humane Society
sponsored an essay and story contest this
month.

The contest, which closed March 30, was
open to pupils of the fourth to the eighth
grades in the parochial and public schools.
Entries, limited to 200 words, were sent to
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, ﬁeld representative
of the American Humane Education So-
ciety, 32 North State Street.

Sixty-seven cash prizes were awarded.

This is Interesting

We copied the following from an au-
thority on what happened in 1873:

Eighty—nine railroads went into receiv-
ers’ hands; nearly 300 of our approximate-
ly 700 iron and steel plants closed down,
5,000 commercial houses failed that year;
in 1874, 5,830; in 1875, 7,740; in 1876,
9,092; in 1877, 9,000; in 1878, 10,478.

. D
0

Mr. Leonard Hawksley, long a leader in
humane work in Italy and deeply inter-
ested in the question of oil pollution in
coastal waters, writes, “It has been shown
that masses of ﬂoating oil travel to the
coast from distances as far as 200 miles
from land.”

All Hand Work

“Mummy, I’ve seen a man who makes
horses.”

“My dear?”

“Yes, he had a horse nearly ﬁnished
when I saw him. He was just nailing on
its back feet.”

—Montreal Star




 

 

 

Pag6152
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood _Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OCTOBER, 1935

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.
. EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
51x lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

But They Didn’t Give Their
Lives

HE International News tells us that in

Russia a monument to the unknown
dog was unveiled at the Institute of Experi-
mental Medicine. The inscription on the
monument, bearing the stone image of a
dog, reads: “In memory of all dogs which
have given their lives for physiological ex—
periment for the purpose of prolonging hu-
man life and improving human health.” But
they didn’t give their lives. Their lives
were taken from them.

All honor to the men who are willing to
die “to prolong human life and improve hu-
man health.” Perhaps there are more dogs
than men who, if they could speak, would
give their lives for what they thought
might benefit humanity but they are never
asked, and if they were they could not an-
swer.

For Killing a Dog

A dog catcher in Sand Springs, Okla-
homa, paid twenty-five cents for every dog
he kills, has been resorting to the brutality
of a club because it cost him, he said, too
much to buy shells for his gun. The story
of his brutality has led to his arrest and we
hope to his conviction. Heaven pity the dogs
of Sand Springs and any other city or town
that permits such inhumane methods of dis—
posing of its unwanted animals. We are
publishing this at the earnest request of
two citizens.

In the Land of the Bible

We have already called attention to the
excellent work being done in Palestine by a
resident there, Mr. N. B. Matta. On his
own initiative, and at his own expense, he
has been doing his best to awaken interest
in the welfare of animals and especially in
Humane Education. He has even published.
a book upon the claims of all animal life
for justice and kindness. His means are
exhausted. We shall be glad to transmit to
him any financial help any of our readers
might like to send him. We have testimo—
nials as to his character and work.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Fatal Parachute Jump

T Danville, Va., August 13, a little dog
A was shoved off an airplane with a
parachute to amuse a crowd of watching
people. He fell to his death. The parachute
failed to open.

As we see it, no man has a right to jeop—
ardize the life of his horse or dog or any
other of his animals for his own personal
gain when no necessity demands it. He may
risk his own life in dangerous steeple-chase
races, or in airplanes, if he chooses. That
he does of his own free will. But when he
puts his animals in peril of life or limb they
have nothing to say about it.

Recently we learned of two aviators who
had purchased a large Newfoundland dog
to take with them in their flying machine
on a long journey. We wondered if they
thought of what it might mean to the dog.
We obtained their address. We wrote them
making a plea for the dog. They never re—
plied.

“Let Us Praise Good Men”

Chief of Police George Sears of San Di-
ego, California, refused to be influenced by
a writ of mandamus which would have com-
pelled him to grant a license to open a
comedy bull—fight in that city. The Supe-
rior Court upheld his action. He headed off
another of those oft repeated attempts to
introduce bull-fighting into this country.

The Radio and Birds

W'onderful things are being learned
through scientific study of the radio and
the influence upon our reception of forces
emanating from the sun, the moon, and the
stars. Now the London Daily Telegraph
gives us this:

A curious effect of high-power wireless
waves upon homing pigeons has been dis-
covered in Paris recently. About twenty
homers were liberated during the broad—
casting of waves of varying power, and it
was found that the birds were unable to
leave the magnetic field set up by the most
powerful electro magnetic waves within the
capacity of the station.

For three minutes the birds struggled to
escape from the charmed circle but in every
instance they ultimately turned and “plan—
ed” back towards the aerial.

Humane Work in Naples

Many of our readers are familiar with
that celebrated Italian city, Naples. Many
have contributed to its society for the pre—
vention of cruelty to animals. They will be
interested in these few statistics of last
year’s work: Sticks, prods, stakes with
iron points, whips and other cruel instru-
ments confiscated, 15,842; extra help ani-
mals attached to 26,785 vehicles needing
this help; vehicles hauled up steep grades
by tractors, 1,511. In addition, 30,726 lazy
drivers and passengers were made to alight
and walk till the vehicles reached level
ground. There are many bad, steep hills in
Naples. This is a fine record.

Oct. 1935

The Horses of England’s
King

EN fine bay horses, all of them young

and unused to the excitement of
cheering crowds and waving flags, trotted
round and round the lofty, tan-floored Rid-
ing School of the Royal Mews at Bucking—
ham Palace. They were being prepared for
the Jubilee celebrations, for even the re-
sources of the Royal Stables will be taxed
to the utmost to provide all the horses
which will be needed in the processions, and
I was fortunate enough to arrive at the
Mews just in time to watch their half-hour
of training.

In the center stood a group of fourteen
or fifteen men, armed with drums, cymbals,
tambourine, flags and handkerchiefs, while
more flags hung from the struts of the roof.
The noise began, subdued at first to accus-
tom the horses to it gradually, then louder,
until the School re—echoed with the clamor.
Flags waved and volleys of handclapping
and cheering rang out—but the horses trot—
ted calmly on. After six lessons in Jubilee
behavior, only one of them showed signs
of restlessness—a young bay only recently
arrived at the Mews. Appropriately, for
this will be his first state appearance,
his name is “Jubilee.”

His Majesty’s stables are, of course, the
admiration of all horse-lovers. Everything
possible is done to add to the well—being of
his horses. The spotless stables are tiled in
soft green; there is a farriery, and a phar-
macy.

The remarkable size of most of the King’s
horses is especially impressive. But, of
course, size and strength are essential in
animals which draw the heavy State coaches
and wear the ornate State harness. The
wonderful gilt State Coach, used at the Cor-
onation and at the opening of Parliament,
for instance, weighs four tons, and requires
a team of eight horses to draw it. The
harness of each horse which will draw the
King’s coach in the Jubilee processions
alone weighs 112 pounds! The powerful
horses in the Royal Stables, however, are
fully equal to any such demands upon their
strength.

I was pleased to hear that there is
absolutely no foundation for the statement
which appeared in a famous daily newspa-
per recently—that the Greys are docked
and that their sweeping tails are merely
“dummies!” No horses in the Royal Sta-
bles are docked, and certainly no dummy
tails are now used to adorn them. The
horses’ long sweeping, well-tended tails are
the pride of the Staff of the Stables.

And the extreme care which is given to
the Royal horses continues to the last, for
when they are no longer fit for duty, they
are humanely destroyed.

——An’lmals Magazine

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day and Be Kind to Animals Week next
year. The dates selected are: Humane
Sunday, April 19; Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20—25. 1936. Because of va-

cation in the Boston schools, Friday, April
17, will be observed as Humane Day in
schools of that city.

 

 




 

Page 190

@112 Eleni! nf ﬂllrrrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage. '11 d

The American Humane Educatlon Soclety w1 sen .
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the pre51-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and thirty—five new Bands
of Mercy were reported during October. Of
these 244 were in Illinois; 188 in Virginia;
128 in New York; 58 in Florida; 36 in
North Carolina; 29 in Georgia; 18 in Penn—
sylvania; seven each in Lebanon and Mary-
land; 6 in Tennessee; 3 each in Colorado,
Massachusetts, District of Columbia and
Washington; two each in Palestine and Sy-
ria; and one each in Delaware, Minnesota
and Vermont.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society, 211,720

A Lad and a Laddie

MARIE TEMPLE

Bring up a boy without a dog?
I never could
Deprive him of the joy of owning
A loving pal to share his roaming
. Through field and wood.

Bring up a lad without a dog?
I wouldn’t dare!
A dog to teach him constancy,
To help him Nature’s lore to see,
Her secrets bare.

Bring up your son without a dog?
So wrong it seems!

A dog’s soft eyes and wagging tail

Will sooth his heart when others fail
To share his dreams.

Birds and Animals at
Monticello

AMELIA WOFFORD

N his plans for Monticello, designed be-
fore his marriage, Thomas Jefferson

would have it “an asylum for hares, squir—
rels, pheasants, partridges, and every other
wild animal (except those of prey) ;” and
he hoped “to court them to it by laying food
for them in proper places.” He would have
there, too, deer, rabbits, peacocks, guinea
fowl, and pigeons.

In after years, in Washington, he wanted
to know when the frogs began to sing at
Monticello, when the bluebirds, blackbirds,
and robin redbreasts returned. And he
wrote to his young daughter, Maria, asking
her if she had noted the appearance of
these things, and reminded her that he had
counted on her for a botanical and zoolog—
ical correspondent.

While it may safely be said that Mr. Jef—
ferson loved “all things, both great and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

small,” of woods and
fields, of birds the
mocking-bird had ﬁrst
place in his heart, if
mention of it in his let—
ters, his anxiety for its
care, and a charming
story of his pet mock—
ing-bird told in a let—
ter by Mrs. Samuel
Harrison Smith, an in-
timate friend of the
Jeffersons, are proofs
of that preference.

“I congratulate you
on the arrival of the
mocking-bird,” he said
to his daughter, Mar-
thaJeffersonRan—
dolph, in a letter from
the President’s House,
as the White House
was ﬁrst called. “Learn
all the children to ven—
erate it as a superior
being—or as a being
that will haunt them if
any harm is done to
itself or its eggs. I
shall hope that the
multiplication of cedar
in the neighborhood
and of trees and shrubs
around the house will
attract more of them.”

In another letter he
warns a little grand—
daughter not to harm

Dec. 1935 V

 

International News

FROM OUT OF ITALY COMES THIS PICTURE OF
MUSSOLINI’S YOUNGEST DAUGHTER, IMPARTING
A SENSE OF PEACE AND TRANQUILITY

 

the bird or its nest.

The pet mocking-bird belonged to his
years when president. It was the constant
companion of his solitary and studious
hours, and he cherished it with a peculiar
fondness, not only for its melodious powers,
but for its uncommon intelligence and af—
fectionate disposition, of which qualities it
gave surprising instances, Mrs. Smith says.
He hung its cage in a. window of his cab-
inet, his favorite apartment, where gerani—
ums and roses, tended by his own hands,
made summer the winter long. When alone
he would open the cage and give the bird
the liberty of the room. After flitting
about for awhile, it would alight on his
table, and “regale him with its sweetest
notes or perch on his shoulder and take its
food from his lips.” It would hop up the
stairs after him; and when taking his siesta
it would sit by him and cheer him with its
song.

“How he loved this bird!” Mrs. Smith
exclaims, at the conclusion of her letter.

A Door Opening Cat

W. Hampton Smith, who runs a general
store near Louisiana, Missouri, writes to
The Golden Age that he has a cat, “Snow-
ball,” that many times a day, without as-
s1stance, opens the door to the store. She
cl1mbs up between the screen and the door,
reaches over with her paw, springs the
thumb latch, and the door swings open.
She learned the trick through watching cus-

tomers enter and leave the store, and, so
far as known, is the only eat able to per—
form it.

Creating Interest in

Kindness
GEORGENA BERGTOL’

INCE our teacher is very much inter—

ested in the welfare of animals, the
principal selected our grade to promote hu-
mane education throughout the school.

We began this worth-while project by
making a good-sized poster for each room.
On each poster were pasted animal. pictures
taken from old copies of Our Dumb Ani-
mals. Under the pictures we pasted two
envelopes. One envelope contained slips of
paper with the children’s names. A child
would find his paper, write one or more
kind acts he had done to animals or people,
then place the paper in the other envelope.
Above and below these envelopes were
pasted letters, “Kindness to Our Dumb An-
imal Friends.”

When a room received one hundred per
cent kind acts the representative of that
room brought his poster to our meeting. He
was then presented with a “Kindness to
Animals” picture book for his room. Seven
rooms in our school received these books.
In the spring of that year the principal
made this remark, “Never have I seen the
children so kind to animals as this year.”
She had been in that school over ten years.

 

a»...

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96

Be Kind to Animals Week

(Continued from page 86)

In Texas

The Eve Meyer Foundation of Houston
issued an attractive ﬂyer, heralding the
advent of the Week, which was widely
circulated. The Foundation published sixty
articles on kindness during 1935, entitled,
“Humane Echoes,” by “the Voice of the
Voiceless.” State Superintendent Woods
and Superintendent Oberholtzer of the
Houston schools issued special messages in
behalf of Humane Day in schools. The
Houston Post, April 7, carried an excellent
editorial. In Fort Worth the Tarrant
County Humane Society presented radio
talks daily. On Saturday, the annual pag-
eant for Negro children and parents, under
the direction of Rev. F. River's Barnwell
of the American Humane Education So-
ciety, was presented in Greenway Park,
with 3,000 in attendance. A play, “Taking
Crime and War out of the Nursery,”
ten by pupils of the Terrell High school,
was one of the features. Twenty prizes
were distributed in a pet animal show.
Liberal prizes were awarded also in a school
competition for the best posters and scrap—
books, illustrating kindness to animals.
Colored churches in Fort Worth also co-
operated, with special humane services at
St. John Baptist and African Methodist
Episcopal.

In California

Mayor Angelo Rossi of San Francisco
issued a Be Kind to Animals Week
Proclamation. April 8 was the sixty-
seventh anniversary of the organization of
the San Francisco S. P. C. A., and on that
day the Society unveiled a large bronze
plaque honoring the organizers and incor—
porators at a largely attended meeting,
with addresses by sons of the early officers
and by present officers who have been
connected with the Society for several
decades. At the Frank McCoppin School
a big gathering was held, called a pets’
assembly, when children presented a hu-
mane playlet and a demonstration of the
Chums’ Club was given. Theaters dis-
played Be Kind to Animals slides and two
big department stores had window displays
throughout the Week.

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day and Be Kind to Animals week next
year. The dates selected are: Humane
Sunday, April 19; Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20-25, 1936.

OUR DUMB

writ- ,

 

A N I M AL S
Good Work of the Crows

ELLA MCELLIGOTT

EDITOR’S NOTE: It is not expected that this article
will reconcile the differences of opinion in regard to
the crow. Its writer lives in a section where crows
probably exist in the greatest numbers and points
out certain redeeming qualities that many entirely
overlook or ignore. Our National Bureau of Biological
Survey, after exhaustive examination of the food
habits of the crow and analysis of the contents of
over 2,000 stomachs, collected in forty states, has
recorded evidence which compels it to say that indis-
criminate killing of the crow is not warranted, inas-
much as its beneﬁts to the farmer in general clearly
offset its depredations.

HE state of Illinois, like many other

sections of the country, is host to great
numbers of crows. In fact the visitors are
so numerous and the complaints of the
farmers so loud, that the State Department
of Conservation has embarked upon a move-
ment to exterminate them.

Next to the drouth and perhaps the boll-
weevil, the crow is the farmers’ biggest
worry.

The latest move in this state’s attempt to
exterminate the. black little rascals was
staged early in February, when 15,000
crows were killed near Decatur. Seventy-
three dynamite: bombs were set off in a
hedge wherein roosted thousands of crows.
The state government says the campaign of
crow extermination is in the interest of
the conservation of bird life, and of the
reduction of crop losses. It will continue
throughout the winter, and the goal is to
kill 350,000 crows before spring.

Though we sympathize with the com-
plainants, it appears that the harassed and
busy farmer does not stop long enough to
see that this bird well repays him for any
damage he does to his premises.

A great deal has been written and said
about the destructive habits of the crow.
One rarely hears a word in its favor. If
there is any truth to the statement that
everything that walks and creeps upon this
earth, and that has life, has a mission to
perform and does some beneﬁcial work, it
might be sensible to pause in our castiga-
tion of the crow, and see if we cannot
discover the good points this bird no doubt
possesses.

Those who know bird life tell us crows
are very intelligent. There are many vari-
eties, such as the raven, the rook, jay,
magpie, and the common crow of North
America.

Crows are omnivorous and feed largely
upon insects and tiny animals of all kinds,
such as small mammals, crawﬁsh, and
especially mice. Their main diet is insects,
and includes destructive black crickets,
grasshoppers, beetles, grubs and larvae.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

June, 1 935 ‘

These are among the most troublesome
pests with which the farmer has to contend,
and he cannot fail to recognize the help
he. receives from the crow in this direction.
Many of the insects the- crow eats are
taken early in spring when their life cycles
are. at the lowest ebb, and when their
destruction results in the greatest good.

Although we will have to agree that the
crow is not the angel of the. farmer altp-
gether, still many of its depredations may
be lessened or entirely prevented 'by pro-
tective measures that the farmers can em-
ploy. Fowl can be made secure from hungry
crows with but slight trouble. In spite of
the intelligence of the crow, a few scare-
crows here and there in a ﬁeld are very
effective, as many farmers and home gar-
deners can testify.

There are scores of ways known to
every farmer of outwitting this scheming
bird, and they have been used sometimes
without success, until the patience of the
good people is gone. However, in preying
on insects and mice, both arch enemies of
the. farmer, the crow does work that is
beneﬁcial and can ill be spared. A little
of the bad goes along with the good in
every case, and when the farmer proﬁts by
the good work this bird does, is it unrea—
sonable to ask him to bear with some of
his destructive habits?

Of course an over-abundance of these
birds is not to the best interests of the
farmer or to the countryside, but on the
other hand the extermination of the crow
would result in taking away a most effec-
tive enemy of certain pests, worms and
mice, that can do more damage to a ﬁeld
than a large horde of hungry crows.

Therefore, before condemning entirely
these swarms of jet black birds that enliven
the district wherein they roost, let us admit
that they are not altogether birds of prey
that work constant harm and ravage in the
section where they congregate, but that
they are also agents of good.

They are the farmer’s friend when
abounding in small numbers, and it is only
when their ro-osts rise to innumerable
ﬁgures that we have cause for complaint.

The crow performs essential work, and
we should sometimes dwell upon the good
he does, rather than upon the destruction
and harm he causes.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00-

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,“
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

Feb. 1935

735593;. -

\

r ,y > ‘
s3
.\
1%
§
73;: \
\

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation.
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWE‘LL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston——MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch-«MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers . 15,006
Cases investigated ............... 576
Animals examined ............... 6,075
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 166
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 63
Number of prosecutions ........ . 1
Number of convictions ........... 1
Horses taken from work. ........ 20
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 119

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,241
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 38,625
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 27

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the Wills of Mary L. Smith,
of Randolph, and Andrew Booth of Black-
stone.

January 8, 1935.

More helpful than all Wisdom is one
draught of simple human pity.
GEORGE ELIOT

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H SCHNEIDER, v.M.D, Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M. |

ceases

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 728 Cases 2,381
Dogs 570 Dogs 1,945
Cats 149 Cats 417
Horses 5 Birds 16
Birds 3 Horses 2
Deer 1 Zebra 1

Operations 1,087

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ..................... 125,793
Dispensary Cases .............. 295,865

Total ...................... 421,658

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ........... 103
Cases entered in Dispensary ......... 329
Operations ....................... 1 75

Roadside Caged Animals

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has intro-
duced the following proposed bill in the
state legislature of 1935, aimed to prevent
the great abuse of caged animals at gas
ﬁlling stations:

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts

In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty-Five.

An Act to prohibit or Regulate the Use
or Exhibition of Wild Animals upon any
Street, Highway or Public Park.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives in General Court assem-
bled, and by the authority of the same, as
follows:

Any person who shall keep in captivity
any wild animal upon any highway or upon
land adjoining any highway for the pur-
pose of attracting trade or shall have in his
custody any wild animal for such purpose
shall be ﬁned not more than ﬁfty dollars or
imprisoned for not more than thirty days
or both. But no provision of this act shall
apply to the exhibition of any animal by
any educational institution or in a zoologi-
cal garden Or in connection with a theatrical
exhibition or circus, or the exhibition of
domestic animals at state or county fairs
or to what are commonly known as horse,
dog, or poultry Shows.

“The greatest coward is he that treats
with cruelty a helpless living thing.”

Page 25
A Faithful Officer Gone

ORTY—THREE years ago Charles F.

Clark, of Lynn, became one of the of-
ﬁcial agents of the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
His duties were to investigate all com-
plaints received of cruelty to animals with-
in the section of the state assigned to him,
Essex County, or wherever he might be
asked to go, and so to cover the territory
of his county as to discover where ill treat-
ment of animals existed, advise, warn, and,
when necessary, prosecute. the violators of
the anti-cruelty laws. Mr. Clark was faith-
ful to his trust. No man knew better the
roads, lanes, and main highways of Essex
County than he. did. Whether the offender
was a resident of a well-known city or vil-
lage, or hidden away in some obscure farm
in the woods, he knew the way to his door-
step. Few men were better known through-
out the county than “Charley Clark,” as
nearly all called him. High and low re-
spected, him, and recognized his ﬁdelity,
and the courts, almost without exception,
knew when he brought a case before them
that he was only the-re for good and suf-
ﬁcient reason. For the last two years the
inﬁrmities of age and illness have com-
pelled him to retire from active service.
Death came as a relief from weakness and
suffering Christmas morning last. His
epitaph might well be, “Well done, good
and faithful servant.”

San Diego and Chicago

HE recently organized S. P. C. A. in

San Diego starts its career with a city
ordinance in marked contrast to what pre-
vails in Chicago where 22,000 dogs in three
years from the city pound were turned
over by direction of the city authorities
to various colleges and laboratories for ex-
perimentation. Here is the San Diego
City Pound Law adopted December 24,
1934:

It shall be unlawful for any pound master
or his deputies, or any person or persons,
ﬁrm, corporation, society or other organiza-
tion to sell, give or deliver, or to aid in the
selling, giving or delivering of any dog or
cat to any person or persons, ﬁrm, corpora-
tion, society, hospital, clinic, or other or-
ganization, knowing or having reasonable
grounds for believing that such animal 1s
required, intended, or will be used for
the purpose of vivisection, or surgical or
medical experimentation. Provided, how-
ever, that nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the owner or per-
son having lawful care or custody of any in-
jured dog or cat from placing such animal
in the care or custody of any duly li-
censed or practicing veterinarian for the
purpose of treatment, nor to prohibit such
veterinarian from conducting such experi-
mental treatment upon any such animal so
delivered to him as he may deem proper or
necessary in an effort to restore such ani-
mal to a condition of health.

There at your feet contentedly. he lies
A world’s devotion in two doggie eyes.
J. WALKER

 

 

 




 

ﬂ!ar.1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

ul‘

 

iii-$3134.. , :7 .1 ".J-V. ' ’
/ ’9 Kr I , A/F'F‘.’ﬁ
y‘)’ 319,13? ‘
H. i all? "4\:- H I LDREN S
- ’ y I
. ,./ (.w..:;.‘/"M,

  
     

 

 

_ m
33,, j

       

xv“?

.. .. .. /
L" (l—Ta _l /
4 f? ”n, W%%/%4%%%af’,

_ “\\\§

   

‘ \
4‘ a7 "I ‘0 . '“m \

Do Animals Feel the Cold?

CONRAD O. PETERSON

CLOSE observance has proved to me that they do, and
shiver as we do, in freezing Weather. I also note that
many of my neighbors do not seem to believe so, because they
place their dog in a cold wood-shed or garage at night. Kit-
tens, shaking their paws in the cold snow, are brushed away
from the door. My neighbors must believe that an animal has
no sense of pain whatever.

These small animals have been taught to depend on their
human friends for their food and care, and it is when the cold
winds blow and the snow lies deep that they need extra atten—
tion. The animals of the forest have not been taught to ex-
pect assistance, but mother nature does her best.

The bear hibernates during the winter, the squirrel has his
comfortable nest, ruffed grouse rest warmly in the deep snow,
and, in fact, all of our forest friends have the means to take
care of themselves.

Animals who live entirely in the open air, have always some
warm nest to retreat to, when the weather gets too cold. But
the animal who depends on human. assistance is not prepared
in that way.

So, if you have a pet, see to it that it has a warm place to
stay at night. Remember you are its master! In time of
need, they ask you for help. Don’t fail them!

From a Sermon by Dr. Jefferson

All through your life you ought to cultivate tender feelings
toward your little brothers and sisters. If your heart is kept
tender in childhood you will not grow up to like hunting. There
are men who love nothing so much as shooting animals and
birds. Such men did not start life right. They did not learn
early that animals'and birds are our relatives and that it is
cruel to kill them just for the fun of seeing them die. I hope
you will read the lives of some of the men who. have loved ani-
mals —— Peter Pindar, Robert Burns, S. T. Coleridge, Laurence
Sterne, R. L. Stevenson, Burne-Jones and Charles Lamb.

Feeding the Birds

MYRTLE G. BURGER

“Oh goody,” cried a little bird

Who found some grains of wheat,
“On such a day I didn’t think

I’d find a thing to eat!

“For snow lies deep upon the ground
And limbs are glazed with ice,

To find a meal spread out for me
Is wonderfully nice.”

Now other birds flew down and soon
They’d eaten everything.

Then up into the tree they went
Where each began to sing.

And Bob and Betty watching them
Beside the window, heard

And were so glad they’d spread the wheat
For every hungry bird.

. 1 A,
@w a} WhﬁgMWWM/Wﬂm

 

    
  
   

a313l14%0@/4M/ , g ,
I, \//\ ){ﬂ 4. ,. I 5

£~M-.

Fur Collars

ELLA C. FORBES

When I see a winter coat
With big, fur collar,

Somewhere near I’m sure to hear
Some little fellow holler.

Maybe it is Reddy Fox,
Stumbling on a trap,

Never sensing danger
Till the jaws go snap.

Maybe it is Bobby Mink;
In a leafy lane

Suddenly he falls and writhes
In blinding pain.

Maybe it is Johnny Wolf,
Maybe Billy Beaver;

Victims, all of them, to man
The slayer and the thiever.

Poor little woodsy things
Slain for the dollars,

And all because fashion calls
For big, fur collars.

Soibelman Syndicate

THE LLAMA IS A MOST UNUSUAL STEED FOR
CHILDREN. THIS ONE IS OWNED IN ENGLAND

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ULY I935 PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

WATCHFUL WAITING c Florence B. Kemmler

ﬁ______J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
REVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

_.~,, . -—-.‘. msvw-OV-‘n-v-‘Aﬂ , h. , , A-

n 'K‘

 

 

 

 

 




I

 

“(new

 

 

 

 

JANUARY |935 ' ' PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

International Photo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF RUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 120

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts, Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood _Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed. .

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

AUGUST, 1 935

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or Without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are sollc-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

Our National Emblem Now

a Target

Is the Bald Eagle to be exterminated?
Only two eagles, the Bald and the Golden,
are to be found in North America, the Bald
Eagle only in this country. We have made
much of this great bird, displayed him on
our coins, sung of him as an emblem of our
free and wide-spread land. Now, permitting
him to be a target for the gunner, unjustly
charging him with destroying far more do-
mestic stock and Wild game than the facts
warrant, we may soon wake up to learn that
he, too, with other once well-known birds,
has become extinct.

From 1917 to 1926 because Alaska was led
to pay a bounty for every dead eagle it is
estimated that 70,000 had been killed.

Four Years—A Record

One of our humane education workers
four years ago began visiting the schools
in a great city in a western state. Here is
the record: Children reached by personal
addresses, approximately 300,000; Bands of
Mercy organized, 8,000; teachers who have
heard the message, 1,000. All of these,
pupils and teachers, have taken the pledge,
“I will try to be kind to all living creatures
and try to protect them from cruel usage.”
Surely here was a sower who went forth to
sow. Of course some seed fell by the way-
side, some on stony ground, some among
thorns, but who can measure the harvest of
that which fell upon the good ground and
brought forth some thirty, some sixty and
some a hundredfold.

The Japan Humane Society

A Grand Charity Ball was recently given
in Yokohama for the beneﬁt of the Japan
Society. Among the patrons and patronesses
were the American Ambassador and his
wife, other ambassadors, foreign ministers
and consuls. The Society has now 28 water-
ing troughs, has arrangements with ﬁve
hospitals to destroy humanely such lost or
unwanted dogs and cats as should be put to
sleep. It celebrates Kindness to Animals

Week each year, distributes many thous-

ands of leaﬂets and posters annually, and
has more than 2,000 members in its Chil-
dren’s League for Animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Birds and the Spraying of
Arsenic

OW far is the spraying of our orchards
H and vineyards and gardens and shade
trees with arsenic fatal to bird life? We do
not know. An interesting letter has come
to us, however, from the Game Conservator
of distant Zululand, South Africa, where
the locust is such a pest that spraying with
arsenical poison is a necessity. In this let-
ter, Captain Potter, the conservator, says:

I can, however, deﬁnitely state that no
guinea fowl (either crested or crowned)
francolin, khorhaan, egret, turkey buzzard
or secretary bird have been found dead (as
a result of poison) either by me, or by the
36 native game guards under my control.
The evidence of the various district and
local locust ofﬁcers also fails to record a
single instance where death has occurred
among the birds mentioned above due to
arsenical poisoning.

In the Mkuzi Game Reserve, guinea fowl
of both species are very numerous, so are
Natal francolin and, to a lesser degree, khor-
haan. We have on many occasions actually
seen these birds feeding greedily on sprayed
hoppers and adult locusts, but, althougli a
careful watch has been kept we have not yet
found a poisoned bird nor any sign thereof.
The same may also be said of egrets. Lit-
erally thousands of these snow-white birds
have often been seen ﬁlling themselves with
sprayed locusts on and near the shores of
St. Lucia Lake and False Bay. The egrets’
sleeping places are well known to us and
had any of them died we would surely have
seen their conspicuous white bodies around
their roosts. But no bodies have been found
or reported.

Often extensive spraying has perforce
taken place in and around native cattle
kraals where fowls have gorged themselves
on sprayed locusts, dead and alive. N 0 dead
fowls have been brought to my notice nor
has any report of same reached me.

It is my considered opinion that birds, or A

at any rate, some birds, enjoy a certain im-
munity as regards arsenic, and when birds
have been found dead as a result of locust
poison, as has been alleged in Rhodesia and
other parts of Africa, the poison used may
be other than arsenic. V‘s/hat is one man’s
food is another man’s poison. Nicotine from
tobacco juice is generally harmless to hu-
mans. One drop will kill a snake at once.

There is at least one reserve case and it
is quite possible then, that arsenic has little
or no effect on birds or at any rate on cer-
tain birds having a particular form of di-
gestion, i.e. the gizzard arrangement.

Just to Save a Cat

Appealed to by the Humane Society of
Hartford, Conn., to help in rescuing a cat
that had crawled into a sewer, the Street
Department sent a motor pump and two men
who pumped all the water out of the sewer
so that a boy could enter the sewer and
bring out the cat. Isn’t this a ﬁne testimony
to the spread of the humane idea? Not

every Street Department of a city would
have gone to such trouble and expense to
save an unfortunate cat. ,The Superinten-
dent of Hartford’s streets deserves a medal.

Aug. 1935

Italy Once More

N a brief article under the title “The Isle
of Capri” in the May issue of Our
Dumb Animals we said, “The Island of
Capri is not, strictly speaking, a bird sanc-
tuary, for the shooting and netting of birds
there was forbidden only ‘until further
orders,’ not by Mussolini but by Acerbo, the
recent Minister of Agriculture.”

We now have a letter from Mr. Percy
Carew Essex, the Hon. Secretary and Treas—
urer of the Naples Society, which says that
“a General Law about shooting and trapping
over the whole of Italy was promulgated in
1931 by the Minister Acerbo and that during
the autumn or late summer of 1932 these
things were completely forbidden by Signor
Mussolini himself. It is quite true that
shooting on Capri does take place, but with-
out a big staff of Police or our Inspectors it
will continue spasmodically, as it is most
difﬁcult to catch the poachers as they al-
ways have children posted on the lookout
for police, and the natives will never betray
anyone for fear of personal safety. What
we want on Capri is, or are, resident Inspec-
tors and they cost money. The Naples So-
ciety has more than enough to do in looking
after the city of Naples itself, being only
able to send an occasional member of the
staff to Capri and his visits are generally
advertised by watchers on his arrival.”

Humane Work in Palestine

UR readers will be glad to know that
Humane Education in Palestine has
a very devoted representative, Mr. N. B.
Matta, who has been not only establishing
Bands of Mercy but delivering addresses
here and there throughout the country. Our
American Humane Education Society has
been aiding him through correspondence, the
contribution of literature and in a small way
ﬁnancially. He even has published quite a
volume entitled “Kindness to Animals,”
which is being distributed in various centers
where most needed. Mr. Matta reports that
teachers are showing great interest in this
work and are eager to have Bands of Mercy
organized in their schools. Mr. Matta now
desires to establish a magazine to be issued
twice a month, and is seeking the help of the
Department of Education in Beirut in this
matter.

Tame Elephants?

The San Francisco Times tells the follow-
ing story:

Covina, Cal., May 21. Joe Reed, 40-year-
old animal trainer, is dead, victim of an en-
raged bull elephant which gored and hor-
ribly mutilated him at the Al. G. Barnes
winter quarters.

Reed was rehearsing eight elephants for
an appearance in a motion picture when they
suddenly stampeded.

The eight beasts—six cows and two bulls
—trumpeting and ﬂailing their trunks
wildly, plunged through the circus grounds.
Five were headed into their barns by
keepers. Two others charged madly into an
open ﬁeld.

Who ever knows how much of the far off
wild blood of the past still lurks in the life
currents of these seemingly placid crea-
tures?

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 48
War

War

I ahbor,

And yet how sweet

The sound along the marching street
Of drum and ﬁfe, and I forget
Broken old mothers, and the whole
Dark butchery without a soul.

Without a soul — save this bright drunk
Of heady music, sweet as hell;

And even my peace-abiding feet

Go marching with the marching feet;
For yonder goes the ﬁfe,

And what care I for human life!

And tears ﬁll my astonished eyes

And my full heart is like to break,

And yet ’tis all embattled lies —

A dream those drummers make.

0 it is wickedness to clothe

Yon hideous grinning thing that stalks
Hidden in music, like a queen

That in a garden of glory walks,

Till good men love the things they loathe.

Art, thou hast many infamies,

But not an enemy like this.

0 snap the fife and still the drum,
And show the monster as she is.

RICHARD LE GALLIENNE

“We condemn, and an increasing body of
American citizens condemn, compulsory
military training as unwise, illiberal and
unfair. Moreover, we condemn it as in-
efﬁcient and wasteful of the taxpayers’
money. . . . The battle against compulsory
militarizing of the students of State univer-
sities should go on. . . . The ﬁght will have
to be made in Congress. . . . And the ﬁght
also will have to be continued in the

States.” —— New York World-Telegram

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for December, 1934 —— 31 Days

 

Dail-y average large animals 42.8
Forage for same $79.74
Daily average dogs, 8.4
Forage for same 8.65
Put to sleep 25 22.36
Transportation 12.85
Wages, grooms, etc. 88.18
Secretary’s salary 132.39
Superintendent’s salary 82.79
Veterinary’s salary 26.50
Sundries 66.07
$519.53

Entries: 14 horses, 15 mules, 41 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 9 mules, 29 donkeys.

Kilometers traveled, 124; cases investigated, 319;
animals seen, 3,976; animals treated, 1,012; animals
transferred, 30.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Purposeful Reasoning

KADRA’MAYSI‘

HENEVER I hear of psychologists

debating the question as to whether
or not animals reason, I smile to myself. I
believe that reasoning may be deﬁned as
“thinking with a purpose.” All my life I
have loved animals, had them around me,
observed their habits. Hundreds of times
have I had proof that not only the higher
animals, such as horses and dogs, reason,
but that even the lower ones “think with a
purpose.”

Not long ago, I had occasion to go one
afternoon to that part of Charleston which
is called West Point. The sun was setting
across the Ashley River, reddening the
marshes and setting aﬂame every window of
old West Point rice mill, which is nearly a
century old. Behind it towered enormous
piles of evil-smelling hemp or sisal-grass
shipped in for the city’s bagging factories.

But my attention was attracted by a
ﬂight of white heron, which seemed to be
doing airplane drill over the middle of the
river. Tide was drawing out of the marsh,
leaving bare mud-banks and shallow creeks;
but the herons, ﬂying in a semi-circle just
above the water, were ﬂapping slowly to-
ward the shore. As they came closer we
could see a disturbance'in the river before
and under them. A number of ﬁsh seemed
to be swimming and jumping ahead of
them.

Amazed, we watched themapproach the
marsh, driving before them a number of
ﬁsh. As deliberately and methodically as
cowboys drive cattle into a corral, the great
birds closed in and drove their prey into
the rapidly draining creeks and gutters. As
soon as they had them safe in shallow
water, they settled down on their long legs
and made a comfortable meal.

One of the river watchmen told me that
he had often seen them execute the same
maneuvers. He said that, Whenever unable
to ﬁnd enough ﬁsh in shallow water, they
deliberately ﬂew out in mid-stream, formed
a semi-circle, horseshoe, or wedge, and
ﬂapped inshore, ﬂying so low that their
wings drove the ﬁsh before them.

He took it quite as a matter of course,
but I was greatly excited. The huge White
birds ﬂying low above the sunset-crimsoned
tide formed a picture which I shall never
forget. Its memory is made more interest-
ing by knowledge that their drill was not
accidental, but that they were having an
afternoon “round-up.”

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your .will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) .Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequest especrally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
shoﬂdﬁlggerftheltiss, be mfadﬁ toﬁl‘he Mlassachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

o 1 or e use 0 e ospita ’ as the Hos 't l ' ' '
property of that Society and is conducted by it. p1 a Is not incorporated but IS the

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Socie for the P t' -
to The American Humane Education Sotcyiety), the S£$%?.1i)il. .0.f . Cruelty .t.0. Animals (or
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property). ...........

 

 

 

Mar. 1935

A Word From the Fondouk

VERY day I have been putting in some

good spade work in the Medina, or
other likely places, stopping Arabs who
have anything in the. way of needles or
nails attached to their sticks.

I ﬁnd the Arab’s favorite habit is to hold
the business end of the stick inside his
hand, so that the stick looks quite innocent.
Now, I stop them to see what they have in
their hands.

The New Year has commenced badly for
Hamed Ben Talleb, a servant of Sidi e1
Abbes, living at his employer’s at Fes. This
man has not been convicted before, but he
was met today on the road by a policeman
who stopped him because he was wounding
his donkey with a dirty bit of iron, which
was covered with blood. It was a favorite
habit of this man to thrash his animals
without reason. The policeman very right-
ly conducted him at once to the police sta-
tion where he was kept under arrest.

The animal was sent to the American
Fondouk by the police, who are always
helpful in these cases. -

On Saturday, on‘returning to the ofﬁce, I
saw four litle Arab boys ill-treating a very
handsome black pointer, evidently a pedi-
greed dog. The dog followed me all the way
to the Fondouk and would not leave me. It
was a very lovable beast. and I felt it had
been in the. possession of very kind people,
and was too good a dog to be sent to the.
common pound.

I gave it a temporary bed at the Fon-
douk and today saw an advertisement for it
in the local paper. I found that it belonged
to the cashier of the Banque d’Etat, Fes,
who was delighted to ﬁnd it had been so
well taken care of by us, and was exceed-
ingly grateful.

Although this is outside of our general
work here, I felt great pity for any dog to
be left to the cruelty of the wayside.

We know that to ancient peoples the
horse was sacred, says a writer in the
Christian Science Monitor. The Scandina-
vians worshiped it. The Saxon invaders,
Hengist and Horsa, bore the horse on their
standards and it was symbolized in their
names, for the horse was the emblem of

warriors.

______’——

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

 

One dollar per year.

the world. .
All dollar subscriptions sent dlrect to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.
RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
-OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer,

Boston.
Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

180 Longwood Avenue,

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1935

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMRER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood‘SIO
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer ,

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON

HARVEY R. FULLER HeWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
' Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY AND

BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers . 15,653
Cases investigated ............... 474
Animals examined ............... 3,465
Animals placed in homes . ........ 138
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 46
Number of prosecutions .......... 5
Number of convictions ........... 4
Horses taken from work. . . . . ..... 27
Horse's humanely put to sleep. . . . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,897

Stock-yards and abattoirs

Animals inspected ............ . . . . 41,009
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep. .. .. ............

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of L. Blanche Endres
of Fitchburg, Mrs. Sarah A. Hall of South
Sudbury, Charles Martin Turnov Loeﬂ‘ler of
Medﬁeld, and Annie F. Selfridge of Boston.

July 9, 1935.

OUR DUMB

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Stajj‘
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D, Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians

passes
bowwmq

 

 

 

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD. D.V.M.
HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE
Including Springﬁeld Branch
Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 704 Cases 2,396
Dogs 538 Dogs 1,976
Cats 153 Cats 354
Birds 7 Birds 54
Horses 5 Goats 4
Goat 1 Minks 4
Horse 1
Squirrel 1
FOX 1
Monkey 1

Operations 928

Hospital cases Since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................... 130,017
Dispensary Cases .................. 309,354
Total ............................ 439,351

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital .............. 94
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 359
Operations .' ............................ 155

A Rest and Boarding Farm for Horses is
maintained by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
at Methuen. Only $3.50 pays the expense
of a week’s vacation for some deserving horse.

AN 1M ALS

Page JQZ

The Opening of our New
Hyannis Shelter

N June I9 we Opened for public inspec-
tion our new shelter in connection
with our Hyannis Branch. For years our
agent on the Cape, Mr. Harold G. Andrews,
has investigated cases of reported cruelty,
answered calls which came for lost, stray,
injured and unwanted animals, but with
limited facilities with which to do his work.
The picture below shows his present home
and the new Shelter where such small ani-
mals. as he has constantly to care for can be
given proper accommodations. The shelter
has an Oﬁice, kennels for dogs and cats, and
proper outdoor runways. It is exceedingly
neat and attractive both within and without.
A new‘ambulance has also been purchased
for the Branch, and a lethal chamber is part
of the equipment.

A simple luncheon was served at noon to
representatives of the Society from Boston
and other parts of the State and to a few in—
terested friends, and at three in the after-
noon a group of ﬁne Hyannis women served
tea to the many visitors who came to inspect
the shelter. Everyone was enthusiastic in
praise of the new headquarters of the
Branch. The Shelter was built by a local
contractor and the Society has a lease of
both shelter and agent’s residence for a
period of years.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁVe
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

. o
I

Please remember the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. in your will.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

May, 1935

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POL-LARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation.

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—-MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY AND

BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane Oﬂicers . 14,906
Cases investigated ............... 384
Animals examined ............... 3,888
Animals placed in homes ......... 104
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 34
Number Of prosecutions .......... 2
Number of convictions ........... 1
Horses taken from work .......... 22
Horses humanely put to sleep ...... 28

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,197

Stock-yards and abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 48,067
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 74

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills of Eliza F. Mal—
lalieu of Newton, Jessie A. Goddard Of
Newton, Grace Julia Fish of Roslindale,
Willa Bell Spencer of Staunton, Virginia,
Mary A. Mullen of Holyoke, and Melvin L.
Parker Of Springfield.

April 9, 1935.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ
H SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.

939F433.“

 

 

H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M. ‘

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 719 Cases 2,416
Dogs 549 Dogs 1,910
Cats 160 Cats 453
Birds 8 Birds 36
Horses 2 Horses 7

Rabbits 3

Monkeys 2

Bears 2

Goats 2

Cow 1
Operations 1,059

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ..................... 127,788
Dispensary Cases .............. 302,087

Total ...................... 429,875

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ........... 120
Cases entered in Dispensary ......... 426
Operations ....................... 198

“Our Dumb Animals” in

School

NE of the ﬁeld workers of the Ameri‘

can Humane Education Society re-
ceived a letter from a teacher in Baltimore,
Md., from which We quote:

The magazine, Our Dumb Animals, has
been more popular than any other book in
our class—room library. There is never a
copy of it idle. We’ve used them for oral
reports in English and they’ve added a
great deal to our science periods. Just last
week we were studying the blue jay. Sev-
eral Of the boys told about “taking a crack”
at one while they were walking in the woods
with their guns. I read them the article in
the January issue, “Air Gun ‘Bandits’.”
Both boys changed their attitude right then,
and I believe they were sincere.

The material you sent is going to be very
useful. We have an Opportunity to in-
clude this humane work in our science es-
pecially. . . . I am extremely grateful for
both the magazine and the other literature
and also for your interest in supplying
them. It is a great incentive for helping
a little in the work.

Full reports of Be Kind to Animals Week
celebrations, in progress as we go to press,
will appear next month.

Page '73

A Significant and Timely
Letter

OPY of a letter to the Minister of
Foreign Aﬁairs, The Hague, on be-
half Of International Regulations towards
Humane Killing.
Sir:

For many years there has been a move-
ment all over the world on behalf Of Ani-
mal Rights, and particularly the manner of
killing, which Often is extremely painful,
has drawn public attention.

Killing without previous stunning does
not only take place with ritual Slaughter as
practised by the Jews or Mahometans, but it
also happens wholesale at abattoirs for ex-
port, and even in private Slaughter-houses.
As this method Of killing is not in accord-
ance with modern ideas of humanitarian-
ism, protests against killing without previ-
ous stunning have been made in every part
of the globe.

Our protest against killing without previ-
ous stunning has had enormous success.
One hundred and four societies and 1,319,-
242 individuals approved of our attempt to
secure international regulations re this mat-
ter.

As individuals are unable to make sug-
gestions to the League of Nations, we re-
quest you, Sir, that the Government Of the
Netherlands may approach the League of
Nations and make suggestions towards In-
ternational Regulations Of methods of
slaughter, so as to arrive at legal regula-
tions for methods which are least cruel.

If our Government would agree to this
suggestion, we will gladly forward to you,
Sir, all Signatures which we have received,
so as to enable you to clearly prove that
very many people are anxious for such in-
ternational regulations for methods Of kill-
1n .

gVVe would also draw your attention to
the fact that recently several countries have
made new laws for a reform of methods of
slaughter. During 1934 Finland, Norway,
Sweden, Northern Ireland and Switzerland
have made new regulations to that effect.
On purpose we do not mention the latest
German regulations, which in the opinion
of many people is a matter Of politics. We
cannot judge if this is correct, but our ac-
tion has no political Objects whatever. We
are moved only by the rights which animals
undoubtedly possess, and by the fact that
those engaged in slaughter without previ-
ous stunning, cannot escape the demoraliz-
ing effect of such horrible profession.

Trusting that you will use your inﬂuence,
Sir, to move our Government to make such
effort, we remain, Sir,

Your most obedient Servants
Amor est Iustitia, I.I.O.T.,
H. W. KNOEST,
Nicolaistr. 79, The Hague

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to

the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write {or
BOOKLET NO. 652

   
  
   
  

, on the practical te-
FOP moval of worms in
DOGS Dogs ofd all breeds

and ages.

 
 
  

TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. 'l'.

WORM CAPSULES

ﬁectz'vely remove

largeR , dworms and Hookworm:
f , -to-give worm treatmen .
Dggensd‘agle. ea31%” free booklet WRITE TO

PARKE, DAVIS & CO.

~58-A, A [IndustryDeptq Detroit, Mich.
D-f-JkDIrYug Storezigz‘ll Parke- Davis Products.—

 

 

 

 

 

 

CUTICUBA SOAP

Acknowledged as a Protection

against Skin Troubles

Price 25c. Sample free.
Address: "Cuticura,” Dept. 12K, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

ON BEHALF OF
ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film
Service, showing the activities of the
Angell Animal Hospital of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at
the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses,
Methuen, and glimpses of the So-
ciety’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30
minutes.

THE BELL OF
ATRI

Made for the American Humane Edu-
cation Society some years ago, but still
in great demand.

State whether regular 35 mm., or
16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
@thertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering ..................

Humane Calendar for 193 35 ........... eac,h 20 cts.
Two for 35 cts. six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, _with

attractive pictures and verses, 51x 1n

the set ........... 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters 61/gx3% .$0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It——Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ..... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley . . ........................... $0. 30 per 100
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60

Humane Educationr Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “

The Horse’s Praye ................ .30 “ 2

The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ ‘
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ....... small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer 50
The Air- -gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special . . ...................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .,paper 7cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30

Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Free
Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ........ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. . ..... 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ....................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ;
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32p p.p .............. cloth, 35 cts.
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.

ply ................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) .............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp .......................
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

paper, 15 cts.

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ ‘
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ ‘
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.

Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
J. Eddy

50 cts.
Songs ofy Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ...................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band ofMercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

PURE CEDAR BEDDING

Sold and Manufactured for 30 Years by
FRAMINGHAM CEDAR BEDDING CO.
OF SOUTH HANSON, MASS.

Used at the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
Used for the last 15 years in the benches at such dog‘ shows as Westminster, Eastern, Baltimore,
Buffalo and many others.
Used in many of the finest kennels in the eastern part of the country for years.
Order your supply today direct from FRAMINGHAM CEDAR BEDDING CO., South Hanson, Mass.
Packed in bales of 100, 50, 25, and 10 pounds.

Mats for home use in many sizes.

Cedar Sawdust in 50-lb bags.

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR FOR 1935

With colored picture of boy and dog
black and white picture of woman, child and cat. If no preference
is stated, colored picture will be sent. Humane hints and sugges-
tions on each leaf of pad, especially suitable for the school- -room.

20 cts. per copy; two for 35 cts. or 12 for $1.80 to a single address.
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston

“Heir of All the Ages,” or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F REE was run

BOOKLET NO. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

FOR DOGS

. Q , v.-
3E M0 )
, s

1' TRAGHLOREHTYLENE c.1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!

For Free Booklet write to Desk \'-58—G
Animal Industry Dept, _ _
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 60., DetrOIt, MlCh

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

  
   
       

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers for 1934
Beautifully bound in cloth and stamped in gold
Ideal gift for humane friends and forins titutions of
all kinds. 192 Pages—150 Illustrations

Postpaid to any part of the world for One Dollar

Address: OUR DUlVlB ANIIVIALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

ﬂanhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes ................ .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set . . . . ......................... 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%;x39/8 .. $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. 60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... 50 :: ::
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 ‘ ..
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 ‘

The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...... . . ............... -,
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry . .................. .30 “ “
About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45

The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
.5 6‘ (i

.50 5‘ ((

Surplus Cats .......................... 0

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ ‘
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............... 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... . 0 “ “
Foreword from “Michaeerrother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, N0. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. . . . . ............ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

.Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

Illus. .. ............. 15 cents each;seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. .....................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley . . . . . . ........ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. .................. cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3.00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—-Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”

play . . . ........ . . . . 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp. ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .. ................. .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..... ........ 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

6‘ (l

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

FILMS THAT ILLUSTRATE KINDNESS To ANIMALS
THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Blade by the Harvard University Film Service, showing th
Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston. scenes

Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

e activities of the Angell Animal
at the Society’s Rest Farm for

Two reels, 15 minutes each.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 26

    
   
 

    
   

7

GLORY T0
% -’,
m .
:n

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
        
 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DB. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Dulf ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land. Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR DECEMBER, 1934

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 1,288
Number of addresses made, 352
Number of persons in audiences, 63,967

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Societies

are absolutely safe and yield a return
according to one’s age. They make their ap-
peal ordinarily to people over 40 years of
age. Send the coupon for a free folder which
gives full details. Fill it in and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me

the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name

Age

......
....................

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

DECEASED FRIENDS

Who Made Bequests to the Massachusetts
5. P. C. A. and the American Humane
Education Society in 1934
NOTE :—Names of all earlier deceased friends, mak-
ing similar bequests, appear in the issues of Our
Dumb Animals for February, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931,

1932, and 1933.

Arabella Ames, Onset

Emma Ruddock Bannister, Groveland

Henry Singlewood Bisbing, Gales Ferry,
Connecticut

Frederic A. Bissell, Brookline

Andrew Booth, Blackstone

Emma A. Buckley, Ware

Mrs. Andree E. Chevalier, Brookline

Annie Cleave-s, Brookline

Charles E. Egerton, Harvard

Cornelia F. Forbes, Milton

Fanny Foster, Newport, R. I.

Mary Bell Fraser, Boston

Paul W. Jackson, Braintree

Agnes J. Kerr, Boston

Anna E. Lanning, Boston

Edna Blanchard Lewis, New York, N. Y.

Caryl Peabody Lovejoy, Carlisle

Ellen McCartney, Newton

Nellie M. Morse, Orange

Mrs. Mary A. M‘ullen, Springﬁeld

Elizabeth F. Noble, Schenectady, New York

Philip G. Peabody, Dorchester

Frances E. Pendexter, Chelsea

George F. Poland, Woburn

Esther J. Prevaux, Amesbury

Violet A. Raison, Landover, Maryland

Sarah J. Rice, Waltham

S. Irving Richardson, Brookline-

Caroline A. Saunders, Georgetown

Mrs. Lydia Cameron Rogers Sedgwick,
Stockbridge

Ella E. Shaw, East Boston

Isabella P. Shaw, Wellesley

Leila A. Smith, Portland, Maine

Mary L. Smith, Randolph

Harold D. Stebbins, Springﬁeld

Lulu S. Symmes, Hammond, Indiana

Mrs. Elizabeth Town, Cambridge

Mrs. Henry A. Willson, Boston

Martha D. Wilson, Wakeﬁeld

J. B. Priestley on Hunting
People

I do not understand hunting people . . .
they should not pretend to be solemnly do-
ing their duty when in reality they are in-
dulging and enjoying themselves. . . .

The fox-hunter who begins mumbling
excuses, who tells you that he hunts to rid
the countryside of foxes, that hunting is
valuable because it improves the breed of
horses (i.e., hunters), is a contemptible
fellow.

But I am prepared to respect the hunt-
ing man who looks you straight in the eye
and declares in downright fashion: “I hunt
because I like it. Hunting’s the most glori-
ous sport in the world, and I live for it. It
may be extravagant, cruel, anti—social, any-
thing you like, but I don’t give a d .
And as long as society allows me to hunt, I
shall hunt. Halloo!”

But I have not met him yet.

J. B. PRIESTLEY

 

“Passing Show”

The use of mechanical devices, wire and
the like, to make animals perform unnatur-
al stunts on the screen is so apparent, that
it is disgusting. ARTHUR HUNT

Feb. 1935

American Fondouk, Fez
Report for November, 1934 — 30 Days

Daily average large animals 43.4
Forage for same *$17.14
Daily average dogs 9.8
Forage for same 9.73
Large animals humanely put to sleep 23 20.75
Transportation, (Oct. and NOV.) **23.26
Wages, grooms, etc. 89.70
Salaries 149.49
Veterinary’s salary 26.57
Sundries 38.30
$374.94

Exchange @ 1 5. 0 5

Entries: 14 horses, 13 mules, 43 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 12 mules, 36 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s Assistant, and Inspector,
on 70 Native Fondouks, the two markets for animals
held twice weekly and inspected, the Mellah, the
Ville Nouvelle, where are the Police Headquarters,
and the Batha Division inspected.

Kilometers traveled, 140; cases investigated, 349;
animals seen, 8,192; animals treated, 1,830; animals
transferred, 36.

Supt.’s Notes: * All purchases for November green
vegetables and lucerne only. October expense for
forage covering another three months from now.

**Transportation away as shown covers two months.
From this date the monthly total will be paid the last
day of each month for the current carting.

From Visitor’s Book at the
American Fondouk

From the head of the House of the de-
scendants of Moulay Idriss, Patron Saint
of Fes:

I send my congratulations to the members
of this Society for the well-known kind—
nesses they do here.

Cher-if SID LABBES DRISSI, Fes

November 22, 1934

From Mme. Mary Pouquet, Presidente,
and Mme. Edwige Houssiaux, Vice-Pres—
idente de la Societe Protectrice des Ani-
maux de Meknes, at their second visit:

With our best wishes for this great and
kind work so well organized, and resulting
at greatly bettering the lot of our poor, too
much forgotten animals in Maroc.

November 26, 1934

Taming Wild Bees

A correspondent sends us the following
from the Bergen (N. J.) Evening News,
concerning the experience of a great ani—
mal lover, Mrs. Marjorie Terhune of Wood-
cliﬂ" Lake:

When a wild honey-bee sits on an ex-
posed portion of human anatomy, somebody
(usually) gets stung.

This is the story of a swarm of bees made
tame. Domesticated, if you please. It’s
just another example of how far into the
“impossible” one might go, successfully, in
domestication of wild things; the story of
Marjorie (Mrs. John) Terhune and her
pets—including the bees. \

Although it’s a “stinger” the various al-
legations of the story have been veriﬁed.
Checked and double checked.

Sugar, water and inﬁnite patience event-
ually subdued the swarm’s natural “in—
stincts”; and today they follow her about
the grounds whenever she leaves her back
door. Some of them even alight and sit

peacefully on her hand. She has not been
stung (yet), but the practice isn’t one we’d
recommend for general play.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write for

BOOKLET NO. 652
on the practical to-
'2 moval of worms m
Dogs of all breeds
and ages.

 
   
     
 

MTETRACHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.

M BAPSU LES

   

largo Ro 4d arms and Hookworms
Th 5 fe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Degenciable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS & CO.

Dub N -58—D, Animal I ndurtry Dept, Detroit, M ick.
- Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products. —-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Friend of
Every Mother SQ“
. “1'3 Who
“t‘c Values Her
0 Children’s SkinHealth

Price 25c. Sample free. Address:
“Outicura,” Dept. 6K, Malden, Mass.

AAA‘-AA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
   

The latest and
greatest of the
' famous Merriam-
Websters — backed
by a century of
leadership and
representing the
highest modern
scholarship. Just
completed at a
cost of $1,300,000.
Twenty y e a r s
newer than any com-
parable dictionary.

WEBSTER’ 8
NEW INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONARY

Second Edition

 

 

 

1
11600.000 Entries—122.000 Not Found in
Any Other Dictionary 11Thousands of
New Words 1112.000 Terms Illustrated
11Magniﬁcent Plates in Color and Half
Tone 11Thousands of Encyclopedic Arti-
cles 1135.000 Geographical Entries
1113.000 Biographical Entries 11200 Valu-
able Tables 11$ynonyms and Antonyms
113350 Pages

 

 

 

See The New Merriam-Webster At Your
Bookstore Or Write For Pamphlet

G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
Springﬁeld. Mass.

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including.r the twelve numbers for 1934
Beautifully bound in cloth and stamped in gold
Ideal gift for humane friends and forinstitutions of
of all kinds. 192 Pages—150 Illustrations

Postpaid to any part of the world for One Dollar
Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
18:) Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sal-e at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Humane Calendar for 1935 ............ each, 20 cts.
Two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................. 1.00
Colored Poster, Be Kind to Animals,

17 X 22 inches . . .. ........ 100. each, 20 for $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x33/8 .. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother "of J errry” .30 “ “

Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. .. 1.00 “ "
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards . . . . . . . each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.

nimals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3 00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts., each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play . . . .' ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1935 ............ $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ "
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00 “ “

“Why A Humane Sunday?”, Dr. Rowley 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J Eddy 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ........................ . .......
Band of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

$3.00 per 100
.50 “ ff

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

ON BEHALF

 

Best Humane Films!

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for
Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.
State whether regular 35 mm, or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@thertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

——r—7-" .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1;

sion for the Protection of Children and
Animals. .

Grandy made several photographs as ev1-
dence to support his claim that gross
cruelty was part of the training routine.

After watching two rabbits being caught
and torn to pieces by two greyhounds,
Grandy and Ewing stopped the electrical de-
vice which whirled the animals around the
track and cut down one live rabbit intended
as “bait.”

At numerous tracks near Los Angeles
greyhounds race nightly, pursuing a stuﬁed
rabbit which circles the track at high speed,
propelled by electricity.

Grandy and Ewing said they visited Os—
wald’s training camp and saw Boehlert ﬁx
a live rabbit to the pole, using a heavy piece
of string in “sewing” the animal.

“Then Hamilton released two greyhounds
on a signal from Oswald, who was in a con-
trol tower 100 yards away,” the report of
the arrest stated.

“The electric racing machine was started
with the rabbit dangling from it and, when
the machine was about 25 feet past the
starting line the dogs were released. After
the machine had traveled about 75 yards,
the dogs caught up with it, snatched the
rabbit, and tore it to pieces.”

The day’s training was halted after two
rabbits were torn to pieces. The ofﬁcers took
the three men to Seventy—seventh street po—
lice station. Oswald told the ofﬁcers he had
instructed Hamilton to kill the rabbits be-
fore sewing them to the machine. Grandy
said “The rescued rabbit was held as evi-
dence.”

Later upon trial of the defendants, Os-
wald was ﬁned $300 and each of the trainers,
$150.

Complaints have been received by the
San Francisco S.P.C.A. that in San Mateo
county where two greyhound racing tracks
are being operated trainers have used cats
and live rabbits to keep their dogs in con-
dition for the mechanical rabbit racing.

Ofﬁcer Hennessy for the State Humane
Association and Oﬁicer F. Thomas of the
Palo Alto Humane Society have been watch—
ing for these trainers who take their dogs
in trailers and go a long distance from their
kennels to the ﬂat open country where rab-
bits are turned loose. Ofﬁcer Hennessy
found one trainer with several dogs and
seven rabbits, one rabbit having just been
killed by two dogs.

We follow this with a letter just received
from the Secretary of the San Francisco
S.P.C.A. in which he writes:

Answering your inquiry will state that
when the mechanical hare was introduced
we hoped it had put an end to rabbit cours-
ing but instead it has brought a greater
amount of cruelty than before. In the cours-
ing, as you probably know, a hare was
released, usually a wild rabbit, and two dogs
released to pursue and kill it. Occasionally
a fast rabbit did get away but more often
it was torn to pieces. In the rabbit racing,
dogs are muzzled and chase after the elec-
trically controlled stuffed hare. The hurdle
races are the cause of the death of quite a
few racing dogs each season but when we
investigate we ﬁnd it was an “accident” and
could not be helped.

There are no greyhound racing tracks in

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

San Francisco but in San Mateo adjacent to
San Francisco there are three, and over one
million dollars changed hands in the gam-
bling end of the game last year. It has
brought an undesirable element from all
over the United States—gamblers and dog
owners—and since one track is just over the
San Francisco county line we have consid-
erable trouble with dog owners allowing
their dogs to run at large, killing small dogs
and cats. Many complaints come to us of
dogs so injured.

Owners claim young hounds must have
the taste of blood to have a chance to win
chasing the stuffed hare. Two places I know
of, one near Los Angeles and one in Moun—
tain View, Santa .Clara County, about 40
miles from San Francisco, have an electric
controlled training machine which runs
around a circular track. A stick projects
from the machine and a live white bunny is
tied to the stick, sometimes by the hind
legs so its front feet touch the ground at
times when the machine is in motion; dogs
are then turned loose unmuzzled and they
tear the terriﬁed creature apart. We ar-
rested the men involved at Mountain View
but a jury could not agree. They believed the
defendant who said he killed the rabbit just
before the machine started. Ofﬁcers near
where the rabbit was caught testiﬁed it was
kicking and cried as the dogs seized it. In
Los Angeles the ﬁends sewed the rabbit
with a string through its hide and allowed
the dogs to tear it to pieces. Three men
were tried by a judge, convicted and ﬁned
$600 in all.

Enclosed ﬁnd tear sheets with account of
above case. You will note where over 100
dead rabbits were found killed previous to
the arrival of ofﬁcers.

Last year we had a bill introduced to stop
coursing but it met with opposition by the
coursing men and the bill died in committee.
From what has developed since then, we
need to extend the protection to rabbits
used in these training machines.

An editorial writer in the Boston Ameri-
can says:

Jan.1935

The racing dog, carefully bred so that his
natural intelligence is dimmed down to a
mere glimmer of wit sufﬁcient to shag an
electric rabbit, gives the man the best he
has. And is repaid by the chiseling brother
and sisterhood with a quick and scientiﬁc
death after his period of usefulness is ex-
hausted.

If you think the horse racing guild con-
tains an unscrupulous element, with a mix—
ture of low and frowsy characters, you
should witness the form of moral depravity
which follows the dogs.

Quite a different report comes to us from
the American S.P.C.A., New York, where
dog races have occurred. Ofﬁcers of the
New York Society have repeatedly visited
these races held near New York City and
write that they are so conducted there that
though carefully watched no prosecution for
cruelty has occurred.

For all that, the lovers of dogs the na-
tion over will regret the growing popularity
of this “so-called” sport. Outside the cruelty
feature, what of the gambling one? Forty-
two million dollars bet at the Rockingham,
N. H., and Narragansett, R. 1., horse racing—
tracks this last year; the most of the money
from Massachusetts. How many who will
want welfare help this winter squandered
their savings at these places?

The Baby Kangaroo

The young kangaroo is very small and
helpless for some time after birth. Into her
warm furry pocket the mother puts her tiny
“joey,” as the natives call it. For the ﬁrst
few weeks it lies completely hidden in
the maternal pouch, but by and by it pushes
its head out of the cozy pocket and takes its
ﬁrst look at the world. Later it comes out
and feeds on its own account, but always
hopping along near the mother. At the least
sign of approaching danger the mother kan-
garoo stoops forward, opens wide the mouth
of her pocket, the youngster jumps in head
ﬁrst, and together they make off for safety.

 

SAFETY FIRST

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1935
The Colts

JUDY VAN DER VEER

We lay in the grass on the pasture hill,
And the colts came wandering by,

They stared as though they thought that we
Were strangers from the sky.

Their nostrils trembled, their eyes were
great,
Like shadowed eyes of deer;
With curious and half-shy steps
Their restless hoofs drew near.

The tall colt we call Pepper Tree
Bent down his head to mine,
And I lay soundless as the dead,

Without a breath or sign.

Ifelt the quiver of his lips
Against my face and throat,
And I could feel the golden warmth
Of sunlight on his coat.

The smell of sage was in his mane,
His breath was sweet with grass;

I raised my hand half fearful lest
This wonderment should pass.

He tossed his head and all the colts
Went running down the hill;

We watched until they stopped and stood
Like pictures bright and still.

ASecret
ALAN DEVOE

My friends see two white horses in a ﬁeld,
Grazing in every weather side by side;
But I to whom the secret is revealed
Have seen profoundest love and sternest
pride. ‘

I see “Min” sha-mble through the clovery
grass,
And “Belle” walk always just a pace
behind,
Aping, like some reflection in a glass,
Each step, each turn, each start and halt
in kind.

And so it goes in sun or wind or rain,
Nor could one in that quiet patience ﬁnd
One smallest hint of flinching or of pain,
Or ever guess that she called Belle is
blind.

6: Sandy”

Written by the President of Miami University,
Oxford, 0., in memory of his late dog

A Scottish gentleman has passed this way,
A very gallant Scottish gentleman.

He tarried with us for a golden day —
We shall not look upon his like again.

He wore his tartan with an easy grace,
His head was high, his step was light and
free.
Love and devotion lit his rugged face ——
He was a very bonny sight to see.

Loyal he was in battle for his own,-
Heart of a lion in a pygmy form.
Death overtook him but he made no moan—
God grant the sun upon his grave be
warm!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

For Love of a Horse
A True Story

THOS. H. SHERMAN

RED L. HANSON, of Gorham, Maine,

has passed the allotted three—score-
years—and—ten milestone, still carrying on
cheerily, ready to do a good turn to any-
body he meets. In this respect he stands
above the crowd as does his six feet four
inches of height unbent by the years. In
early manhood, to avert threatened disease,
he took to the open road. His chief occupa—
tion is that of transporting household effects
and such across the street or across the
conti.nent——.north, south, east and west. He
tells of many interesting episodes en—
countered in his long trips. The following,
told to the writer, will especially interest
lovers of horses.

On a farm in the outskirts of Gorham
dwelt for many years a dear old couple who
managed and tilled the farm, and made a
comfortable living. They were happy until
recently, with old age creeping on them,
they consented to go to spend the remainder
of their days with a daughter in the north-
ern part of the state. The old gentleman
was a familiar ﬁgure in the village streets
with his old, feeble white horse hitched to
a rattling antique buggy, going from house
to house to sell his produce.

On the day before that set for the moving
the farmer drove into the village to engage
Mr. Hanson for the moving. His purpose,
he said, was to have mother go down by
train and he would drive old Dobbin down
alone. He would take some hay along for the
horse and a few sandwiches for himself and
the dog. “Oh,” said Hanson, “you can’t do
that.” You are not able yourself to make
that more than a hundred-mile journey,
the horse couldn’t do it in a month, and the
old buggy with every tire loose would fall
to pieces before you got halfway. Now,
let me make a suggestion. Go home and get
one of your good neighbors to take Dobbin
into the woods and shoot and bury him.
You and your wife shall ride with me in the
cab where she will be more comfortable
than she would be on the train, considering

Page 5

the changes necessary, and it will not cost
you a cent extra. No. It is too risky. You
musn’t think of driving down, not even of
driving the twenty miles to the train.”

After much hesitation the old gentleman,
ﬁnding it difﬁcult to believe that he couldn’t
drive the old horse as he always had done,
agreed to this plan.

Bright and early the next morning the
van was backed up to the farm-house door.
Neighbors from miles around had gathered
to bid their old friends “Godspeed.” Neigh-
bor George was there with his gun prepared
to take Dobbin on his last trip and put him
mercifully to sleep. Then, as Dobbin came
to the gate and whinnied his usual “good
morning,” his master put his arm around
his neck and led him to George. As George
took the halter the old man broke down
completely. “George,” he said, “I can’t let
you do it. I can NOT let you do it. This old
horse has been my best friend for more than _
twenty years. He loves me and he knows
that I love him. I would rather let you take
me to the woods and shoot me. No, I can
not bear it.”

This was Hanson’s cue. He said, “George,
while I am loading up with everything in
the house you make a crate for Dobbin.
There’s plenty of lumber lying around
loose here. Make it good and strong and to
ﬁt so that he will not be jolted too much
where the going is rough. There is a crate
here for the hens and you can make a small
one for the dog. I will make room for them
all in the van.” The joy of the dear old man
at this solution of his problem can well be
imagined.

The crate was placed in the van. Dobbin
marched up the plank and into the crate
just as if he understood the situation, the
hens were tucked in on one side and the
dog on the other, the big doors clamped and
off they started.

Before sundown they arrived safe and
well, everything was distributed in the new
home, and Dobbin was pastured near by
where he could spend his last days and come
to the gate every morning for his lump of
sugar and his friend’s caress.

Of the re-united group no one was
happier than Mr. Hanson.

 

A PROUD MOTHER AND HER FOAL

 

 

 




 

   

 

 

APRIL |935 PRICE IO CENTS I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4...."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE I

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS I
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY ‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

M ay, 1935

Tommy’s Tavern

OMMY was a wild stray eat of Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, ﬁnally won in»
to a limited friendship by kindness and con—
tinued invitations to partake of a daily ban-
quet. Tommy never became a real pet that
seemed to crave the intimate caresses of
his human friends. But once- he must have
had a home, for frequently when he was
hungry he would sit up and beg. He evident
1y must have been taught that in his hap'
pier childhood days. The garden spot where
he dined so regularly before he could be
persuaded to cross the threshold of those
who week after week had spread the table
for him came to be known as Tommy’s
Tavern, and was also the place where the
birds learned to come for their daily meals.
The following letter to our Society is too
good not to be enjoyed by the readers of
Our Dumb Animals.

Dear Mr. Walker:

You certainly kept the spirit, rather than
the letter, of your kind promise to send
more. cracked corn the moment the ground
should be covered with snow! Though you
knew the covering would soon melt, still
you sent the corn, and we are so much
obliged to you."

We woke up this morning to a frantic
chorus from the customers of Tommy’s
Tavern who had found bare white table—
cloths, but no food thereon—even the
wooden trays had been taken indoors last
night! There was great indignation, as well
as disappointment in the many sparrow
voices, and the trees and bushes were full
of little screaming balls of feathers! It
was very funny to hear the almost deafen-
ing silence that fell when we rushed out
with the trays and the last of our seed! A
foray from the house always commands re-
spectful silence, usually following a thun-
derous uplift of many pairs of wings!

What a pity we couldn’t have kept a
visitor’s book here this winter! Countless
guests have been here, including myriads of
beautiful and rare pigeons among the usual
worthy clodhoppers. “Just think!” they
tell each other, “No cover charge! Oh, you
simply must come to Tommy’s! And no
gratuities! You should just see the waiters
come ﬂying out with more helpings! No,
Tommy himself isn’t there—he has faded
away like Alice-in—Wonderland’s Cheshire
Cat—but oh, he has left his grin in the
bushes! We are as welcome in the Tavern
as ﬂowers in May.”

You have sent us at least three hundred
pounds of provisions* that would have
cost us in Breck’s wild bird seed, with dis-
count, twenty-seven dollars; so you have
saved us what would have seemed awful ex-
travagance. Who would have thought that
Tommy’s customers would have eaten five
hundred pounds this winter! Prodigious!
Oh, and the squirrels and their nuts!

With many thanks, I am

Very truly yours,
E. O. P.

*It should be said the founders of Tommy’s
Tavern always insisted on paying most generously
for the “provisions.”

IN LEAFLET FORM.—The above story, consid-
erably extended, has been published as a 4-page leaﬂet
by the American Humane Education Society and is
offered at $1.00 per 100 copies.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 7 5

Unknown Benefactor Saves Town Dog

H R O U G H the

courtesy of the
Boston Post we show
here the picture of
some of the boys of
Randolph, Mass., and
“Midnight,” the dog
which belongs to the
whole. town but whose
license it is nobody’s
business in particular
to pay. Says the
Post.

“The big black non-
descr-ipt landed in this
town years ago, from
no one knows where,
and immediately
started making
friends with all of the
small children. He
soon came under the
eye of the local dog
catcher and was sen-
tenced to die for the
reason that he was
unlicensed, when the

 

BOY FRIENDS REJOI'CIING IN FREEDOM OF
RANDOLPH (MASS) TOWN DOG

 

children came to his
rescue by collecting pennies and paying the
town clerk the license fee of $2. Stories
about him in the Post resulted in the pay-
ment of his license for 1934 by an anony-
mous woman who sent the money to Police
Chief Patrick T. McConnell, signing her—
self “Lover of Animals.” It is believed
that the .same woman sent the chief the
money received recently for his 1935 li—
cense.”

When the news that “Midnight” was
protected from the dog catcher for another
year spread abroad, boys of all ages in
the neighborhood where the big black mon—
grel has been living for the past season
collected pennies and treated their four—
footed playmate to a meal much to his
liking.

ADog’s Jealousy
JOHN P. DINNENY

RE dogs capatble of jealousy? We in

our family think so. One day a cat
strayed into our house. She was so friend-
ly and appealing that none of us could
put her out in the cold again. Pretty soon
our dog “Spot” made his appearance. He
immediately went for Puss, but her sharp
claws found his nose, forcing him to retreat.
Thereafter he conﬁned himself to menac-
ing growls at a safe distance.

Puss stayed on. Whenever any of us
paid the slightest bit of attention to her,
Spot became highly excited. He would jump
up on us, barking and yelping, licking our
hands and face. We purposely egged him
on, amused at his almost insane jealousy.
He would soon get tired, and slink away
under the stove, growling sulkily.

We overplayed our hand. He disappeared
one day, after having been with us for
over three years. Never a trace did we ﬁnd
of him. ‘As my brother aptly put it, he
went away heartbroken at our disloyalty
to him. We still have Puss, but Spot’s
niche remains unﬁlled.

 

Gardens and Pets
L. E. EUBANKS

H’D like to have a garden,” says one
woman, “but my cat will not let plants
alone.” And from someone else: “I have a
garden every year and enjoy it; I like
dogs and cats, but can’t have them because
of the garden.”

Of course the rooting, digging and tear-
ing are not done in any spirit of vandalism;
the pet is simply trying to have a good
time, obeying its instincts. You might as
well whip the cat for playing with a ball
you have given him as for breaking down
a rose-bush; it’s play in both cases to him.

I’m rather partial to pets, but we do
have a garden, both vegetable and ﬂower.
It’s not as impracticable as some persons
believe. Remember that animals are not
attracted wholly by the sight of an object.
Smell means a lot, and the odor of ever-
green is highly attractive sometimes.

You don’t have to keep whipping the cat
or dog. Usually reproof will do no good,
in this case, and if it does, you’ll ﬁnd that
you’ve made the pet afraid of you. Simply
procure a repellent, and the animal’s keen
scenting power will do the rest. A dilute
spray of nicotine sulphate on shrubbery
has been recommended. It is quite satis-
factory, and will harm neither the plant
nor the pet.

We found the “dust spray” sold at most
pet stores very effective. It comes ready
to use, needs no mixing. The odor, repellent
to pets, is agreeable to people. It is inex-
pensive, particularly as it stands rain so
well that applications need not be very fre-
quent

Don’t deny yourself either a pet or a
garden. In this day of congested living,
many thousands of people would give a
great deal for an environment that affords
garden space; and if you are so fortunate
as to have room for dogs, cats, birds and a
garden—well, you’re among the blessed!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1935,

Fourteenth Auxiliary Fair

NOTHER very successful all—day Fair

of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. was held at the
Copley Plaza, Tuesday, December 12, just
too late for a report to appear in our Janu-
ary issue. The arrangements were under
the direction of Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, president, who served as general
chairman, assisted by Mrs. Arthur W. Hurl-
burt, ﬁrst vice-president, Mrs. A. J. Fur-
bush, treasurer, Mrs. William Bliss, record—
ing secretary, Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, corres-
ponding secretary, and Mrs. A. P. Fisher,
chairman of the work committee.

Among the features was a Japanese
monodrama, “Cherry Blossoms,” presented
by Miss Mildred Dana. Horoscopes were
read by Miss Ellen Gerville. The sales
tables presented an unusually attractive ap-
pearance and were well patronized. The
Auxiliary extends thanks to all who assisted
with contributions of cash or merchandise
and to those who so generously gave their
time and services. A substantial sum was
realized for the beneﬁt of the Angell Ani-
mal Hospital.

The committee on luncheon included Mrs.
Charles C. Hoyt, chairman, Mrs. Willard C.
Bliss, Mrs. William G. Cooney, Mrs. F. Hil-
liard Young, Miss Doris L. Greenlaw, Mrs.
J. H. Benton, Jr., and Mrs. George Ram-
lose. That on bridge consisted of Mrs. A.
M. J. Fisher, Mrs. ”H. E. Prescott, Miss Hel-
en W. Potter, Mrs. S. E. Hilman, Mrs.
Frances G. Carriero, Mrs. G. Heller, and
Mrs. Roy A. Perry. The table committees
were: Doll: Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt,
chairman, Mrs. Edna P. Woods, Miss
Blanche Atwood Bardin, Miss Wealthie
Strauss, Miss Fredonia Strauss, Mrs. Chris-
tine Walker, and Mrs. David C. Theall.
Flower: Mrs. Fannie Gray, chairman, Mrs.
Ralph Freeman, Mrs. George Crampton,
and Prescott Wellman. Winchester: Mrs.
Richard Taylor, chairman, Miss Emily
Parker, Mrs. Grace Hatch, Mrs. Russell
Mann, Miss Bessie Small, and Mrs. Gladys
Folts. Food: Mrs. Harry T. Cole, chairman,
Mrs. John A. Dykeman, Mrs. S. S. Sutcliffe,
Mrs. B. J. Blakney, Mrs. J. J. Corbett, and
Mrs. A. H. Nichols. Taunton: Mrs. Howard
Woodward, chairman, and Mrs. Nellie S.
Barstow. Candy: Mrs. Charles Rowley,
chairman, Miss Alice Rowley, Mrs. A. L.
Risley, Mrs. John Tyler, Mrs. Francis H.
Rowley, and Mrs. Helen Elliot. White Ele-
phant: Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher, chairman, Mrs.
Avard Nichols, and Miss Efﬁe M. Lynch.

How One Woman Helps

From a woman in Kentucky comes this
interesting account of how she is helping
the humane cause:

Dear Friends:

I have a small grocery store, recently ac-
quired. I have on my wall one of your ﬁne
leaﬂets, “The Horse’s Prayer.” It is sur-
prising as well as gratifying to note that
many men coming in for purchases stop to
read that prayer. This leads me to conclude
that I might do my “bit” by having a few
of these here and giving them out to inter-
ested persons, so am enclosing 25 cents for
same to be sent to me.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 27

 

EXHIBIT OF AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, IN CHARGE OF
SEYMOUR CARROLL, AT SOUTH CAROLINA STATE FAIR, LAST NOVEMBER

 

Report of New Society

E are in receipt of the ﬁrst annual

report of the Wisconsin Humane
Education Society of Delavan, the attrac-
tive- cover design of which contains the.
poem reproduced on our Children’s Page
this month. This Society secured a num-
ber of articles on humane education in
the newspapers, sent hundreds of let-
ters to members of the P. T. A., school
boards, clergymen, club women, and others,
and urged the installation of the humane
killer in case the Government takes over the
packing industry. Protests were sent out
against objectionable ﬁlms and unfavorable
legislation. Packages of literature were
distributed to 1,250 homes in Madison and
to some in surrounding towns. Rev. E. M.
Salter, Wyocena, is president, and Mrs.
Winifred Wilkins, Delavan, secretary-treas-
urer of this small but enthusiastic organi-
zation.

Accident is an Absurd Name
Guns —- Children

Accident is an absurd name for injuries
and deaths caused by guns in homes.

One person in central California collected
60 clippings of such cases in 11 months of
1934. One person in New York City col—
lected 60 similar clippings during the same
time. Both limited their collections to chil-
dren ﬁfteen years of age or less.

Most of the dispatches, both eastern and
western, report that the guns were in homes,
were known to be there, were aimed at peo-
ple. The other cases were games of bandit,
cowboy, Indian, kidnaping, or backyard
targets.

From Western Press Committee,
Palo Alto, Cal.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve

dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston.

Dangerous Holes

CORRESPONDENT in Connecticut

writes as follows: “Here in Con-
necticut and probably in Massachusetts
also, the CWA, ERA, or CCC have been
digging holes in the ground, in wet
places, about ﬁve or six feet square
and I don’t know how deep, with sides of
logs straight up, one top of another. These
are now nearly full of water and are for
ﬁre protection. For that purpose they are
good, just the thing. But they are a deadly
menace to all wild and many domestic ani-
mals, also to children that may wander into
the woods, as there is nothing to prevent
them from getting in, and nothing to help
them get out if they do get in.

“Yesterday my dog left us and about 10
A. M. was heard barking in the woods but
nothing was thought of it, as it was pre-
sumed he had found a squirrel. About 3
P. M., hearing an occasional bark, we
started to look for him and found him in
one of these pits with only head and neck
out of water. Now this may happen any
time to any animal, wild or domestic, and
it is unpleasant, at least, to think of the
lingering death that must come to them if
not rescued. I think these holes should be
rebuilt with one side slanting, so that an
animal can crawl out by itself, or in some
way made safe for animal life.”

We suggest that such areas might be en-
closed by a fence suﬂﬁciently tight and high
to prevent the entrance of animals or chil-
dren. At any rate, the authorities should
do something to prevent the danger to life
of these water holes.

In sending in several subscriptions to Our
Dumb Animals a correspondent writes:

“There is no gift one may purchase for a
child of reading age which can so enrich its
life and aid in the development of good
character which, in time, may enrich the
world. All great humanitarians have been
persons with hearts and souls flexible
enough and ample enough to include the
helpless creatures who so much need human
intelligence to solve their problems.”

“Kindness to anything always pays
dividends.”

 

 

 




 

 

/ -
a
1? I? /

'J
\

 

0,1. M405

u U. S.Trade Mark, BegIStGred \

LL m 1868.AND FOR FORw.

The MaSsachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a. worm.
—COWPER

   
       
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

  

AND Mencv 'r‘o
EVERY LIVING
Cnexrune.

Entered assecond-class .matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mallmg at speclal rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 68

An International Congress of Societies
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
will be held at Brussels, July 31-August 4,
1935.

The number of deer killed in our New
England and other States during the open
season is never known. Not all who kill
them obey the law and report. But Heaven
alone knows the number of those wounded
unto death who crawl away in misery to die.

Any reader of this page who will send a
postal for free copies, to distribute wisely,
of “An International Appeal” for saving the
sea fowl of this and other lands from the
fatal effects of oil-polluted waters, which
cause the death of millions of these birds,
will be doing a very vital service for the
humane cause.

The Union of South Africa by Act of
Parliament has secured legislation compel-
ling the stunning of all food animals before
use of the knife. When animals are
slaughtered in any number, they must be
led in one by one. Cattle for Jewish or
Mohammedan consumption are exempted
from stunning but must be driven in one
by one and mechanically cast.

Congratulations to the Animal Welfare
Society of South Africa for the splendid
work accomplished!

We wish we could please all our readers.
Why, we are sometimes asked, don’t you
conﬁne your magazine to articles about ani-
mals and quit writing about war and peace?
Because our magazine is the organ not only
of the Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals but also of
the American Humane Education Society as
well, and when this latter Society was
founded by Mr. Angell, 45 years ago, its
purposes were declared to be to oppose war
and strife and violence, to plead for peace
among men, and to widen in every way the
spirit of brotherhood between men and na-
tions. To continue to uphold and further
these purposes has been the joy and service
of his successor.

January, 1935

No. 1

Dog Racing in Massachusetts

T HIS was legalized by the popular vote
~ November 6, last. The most of us here
in the East know something about
horse racing. What do we know about dog
racing? Very little. We have 'been'seeking
information from sections of the country
where it has been permitted. Here is a re-

 

A gruesome description of methods used
to train greyhounds for racing purposes was
given by state humane ofﬁcers August 28,
1933, after they had arrested three men on
charges of cruelty.

Live rabbits, dangling helplessly from

poles by means of strings run through the'

 

LIVE RABBITS DANGLING HELPLESSLY FROM A POLE BY MEANS OF A

STRING SEWED THROUGH THE ANIMALS’ HIDES, WERE USED
AS “BAIT” FOR TRAINING GREYHOUNDS

port from California published in Our
Animals in 1933.

Cruelty in Training Racing Dogs
Almost unbelievable cruelty to animals
was charged in Los Angeles, August 28,
1933, when three men were arrested train-
ing racing dogs to chase rabbits by Ofﬁcer
H. G. Grandy.

animals’ hides, were used as “bait” for the
greyhounds being trained by Dan J. Oswald
at 747 Redondo Boulevard, Los Angeles, ac-
cording to the arrest report.

In addition to Oswald, his asserted assist-
ants, Bob Hamilton and Albert Boehlert of
836 West One Hundred Sixty-seventh street,
were arrested by Ofﬁcers H. G. Grandy and
J. L. Ewing, Working for the State Commis-

 




ye -.-« g,-

r —— .—_—~-—.. .‘g, “-4 —,

. V'p—v“-

 

Aug. 1935

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for May, 1935 _- 31 Days

 

Daily average large animals 34
Forage for same $35.40
Daily average dogs 6.9
Forage for same 7.10
Put to sleep 14 6.44
Transportation 6.87
Wage-s, grooms, etc. 72.00
Resident secretary’s salary 132.10
Superintendent’s salary 82.56
Veterinary’s salary 29.72
Sundries 45.48
$417.67

Exchange at 15.14 Frauen
Entries: 9 horses, 13 mules, 36 donkeys.
Exits: 5 horses, 12 mules, 24 donkeys.
58 out patient cases.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Kilometers trav-
elled. 140: cases investigated, 357: animals seen,
5,516; animals treated, 1,277; animals sent to A. F.,
27; 19 pack saddles (infected) destroyed.

Secretary General’s Notes

Fes, May 22, 1935

I had yesterday P.M. a long interview
with M. Chancogne, Commissaire du Gou-
vernement Cheriﬁen, and S.E. the Pacha of
Fes, about drivers who continue to use
needles and nails in spite of our repeated
warnings, advices and threats of police aid.

At ﬁrst M. Chancogne told me that it
would be difﬁcult to assess a ﬁne on these
drivers who are generally very poor men,
only earning 4 or 5 frs. per day, and not that
every day, and that our very laudable and
useful work, consisting in taking care of
their animals, in taking needles, etc., and
speaking with them was appreciated by the
authorities, as well as by the natives them—
selves.

But when I said that some of the drivers,
when I conﬁscate their needles, tell me:
“Needles are too dear today, nails are better
which we buy by the kilo,” he advises me
that in these cases I need only take name
and address of the native and send it to the
Bureau of M. Chancogne; he will do the
needful.

The Pacha tells me that he will consult
the Chiefs of the quarters of the Medina, in
case any drivers refuse to give their names.
He added that ﬁnes of 5 frs. have been im-
posed on drivers having many times been
seen using needles and that all the Chiefs of
the Corporations of drivers will be informed
that very strict actions will be taken in case
of a second offense—even with repeated
offense to a prison sentence.

The Pacha has called up all the Chiefs of
the Corporation of drivers and tells them
that a penalty or an imprisonment would be
given if the drivers are seen again with
nails, needles or goads in hand. Veriﬁed
that orders of the Pacha have been given,
not one of the drivers having needles or
goads in hand.

A visitor to the Fondouk wrote in the visi-
tors’ book, June 6: “It is with pleasure——
and yet sadness—that I have visited the
American Fondouk. It is a great and good
work, obviously well administrated and
worthy of the support of animal lovers of
all nations.” James Shaw, Manchester,
England.

“We have never in all history had so much
legislation to improve the conditions of life
as we have had since women were enfran-
chised, and this is as true of the United
States as it is of England.”

LADY ASTOR

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Some College Dogs
WALTER A. DYER

GREAT many derogatory things are
.. being said about the modern American
college student. He drinks too much; his
morals are open to question; his ethical
philosophy is not sound; he is not proof
against radical propaganda; he is indifferent
to public opinion; he drives automobiles
wildly. I know there is some truth in these
charges, though I could write at some
length to prove that they do not make him
hopelessly bad, but this is not the place for
such an argument. I will mention a single
virtue and let it go at that. College stu-
dents, as a rule, are fond of dogs and are
not ashamed of it. I venture to assert that
this fact alone disapproves the charge of
total depravity. I live in a college town
and I know.

Last April Amherst College found itself
on the front pages of metropolitan dailies
because of the fact that President Stanley
King was reported (somewhat inaccurately,

 

ALERT AND STALVVART

as a matter of fact) as having ordered all
students owning dogs to take their pets
home and leave them there. Unimportant
as this item of news was, it called attention
to the fact that dogs have, in recent years,
become a conspicuous feature of campus
life at Amherst. Back of the President’s pa-
ternal advice lay the fact that these dogs
had become so numerous and so familiar
with the routine of college life that their
invasion of classrooms, laboratories, and
even morning chapel was beginning to con-
stitute a nuisance. The Amherst curricu-
lum was not arranged to accommodate dogs,
and there is nothing in the College charter
providing for canine matriculation. When
one or two of them went so far as to join
the President and Dean, uninvited, on the
chapel rostrum, it became necessary to pro-
mulgate regulations.

The result is that greater care has been
exercised by undergraduate dog owners in
excluding their four-footed comrades from
the laboratories and academic assemblies,
but I have heard of no marked diminution
of the canine population of Amherst.

Page 123

Each dog has his own particular master,
no doubt, but they seem to feel that they
belong to the College as an institution.
Vic is perhaps the best example of this. He
is a red Irish setter who lost his tail through
an accident in his youth. He belongs to
George Bristol, editor-in-chief of the Col-
lege newspaper, and he lives at the Delta
Upsilon house. He holds no intercourse
whatever with townspeople or, indeed, with
any person over twenty-two years of age.
A rather snooty dog, to use the current
expression. I have tried in vain to make
friends with him, but if I were a student I
should have no trouble, for Vic is friendly
toward any undergraduate. His real alleg-
iance, however, is reserved for the brothers
of D. U.

When The Baron first came to live
at the Chi Psi house he was an awkward,
gangling Great Dane puppy with a marked
talent for tumbling over his own big feet.
In those early puppy days he made friends
with Heinrich von Ardolin, an aristocratic
dachshund who belonged to a lady in town
named Miss Farmer. (It was Heinrich, by
the way, who mounted the chapel platform
one morning just before the service began,
advanced to the front, surveyed the assemb-
lage with dignity, and made a brief an-
nouncement.) Heinrich and The Baron
were about the same size at ﬁrst, except for
length of leg, but the latter grew rapidly
and is now a huge, golden-brindle Dane.
Neither he nor the dachshund seems to be
aware of the difference and they are still
inseparable companions—a picture that
brings a smile to the lips of sympathetic
visitors.

Pete is a beautiful liver-and-white Eng-
lish setter owned by Benny Austin. He is
supposed to remain at home during class
hours but sometimes gets lonely and wan-
ders into the college buildings seeking his
master.

My own big, black Cudjo is not familiar
with the Amherst College campus, though
I. know he would love it, as he loves all stu-
dents who come out this way. I live too far

from town to permit him to go to college. .

In the winter, when I move in, I board him
with friends on a farm not far from the
Massachusetts State College, and on one or
two occasions he has been seen wandering
about that campus, perhaps hunting for the
Dean’s ofﬁce for the purpose of making in-
quiries concerning admission. Cudjo has
every reason for being interested in col-
leges, for in addition to his master’s connec-
tions with Amherst, and his friendship for
two or three State College students, Cudjo’s
ancestry is distinctly academic. His mother
was Prof. Robert Frost’s Newfoundland,
Winnie, and his father was Dermot, a ﬁne
Irish setter owned by Prof. Willard Thorp,
who left Amherst to join the Brain Trust in
Washington. Poets and professors are abit
careless when it comes to practical eugenics.
But I did not mean to get started on Cudjo.
He is really not a part of the picture. I
hope no really serious attempt will be made
to banish these dogs and their successors
from the Amherst campus and fraternity
houses. I for one would miss their joyous,
care-free presence, and I believe that they
bring out something human and desirable
in our undergraduates and furnish an anti-
dote for so much economics, German, and
physics, not to mention the current vices.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 76

To a Seeing-Eye Dog
ELMA.DEAN

Lines of a wolf and a wolﬁsh gait . .

And yet you are cooler than I as you wait

For a path through the press of a modern
city,

Oblivious of stares or pats or pity—

A little superior even to man

Who never has learned and never can,

Perhaps, to hold to a single goal

Or a single thought with all his soul.

There is something of pathos and much of
beauty

In your glorifying of humble duty—

You with the look of a Galahad

And deserving to be as shiningly clad.

Though the forest calls and the lobo rages

(For wild things ever have lunged at cages)

The past is past and you ask no “whys”'

You are busy with being a blind man’s eyes.

Thrill of Hunting Gone

A gentleman from Charlotte, N. C.,
writes: “I recently tried to resume my
once favorite sport, hunting, after a long
layoff due to the necessity of the times.
Naturally it was with great anticipation.
But I no longer found the old thrill. Those
calamitous months of living on the bor-
der line must have burned away the de-
SIre to kill and destroy, the motivating
instincts of the game hunter. Perhaps
a feeling of kinship was formed with the
little creatures of the field and wood,
living on the ragged edges we have left
for them. No doubt thousands of hunt-
ers will think it sissy. Or will they?

Likely there are those like myself who
have been on the fire and who will feel
a greater thrill at the successful escape
of the rabbit or bird from hunters who
dish it out but can’t take it.”

—Waterbury (Conn.) Republican

 

A PRIZE WINNER

OUR. DUMB ANIMALS

A City Remembers

HORTON JACQUES

NCE they were the pride of the ﬁre

department, “Coally,” “Dave,” “John,”
“Barney,” “Rodney” and “Nig.” That was
when the dash to save human lives and
property was made even more
colorful by the magniﬁcent horses
used to draw the equipment. Then,
a ﬁre horse stood for the ability to
cope with any odds in the pursuit
of duty, and an heritage was left
that will endure forever of gallant
courage in the face of danger.

The ultimate fate of these ani-
mals has often been a matter of
speculation, since their usefulness
ended when ﬁre departments be-
came motorized. Usually the very
nature of their training worked
against their adaptability for other
purposes, and humane indeed were
the municipalities that made pro-
vision for their horses’ last days.

Kansas City chose to place Coal-
ly and his stout—hearted brethren
in a public park where they were
used on light work. Years slipped
by and a new generation growing
up on a gasoline motivated world
probably wondered at the spectacle
of horses being employed where
machines would have been more
eﬂ‘icient. It was eventually discov-
ered by the park department that their
maintenance cost more than they were
worth, and a decision was handed down to
sell them off to the highest bidder.

What an inglorious end to a life-time of
service. Every one of the horses was
now between 25 and 30 years old, and the
type of purchaser they would interest could
only be the cheapest of bargain hunters.
The kindness of death would have been a
luxury compared to the city streets and
the fate that awaited them.

The announcement of the sale was re-
ceived in a manner that was astounding.
Over 200 telephone calls were directed to
the superintendent of the park alone, city
ofﬁcials were besieged by persons protest-
ing against such a. procedure, and many
offers were made to purchase the horses
and give them a home. It was the expres-
sion of an entire community aroused to
action, and in twenty-four hours the order
for the sale had been rescinded.

With singular deference to the public’s
wishes a further provision was made that
is worthy of emulation. Instead of keep-
ing them on doing even trivial tasks, the
mayor and city manager devised a ﬁtting
climax for their busy careers.

Coally, Dave, John, Barney, Rodney and
Nig, are to have their own barn and corral
for the remaining days of their lives. Their
only duty is to supply entertainment for
countless children who have never seen
real ﬁre horses, and for adults who remem-
ber back to the days when they were chil-
dren themselves. A sign is to be erected
bearing the hors-e-s’ names, ages, and records,
and as honored citizens enjoying the peace
they so richly deserve may they serve as a
warning that many other of our dumb
friends should be cheerfully pensioned in

May, 1935

How Donkeys are Treated
in Ireland

T is seldom that a humane publication is
called to task because of speaking too
well of the. treatment of animals in any
community. In an earlier issue of Our

 

SPECIMEN or BADLY KEPT DONKEY’S
HOOFS—S-TILL SEEN IN MANY PARTS OF
IRELAND, OFTEN IMPOSSIBLE TO GET

RIGHT

Dumb Animals there was published an ar-
ticle on Irish donkeys in which it appeared
that these animals were treated with un-
usual affection, to which the members of
the All Ireland Donkey Protection Society
have taken decided exceptions. The hon-
orable general secretary and treasurer,
Mrs. K. M. Shewell of Powers Hotel, Kil-
dare Street, Dublin, has written us a long
letter, telling of the extreme cases of abuse
of donkeys in all parts of Ireland. One of
these is shown in the accompanying pic-
ture, surely a bad enough example. Those
interested in helping the cause of the don-
key in Ireland should send to Mrs. Shewell
for literature of the Society, which merits
all the support that can be given to it. Dur-
ing last year, in County Kerry alone, 176
donkeys were found in such bad condition
that they had to be humanely destroyed.
We are glad to say, however, that the So-
ciety’s report shows that in parts of Ire-
land, at least, “cruelty to animals has great-
ly decreased.”

 

Rodeos, roundups and wild west
shows have been condemned by hu-
mane organizations both local and
national. They involve danger to hu-
man life, cruelty to animals, and a
demoralizing effect on the spectators.
Until these performances are out-
lawed they should be discouraged by
refusal to attend them.

 

 

 

their old age.

So much publicity was given to these
horses in Kansas City that one day in
March they were on exhibition in their
stalls in Swope Park, when about 1,000
persons, mostly children, came to View
them.




 

Jan.1935

One of our chief joys in the nesting season
was in providing material for the new bird
homes. We put out soft cotton and watched
the chickadees, now mutually tremulous and
affectiOnate, gratefully use it for their
nests; we put out more cotton for the ﬂy-
catchers and vireos; we attracted the robin
with long streamers of white cotton cloth
and watched joyously while Mrs. Robin put
them into her nest on our porch, leaving
many lengths dangling. The sparrows
selected feathers and string from our offer-
ings, unmolested in their activities by the
troublesome English sparrow which is
unknown in this locality ('Peacham, Vt.).

Included in the list of ﬁfty varieties of
birds watched with eager interest by us
were the lovely bluebirds and waxwings, the
vivid oriole, the meadowlark, the goldﬁnch
with his irrepressible songs, the pine gros—
beak, the tyrant kingbird, the bobolink, and
many sweet-voiced sparrows. In your 10-
cality the assortment of birds will be a
different one but equally interesting and
amusing to watch. It costs very little to
feed these wildings, and a twenty-ﬁve cent
wooden chopping bowl full of water will
serve in lieu of the more decorative but ex-
pensive bird-bath. An interest in God’s little
feathered creatures so constantly cheerful,
so persistently industrious, so varied in their
habits, will be a revelation and an inspira-
tion to any family circle.

N0 Bull-fight for the

Rotarians

The report that at the Rotary Interna-
tional meeting to be held in Mexico City
next June there was to be a bull-ﬁght led
us to inquire as to the veracity of the report.
We could not believe that an organization
with such a record could give its approval
to so brutal and barbarous an exhibition.
Several letters from oﬂﬁcials ﬁnally brought
the following which many of our readers
will be glad to see:

Roanoke, November 9, 1934
Dear Dr. Rowley:

President Hill’s secretary has sent me
your letter of October 24th to him regarding
the rumors which you have heard to the
effect that there was to be a bull-ﬁght
among the entertainments that would be
furnished to the Rotarians at the time of
our convention in Mexico City next June.

It had been suggested that a bull—ﬁght
be scheduled as one of the events of our
entertainment program—however, after con-
sideration on the part of our committee it
was. deﬁnitely decided that a bull-ﬁght will
not be a part of the entertainment program
for our forthcoming convention. Therefore,
you are at liberty to state that the report
which has come to you is without a foun-
dation of fact.

Very sincerely yours,

(Signed) ED. R. JOHNSON
Chairman, Convention Committee

Child Labor Day is the last Sunday in
January. Hitherto an annual appeal has
been made for the co-operation of all
churches and schools. Now co-operation is
needed to enforce the new law against the
employment of children.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Friendly Western Quail

WINIFRED HEU'ATH

tives in the West, one of the best

known being the valley or California
quail. Balboa Park, San Diego, with its
1,400 acres of trees and flowers, shelters
many quail and other bird families.

One morning I watched a California quail
come running swiftly and gracefully to the
top of a leafy mound near by. He came so
close that I could see the soft gray of his
chest feathers with the velvety brown throat
patch and its delicate outlining of white
which seems to be nature’s special quail de—
sign. He was a color symphony of soft
grays and warm browns, very good to look
at as he stood there, his handsome curved
crest held high.

Presently his sober—colored little mate
came running along, followed by a friend.
The two little lady birds pottered around,
scratching for seeds and insects, just like
barnyard hens, while the lordly male kept
guard.

Later in the season I came back to the
same place and found an addition to the
family in the shape of a dozen or so ﬂuffy
baby quails. Nothing in nature is more
charming than a mother quail, with her mus—
ical low chuckling, and the swift movements
of her intelligent babies. It is no wonder
that the valley quail has become such a
favorite that it has been adopted as the
official state bird of California.

Within recent years the California town
of Yreka played host to a ﬂock of quail
whose natural food had all been covered up
and hidden away by heavy snows. The birds
would congregate outside the town hall
where they attracted even more attention
than the city fathers.

The plumed or mountain quail lives up in
the high Sierras and only comes down to
lower regions during bad weather or to look
for food. He is more deeply colored than
the valley quail and has a straight, tall crest
which he carries high or curved back ac-
cording to the mood of the moment. He is
further distinguished by an ornamentation
on each side, a kind of mosaic in feathers,

BOB-WHITE has some handsome rela-

r"
?

 

 

black,

striking
against the velvety gray of the body plum—
age.

The Douglas quail is a native of Mexico
who is said never to have crossed the inter—

brown, and white, very

national border. His general color effect is
a soft blend of blues and browns, with light
grayish spots, and a black throat patch in-
stead of a brown one as found on his Cali-
fornia cousin. He is also different from other
Western quail in having a kind of modiﬁed
neck ruffle of tiny black and white feathers.

The cheery call of the quail, his beautiful
plumage, and friendly nature have made
him popular everywhere. He has an added
virtue for the farmer, for he consumes im-
mense quantities of weed seed, and destruc—
tive insects. Let us hope that some day the
whole world will follow the ﬁne example of
Ohio, a state which has given the quail com-
plete protection by removing it from the
list of game birds.

After watching that little quail family in
Balboa Park I am wondering how any human
being could consider it “game” to destroy
anything so lovely, brave, and conﬁding. In
Spite of centuries of persecution the brave
little quail is still willing to be friends. Let
us justify his faith.

Man with his burning soul
Has but an hour of breath
To build a ship of truth

In which his soul may sail—
Sail in the sea of death,
For death takes toll

Of beauty, courage, youth,
0]” all but truth.

JOHN MASEFIELD

Talc any brid, and put in a cage. . . .
Although his cage of gold be never so gay . .
For ever this brid wol doon his bisinesse
To escape out of his cage, if he may;

His libertee that bird desireth ay.

CHAUCER

$3~V~ as

.x .
3“? mo- \ ‘ . ax ' ‘1‘x‘n w. .v.

 

 

 

THE VALLEY QUAIL OF CALIFORNIA

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page '74

 
 
  
     

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE.-
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

     

7
$3
m
2';

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian. . . . .. ........Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land. Florida
Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MARCH, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 779
Number of addresses made, 443

72,675

Number of persons in audiences,

Safe Annuity Bonds

THE Annuity Bonds of our two Societies
are absolutely safe and yield a return
according to one’s age. They make their ap-
peal ordinarily to people over 40 years of
age. Send the coupon for a free folder which
gives full details. Fill it in and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name

Age

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for February, 1935 -—28 Days

Daily average large animals 46.2

Forage for same 42.64
Daily average dogs 7.6

Forage for same 7.03
Put to sleep 34 26.13
Transportation 13.28
Wages, grooms, etc. 84.16
Resident secretary’s salary 131.49
Superintendent’s salary 82.18
Veterinary’s salary 29.59
Sundries 80.17

 

$496.67
Exchange at 15.211/2 francs
Entries: 7 horses, 20 mules, 68 donkeys, 1 bull,
2 goats.
Exits: 7 horses, 15 mules, 38 donkeys, 1 bull.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Report on native
fondouks: Kilometers traveled, 206; cases investigated,
515; animals seen, 7,360; animals treated, 1,590;
animals transferred, 58. ,

From Dr. Mellersh’s Daybook

February 21. On my arrival this morn-
ing I ﬁnd there are 45 animal patients in
the hospital — 5- horses, 11 mule-s, and 29
donkeys.

There is a lame horse. being taken to the
foot-bath where it is treated, and kept in
the Fondouk resting until ﬁt to return to
its owner.

An Arab brings in a large mule to have
it examined. It requires dental treatment,
is placed in the operating frame and den-
tistry done.

Other animals are waiting to pass the
veterinary inspector. More Arabs arrive
with their papers with the stable number of
their animals attached. If their animals are
cured they can be taken away, if not, they
must call again on a stated date when again
inspected and, if cured, the animals are
taken away.

At 10.30 Dr. Grimpret, ofﬁcial municipal
veterinary surgeon (who comes to the Fon—
douk every day) arrives, and after a thor-
ough examination of all the animals he now
prepares to undertake the more serious op-
erations, assisted by M. Delon, and the
Arab grooms. Other animals have their
dressings changed, and advice given by the
veterinary surgeon to the. staff as to the
further treatment of such animals:

By 11.15 A. M. two grooms are carrying
big buckets ﬁlled with hot mash, two more
with crude vegetables, to all the stalls.
Then water to each and the ﬁfth seen cook-
ing the food for the dogs in the Municipal
Pound—six or eight minutes away from
the Fondouk.

Friday, 22. Policeman Charles Coant
brought in a donkey last evening to the
Fondouk. He saw the Arab own-er ill treat-
ing the donkey and detained him, and took
the animal to the Fondouk. The man will
be brought before the Pacha and charged
with cruelty.

Wednesday, 27. We have now 52 ani-
mals registered in the Fondouk. Saw a
heavily laden mule, very lame, on road to
Bou Jeloud, stopped it and sent it on to the
Fondouk with my Arab boy. This evening
I stopped an Arab driver ill-treating his

mule —— threatened to take him before the
Pacha.
Police. Last Friday an Inspector of the

Police brought to the Fondouk a wounded
donkey to be hospitalized. The conductor
of this donkey was detained at the Commis-
sariat during the night, and the day after,
before the Paeha’s Tribunal was ﬁned Frs.
25 penalty for cruel treatment.

May, 1935

From Gov. Homer of Ohio

Letter to Our Field Representative in
Chicago

STATE OF ILLINOIS
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR
SPRINGFIELD
March 13, 1935
Mrs. J en'ni-e R. Toomim
Chicago, Illinois
My dear Madam:

It again affords me great pleasure to ex-
tend my hearty congratulations to The
American Humane Education Society upon
its splendid accomplishments and to renew
my endorsement of your annual appeal for
public observance of “Be Kind to Animals
Week,” from April eighth to thirteenth, in-
elusive.

Your organization and the numerous
groups with which it co-operates are deserv-
ing of the highest praise for their efforts to
enlist and retain the sympathy of the peo-
ple of the Nation, and particularly the chil-
dren, in treating with justice, kindness and
mercy, every living creature from those of
the human family, to the dumb animals.
The inﬂuence of such efforts cannot fail to
strengthen those humane instincts, so akin
to the divine, which have ever been one of
the. attributes and impelling motives of the
American people.

Faithfully yours,
HENRY HORNER,
Governor

A Letter to President
Roosevelt

In an open letter to Mr. Roosevelt, The
Presbyterian Tribune, March 7, 1935, after
quoting a paragraph of the President’s in
which he had pledged himself to work
for peace, says:

You have. talked peace, but your admin-
istration forges vigorously ahead with the
greatest peace time war preparations we
have ever witnessed. You have talked peace
but your administration through the navy
department announces naval maneuvers at
such a time, in such a way and at such a
place as to affront a friendly nation. As
if this were. not enough preparations are
apparently being made to stiﬂe free discus-
sion of public issues—a usual preliminary
to war.

Mr. President, we are troubled and we
are fearful. Can you not give us some re-
assuring act as well as word that we are
not soon to be plunged into war? Why not
recall the order for those provocative naval
maneuvers? Why not cease expanding our
military establishment and allocating re-
lief funds to it? * * * We are convinced
that there is no issue between ourselves and
Japan or any other nation which cannot
be solved by an honest diplomacy, a reso-
lute facing of the facts and a willingness
to follow, even a little way, the law of
love.

Mr. President, you have power unequal-
led by any other living man. We beseech
you to use it for “the furtherance of dur-
able. peace for our generation in every part
of the world” which you have with God-
given wisdom declared to be “the only goal
worthy of our best efforts.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

O T. AN CELL

u U. S_Trade Mark, Registered l

m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

AND MERCY TO‘
EVERY lemo
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂi
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in sec

ce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
tion 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, .180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 68

July, 1935

No.7

 

Few things hurt the whole anti-cruelty
movement more than the wildly exagger-
ated and unveriﬁed statements of some of
its supporters.

Greece has a law holding responsible
both the captain of the ship at sea and the
author of any act of cruelty or mistreat—
ment of an animal while aboard the vessel.

. O

The Royal stables of England’s King are
the joy of all lovers of horses who visit
them. The King is a great lover of horses.
No dock-tailed or otherwise mutilated
horses are to be found at the Royal Mews.

In his ﬁght against the humane people
of France who are trying to stop bull-ﬁght-
ing in that fair land, M. Hubert-Rouger,
Mayor of Nimes, recently declared, “We
will triumph because the gods are in our
favor.” One wonders what kind of gods he
referred to. They must be a pretty cheap
lot to be backing up bull—ﬁghts.

O 9
.

England’s progress in humane slaughter-
ing is evidenced by the fact that of the
1,500 local authorities in the country near-
ly 1,000 have adopted resolutions to apply
the humaner methods of killing to sheep as
well as other animals, that is, they are to
be destroyed instantly by mechanical
means, or stunned and so rendered uncon—
scious before the use of the knife.

We have learned the doctrine that evil
means pain, and the revolt against pain in
all its forms has grown more and more
marked. From societies for the prevention
of cruelty to animals up to socialism, we
express in numberless ways the notion that
suffering is a wrong which can be and
ought to be prevented, and a whole litera-
ture of sympathy has sprung into being
which points out in story and in verse how
hard it is to be wounded in the battle of
life, how terrible, how unjust it is that any
one should fail . . .

From an address by the late Justice
Holmes.

A Great Nation’s Great Faith

This faith, which, in spite of all her
faults, has done so much to make England
great, found full and rich expression in the
words of England’s Primate at the recent
Jubilee services in St. Paul’s when, speak-
ing of the King and his people, he said:

We lift up our eyes unto the hills whence
has come the help by which both he and
they have been sustained, to that high
region where, above the mists and clouds
surrounding us, the Will of God, silent,
patient, sure, is reigning.

A Broadcasting Record

The Latham Foundation for the Promo-
tion of Humane Education, Oakland, Cali-
fornia, seems to have outdone all the hu-
mane societies of the land in getting its
message on the air during Humane Week.
Seven stations opened their facilities to the
25 speakers the Foundation had asked to
speak. Every day for seven days the story
of Humane Education was told over these
stations. It was a. ﬁne tribute to the
Foundation’s reputation that these privi-
leges were given it.

The freezing to death of guinea pigs and
then restoring them to life by one Dr.
Ralph Willard of Los Angeles, California,
reported by the United Press, is dealt
with in Mr. Dyer’s article on page 102, which
please read. This man, we are told, is a
Russian. Why will such men outrage mil—
lions of people by publishing their experi-
ments, many of which are but to gratify
a purely selﬁsh curiosity? Five years of
such work, we are told, lie back of this
freezing of guinea pigs.

The Director of the Edinburgh Zoolog-
ical Park says: “The Zoo makes an almost
universal appeal, except to a few cranks
who have got it into their heads that cap—
tivity, is unkind, which is absolute non-
sense.” We wonder if the captives there
told him so.

Humane Slaughtcring
A Midwest Round-Table

its Discussion

HE most difficult problem the hu-

mane societies of this country have
faced for half a century is that of the
humane slaughtering of our food animals.
At work “upon this problem during re-
cent years, in addition to all that the
larger organizations have done, has been
a little group of earnest devoted women
in Chicago. They have held, from time
to time, meetings with the ofﬁcials of
the Institute of American Meat Pack-
ers for serious but friendly discussion
of the subject. To givethis subject wider
publicity especially in the Middle West and
in Chicago where the packing industry has
its headquarters a Round-table Confer-
ence was called by the united action of
several local humane organizations under
the leadership of the International Humane
League, Inc. This conference met Monday,
May 27, at Hotel La Salle, Chicago, Mrs.
E. C. Dow, President of the League, in the
chair, who made a brief address of wel-
come.

An exceedingly interesting and carefully
prepared paper was presented at the ﬁrst
session by Mr. H. Regensburger, Research
Department, Institute of American Meat
Packers, a paper which we hope to give, in
part at least, in next month’s issue of our
magazine. Mr. Regensburger told the story
of the steps taken during the past six years
to discover the wisest, and most practical
methods to render food animals unconsci-
ous by electrical stunning before the use
of the knife. He confined himself chiefly to
the experiments carried out with swine».
Up to the present this method with cattle
has not proceeded satisfactorily due to cer-
tain injuries to the meat, a condition not
occurring with swine. The paper was dis-
cussed at length, many questions being
asked and answered. The Conference was
agreed in its opinion that the packers were
sincerely seeking, though the delays had
been many, the goal the humane societies
of the country had so long been hoping

(Continued on page 104)

Conference for

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 

7

g .
m
2';

   
  

  
  
  
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusncc 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
 

  
   
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke. Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton. Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Séymour Carroll, Columbia. S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JUNE, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 237
Number of addresses made, 102
28,725

Number of persons in audiences,

Join the Jack London Club—a great move-
ment whose goal is the prevention of cruelty
to performing animals.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

In New Quarters

The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals re-
cently moved its headquarters to new build-
ings on West Clearﬁeld St., Philadelphia,
where extensive improvements have been
made to meet the demands of the public and
the large number of animals which it is
called upon to serve. With its four new
ambulances specially designed and equipped
with the latest humane facilities the Society
is prepared to furnish the most comfortable
and effective transportation for animals.
The new Annie Lowry Home, and the Pound,
operated in conjunction with it, contain
seventy and forty kennels respectively, each
affording the most modern aids and conven-
iences for the humane and scientiﬁc care and
treatment of the animals. The Society is to
be congratulated in its new home and its
greatly expanded work. Visitors are per—
mitted to see animals every Sunday.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.
Already several cases have come to our at-
tention and are being relieved in this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the
Humane Education Trust Fund.

Humane Week in Jackson-
ville, Florida

For the past several years National Hu-
mane Week has been most successfully ob-
served in Jacksonville, Florida, by the Clara
White Mission, of which Miss Eartha M. M.
White is president. Principals and teach-
ers of the local schools have arranged eX-
cellent programs in which the students have
taken an active part. Parents and friends
also have played their part in giving talks
in the homes and explaining the signiﬁcance
of a humane week.

Leading professional and business men
and women have become interested in the
observance and have made addresses in the
schools. At the last celebration Mr. Sey-
mour Carroll, who represents the American
Humane Education Society of Boston in
South Carolina, assisted Miss White in car—
rying out a many—featured program.

Aug. 1935
The Blinding Lights

HAT possible assurance have pedes-

trians upon the highways at night
when the glaring lights of oncoming motors
usurp the darkness and blind the eyes?

The continued warning of parents and
teachers, of ‘the press and the radio have
taught the lesson. The subconscious mind
of the humane responds automatically to
such a situation and by so doing life is
preserved.

What, then, happens to our “fourfooted-
friends” who have no conception of impend—
ing danger—these creatures who are par-
alyzed with confusion and fear?

To the motorist whose imagination is suf-
ficient to picture himself in a like situation
of danger and night blindness, comes na-
turally the act of dimming the head lights,
and the animal may again find his haunts
in the woods and hills in safety. The mo—
torists not endowed (poor things) with
such consideration—or willingness—whose
pleasure vehicles become more and more in-
struments of injury and death on the high—
ways—to these we say, Do not blind the
eyes of animals on the roads at night
through glaring headlights, but rather use
your dimmers and give these creatures a
“break.”

We are pleading for these wild depend-
ents because they cahnot “speak for them-
selves.”

Sound your siren as you approach chick—
ens, ducks or animals on the highway. Re-
member a dog, or a cat, is somebody’s pet,
if you are so unfortunate as to run down
one. By all means, STOP—go “back and
render first aid or see that someone else
does. -
Humane Education in the home and in
the schools is rapidly causing mankind to
recognize this debt more and more, and
laws for the protection of animals are the
result. We are glad to know there is an
ever growing demand that these laws be
enforced.

The self—styled “tender hearts” that can-
not bear the thought of humanely and
plainlessly putting out of the way unwant-
ed kittens take them into the country and
leave them by the roadside to creep back
and be crushed or half starved in the fields.
Others, with “tender hearts,” return to the
city from a summer in the country or sea—
shore and leave their summer pets to
starve.

Thornton Burgess says, “I believe that
few people have any real conception of the
amount of animal suffering in the world,
99 per cent of which is caused directly or
indirectly by man.”

 

A “HUMANE DAY” CELEBRATION AT JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

 

 

 




wwwvw

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page8
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

JANUARY, 1935

 

 

 

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back 'cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

The Deadly Oil

A Letter

UR “International Appeal” for action

to stop the discharge of oil into the
coastal waters of this and other lands be-
cause of its fatal effect upon millions of
the world’s waterfowl is having a wide
circulation, 7,000 copies have already gone
out of our ofﬁces. Even from foreign coun—
tries have come requests for copies for dis-
tribution.

The letter that follows comes from a
physician, resident near our own Massa-
chusetts’ shores, which is well worth read-
ing as endorsing and conﬁrming our
“Appeal”:

“My dear Dr. Rowley,

“Your ‘International Appeal’ has been
long delayed. I have written and talked on
this line for at least ten years, and now we
are seeing the last of our waterfowl. Con-
servatively speaking, there are not half the
birds this season over last year and most
species have reached the vanishing point,
from which there is no recovery. Cheap
politicians, oil pollution, over-shooting and
drought are the elements which have con-
tributed to this end, in about the order
given. What inﬂuence you have should be
used immediately and fearlessly if intended
to be of service.”

We regret to say that though copies of
the “Appeal” are sent free for distribution
only two of the hundreds of Societies for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in
this country to which copies were sent ask-
ing for co-operation in giving the pamphlet
a wide circulation, have manifested any in-
terest in the subject.

A request for 500 copies of the Appeal
came, while the above was being written,
from the International Wild Life Protec-
tion and, with the request, the report that
at the session of the Conseil Internationale
de la Chasse, held in Poland in 1934, a
resolution was passed urging that all ships
us1ng oil be equipped with machinery to
utilize the residue from the oil fuel so that
it should not be discharged into the sea and
that in all cases it be prohibited to dis-
charge this waste into coastal waters.

The following resolution was passed by the
members of the State Humane Association
of California in convention at San Diego,

OUR .DUMB ANIMALS

October 24, 25, and 26:

Whereas, Thousands of wild fowl are
dying in prolonged agony on the shores of
our own and other countries, from contact
with the heavy, thick oily residue dis-
charged by oil-burning ships, and

Whereas, the remedy suggested is calling
a conference of the Maritime Powers, for
the purpose of planning united action to
compel all oil-burning ships to use mechan-
ical separators to reduce the evil effects
of the discharged residue,

Therefore, be it resolved, that the State
Humane Association of California send an
immediate appeal to our government ofﬁcials
urging “action and international action
against the deadly pollution of coastal water
by oil—burning ships,” and

Be it further resolved, that we urge,
through the press, radio, and our humane
journals, the general public to make a
similar appeal to our government.

What a splendid service would be rendered
if every humane society in the United States
would follow the example of this California
Society!

The Nation’s Wild Fowl

OING! Shall it soon be, gone? Only an

awakened interest on the part of the
non—hunting American public will answer
this question.

We quote a few sentences from a notable
pamphlet published by the Emergency Con—
servation Committee, 734 Lexington Ave-
enue, New York City, entitled “The Short—
age of Waterfowl.” In 1911 there were
1,486,228 hunting licenses sold in this
country; in 1922, 4,495,007; from 1928 on,
more than 6,500,000. The United States De—
partment of Agriculture, October, 1933, es-
timated that for every two ducks killed and
brought to bag, at least one bird is crippled
and probably lost. This becomes appalling
when it is recalled that probably 15,000,000
ducks are counted into the bags of America’s
gunners each season. It means that at least
7,500,000 birds are crippled and lost. The
Associate Chief of the Bureau of Biological
Survey said in November, 1933, “As never
before the future of our wild fowl is in the
balance. Whether this great heritage'is to
be lost or saved depends now upon the
support received from every American.”

Here are a few of the reasons why the
slaughter of our wild fowl has increased so
appallingly in recent years: rapid ﬁring
guns, live decoys, now widely used, im-
proved bird calls, improved blinds, exten-
sive baiting, (scattering grain on shores to
lure the birds so they can be shot while
feeding) new roads built to formerly un—
reachable places and automobiles to carry
the hunter in a few hours to ponds, lakes
and marshes which it would have taken a
day or days a few years ago to reach.

Shall 7,000,000 hunters wipe out our wild
fowl and 120,000,000 other citizens stand
idly by and permit the wanton outrage?

What is the Answer?

NGLAND has a law governing the prac-

tice of vivisection. The vivisector must
secure a license to carry on his work. An-
nual reports must be made to the Govern-
ment as to what has been done. The Animals’
Friend (London) tells us that in 1933 there

Jan. 1935

were 605,240 certiﬁed experiments per-
formed, of which 28,185 were with the use
of an anaesthetic. Experiments on dogs and
cats 1,929, horses, asses and mules 382;
number of vivisections 1,647. The total
number of animals used 14,086 more than
the previous year.

Is not the layman in England entitled to
ask, and the layman in this country as well
(where no report is made of the number of
experiments) if those numbers do not mean
that there is “an extensive overlapping of
effort taking place in medical research” and
if it must not be true “that the practice of
vivisection in many instances has degener—
ated from a genuine eﬁort on the part of
medical men to ﬁnd the knowledge with
which to combat disease into an inordinate
desire to experiment for experiment’s sake?”
How far has mere curiosity been respon—
sible for thousands of these experiments?
How far is it true that thousands of ex-
periments are performed over and over
again each year to prove exactly the same
thing when a moving picture, or a manikin
could tell the same story? If only there
were some way of telling, even approxi-
mately, some of the real gains to humanity
from these 605,240 experiments on animals
in England, and the hundreds of thousands
performed in this country during the same
period!

Steel Traps no Help to Song
Birds

WINTHROP PACKARD
Secretary, Massachusetts Audubon Society

During the campaign against the steel trap this last
autumn, it was repeatedly asserted by our opponents
that the fur-bearing animals so largely the victims of
the trapper, were destroyers of the song birds of our
country regions. No ornithologist of reputation would
think of making such a statement as the following
shows:

Steel'traps are inhumane and dangerous
to domestic animals, especially dogs. The
only practical use for steel traps in any
wild stretch of country is to obtain bodies
of animals.

The presence or absence of these animals
in a forest area has practically no effect on
the numbers of the song birds there. If song
birds are more numerous or fewer in a cer—
tain area it is because of weather condi—
tions or abundance or scarcity of food and
shelter which deﬁnitely and seriously affect
their length of life and the success of their
breeding, not on account of the presence or
absence of steel traps, or the animals that
may be trapped in them.

The administration of sanctuaries where
over long periods there has been no hunting
or trapping and careful tally kept of the
song birds there from year to year, shows
this. For twenty years the Massachusetts
Audubon Society has maintained the Moose
Hill Bird Sanctuary at Sharon, where dur-
ing that time over a large forest. area no
trapping has been allowed. The increase of
song bird life there during that period as
shown by the daily observations of a trained
naturalist is marked.

I believe that the opening of large forest
areas to trapping will be a harm rather than
a help to song bird life.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8—13;
Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935.

 




 

 

u U. S.Trade Mark,Registered &

1 ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense.
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

(3mm 70
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv 70‘
EVERY anme
CREATURE.

 

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 18, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

\VOL 68

A Philadelphia judge in fining an auto
driver $12.50 for not stopping to avoid
hitting a dog said: “A dog crossing the
street at an intersection has the same right
to protection as a human pedestrian.”

In several sections of Massachusetts vig-
orous opposition to starting dog racing
within their borders is being expressed.
Here’s our prophecy: This racing bus-
iness, both horse and dog, will kill itself in
a very few years.
destroy it, working like a fatal infection.

Twenty-ﬁve schools in Chicago alone are
actively engaged in the Anti-Gun Crusade
which is being urged by the Illinois Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers. This is
known as Project No. 3 of the National
Parent-Teacher Association, a plan started
by our American Humane Education So-
ciety’s representative in the Association,
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols. The great bonﬁre
of toy guns and pistols recently at the
Ryerson School was one of its fruits.

Dog Racing in Massachusetts

The moment it was learned that Dog
Racing was to be permitted in our State
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals hastened to
learn the history of this so-called sport.
The material secured from the Far West
and other places where such races had
been held told, with hardly an exception,
so much of the cruelty connected with the
races, of the gambling, of the class of
people engaged in the business, and of the
possibility of deceit and fraud, that im-
mediately the inﬂormation received was
sent to the leading papers of the state
and every effort made to let the public
know what was probably ahead of us
should dog racing become legalized. Had
the voters of Massachusetts known all the
facts now before them, we are conﬁdent
we should now be spared the opposition
and the bitter controversy that have fol-
lowed the vote.

Its inherent evils will~

fkprﬂ,l935

Our National Emblem—The
Bald Eagle

AN he be saved from extinction? Are
we going to allow the hunters to ex-
terminate him? A most interesting leaﬂet on
this subject can be had by sending a postal
to Mrs. C. N. Edge, Chairman of the Emer-
gency Conservation Committee, 734 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York City. Against
this royal bird many false and wholly
groundless charges have been made as to
its habits and the food it demands. The
pamphlet referred to says:

It is a bird of temperate latitudes, chieﬂy
conﬁned to the United States proper and
the southern parts of Canada and Alaska.

The bald eagle lays but two eggs (rarely
three), and the time required for incuba—
tion and raising the young birds (or bird,
for often but one survives) until able to
care for themselves, is at least ﬁve months.
During this long period both the parents
and the young are continually in extreme
peril from human enemies, and it is not
surprising that in these days very few
young bald eagles are being successfully
raised. Very frequently an attempt of a
pair of eagles to nest results in one or both
of the parent birds being killed.

The bird or animal that cannot breed is
doomed to extinction. Today a far too
large proportion of the bald eagles we see
are old white-headed individuals, evidently
raised many years ago when breeding was
not so nearly an impossibility. When these
old birds die from accident, disease or old
age, or much more likely, from a riﬂe bul-
let, there will be none to take their place.
Another of our most magniﬁcent birds will
be gone.

First and foremost the scandal of the
Alaska eagle bounty should be terminated
and the eagle given legal protection in that
territory. Write to Secretary Henry A.
Wallace, Department of Agriculture,Wash-
ington, D. C., protesting against the con-
tinuance of the Alaska bounty on eagles,
which is exterminating our national em-
blem in the only region where there is any
hope of its permanent survival.

PQO.4

A letter from the Department of Agri-
culture just received states that a bill has
been introduced in the House (H. R. 5271)
having for its purpose the protection and
preservation of the. American eagle.

A Rare Bit of Irony

HE following letter appeared one

morning last month in the Boston
H erald apropos of the recent slaughter of
56 deer on the island of Nantucket, most
of the deer having been so long protected
that they had come to look upon men as
friends and not as heartless hunters quick
to kill them when the first chance offered:

To the Editor of The Herald:

The aspersions cast upon the deer-hun- ‘

ters of Nantucket should be resented by
every red-blooded American. What is our
country coming to unless our younger gen-
eration is given an example of unflinching
heroism and dogged endurance by these
superb sportsmen? Just as the Battle of
Waterloo was won on the cricket fields
of Eton, so our enemies in the next war
will doubtless be gloriously repulsed by
these intrepid and adventurous spirits.
Think of the courage and determination re-
quired to penetrate the jungles of Nantuck-
et and face the ferocious man-eating buck
in his lair!

There is no sport quite so mysterious as
this one. To march steadily up to an un-
suspecting creature whose luminous eyes
and gentle aspect would disarm an African
savage; to shoot him down in cold blood; to
pose proudly for one’s photograph beside
the corpus delicti; these are the noble deeds
of sportsmanship that stagger the imagina-
tion! . . . LEONARD A. MONZERT

W. Newton, Feb. 12

“The ﬁnest and most eloquent tribute
paid to Robert Louis Stevenson,” says The
Animals’ Friend, “was that of the Samoan
chiefs whom he had befriended While they
were in prison. On their release they dug

and completed the road that led to his
house and named it ‘Ala Toto Alofa’——The
Road of the Loving Heart.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 52

A Respectful Query

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

According to rule, ere a man drive a car
He has to take lessons, and show he can
do it; .
And if he should fail, no regrets will avail——
He’ll be one of theﬁrst to be likely to
rue it!

If he cares to be bridge player, cashier, or
clerk,
If he wishes to swim, skate, or e’en hold
a plow,
0r, free from mistake, shake a proper milk-
shake,
He must—or he’ll soon be reminded—
know how!

But any male biped with money enough
To pay for a license can painlessly get
it—
A license to aim at all species of game.
If he bags it, hooray! If it crawls away—-
let it!

Oh, horror of wounds that leave life in the
flesh
Which throbs with the torture, and yet
cannot die
Until hunger and thirst help that poor life

to burst
From its piteous prison, with quivering
sigh!
If woods and ﬁelds still must with terror
be ﬁlled,
If we still to the fetich of “hunting” must
bow,

If, their joy’s cup to ﬁll, men must still
try to kill,

Is it too much to ask that at least, they
know how?

If he bags it—hooray! If it crawls away—
let it!

Shall the bungler with cash for a license
still get it?

 

“Never,” said my aunt, “be mean in any-

thing; never be false; never be cruel. Avoid

these three vices, Trot, and I can always be
hopeful of you.”

CHARLES DICKENS in “David Copperﬁeld”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1935

Charles Dickens—His Pets and Protectors

ARTHUR HEDLEY

ROM his boyhood, when he was the
F proud part-owner of a white mouse

which lived within the cover of a
Latin dictionary, Charles Dickens revealed
a great affection for dumb creatures. His
favorite pet in later years was a raven,
named “Grip,” which took up its quarters
in the stables, and slept on the back of a
horse. It was a most entertaining bird and
gave much pleasure to the famous novelist.

 

CHARLES DICKENS
He was terribly concerned when it was
taken ill, and sent off his servant at express
speed to get the best veterinary surgeon
available. All efforts to save its life were
vain and Dickens was sorely grieved. A long
letter, which he sent to a friend, describing
its end and which was ﬁxed with a big
black seal, revealed his deep attachment to
Grip.

He loved dogs and they were his con-
stant companions. His domestic pet was a
small white shaggy terrier which was given
to him by Mr. Mitchell, an American com-
edian. This terrier bore the imposing name
of “Timber Doodle,” which, in later years
was changed to “Smittle Timbery.” Whilst
on the Continent, Timber had to have every
hair upon his body cut off, because of ver-
min. “He looks,” wrote Dickens, “like the
ghost of a drowned dog come out of a pond.
It is very awful to see him slide into the
room. He knows the change upon him, and
is always turning round and round to look
at himself. I think he’ll die of grief.”
Three weeks later he joyfully relates that,
“Timber’s hair is growing again. and you
can dimly perceive him to be a dog.”

When touring Italy he was grieved and
angry to ﬁnd the people of that day were
so cruel to dumb animals. “There is prob-
ably,” he wrote, “no country in the world
where they are treated with such frightful
cruelty. It is universal!” The Naples cor-
respondent of the London Times emphati-
cally conﬁrmed his judgment.

In his walks Dickens was accompanied by
several formidable looking dogs. Living
near the highway to Rochester, in Kent,
which was frequented by undesirable char-

acters, his dogs were his protectors, as well
as his companions. ,

Two of these dogs were great mastiffs.
His favorite was “Turk,” a noble animal
full of affection and intelligence, whose
death in a railway accident was a heavy loss
to his master. “Linda,” a puppy of a great
St. Bernard, was a superbly beautiful crea-
ture. “Sultan,” was an Irish dog, a cross
between a St. Bernard and a bloodhound,
built and colored like a lioness, and of
splendid proportions, but of such indomit-
ably aggressive propensities that after
breaking the kennel chain and nearly de-
vouring a child it had to be killed.

Sultan’s successor was “Don,” a grand
Newfoundland dog obtained when young
Don and Linda became parents to a couple
of Newfoundlands that were still gambol-
ing about their beloved master when they
lost him.

One of the pups he. named “Bumble,”
having observed as he described it, “a pe-
culiarly pompous and overbearing manner
he had, of appearing to mount guard over
the yard when he was an absolute infant.”
Once, when swimming in the river Medway,
Bumble got into difficulties amongst some
ﬂoating timber and became frightened.
Don (the father) quickly perceived some-
thing was amiss and went in with a bound
and brought him out by the ear. Dickens
said, “The scientiﬁc way in which he towed
him was charming.”

The immortal author was intensely in—
terested in the. ways of animals and any
new trait he discovered gave him immense
pleasure. On returning from his American
tour he wondered how his dogs would re-
ceive him. “The two Newfoundland pups,”
he said, “came to meet me, with the usual
carriage and the usual driver, and behold-
ing me coming in my usual dress out of the
usual door, it struck me that their recollec-
tion of my having been absent for an un-
usual time. was at once canceled. They be-
haved exactly in their usual manner, com-
ing behind the basket phaeton as we trotted
along, and lifted up their heads to have
their ears patted. But when I came into
the stable-yard Linda (the St. Bernard)
was greatly excited, weeping profusely
and throwing herself on her back that she
might caress my foot with her great paws.”

Dickens was greatly impressed and deep-
ly moved as he watched the sympathy and
sagacity of his noble dumb companions.
Once, when walking through the snow, his
foot, which had previously been frost-
bitten, went lame and he had to limp home
suffering extreme pain. His two mastiffs,
noticing a sudden change. in their master,
came to a standstill and then crept along
with him, never leaving his side. He was
greatly touched by this incident and often
referred to it. “Turk’s look upward to my
face was one of sympathy as well as fear,”
he said, “but Linda was wholly struck
down.”

The novelist discovered what dog lovers
the wide world o’er have found, that when
dogs are treated humanely and affection-
ately they are quick to give unmistakable
signs of their affection and sympathy in the
hour of need.

 




 

Jan. 1935

The New German Religion
of the Hitlerites

WEN TY—FIVE Theses have been pub-
lished in Germany by Professor Berg-
mann of Leipsic University and one of the
leaders of the German Nordic Faith Move-
ment. With these Theses go certain “quota-
tions.” We select a few only, with a part
of the accompanying “quotation.”

No. 1. “We call it the German National
Religion.” Quotation: “In almost all respects
Christianity is contrary to the German con-
ception of decency and morals.”

Thesis 6. “The German Religion is a com-
plete religion.” Quotation: “Christianity and
Rellgion are today a contradiction in terms.”

Quotation following Thesis 15. “The
greatest sin perpetrated on humanity was
the Jewish—Christian belief in Sin.”

N o. 16. “Those who forgive sins, sanction
sins. The forgiving of sins undermines re-
ligious ethics and destroys the morals of
the people.” Quotation: “If Germany had
been spared the Jewish-Christian ethics of
sin, the moral face of the world would wear
a different aspect today: the terrible moral
decline of man is to be attributed solely to
the morally wrong education which human-
ity received from Christianity during the
last 2,000 years.”

No. 18. “The believer in German Religion
is not a servant of God but master over the
Divinity within himself.”

N o. 19: “Those who love man must save
him before he is born—not before he dies.
N 0 longer do we want merely to believe in
Christ, but we want to be Christ ourselves
and act like Christ, for ourselves, for our
people, and for humanity.”

Reading this last Thesis in the light of
recent German history, facing the relentless
persecutions of the Jews, the cruelties of
the concentration camps, the brutal treat-
ment of prisoners, the ruthless injustices
from which multitudes have suffered, all we
can say is that if this is to be Christ, to act
like Christ, it must be some other Christ
that is referred to than the Man of Nazareth
—the Sovereign Lover of Mankind.

 

“v . W.“ ,.

NO DISARMAMENT HERE

The porcupine has long, powerful claws
as well as a battery of quill-like spines.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 11

The Story of a Galway Immortal

PAMELA HINKSONinThe IrishPress

HUNDRED years ago there died at
A Boulogne, in France, a Galway man

named Richard Martin. He was then
in his eightieth year, and Sir Jonah Bar-
rington had written of him seven years
earlier: “Mr. Martin seems to defy, from
the strength of his constitution, both time
and the destroyer. If ever he should be-
come defunct, there is not a bullock, calf,
goose, or hack but ought to go into deep
mourning for him.”

The list of his debtors is a long one,
as his charity embraced all helpless and op—
pressed creatures.

He was, one has not to imagine, in many
respects, a fairly typical Galway gentleman
of the time. Descendant of one of the Tribes
of Galway of Norman origin, he was born
and lived—until he entered the English
House of Commons after the Union, to ﬁght
amongst other things for Catholic Emanci-
pation—at Ballinahinch Castle, in Conne—
mara, in such security and isolation as a
mountain barrier and his many acres of bog
and mountain gave him. Within them was
his kingdom, safe from the bailiffs, who,
owing to his charity, threatened him more
frequently even than they threatened his
neighbors. Into this kingdom, he welcomed
the victims of a religious persecution in the
North. More than a. thousand Catholic
families who had been sent “to Hell or Con-
naught” settled on his estate, and were
given allotments of land rent free for a
number of years. The traveler to Conne-
mara may still see at Ballinahinch Richard
Martin’s prison on an island in Ballinahinch
lake, where he imprisoned malefactors,
among others those he found ill-treating
animals. Even within his prison it is re-
corded that his rule was a beneﬁcent one.

Duelling was still in favor in Galway, and
it was in this life that Richard Martin
earned the nickname of Hair—Trigger Dick
for his skill. He was a ﬁghter, and he
chose to ﬁght for as unpopular, and, it must
have seemed, as hopeless a cause as any
man ever championed. He set out to make
cruelty to animals a crime punishable by
law in a world which had never heard of
such a mad idea. He won, and Hair-Trigger
Dick has gone down to history in immortal
honor as Humanity Dick.

So far as public opinion was concerned,
Richard Martin faced what must have
seemed a desert, with only very few oases.
There were, of course, always the idealists—
lonely voices, crying in the wilderness. But
Martin declared once that: “In the House of
Commons, I am sure there are ten to one
against any measure to diminish the suffer-
ings of the brute creation.” Outside, the
Press was almost unanimously hostile. “Not
a ﬁt subject for legislation,” was a phrase
often used. But the Church of England,
many of the dissenting bodies, and the
Quakers, supported Martin, and sermons
were preached in favor of his reforms.

During Martin’s ﬁrst years as a Parlia-
mentarian, Wilberforce was making his ﬁght
for the abolition of slavery. He was, natur-
ally, a strong supporter of Martin, as Mar-
tin was of him. Wilberforce got his Bill in
1807. Fifteen years later, Martin’s Act was

passed—the ﬁrst Bill to be passed in any
country in the world, to prevent cruelty to
animals.

There had been twenty years struggle for
it. Before Martin took up the cause and
became associated with it, Bill after Bill had
been thrown out. When the Act of 1822
was passed, it only protected cattle.

Only a man of great physical strength
(Sir Jonah Barrington refers to this) as
well as great moral strength, could have
persevered. Martin went to Smithﬁeld,
where calves were tied with tight cords, feet
together, and about the neck, half strangled,
treated as inanimate goods and ﬂung as
such in and out of vans, only big enough
to hold half their number. One can imagine
how their eyes were alive and how they
turned towards Richard Martin. He went
to the Westminster Pit, where dogs and
bears and bulls were torn to pieces for the
pleasure of the populace. He visited knack-
ers’ yards, where he saw horses, “some with
their eyes knocked out, others hopping on
three legs, all miserably maimed, and they
had been for several days without food.”
He saw dogs and cats who had been ﬂayed
alive, and were still living.

His standing up in the House of Com—
mons to speak on this subject had been the
signal for laughter. One reason why they
laughed was because this ﬁght was fought
in a rich West of Ireland brogue. So that
that speech must be held in honor by animal
lovers for all time.

He had to face all the illogical, irrelevant
criticism that every reformer has had to
face, only in his case multiplied a hundred
times. Some nnhosel‘l him as other reform-
ers have been opposed, on the ground that
his Bill did not go far enough. His Bills
were thrown out amid mockery. He waited
and brought them in again. They were
crippled by amendments. He accepted the
amendments. Any Bill was better than
none, a step forward on the road, which he
was making. If he could not save a thou-
sand animals, he would save one. What has
not been written of is, what he must have
suffered in the saving.

He kept his sense of humor and, presently,
they were laughing with him, instead of at
him. He was 69 when the Bill was passed,
and he set out to see that it was worked,
where otherwise it might have been a dead
letter; prosecuting, himself, and frequently
paying the ﬁnes of poor people, when he
had achieved his point, which was to prove
the Bill, and the moral behind it. He had
done that. Contemporary writers refer to
the fact that a new moral feeling grew up
after the passing of Martin’s Act. He had
made cruelty a sin and a crime, and that
was his legacy to the world.

This “Wilberforce of Hacks,” as the poet
Hood called him, who had taken the
pistol from Hair-Trigger Dick, so that
Humanity Dick might ﬁght the battle of
the defenseless, died at Boulogne in pov-
erty (no wonder) in 1834. A year later
an Act was passed in the English House of
Commons which protected all domestic ani-
mals.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coyote Decides to be
Civilized

MRS. J. SHAFER

ILLIE,” a coyote, has decided to be-

come a town dweller instead of a
creature of the wilds. He is making his home
under a manger of Mr. Ben Bosco’s barn in
our little Colorado town.

Mr. Bosco’s occupation for some years has
been trapping. During the ﬁrst week of last
April, when he went to inspect his trap—line
a few miles above Silver Plume, he found
in one of his traps a large coyote which he
judged to be three or four years old. The
coyote had evidently experienced want, as
evidenced by the fact that he was thin and
ravenously hungry, although he posed
quietly for the accompanying picture.

Mr. Bosco placed the coyote in a cage,
brought him home and deposited him back
of the barn. He fed and watered the animal,

which seemed not greatly disturbed by his
imprisonment.

One morning, not long after this event,
Mr. Bosco found the cage empty and a
ragged hole torn in its wire netting. “Now
Billie is gone!” he thought. But, looking
about in the barn, he found the coyote lying
calmly under the manger! And there the
animal has remained ever since, only occa—
sionally being seen as far away from the
manger as the farther end of the stall. He
seems to have a sort of savage affection
for the man who liberated him from the
trap, and who ever since has provided him
with food, water, and shelter.

Billie is considered quite a curiosity by
the townspeople and by tourists alike, who
go to look at the yellowish gray creature
that lies so quietly under the manger only
a few feet from the stable door which al-
ways stands wide open. Chickens walk about,
very near the coyote, but he pays not the
slightest attention to them.

It was in late August that my husband
and I went to see Billie, when he had been
in his present home almost ﬁve months. He
was in good condition, his fur was beautiful,
hIS ears were alertly erect, and his eyes
shone like orange ﬁre. His master stroked

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

him and slapped him heartily on the back
as he said: “Hey, Billie! How’s Billie to-
day?”

The coyote opened his jaws and gave a
kind of hissing sound which might have
been interpreted as a cordial response. At
any rate, he made no attempt to bite his
master.

“I wonder what he’d do if you pulled his
tail?” my husband said, jokingly.

“He wouldn’t do anything,” said Mr.
Bosco, and proved his assertion by giving
the coyote’s bushy tail a pull. The animal
only looked highly offended.

The barn of which the coyote has taken
possession is only a short distance from
Clear Creek. Mr. Bosco says the coyote
evidently goes to the creek to drink at
night, as he seldom drinks any of the water
which is placed for him near by.

There are not many dwellings near the
barn in which the coyote has taken up his
residence, hence he surely would escape
some night and return to his old haunts if
he so desired. He doubtless prefers his new
surroundings, and does not choose to endure
for another winter the perils of traps, the
scarcity of game, and the bitter cold of the
mountain wilds.

The above-described events prove that
kindness may alter the habits and character-
istics of wild animals. Incidentally, Mr.
Bosco says that he has done very little
trapping since the advent of Billie.

Cruelty in Motion Pictures

New Orleans, La.
November 9, 1934
Editor, Owr Dumb Animals:

Kindly allow the undersigned space to call
your readers’ attention to the following:

Because of the cruelty usually involved
in the making I never purposely patronize
a theater showing a wild—or domestic——
animal motion picture. But recently, while
waiting for the feature picture, I saw an
advance showing of a new wild animal serial
featuring a well-known wild animal trainer.
I honestly believe all humane people will
condemn this picture—“The Lost Jungle.”

Fights between lions and tigers—all, it
seems, plainly staged—and other wild ani-
mals apparently predominate this terrible
picture of animal misery and suffering. We
have a most laudable movement to eliminate
from the screen immoral pictures and why
not pictures where animals are made to
suffer?

A picture that would have offended an
organized body of animal welfare workers
was abandoned by the studio in question
because they received a large number of
protests.

Take the tip, dear reader, and let Mr.
Hays and the Motion Picture people know
you do not want to see any animal suffer
by way of the motion picture. That’s one
way to end those vicious wild animal
“thrill” pictures. JOHN T. MENDES

What does it mean that nearly two-
thirds of a million people have joined the
Jack London Club, sponsored by Owr Dumb
Animals? It means just this: that there is
a rapidly growing sentiment in this country
against the cruelties connected with trained
animal acts on stage and screen.

Jan.1935
Some Queer Fish

CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

HE parrot ﬁsh is a peculiar fellow that

chews a cud like the cow. He lives in
the eastern part of the old Mediterranean
Sea. In his mouth are pocket-like exten-
sions where he stows his food, but when he
reaches some quiet place he calmly proceeds
to empty the pouches and to chew the
contents.

The stargazer has an eccentric eye place-
ment. With his eyes on top of his head he
seems always to be looking upward toward
the moon and stars. He looks at the sun
and clouds too. Perhaps he relishes his
name because it possesses a poetic quality.

But what would a stargazer do if he met
a swordﬁsh or the latter’s close relative,
sawﬁsh? Either could transﬁx him in a
moment. These ﬁsh often weigh ﬁve hun-
dred pounds and attain a length of ﬁfteen
feet with the sword or saw blade approxi-
mately one third the total length. The sword-
ﬁsh has been known to drive his bony beak
through the side of a boat. Its ﬂesh makes
ﬁne food, and New England ﬁshermen mar-
ket more than two million pounds of it
annuaHy.

The electric eel and his cousin, the tor-
pedo, are unpleasant fellows with whom to
come in contact. The eel is a dangerous
slim six—foot ﬁsh that infests the rivers of
Brazil and Guiana in South America. It
kills other ﬁsh and small animals by strik-
ing them with its electriﬁed tail. Although
the shock is not fatal to man, explorers of
the continent heartily wish this ﬁsh had not
been so highly charged with the mysterious
force, which serves it well as an effective
defense against enemies.

Down in the South Seas a certain ﬁsh
about six inches long leaves the water when
he feels hungry. He obtains his dinner of
insects and worms on the beach. The ﬂying
ﬁsh also leaves the water in a sort of sport-
ive play; he takes great leaps by using
his taut fore—ﬁns as parachutes. The mud-
ﬁsh is also a remarkable fellow. During
the rainy season in the tropics he lives in
water, but during the long dry months he
encases himself in mud until wet weather
comes again.

The sea horse has a head and neck like»
the animal whose name he borrowed. He
swims upright like a man walks, wears a
bony armor, and uses his tail in monkey
fashion to anchor himself to sea weeds.
Truly a terrifying monster he would be if
he possessed size, but he is only an inter-
esting four-inch pipeﬁsh who lives along
our Atlantic coast from Maine to Florida.

A mile or so below the surface of the
ocean are ﬁsh equipped with natural ﬂash-
lights. They might be called the ﬁreﬂies of
the deep. Of course it is perpetually dark
where they live, and they need their lighting
system to attract other ﬁsh upon which they
dine.

The porcupine ﬁsh is precisely what his
name implies. He has quills all over his
globular body. When some marauder be-
comes too inquisitive this denizen of the
sea erects those quills and successfully de-
fends himself. He might well be called the
water porcupine.

A unique means of defense is used by the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1935

The Dog in Literature and
Art

FORREST T. FRAZIER

l. MONG the famous dogs in literature
A are the Dandie Dinmont terriers,
“Pepper” and “Mustard,” about. whom Sir
Walter Scott wrote in “Guy Mannering.”
Every dog lover should read that novel and
become acquainted with this fearless little
terrier and its equally fearless master.

Among recent books, Virginia Woolf’s
“Flush” is outstanding. This book is a
biography of Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s
dog. It is written with a keen understand-
ing of the dog. Its author’s comprehension
of the dog mind is almost uncanny.

Worthy of mention are Beverly Nichol’s
“Thatched Roof” and Hugh Walpole’s
“Rogue Herries.” Beverly Nichol’s book
contains many interesting chapters about
his dog and Walpole’s book contains a
sketch of a King Charles spaniel that is
splendidly done. Of course the dog stories
of John Held, Jr., and Albert Payson Ter—
hune are among the best dog stories being
written today.

Two of the ﬁnest poetical tributes to the
dog that I have read are Wordsworth’s “In-
cident” and “Tribute.” The latter is one
of the ﬁnest ever paid to a dog, in my opin-
ion, aside from Senator Vest’s “Eulogy.”

Sir Edwin Landseer is the greatest
painter of dogs the world has ever known.
His most popular works are “A Distin-
guished Member Of The Humane Society”
and “Saved.” Landseer exhibited work in
the Royal Academy of Art when only thir-
teen years old. Fuseli, keeper of the acad-
emy, called him, “my little dog boy.” Other
famous dog pictures by Landseer are, “My
Dog,” “Dignity and Innocence,” “Highland
Music” and “King Charles Spaniels.”

The King Charles spaniel also appears
in many of Van Dyck’s paintings. These
toy spaniels were popular with both King
Charles I and II. .

George Caleb Bingham, famous American
painter, seldom painted a picture that dld
not have a dog appearing it it. In the
“Jolly Flatboatman” he broke this rule.
When questioned about it by a frlend he
replied that the dog was in the picture but
was below deck and could not be seen.
Many other citations could be made show—
ing how prominent a place the dog occupies
in art and literature.

His One Weakness

GENEVIEVE V. HUNT

 

 

OB” is half collie, and half English
setter. He is a faithful watch-dog, a
valuable cattle-dog, and as my young son
remarked, “He’s everything that a real dog
should be.”

With all his excellent qualiﬁcations, how-
ever, Bob has one weakness—babies. Hu-
man or animal, no matter what the breed
or color, he falls for them all.

When “Dora,” our cat, had twin kittens,
Bob took it upon himself to act as nurse-
maid whenever he found them alone, and
their own mother could not have bathed
them more carefully, or cuddled them more
tenderly than he did.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Last summer, a friend came to visit us
with her infant son, and in the afternoons
when it was time for his nap, she would
place him in the go-cart, under a shade tree
in the yard.

Bob was in his seventh heaven as he
crouched beside the go-cart watching over
the child.

“No one can go near the baby when old
Bob’s around,” I told my friend. But I had
spoken too soon, for on the second after-
noon we found a doll, or I should say part
of a doll, both legs and one arm were miss-
ing, lying in the go-cart. Two days later
we discovered a large spool of thread, the
following afternoon a bag of clothes—pins,
and several days later a doll blanket.

We came to the conclusion that some
child in the neighborhood was bringing the
articles there as presents to the baby. I
did think it rather strange though that
Bob never barked, because he always raised
an awful racket if any stranger came into
the yard.

I was looking out of the window the day
after we found the doll blanket, when I saw
Bob come into the yard from the alley. He
was walking very carefully, and carrying
in his mouth a small pink bowl ﬁlled with
a creamy looking substance. Standing on
his hind legs he dropped the bowl into the
go—cart, then sat there with his mouth open
as if he were smiling.

At last the mystery was solved—I knew
now who had been the donor of all the
gifts. It was old Bob. He would sneak out
of the yard whenever the notion struck him,
and foraging around the neighborhood
would pick up whatever took his fancy, and
bring it home to the baby.

I learned later that the. pink bowl had
contained custard, and that Bob had taken
it off the back porch of a next-door neigh-
bor, where it had been set out to cool.

To be a high-mannered and high-minded
gentleman, careless, affable, and gay is the
inborn pretension of the dog . . . To be
caught lying, if he, understands it, instant-
ly uncurls his ﬂeece.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

Page '77

It Isn’t Fair to Him

MINA M. TITUS

Unless you like a cold, wet nose
A—snuggling ’ga-inst your hand

And don’t mind paw marks on the floor
With maybe hairs and sand;

Unless you reach to stroke a head
As soft as silken down

That leans against your knee perhaps
When troubles make you frown;

Unless you value loyalty
Such as few humans show
That by a grave will faithful wait
To starve or freeze in snow;

Unless you hold the power to read
What all unspoken lies

In tail a-wag, in tilt of head,
In pleading, dark, brown eyes;

Unless you can appreciate
A love that steadfast stays

When fortune flees and friends forsake
And hunger haunts the days;

Unless you thrill to dumb appeal
That warships you, his God,

And asks not food nor shelter—just
To follow where you’ve trod;

Unless you want a friend to share
Your every mood and whim
Don’t buy a dog, I beg you, Sir,
It isn’t fair to him!

Saint Francis said to his companion: “Ye
shall wait for me here upon the way and 1
will go to preach unto my little sisters,
the birds,” and he went unto the ﬁeld and
began to preach unto the birds that were on
the ground, and immediately those that were
on the trees ﬂew down to him, and they all
of them remained still and quiet together,
until St. Francis made an end of preaching;
and not even then did they depart until he
had given them his blessing.

“Little Flowers of St. Francis.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

  

 

 

fr @gM/M neyv

w; .-

 

The Puppy and the ’Fraidy Cat

When ﬁrst the kitten spied the dog
She caught her furry breath;

She couldn’t run, she couldn’t move,
Oh, she was scared to death!

All she could do was stare at him
And shake and wonder why

He didn’t make a pass at, her -—
He didn’t even try!

If she had been a braver cat
Who stirred and moved around
She might have crept up on the dog,
And then she would have found
That all the trembling fears she knew
Were so much tommg—rot
The dog, you see, is nothing but
A china flower pot.

HELEN WELSHIMER

“Community Jack ”

MARGARET SHELTON

C OMMUNITY JACK” earned his sobriquet and the title of
the world’s ﬁrst community-owned dog in a strange way.

He was orphan-ed a few weeks ago when his mistress, Mrs.
Eﬂie Davis of 3423 Lee Street, Los Angel-es, died. He was still
staring, uncomprehendingly, at the doors of the residence
which would no long-er open at his bark, when the children of
the neighborhood whom he had been faithfully following to
the Lorena Street school for years, got busy.

Jack found not one home, but a dozen. From one to another
he went, a few days at each one, as though unwilling to injure
the feelings of any one of his young friends by staying in
one place too long.

Then came trouble, in the form of the City Humane In-
spector. The eleven-year-old airedale dog, he pointed out, bore
no license and was not the property of any particular person.
Jack hung his head as he heard the inspector mention “pound.”
But again the adoring school children got busy, their pennies,
nickels and dimes rollng into a hat for a license fee.

Then it was noticed that Jack was suffering from a ﬁbroid
tumor in his side. This time the parents of the children came
to the front, and an interested veterinarian, wishing to have

 

.. __ :3, N): h
’ all
(/1; U l“ / A”
I I e\ O (1.

 

 
    

og¢ﬂl
an}

“(if :
a hand in the airedale’s rehabilitation, cut his fee to ﬁve dol-
lars for the operation, which was successful.

Community Jack is “at home” to visitors in just any one
of the many homes in the vicinity of the Lorena School, his
travels covering an area of a dozen blocks.

Family Life of Catbirds

PAIR of catbirds who built their nest in our back yard

A last summer, furnished us with a great deal of enter-
tainment as well as information.

We aided them in their nest building, supplying cotton,

string, and other choice material, but it was only after my

 

THREE LITTLE CATBIRDS ALL IN A ROW

rescue of their new-hatched brood from a watery death dur-
ing a Violent rain, that we were really regarded in a friendly
manner.

I removed the youngsters several times to take their pictures.
And while my curious and awkward subjects posed, their
parents perched nearby, watching with interest.

It was not until the young ones were fully feathered and as
large as the old ones, that I not-ed something queer. One of
them seemed to stay in the same place, only a few feet from
the deserted nest. The old ones continued to feed it, thrust—
ing grasshoppers and bugs into its big mouth many times a
day. The strange part of it was that it never mad-e any ef-
fort to ﬂy. The rest of the brood had gone their ways, but
the parents stayed on. So I climbed up into the tree to in—
vestigate.

Nearer and nearer I drew to the young bird, while the old
ones scolded me. It was not until I could have touched it
with outstretched hand that I understood what was the trouble.
The poor thing was blind. I took it and examined it closely.
Both eyes were a milky white, perfectly sightless. So I did
the only humane thing, ended its life as mercifully as possible.

The old ones, their helpless youngster gone, left the next
day. How well they knew it needed their care. And would
they know that mine was a friendly act. I wonder!

   

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

July, 1935

 

The Robin Family

ANNE

ALTHA SINGLETON

I like the robin family,

I’ve always known them, too.
For I can talk to robins

Just like I talk to you.

I like the father robins,

Their waistcoats and their ways:
I like the mother robins

In their dull browns and grays.

And oh, the baby robins!
In the far north in springs
I’ve often seen them trying
To use their little wings.

Their cheerily-cheer—up
Is such a pretty song —

I wish that they would sing it,
And sing it all day long!

I like the robin family:

I’ve always known them, too;
For I can talk to robins

Just like I talk to you.

Birds and Bugs

If there is any doubt in your mind about
the value of birds to man we recommend to
your attention the following: “A birdman
who ought to know says that the stomach
of a single cedar-bird contained 100 can-
ker-worms; that one cuckoo had eaten 150
tent-caterpillars; that 454 plant-lice were
found in the stomach of a Chickadee; that
a ﬂicker had devoured 1,000 chinch-bugs;
that a scarlet tanager was seen to eat
630 gipsy-moth caterpillars in eighteen
minutes, or at the rate of 2,100 an hour;
and that a Maryland yellow-throat ate
3,500 plant-lice in forty minutes.”

—Youth’s World

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 101

Celia Thaxter and Her Bird Comrades

M. WILMA STUBBS

perhaps best known, “The Sand-

piper,” sounds the keynote to her
loyal championship of her friends, the
birds. You remember the picture, poet and
sand‘piper in the late afternoon of an
autumn day at the Shoals, the poet gather-
ing driftwood, her companion in feathers
ﬂitting about among the rocks. '

THE poem by which Celia Thaxter is

“I watch him as he skims along,
Uttering his sweet and mournful cry;
He starts not at my fitful song,
0r flash of fluttering drapery.
He has no thought of any wrong;
He scans me with a fearless eye;
Stanch friends are we, well tried and strong,
The little sandpiper and I.”

There was no fear in those days in the
hearts of the birds who came and went on
White Island and Appledore, among the
Isles of Shoals. Celia’s parents brought the
future poet to the islands when she was
still a tiny tot, and the Laightons loved all
helpless creatures and taught their children
to be good to bird and beast. Swallows,
she tells us, used to foregather on the win-
dow-sills of the keeper’s cottage, which
was the home of the Laightons, twittering
contentedly and watching their human
friends without the least fear. When one
morning Celia and her brothers found the
ground at the foot of the light—tower
strewn with the little broken bodies of
migrant birds, drawn to their death by the
rays of the beacon, the children tenderly
gathered the unfortunate travelers, and,
searching out a place among the rocks
where there was sufficient earth, buried
them with reverence.

-At White Island and later on Appledore,
Celia waited with eagerness the spring re-
turn of song-sparrow and sandpiper, martin
and blackbird and swallow. A few days’
halt of bobolink or scarlet tanager or rose-
breasted grosbeak in travel-time was wel-
comed with delight, for, with no tree-s upon
the islands, nesting-birds were compara—
tively few. “Once a ferruginous thrush
came and stayed a week with us in early
June,” she writes in An Island Garden.
“Every day when he perched on a ridge-
pole or chimney-top and sang, the whole
family turned out in a bodyvto listen, mak-
ing a business of it, attending to nothing
else while that thrilling melody was poured
out on the silent air.” At another time, in
a severe storm, the island was visited by
migrating wild geese. “We might have
secured any number of them,” she writes,
“but that would have been a shameful
thing.”

After her marriage with Levi Thaxter
and their removal to the mainland, Mrs.
Thaxter still spent her summers on Apple-
dore, which by this time had become a
famous recreation resort. Her garden of
jewelled beauty, of more glowing tints
and hues than the same ﬂowers on the
mainland, attracted many visitors the sum—
mer through. She, herself, in her “salon”
was the center of a circle of loyal and de-
voted friends. But she never allowed her

social successes to lessen her ﬁrst love,
the birds.

“Oh, the birds!” she write-s to Feroline
W. Fox, “I do believe few people enjoy
them as you and I do.” And she goes on
to tell how the martins circle about her
as she works in her garden and how the
friendly ruby-throats light on her head and
tangle their little claws in her hair. In a
September letter to Rose Lamb: “Yester-
day, as I was going down the long piazza
(of her brothers’ summer hotel), Cedric
called out in surprise as he came toward
me; a nuthatch was sitting on my shoulder
as I walked, quite at his ease, and I knew
nothing about it!”

That any one should do wrong to these
lifelong friends of hers, “well tried and
strong,” grieved her ineXpressibly. When
a hawk sweeps down close by the railing of
the veranda where she is sitting, she ex-
claims, “I do love to have the birds so
tame,” and “is thankful to Heaven” that
there is no one here to shoot the island’s
visitors. Guns and birds were not made
for each other in her thought.

But it was not the sportsmen only who
came under censure. She could not under-
stand the women of her day, when they
thought to beautify their costumes by
“clothing themselves with murder.” Well
she knew the cost of the wings that lent
seeming grace and charm to mil‘linery. “To
deck their heads like. squaws, who are sup-
posed to know no better, when a ribbon or
a ﬂower would serve their purpose just as
well, and not involve these dreadful sacri-
ﬁces,” is her outburst of quick and out-
spoken indignation. And to Bradford Tor-
rey. “Has not your heart been torn with
the horrors of women’s headgear this
winter? It is something monstrous. Every
feminine biped goes feathered through the
streets.”

Did she not remember in contrast those
glorious summer mornings, when, as she
worked in her garden, curlews wheeled
above her head, answering her imitative
calls? “Such sociable birds!” Or the hours
spent in watching “the sweet housekeeping
of the martins in the little boxes on the
piazza roof,” an event more entrancing
than the most fascinating opera, dear lover
of music that Celia Thaxter was. Or the
fall or spring weeks when migrants came
and went in her island garden until it was
“alive with wings”? Oh, no, she would
tell us, birds are made for song and to add
to the world’s sum of joy, not for shop
windows.

“Hark, how sweet the thrushes sing!
Hark, how clear the robins call!

Chorus of the happy spring,
Summer’s madrigal!

“Flood the world with joy and cheer,

0 ye birds, and pour your song
Till the farthest distance hear

Notes so glad and strong!”

“The future peace of the world depends
upon the spirit in which the young are
brought up.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 100
Caged

MARIE G. VINCENT

I cannot sleep tonight. My little mate
Swings on a limb beneath moon-gilded
leaves
And softly calls from that sequestered glen
Where we had made our nest, and grieves
and grieves
Because his mate, in prison, may not share
Again the ecstasy that ﬁlled us there.

0 call me not, beloved! Too late, too late!
Although your songs awake to flaming
ﬁre
Embers that can but slumber in my breast,
Some other bird must ﬁll your heart’s
desire.
And though my head is underneath my
wing,
I cannot sleep, my dearest, while you. sing.
Rejoice, give thanks for freedom! While
you may
Sit on a bough beneath the slay and sing.
Forevermore my yearnings must be
quenched.
To sail with you on buoyant wing
Through silv’ry morning mists—ah, never
more—
They’ve put me in a cage and barred the
door.

 

HE Jack London Club is a hu-
T mane society with no officers
and no dues. It was started, pri-
marily, because of Jack London’s dis—
closures of the cruelties behind the
trick animal performances in our
theaters and other places. It has
grown rapidly in numbers and inﬂu-
ence. More than 643,000 persons
have become members of it. They
constitute a force which the animal
training clique now regard with ap-
prehension. Walking out from ani—
mal performances or refraining from
patronizing such shows has meant a
great reduction of cruelty to animals.

To join this Club all you have to
do is to agree to do the one thing
that London says will ﬁnally banish
these performances from the stage,
viz., get up and go out of the theater
during that part of the program. Will
you do it?

 

 

 

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.
Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..........................
Age ...................................
Address iiiiiii

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“ Snoopy,” an Elephant DOg
WILL TALSEY

HE circus is a wonderland and dogs

help to make it that. Elephants are
easily frightened and especially by dogs,
but since elephants are so important to the
circus—they must march in parades, per-
form in the rings under the big tent, and
do work around the lot —— the elephant
herd is “cured” of the fear of dogs by hav—
ing them constantly among the big animals.
But in addition to this work, the circus dogs
ofttimes perform great deeds. However,
the public hears very little of this. Take the
case of “Snoopy,” a waif found by the cir-
cus in a Wisconsin town and taken on by
it as an elephant dog. She was called
“Snoopy” she had such a pleasant way of
snooping into the cook—house and into the
affection of the circus folks.

The show was playing Omaha. and the
afternoon performance was under way.
The big tent was packed with happy, care-
free men, WOmen and children watching a
trainer put a number of clowns through
their antics. The many other circus em-
ployees were all busy, every one speedily
working so that the show would go on
smoothly and quickly. The elephant men,
therefore, did not notice the small blaze
that suddenly burst forth in a pile of loose
hay at the head of the picket line of the
elephants. If the elephants saw the blaze
they would become panic-stricken and
their stampede amongst the cages and
wagons of the wild animals and among
the people would cause a calamity. In
that second when it counted most, Snoopy,
seeing the incipient fire, shot forth like a
cannon ball towards it, and rolled around in
the burning hay. Her actions aroused the
attention of one of the men and he real-
ized at once what Snoopy was doing, so
quickly and quietly he grabbed one of the
ever-handy buckets of water in the animal
tent and extinguished the ﬁre.

Snoopy was rushed to the first aid tent,
but it was found that her body was burned
seriously. Her pains were intense but she.
bore them bravely and without any howls.
Fortunately, Snoopy died fifteen minutes
later. The performance was over and the
thousands upon thousands of laughing men.
women and children left the big tent wholly
ignorant of what a mongrel dog had done
for them. Nor did the newspapers have
anything about Snoopy’s brave act -— no.
she was a circus trooper and her heroism
was just in line of duty.

But the circus folks did learn about
what their pet did. They gathered from
every part of the lot, tramping quietly to
the tent where Snoopy lay dead. Here they
fashioned out a burial program for their
canine heroine. The circus carpenter
made a casket which was lined with silk
and soft materials from the wardrobe
wagon; clowns, now quiet and sober, and
animal trainers, with grief in their eyes,
went out into the adjoining ﬁelds and
woods to gather the flowers that nature
had to offer. And there, in the nearby
woods, below a large spreading elm,
Snoopy was buried, and almost all of the
circus men and women were present, bowed
in sorrow and unashamed of their sadness.

July, 1935

And every year that these particular cir-
cus people come to Omaha they remember
Snoopy and the many other circus dogs that
perform brave deeds in line of duty of
circus work.

The Price

GRACE MANSFIELD

“A hundred perfect pelts,”
The dealer said,
“Are in this coat.”

They were so fleet,—

The limbs that lie

Stopped in their happy course;
And death so slow

That blocked the tortured breath
Before it smote. '

But still, indiﬂerent,
The fur-clad folk ride by.
» And down the avenue
Slim shop-girls stray,
Mantled in pomp for which they can not
1065!],
And drifting on,—
Like derelicts afloat.

 

INANIMATE YET BULLET SCARRED

This picture appears to be that of a dog
or calf, but it is in reality a cypress knee.

It is a growth at the foot of a cypress
tree around the roots. This is the only one
known to have grown in the form of an
animal. It was ﬁrst found near Lakeland,
Florida, and still has bullet marks on the
neck and head showing that it was mis-
taken for an animal.

It is estimated to be possibly 200 years
old, and is now in the Japanese Gardens
at Belaire, Florida, where it bears the name
of “The Hound of the Baskervilles.”

The photograph is by J. Wm. Guisleman
of St. Petersburg.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 28

My Dog

Through glad days and sad days
We two have clung together;

O’er rough roads and tough roads .
In every kind of weather.

Our square meals and spare meals
Have both been shared together;
On warm nights and storm nights
lVe’ve slept amongst the heather.

A fair friend, a rare friend,
Who ne’ver asks me whether
It’s byways or highways,
Just so we are together.

WM. H. RUMSEY in Shepherd Dog Review

Angelo Patri’s Wise Advice
A Dog Friend
Reprinted by special permission

OGS and children have a certain kin-

ship. They seem to understand and
to cling to each other with mutual affec-
tion. A child is never alone, never without
a friend as long as his dog is alive. He is
ready to frolic at the ﬁrst hint, or he is
ready to lick away the fast falling tears
and to do his best to comfort his sorrow-
ing master.

I would give the boys and girls their
dogs when they were old enough to know
how to care for them. Not before. A dog
needs care and plenty of it. He must be
combed and brushed by loving hands. His
coat must be kept free of any vermin be-
cause they irritate the dog and ﬁnally re-
duce him to illness. If you have ever been
tormented by gnat or mosquitoes you have
some notion how a dog infested with ﬂeas
feels. You can get away from the insects
that bother you, but he cannot. You have
to help him out with powder and the good
old ﬁnger and thumb method.

His diet must be carefully watched. I
know there are dogs who eat garbage
and I know, too, that they die. They suffer
a lot in the passing because their digestive
organs are diseased, their skin affected,
their whole being disordered. A well-fed
(log looks well, behaves well, and lives long.
It doesn’t cost so much to feed him on his
own diet and his happy state is worth that
little.

Dogs get thirsty several times a day.
They suffer from thirst just as you might
suffer if you could not turn on a faucet and
get a drink. Your dog friend has to de-
pend upon your good will and service for
his drink. Don’t fail him. Keep his dish in
a shady place, keep it clean and keep it full
of good water.

When your dog is ill take him to the
veterinary. He will tell you what to do for
him and you can nurse him through. His
gratitude for any kindness is unbounded
and his loyalty to his good friend will be
something to swear by.

Give him a good bed. Usually dogs,
especially the kind that belong to children
are outdoor animals. That does not mean
that they can stay out in all weathers.
Far from.it. They must be sheltered from
storms just as children have to be. But
they do not need to be kept as warm. They
prefer a cool place. And a rather cool bed.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Down cushions and that sort of thing are
not good for dogs. Give him a clean, heavy
mat, in a sheltered corner of the barn or
kennel, keep it off the ﬂoor if there is any
dampness and he will like it.

In winter keep him warmer. He can’t
endure zero weather without protection. It
sounds foolish to say that because every-
body is supposed to know it, but I have
known people who thought they were kind
to their dogs to put them out at night and
shut the door behind them. “Put the dog
out,” and out he went without a roof over
him, or a bed under him.

Teach a child to cherish his dog. They
will grow together and do each other a lot
of good. But don’t get the dog until the
child is a responsible friendly young per-
son who knows what caring for a dog friend
means.

(Copyright 1933 by The Bell Syndicate, Inc.)

Talking Birds

MRS. H. A. DANNECKER

HERE is no more interesting pet than

a parrot and those who are fortunate
enough to own a good talker grow very
greatly attached to it. The best varieties
of these gorgeously feathered birds will
remember and repeat long phrases and also
will imitate the cries of animals and even
the sounds of various musical instruments.

The best parrots for talking are the gray
African jaco, and the green Amazonian par-
rot. The latter is a native of South Ameri-
ca and is the one most commonly made a
household pet in this country. The jaco is
a bird of great intelligence, and is found
on the western coast of Africa.

Many wonderful stories are told about
parrots. During the time that Puritanism
was at its height in England a large sum
of money was paid for one bird that could
repeat the apostles’ creed without missing
a word, and could also say the Lord’s
prayer.

Oliver Goldsmith relates a curious anec—
dote of a parrot belonging to King Henry
the Eighth. Being kept in a room near the
Thames it had learned many words from

Feb. 1935

the boatmen and their passengers as they
rowed by. One day it fell into the river.
The startled bird cried out: “A boat, a boat!
Twenty pounds to save me!”

Hearing the cries, a waterman leaped into
the river, brought the parrot safely to land,
and took it to the king, who, laughing
heartily, gave the boatman the promised
reward. Another writer of about the same
period, at which time it was considered
good luck for every ship to carry a parrot,
tells of a wonderful bird which belonged to
a Captain O’Kelly. The writer, W. H. Her-
bert, says:

“That wonderful bird, which I saw and
heard, would sing perfectly about ﬁfty dif-
ferent tunes of every kind, solemn psalms
and humorous ballads, of which it pro-
nounced every word as plainly as a man
could do, without a single mistake. It beat
the time always with its foot, turning round
and round upon the perch while singing and
marking the time as it turned. If a by-
stander sang any part of the song, it would
pause and take up the song where the per-
son had left off, without repeating what he
had said. At the time of its death, this
extraordinary bird was more than thirty
years old.”

A few generations ago parrots were very
cc nmon pets, though now they have become
rare because of the dangerous “parrot
fever” which, it is said, they can contract
and pass on to humans.

Be kind and tender to the frog . . .
N 0 animal will more repay
A treatment kind and fair,
At least so lonely people say
Who keep a frog (and by the way
They are extremely rare.)
HILAIRE BELLOC

“Care for animal life on the highways
might well be taken as a test of a driver’s
ﬁtness to operate an automobile. . . . The

person who is not careful to protect dogs,
cats and other animals cannot be classed as
a careful driver.” So says the Public Safe-
ty Department of the California State Auto-
mobile Association.

 

ONE OF THE CHIEF SOURCES OF FOOD SUPPLY

 

-..—.—-_——




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 10

 
  
    

 

7
g .
m

PEACE ON EARTH, :n _

KINDNESS, Jusrncc o ;
AND MERCY 'ro

EVERY LIVING

CREATURE.

  
     

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DB. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice—President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives
George B. Duff .......... , ....... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo . ........... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams . . . . . . . . .France
Leonard T. Hawksley ........... Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe . ...... Japan

Mr. Marie C. E. Houghton . ..... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian. . .. . ...... Mexico

Luther Parker ................. Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ................. Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.

Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR NOVEMBER, 1934

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 964
Number of addresses made, 419
Number of persons in audiences, 72,690

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Societies

are absolutely safe and yield a return
according to one’s age. They make their ap—
peal ordinarily to people over 40 years of
age. Send the coupon for a free folder which
gives full details. Fill it in and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me

the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name

Age

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Work at Fez

HE American Fondouk at Fez with ac-

commodations for at least 100 large
animals, because of the devaluation of the
dollar and the many contributors who have
been compelled to reduce the amount of
their gifts, is obliged to keep the number
down to about 50. The 70 native fondouks
where horses, mules and donkeys are kept
are visited, however, each week and a vast
amount of excellent work done in this way.
Leaﬂets calling attention to the kind treat-
ment of animals have been printed and are
now being distributed among the French
school children of Fez. They cannot be cir-
culated in the Arab schools, but many Arab
children visit the Fondouk and get an ob-
ject lesson even better perhaps than a
leaﬂet.

A friend has just written us:

“In the nearly two months I have been
here, walking or in the native omnibus
service, I have not seen one donkey with
bleeding ﬂanks, and they have ceased to use
lame donkeys on the public works. The works
are on the Piste Militaire about 900 feet
away from us, and every load of the native
palm has to pass our door. In the Medina,
you may occasionally see a donkey with the
sore the needles make, and yesterday in the
Medina the director and the assistant man-
ager of the Bank of British West Africa
each conﬁscated a needle while out of the
bank on the way to luncheon.”

A Tribute from Fez

HAT deservedly amounted to a life

work here in Maroc, arrived at the
accomplishment of that effort on March 6,
1933, nearly a year after the death of the
lady to whose inspiration and persistency is
due the acceptance in Maroc of the Gram-
mont law for the Protection of Animals.

Antiquated as this law appears today (it
was enacted in 1850 A. D.) it is an achieve-
ment to force its application on all Maroc,
while the country is still a Military Pro—
tectorate.

This lady, a Mme. Beesau from Rabat,
(the new Capital of Maroc) from the early
days of the war worked to insist on law
and order for the animals of Rabat. Oct.
4, 1916, the Cheriﬁen Government (Arab)
authorized the formation of a P. des A.
there. Eight years later, July 19, 1924, au-
thority to arrest offenders was authorized,
but no schedule of laws to be observed ex-
cept as the mayor would enact very mild
ones.

But Mme. Beesau never wearied of push-
ing the ﬁght for the stabilized law of
France, and it was legally declared for all
French Maroc, March 6, 1933, nearly a year
too late for Mme. Beesau to know it in this
life.

Before her death Mme. Beesau had
founded the Union Marocan for the Protec-
tion of Animals.

Mr. David L. McClintock, agent of the
Illinois Humane Society, Mt. Carmel, Illi-
nois, distributed 156 of our humane calen-
dars in schools of Wabash County, through

the generosity of a friend of humane
education.

Jan.1935

Military Training in Our
Schools and Colleges
A

FEW interesting facts: A union, com-

posed of independent students of the
University of California, has been formed
with “but one purpose: the abolition of
compulsory R.O.T.C. (compulsory military
training).” That this training should be
voluntary is urged for eight reasons;
among these, that military training is incon-
sistent with the purpose of the university
established to teach men to serve humanity
better and not to destroy humanity: that it
violates the constitutionality of religious
freedom, if one’s religious convictions are
that God disapproves learning the use of
weapons to kill his brothers, he must aban-
don the conviction or stay away from the
University: that the ordinary courses in
physical education, it is agreed by experts,
offer far better exercise than R.O.T.C.

Ohio State University seems to have
started a system of bribery to induce its
students to enroll in the military training
courses. It has offered its sophomores free
football tickets if they will take the train-
ing. To obtain these tickets the student must
agree to wear the R.O.T.C. uniform at every
game and to march to and from the stadium
in military formation. In addition the fac-
ulty announces that no student will be ex-
cused from military training on the ground
that he is a conscientious objector. The
powers that be at the Ohio State University
must be a warlike lot.

The Student Front, the organ of the Uni-
versity of Illinois .Chapter of the National
Student League, exposes the R.O.T.C. prop—
aganda: “For the ﬁrst time for many years
the Military Department has thought it
necessary to issue an Information Bulletin
to all freshmen. Passed out to the fresh—
man by the faculty advisors, the leaﬂet at-
tempts to justify the position of military
training in a university curriculum.” The
Student Front calls attention to a “mis—
statement of fact when the Bulletin claims
that Federal law requires ‘all male citizens
. . . to pursue the basic military course.’ ”

At Kansas State College a student, Ray-
mond McMahan, has secured, through the
courts, an injunction against President F. D.
Farrell, from compelling him to take mili-
tary training, though he refused on the
ground of conscientious convictions. A
strange feature in this case is that, while
Quakers and Mennonites who are conscien-
tious objectors are excused, young Mc-
Mahan, a Methodist, is given no escape from
the training.

On Armistice Day in Maine the Bangor—
Brewer clergymen, together with several in
Old Town, Orono and Hampden, united in
sermons protesting against military train-
ing in the Bangor High School.

The Military Department at Washington
is not training the youth of the country for
peace but for war. The uniform, the march-
ing, the band, the ﬂying ﬂags, the cheers of
the watching crowds along the streets—this
is what the military authorities show our
youth. Never a word of the gun-swept ﬁeld
of battle with its horror of blood and dead
and wounded men and trenches alive with
vermin.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 6

Defeat of Trapplng Law
(Continued from page .9)

“Yes” space, believing that half a loaf was
better than no bread. Many newspapers
favorable to the humane cause advised their
readers to do just that. And yet the issue
raised by Mr. Cook was by no means uni-
versally held by lawyers. It was a moot
question. The plain truth is that the trap-
ping referendum was the most grotesquely
muddled issue that ever appeared on a bal-
lot, defying intelligent action by the voters.

Friends of the humane trapping law
adopted by an overwhelming majority in
1930 have the best of reasons for believing
that there has been no change of public
sentiment regarding that law, and they pur-
pose to carry on the ﬁght until it is re-
enacted in simpler and better form.

The lesson to be learned by the Massa-
chusetts electorate from this monumental
miscarriage of the public’s will is that the
Initiative and the Referendum must be
simpliﬁed in a manner to make ballot
questions understandable.

Annual Poster Contest

N Attleboro jewelry company has just
A completed the new, special design for
the medal that the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
will offer in the annual school prize poster
contest, to be conducted along the lines of
previous years. The 1935 medal is 1%
inches in diameter, and shows a ﬁgure of
justice holding aloft a pair of scales. At
one side, is a lighted torch, while at the
other a dog is looking up as if in appeal for
fair treatment. Bronze medals, suspended
by blue ribbons, will be awarded as ﬁrst
prizes, and bronze medals with red ribbons
as second. Subscriptions to Our Dumb Ani-
mals will be given for honorable mention.
As usual, these prizes will be distributed
freely throughout the various schools com-
peting in the contest. Last year there were
1,399 medals and 1,069 subscriptions
awarded.

Full particulars of the 1935 contest are
given only in the special circular which may
be obtained from the secretary of the So-
ciety, but a summary of them follows:

1. The contest is open to public or paro-
chial schools of grammar or high grade in
Massachusetts only, closes positively March
20, 1935, results to be announced as near Be
Kind to Animals Week, April 8-13, as pos-
sible. During that week, and the week fol-
lowing, the best of the posters will be on
exhibition in the Boston Public Library,
Copley Square.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

2. No more than ﬁve posters may be
submitted from any one room, teachers to
make the selection from all that are made
under their direction.

3. Kindness to animals should be the
theme, preferably with a brief motto. The
more original the design, the better.

4. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut-
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
etc.), silhouette, water—colors or charcoal
may be used. Color adds greatly to the
effectiveness.

5. DRAWINGS, ON CARDBOARD OR
HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE NOT LESS
THAN 12 x 18 INCHES, NOR MORE
THAN 18 X 24 INCHES, and should be
SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled), all
charges prepaid, to reach the MASSACHU—
SETTS S. P. C. A. not later than March 20,
1935. It will be to the advantage of con—
testants to send posters as much earlier
than this as possible.

6. In the upper right-hand corner, on
the back of each poster, must be written,
legibly, the contestant’s name, WITH FULL
HOME ADDRESS, also name and address
of the school, number of the grade, and
name of the teacher.

7. All posters receiving prizes become the
property of the Society.

8. Address all posters plainly, Secretary,
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

New Shelter in Washington

Our Dumb Animals offers sincere con—
gratulations to Miss Virginia W. Sargent
and her co-workers upon the formal opening
and dedication of the new ofﬁce and shelter
of the Animal Protective Association at
5200 Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Washington,
D. C., which took place December 8 last. We
understand that this new building and its
site were provided from personal funds by
Miss Sargent and are to remain her prop—
erty but to be at the disposition of the Ani—
mal Protective Association for an indeﬁnite
period. The Association, however, is in im-
mediate need of funds to meet running ex-
penses. During the ﬁrst eight months of
1934 it rescued and collected more than
1,000 unwanted cats and 200 dogs. The great
need of the Association’s work in the na-
tion’s Capital is shown by the fact that
dozens of stray cats are being rescued now
from areas where Government wrecking op-
erations are being carried on.

I believe in the extension of the Golden
Rule to cover our poor relations, the animals.
CHARLES BENEDICT

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especmlly intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Ammals ‘for the.use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Soc1ety and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel to Animals or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of .......... ty ............. ( ..

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

Jan. 1935

Sport
JACK GREENBERG

He lay in ambush waiting for a tread
To slaughter at the coming of the glow,
He laughed to see the trickling drops of red
That stained her face then fell to kiss the
snow;
There was no sign of hatred in her eyes
That seemed a portion of the morning
blue,
They stared and asked in innocent surprise,
“What have I done to earn this blow from
you?”

He was not there to answer or explain
But to display an imitative skill,

To satisfy a want that lives by pain,
A savage yearn that never ﬁnds its ﬁll.

He was a hunter in the wood at dawn,
She was the mother of a baby fawn.

Dutch Calendar for 1935

From J. Philip Kruseman, publisher, The
Hague, Holland, we have received a copy of
the very attractive “Our Dumb Friends
Calendar” for 1935, with beautiful illustra—
tions and humane sentiment on each of the
twenty-six leaves. The days of the week
are given both in Dutch and in English. The
cover is adorned with a large picture of a
magniﬁcent cat. All the illustrations are
actual photographs. The calendar will be
sent to any address in the United States for
$1.75, and to England for 7 shillings.

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. We will welcome your contribution.
Please make checks payable to the Treas-
urer, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

As the world is, hate is given freer rein
(than love). Recently it reigned; and each
half of the world besought the same God
to help it kill the other half. We can hate
enough to kill, but killing no longer solves
problems, nor hating an enemy convert one.

PROFESSOR GEORGE A. DORSEY, Ph.D.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part Of
the world. .

All dollar subscriptions sent direct'to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender tO membership in either of our two

Societies.

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life - $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.
Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Aug. .1935

The Woodcock, Expert in
Camouflage

ALAN DEVOE

armament. The lion has his claws
and teeth, the skunk his little .sac of horri-
ble scent, the copperhead his curved and
death—dealing fangs. But there are certain
creatures to whom discretion is by far the
better part of valor, and whose defense in

FOR every creature his own particular

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

tern of her feathers blend with the withered
leaves—so perfectly does this pattern be-
come one with the checkered sunlight on
the dry grasses—that rarely are your eyes
or mine sharp enough to discern her at all.
In the accompanying picture it can be seen
how even the long and heavy beak now
merges into the background and takes on
the appearance of a stray twig.

As Philohela minor, the woodcock, is very
well aware, there are more ways than one
of outwitting those who would do her harm.

 

CAMOUFLAGE IS HER BEST DEFENSE

For the Queens’ Welfare

OSCAR H. ROESNER

the eternal struggle of natural life is an
ingenious kind of non—aggression. They
have no claws or formidable teeth, these
ones. They possess,. instead, the subtler
protective art of making themselves in-
visible.

It is in moist wood-lands in the spring
that you will ﬁnd Philohela minor, better
known to most of us as the woodcock.
There, in these shadowy places where the
ﬁrst skunk-cabbages and bloodroots grow,
the woodcock probes with his long beak
in the dark leaf-mold and seeks the earth-
worms that are his favorite food. Shy and
elusive he is, never venturing into the open
pasture-land but prefering to frequent al-
ways those cool and dim-lit places that are
green with mandrake and the fronds of
ferns. Perhaps, if you have seen him there,
you have thought him a singularly conspicu-
ous little bird. His inordinately long and
unwieldy beak and the round outline of his
stubby little body must surely, it would
seem, make him a ready prey for his
enemies.

The crested ﬂycatcher, when he makes
his nest in the hollow of a tree, adorns it
with a snake-skin in the hope of frighten—
ing away his foes. Our tranquil friend the
woodcock resorts to no such sensational
tactics. When the nesting-time comes, the
female woodcock seeks some place in sparse
woods or the borderland of a little copse,
some place in which there are dried leaves
and grasses of which to fashion her small
nest. And having found this place she
adroitly disappears.

Or so it seems to those enemies who seek
her there. For so ingeniously does the pat-

Ten queens had to make a journey of
thousands of miles recently, travel from
sunny California to far—off Moscow in
Russia. To make them safe and comfort—
able on such a long journey great care was
taken for their welfare on the trying trip.
Each queen was provided with a separate,
neat and well-ventilated little apartment.
She was also given four sticks of candy for
her food needs on the long trip and ﬁfty
faithful attendants to wait upon her and
serve her. Now, since a human queen would
be persona non grata in Soviet Land, the
ten queens journeying to make their home
in that far country were queen bees, more
welcome, and the fifty attendants of each
were worker bees. And they all traveled in
their pleasant little compartments by parcel
post.

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-
T eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.
Without obligation to me, please. send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..................................

Age ..................................
Address ................................

Page 125

A Gentle Reminder

CARROLL VAN COURT

Today I saw a butterﬂy above a city street,

In all the hurly-burly it was quite a novel
treat;

It seemed a bit bewildered as it ﬂattered
here and there,

For it was far from ﬂower beds, and no one
seemed to care.

In all the noise and traﬂic, where that
pretty creature ﬂew,

I thought it is a pity all the cruel things
we do,

In all our work and struggle, in perform-a
ancc of our duty,

Forgetting half the time that life contains
so much of beauty.

That lovely harmless creature there in all
that dust and din,

Was like a gentle warning of a common
human sin,

The sin of cold indiﬂ'erence to the ﬁner
things of life,

That we are often guilty of, in all our
selﬁsh strife!

Mark Twain, the Animal

Lover
LOIS SNELLING

November 30 of this year is the one hun-
dredth birthday anniversary of the humorist,
Mark Twain, and commemorative cere-
monies are to be conducted over the nation
in many places.

There are many sides of this versatile
genius to be considered, but no phase of his
character is more lovable than that of the
animal—lover. Twain loved human beings,
though he was a merciless critic of their
actions. The lower animals he could love
without ﬁnding it necessary to criticize
them. A stray, homeless dog never failed
to rouse his compassion. It was impossible
for him to enjoy a carriage ride, because of
the pity he felt for the horses who fur-
nished the motive power. In his “Connec-
ticut Yankee at King Arthur’s Court” he re-
peatedly laments the reckless slaughter of
good horses at the tournaments. The use-
less cruelty was all right for the kings, if
they were so foolish as to deliberately go
into the bouts, but the horses had no choice.

Though he loved all animals, he had an
especial weakness for kittens. His daugh-
ter, Mrs. Clara Clemens Gabrilowitsch, says
that when she and her two sisters were chil-
dren they used little kittens as passports
into their father’s presence. They were not
supposed to bother him when he was busy,
but if for some reason they saw ﬁt to enter
his study, they wisely went accompanied by
a kitten. The sight of the ball of fur never
failed to bring a light into his eyes, the
work would be dropped and the little crea-
ture cuddled in his gentle hands.

The supreme test of an education is one’s
appreciation of the feeling of other living
things. We all enjoy the man or woman
who is so ﬁne that his sympathy keeps him
in harmony with all living creatures.

JOY ELMER MOR’IAN

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page [21;

Facts Concerning Beaver
Life
GREY OWL

They can and do select where possible
trees that will fall towards the water.

They notch the tree in accordance with the
proposed fall of the tree.

They have no power to ascertain if a tree
will be lodged, even if they decide accurately
the direction of its fall.

They can detect by means of the pressure
and movement of ﬁbres the imminent fall-
ing of a tree before it can be detected by the
eye and, having knowledge of the direction
it will fall in, will move aside to safety or,
in the case of small trees falling into the
runway, race to the water before the trees
fall.

Large and dangerous trees are often sev-
ered nearly through and kept clear of until
they fall naturally or are blown down.

In their present state of freedom, do-
mesticity has not in any way impaired their
knowledge of their work, nor has it lessened
their ability to detect the presence of 1m-
mediate danger. '

They have a very strong affection for each
other and one or two humans.

They have a long memory, or apparently
no idea of the passage of time, as they will
pick up work where it was laid down weeks
before, and long absence does not lessen
their recognition of places and persons.

They can recognize at least two colours:
red, which they like, and white, which they
do not.

They are able to pick almost unerringly
the most advantageous places for dams and
other works.

They do actually conserve water for their
own uses, damming besides the outlet every
creek coming into their lake, or most of

them, sometimes in a series of dams further .

and further up-stream. In the event of loss
of water in the pond through damage to main
dam, the dam is repaired and the upper res-

ervoirs are then broken and allowed to ﬂow
into the pond.

They breed not in March of February, as
supposed, but in fall, the exact date “I am
unable as yet to determine.”

The male helps care for the young, takes
an intelligent interest in their welfare, and

has as much affection for them as the moth-
er has.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

National Parks’ Debt to
Animals
L.E.EUBANKS

OMPARATIVELY few people realize

what wonderlands are open for our en-
joyment right here in our own country, in
the form of national parks and monuments.
These places are the property of the people,
and it is the government’s wish that they be
used as such.

There are sixteen national parks, which
contain a total of 9,773 square miles, and
twenty-four national monuments, with a
total of 1,939 square miles. In this vast area
we ﬁnd the country’s most superb natural
wonders. The parks are maintained in un-
impaired form for the health and pleasure
of present and future generations.

The forest service is not trying merely to
grow trees in the national forests. It is do-
ing everything it can to encourage the in-
crease of animal life within the limits of
those reservations. It protects the game,
colonizes elk and buffalo, plants ﬁsh in the
streams, and encourages the presence of
songbirds and other desirable feathered
creatures.

It isn’t only the trees, though they are
wonderful, that make the national parks
what they are; it is mostly the animal life.
Thousands of people, though they keenly
appreciate the scenery, go to the great parks
primarily because of the wild life study to
be enjoyed there. We have only to imagine
these places bereft of the living creatures
in order to realize that a woodland, the na-
tural habitat of wild creatures, is irrepar-
ably unnatural without them.

And what a wealth of wild life is found!
For instance, in Yellowstone Park are elk,
mountain sheep, mule deer, moose, bison,
prong-horned antelope, bears, both black
and grizzly, a few cougars, lynx, beavers,
coyotes, and some wolves and foxes. Rab-
bits and hares, of course, squirrels, chip-
munks and other small creatures are too nu-
merous to enumerate.

0 ~
I

It is noticeable of late that people are
paying more heed to the preservation of
wild animals and birds generally, and "it is
a healthful sign of the times. It would be a
ﬁne national trait if Americans would rise
high in the matter of kindness to dumb
animals. —Pueblo (Col) Indicator

Aug. 1935

Deer Country .
DORIS I. BATEMAN

Among the pines and tamaracks

I see the print of tiny tracks;

A broken twig, the sweet fern crushed,
The leaves still trembling, lately brushed
By deer while on their way to drink
Beside the river’s cooling brink.

>i< * >!< * *

A splash—a pause—and then I spy

A startled doe with anxious eye;

Upon a sand bar, ears alert,

She poises—till with sudden spurt

She turns and dashes up the bank

l/V here reeds grow tall and dark and dank;
And with a flick of white-ﬂagged tail

She disappears in woodland trail

With naught to tell of startled ﬂight

Save shadows ﬂickering in the light.

Then the Dog Tcstified

CARLETON A. SCHEINERT

Dogs do not always have opportunity to
defend themselves in court. Too many times
a man’s word condemns—as well as praises.
But this time it was different, for the dog’s
good!

It happened in a Los Angeles courtroom,
where a man stood and charged that the
defendant’s dog was vicious, and a menace
to the public. It was evident this was no
lover of dogs. .

The judge considered. It was a boy’s dog
he was asked to condemn. Did he remember
his own youth, his own dog?

“But I don’t see the dog you bring these
charges against,” the judge remarked.
“Suppose we have him in and see what he
has to say for himself.”

The man protested. Wasn’t it enough
that the owner was present? But the dog
was brought into court from his home. He
came in slowly, tail wagging, a question in
his eyes. The judge called to him and he
went to the bench with tail shaking fast,
friendly and eager. The judge examined
him, watched him and said:

“This is no vicious dog. Case dismissed!”

Isn’t there a thought for us in this humane
judge’s action, lest we, too, judge an animal
unseen and “unheard”?

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20-25;
Humane Sunday, April 19, 1936.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 11;

who Tﬁanh nf mortg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage. d
' ' ' 'll sen
Th American Humane Education Soc1ety w1 .
to evzry person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-office address of the pres1dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature

(1 a ilt badge for the president. .
anSee iiside front cover for prices of llterature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and eighty-seven new Bands
of Mercy were reported during November.
Of these 232 were in Illinois, 161 in Massa-
chusetts, 151 in New Hampshire, .78 in
Texas, 61 in Rhode Island, 60 in Florlda, 58
in South Carolina, 45 in Georgia, 38 in Yer-
mont, 33 in Pennsylvania, 32 in Virginia,
13 in Oregon, ten in Lebanon, eight m Ten-
nessee, three in Palestine, two in New York,
and one each in Colorado and Syria.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society, 205,779.

Air Gun “ Bandits”

HUGH KING HARRIS

Author of “Pepper”

HE day following Christmas I was sur—

prised to note that the feathered ﬂock
usually ﬁlling the old apple and plum tree
by the kitchen door, were conspicuous by
their absence. Twice each day I had pro-
vided a panful of crumbs, or other feed for
the birds, which had come to know this
“supply station,”

Where were they this bitter cold morn-
ing? Frozen to death, or had they found
another feeding spot more bountiful and to
their liking, than mine?

Then I noted a dead pigeon in my neigh-
bor’s yard. “Frozen,” was my thought. But
a moment later a crow on the roof of the
garage limped a few feet, gave a sharp,
scolding cry of alarm and I heard a ping-—
then the excited low call of a boy: “I
nearly got him, that time!”

The mystery was being solved. Christ-
mas gifts of air riﬂes. Three boys of ﬁf-
teen or sixteen years, stalking birds up and
down the back—yards. My sanctuary was
being invaded by air gun bandits.

During the past summer I had noted a
robin with a broken wing making the best
he could of life; a lame crow, the one who
stayed on through the winter, and fre-
quently other birds maimed and suffering.
It would have been easy to quietly summon
humane ofﬁcer King, to put a stop to the
air gun marauders. Yet here was an oppor-
tunity for greater good. With no apology
for the sparrow, whether it is a nuisance,
or not—it is a living creature. Robins,
ﬁnches, bluebirds, crows, song sparrows,
feathered visitors who needed friends.

The boys knew me as a neighbor; I went
out and managed to have a conference in
the garage across the alley. Those new
guns had been presented to the boys by their
parents—“knocking of‘f sparrows was okay.”

“You chaps wait a moment. Keep very
still.” Wondering, they obeyed; for I had
not admonished them as yet. The food by

 

OUR DUMB

my kitchen door, the boys out of sight,
silence and the scattered birds gaining con-
ﬁdence once more, came fluttering to the
feast. But it was not until the lame crow
came down,——oh, so awkwardly, trying to
feed itself, ﬂat on the walk. A step and
it would topple to one side, struggle to bal-
ance on one leg, and the boys were watching
every move.

“Boys, an air gun bullet can kill a bird,
or a very small animal, if the shot is accu—
rate; if the ﬁrst shot killed outright it would
not be so bad, but eighty—ﬁve per cent of all
hits merely cripple, or maim the birds. A
broken wing, a fractured leg. Life just a
struggle, like that crow. Don’t you chaps
remember the cripple-d robin that was here
all last summer?”

“Sure, I saw him often,” said one of the
boys.

“Now let’s take a dog. Suppose some man
came along and gave your ‘Laddy’ a blow
with a club, broke his leg, so he never did
get over it, how about that, Harry?”

“Not so good,” Harry scowled.

“You chaps are having sport, I know the
fun it is to shoot, but why cripple the birds
I am trying to keep from starving? Isn’t
it tough enough to scratch for grub with
two legs, both wings, rather than broken
bones?”

“Thunder, Mr. Harris, we never looked
at it like that. There have been bounties on
sparrows, they are no good,” said George,
the older boy of the trio.

“Killing outright, in a humane way, is
one thing, haphazard shooting with air

CAT FOUNTAIN AT HILDESHEIM

ANIMALS

 

Jan. 1935

guns, injuring or maiming is different. Use
your guns on bottles, cans, throwing objects
in the air, plenty of sport—but think of
your dogs, or even yourselves, in the con—
dition of the wounded birds.”

That was the method, the direct manner
in which I went at the problem. I wondered
what the result would be. New Year’s day
I saw the three boys in a vacant lot near
my home with a “riﬂe range,” a swinging
target, other lads. taking turns with the
guns—and when a sparrow perched on a
nearby wire, not a single shot was ﬁred at
it. That’s sportsmanship, I say.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

The Cat Fountain
ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

NE of the pleasing characteristics of

many of the cities and towns of Europe
are the numerous public fountains. Most of
them are not only of much interest and
artistic merit but they have so much charm
and appeal or so delightfully portray some
bit of folk-lore that they have become world
famous. The medieval cities of the Continent
have especially pleasing and characteristic
fountains. One of these is most unusual and
invariably causes the lips of
a stranger to quirk with
amusement and to make in-
stant query as to its signiﬁ-
cance.

This fountain is located in
the medieval and extremely
picturesque city of Hilde-
sheim in Germany. It stands
in one of the public squares
where the market is held and
it is known as the Cat foun-
tain. It depicts a night watch-
man of the Middle Ages mak-
ing his rounds with a lantern
such as was the practice in
the ancient days, while below
him are grouped a circle of
enormous, angry cats, deﬁ-
antly gazing and spitting at
him in a variety of attitudes.
The story has it that the
cats of the city once upon a
time made an agreement to
attack their enemy, the night
watchman, on a certain night
in revenge for the manner in
which he continually and re—
lentlessly pursued them and
unfeelingly interrupted their
nightly serenades. But the
little plan came to an inglori-
ous end with the coming of
dawn for the watchman re-
fused to be intimidated by the
wretched felines and drove
them off. The cats of the
fountain are well modeled
and their attitudes are most
expressive. Certainly the
theme is an unhackneyed one
and the fountain cleverly per-
petuates a local folk tale.“ -"'

 

 




 

 

z4pr.1935

Sky Pastures
JUDY VAN DER VEER

The little colt has died today,
I saw his frightened eyes grow wide
As if he knew that he must leave
The shelter of his mother’s side.

And when his eyes had dulled at last,
I knew that he had gone so far

That he could chase the running clouds,
And crop the grasses on a star.

The old mare nosed him anxiously,
She nickered shrill, she nickered high
With ﬂying hoofs and wind blown mane
He crossed the pastures of the sky.

’

When the wind is in the south,
And meadow grass is tall and sweet,
I shall think of starry pastures
Trodden by his lonely feet.

“ My Horse Warrior ”

N a review of the book with the above
title, by Lord Mottistone (Gen. Jack
Seely), published by Hodder & Stoughton,
London, the Christian Science Monitor says:

The story of Warrior, “the faithful
friend, who never failed and never feared,”
is perhaps the most perfect that has ever
been written of a horse.

Some of the tales are familiar, for the
fame of Warrior “who was destined to go
through ordeals more intense than almost
any other horse born at the time,” and, by
a series of extraordinary happenings, to es-
cape unharmed, has spread far and wide.
But in the present volume we are given the
whole remarkable history, from the day he
was born, 26 years ago, to the present time
when, still ﬁt, and well and gay, he canters
about the same great green ﬁeld in the Isle
of Wight in which he spent his earliest
years.

It was in this ﬁeld that General Seely
ﬁrst rode him on the memorable occasion
when, having bucked him off three times,
Warrior ﬁnally came to a standstill with
distended nostrils; and it was under the
ash tree before attempting to mount again,
that the General had the long talk with him
during which he tried to explain that he
loved him because he had loved his mother,
and that if he would please not buck him
off any more. they might be friends for life.
“The gentle head was bent down to me as
I talked, the nose was rubbed against my
cheek, and from that moment to this, 25
years later, we have been constant com-
rades and friends.”

Many times during the four years of
war General Seely rode Warrior under
shell-ﬁre so heavy that he was almost the
only survivor. Yet through it all the horse
not only kept his own fear under control,
but as the General puts it “helped beyond
measure his rider and his friend to do the
same.” He had one hairbreadth escape af-
ter another, yet was never touched.

“I could never have earned the love and
affection which was granted to me but for
Warrior,” writes General Seely. “This
handsome, gay, bay thoroughbred, with the
white star on his forehead was my passport
wherever I went.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A New Deal in Polo

JACK B.

OLO, as it is played today, is a color-
P ful and interesting sport. Colorful

because it is supported for the most
part by the wealthier and horse-loving
classes, interesting because it is played by
men and with horses of sporting blood. The

speed and agility of the ponies, the skill.

and dexterity with which the players guide
their horses and swing their mallets, the
pounding beat of hoofs, the roar of the
spectators, the swish and click of the mal-
let meeting the ball, all contribute to the
color and excitement of polo.

Unfortunately, though, these pleasanter
aspects are so arresting in their glamour,
and command so much interest that there
is little attention devoted to the less attrac-
tive side of polo.

Let us draw a picture. The time is a
bright afternoon in June. A polo game is
in progress, and players and ponies, swel-
tering under a torrid sun, gallop up and
down the green turf. The gallery and side-
lines are packed with smiling people in gay
attire. The atmosphere teems with excite-
ment. Suddenly, two players, both wear-
ing the same brightly colored jerseys, come
galloping down the side-line. The fore-
most of the riders takes the ball from
where it is resting near the sideboard, drib-
bles it in toward the center of the ﬁeld. He
has it almost centered when his team mate
behind him yells, “Leave it.” He obeys.
The next instant a glistening white mallet
describes a rapid are through the air, a loud
penetrating click is heard. A mighty roar
springs from the crowd as the ball speeds
toward the goal. Before the roar has died
away, it is replaced by excited screaming.
In order to keep from riding down his team
mate after making the shot, the player was
obliged to turn his horse sharply —— too
sharply, and a pony and rider are down.
As both man and horse get to their feet
unassisted, the screams cease; but a. ner-

vous buzz runs through the crowd when-

the player tries to walk his horse. The
animal doesn’t walk naturally. He moves
in a disjointed manner. He seems dazed,
and his back does not appear straight.
Handlers, thinking that the heat has been
too much for the pony, run on the ﬁeld
with a bucket of water. They pour the
water on the animal’s head. He rears up,
falls over backward, and lies motionless on
the ground. A hum of controversial con—
versation runs through the audience, but
only the veterinary and the others on the
ﬁeld know what has happened.

Of course, the horse is dead. But what
killed him the spectators do not know; and
after the. saddle is removed and the horse
is dragged from the ﬁeld, they make no
further effort to ﬁnd out. Play is resumed,
and the game gdes on.

We join the small crowd gathered about
the body of the horse, to learn that when
the sharp turn was executed the horse’s
back was broken. We look down and we
see for ourselves that the horse is dead.
Then, we ﬁnd that it is not a half-bred Ar-
gentine or Western bred polo pony that
is dead; but a closely-bred, thoroughbred
horse, a close relative of one of America’s

CREAMER

7;":
r»_

 

“RIDING OFF” AN OPPONEN

greatest race—horses. A thoroughbred,
fashioned by the creator for less strenuous
sport. Not for the rigors of polo.
Admittedly, though, the above incident
is not ﬁc-titou's, it is not the usual thing.
Nevertheless, such things do take place;
and when they do we are sometimes in-
clined to ask ourselves, “Is it worth it?”
In the instance cited above, a horse was
the victim of circumstance and not inten-
tional cruelty. However, this does not dis-
limn the fact that there is a considerable
amount of willful and unnecessary cruelty
regnant in the game of polo. The larger
part of the voluntary abuse falls upon the
players of inferior ability or the so-called
“dubs,” who represent a large majority in
comparison to the top-ranking players. It
is almost invariably evident that an inade-
quate player will seek to avenge his own
poor playing by wreaking undue pumsh-
ment upon his horse. Watch the nov1ce as
he loses in a race for the ball. Chances
are he will apply harsh spurs to the side
of his horse -— that horse which has just,
under the circumstances, been doing h1s
level best. See the “dub” as he misses a
shot. He stops his horse with a snatch on
thereins so that he may get another shot
at the ball, instead of riding on and leav-
ing the ball to a team mate, as should be
the proper procedure. Look! the beglnner
swings a wild mallet, and hits the ponys
leg or chin; or, being oblivious to the rule
which prohibits the hooking of mallets
across another’s horse, he causes h1s op-
ponent’s mount to trip and fall. Then
again, many tyros, one may notlce, wlll
illegally cross an opponent’s path causmg
him to pull up his horse unjustly. A foul
may be called, of course, and the offender
penalized by the loss of a half a pomt or
more; but the more important damage, that
done to the horse’s mouth, can not be offset
by the mere deduction of points. In the
matter of willful abuse, the inexperienced
player undoubtedly needs more watchlng
than the superior player. - .
So much for the neophyte, s1nce hls
guilt is, in a sense, secondary to that of
the seasoned player. Let us have a look
at the course of events which befall the
pony of a polo player. Before the game. is
so much as started, the pony is ﬁtted With

 

 

 




 

 

Feb. 1935

Young George Learns to Ride

HE love of horses played an impor-

tant part in the life of George Wash-
ington, writes Leah A. Kazmark in Boy-
lcmd. When the artist John Trumbull
painted his portrait in 1789 he chose to
give the public a version Of the Washing-
ton who, all his life, had devoted part Of
his time to horses. Showing him correctly
garbed for riding, in the colonial manner,
with his handsome white horse in the back-
ground, it is a portrait of interest. ’

When young George started to school
he had mastered the art of riding his pony.
But the school was some distance off,
through forest and across streams to the
Falmouth church, where the sexton, Hobbs,
taught the “three R’s.” Therefore, Mrs.
Washington insisted that her son be accom-
panied by one of the family servants,
Peter. Later Mr. Washington thought it
time young George should become an ex—
pert horseman, and of this Washington
recorded in his neat diary:

“I remember when my father was teach-
ing me to leap my pony, the pony refused
and my mother ran out, we being near to
the house. My father sat still on a big
stallion and took no notice of her en—
treaties. At last I got the pony over and
he fell with me. I jumped up and was in
the saddle in a moment. My father .said
I must try again; and upon this my mother
ran back into the house crying out that I
would be murdered.”

But Augustine Washington had his way.
He persisted in making his son master
horses, knowing how important this would
be to him in later life. One rode every-
where in those days of America’s youth—
to school, to store, to church.

At the age of eleven Master George was
riding horseback four miles to school with
his hornbook tied to the saddlebow. The
family had thirty or more ﬁne horses in
the stables, all of which the strong tall boy
could manage with a surprising skill. Be-
fore he was sixteen he thought nothing of
a trip to Wakeﬁeld, a brother’s estate on
Pope’s Creek, ﬁfty miles away, or up to
visit Lawrence at Mount Vernon, thirty
miles distant. He was at home in the saddle.
He broke the Washington colts, trained
them to take the fences and follow the
hounds. The wilds of Virginia he knew
quite as well as the traveled roads.

An Intelligent Cat

WILLIAM W. BUECHEL

A lady had a tame bird which she was
in the habit of letting out of its cage every
day. One morning, as the bird was picking
crumbs Of bread off the carpet, the family
cat, who had always before shown great
kindness to the bird, seized it suddenly and
jumped with it in her mouth upon a table.

The lady was much alarmed for the fate
of her favorite, but on turning about, she
instantly discovered the cause of her cat’s
unusual behavior. The door had been left
open, and a strange cat had just come into
the room. The lady turned the intrude-r
out, her own cat came down from its place
of safety, and dropped the bird without
having done it the smallest injury.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Isolation in the Southern

Mountains

JAMES D. BURTON

Field Representative of the American Humane
Education Society

HE Tennessee Educational Commission,

in a study made in 1934, calls attention

to the high degree of isolation that obtains
in the mountain counties of East Tennessee.
The population per square mile in some of
the counties is about twenty—ﬁve. The meas-
ures used in determining the comparative

 

THE R. F. D. MAIL CARRIER IN
THE TENNESSEE MOUNTAINS

isolation Of the counties were: (1) per cent
of farms on improved roads; (2) per cent of
farms having automobiles; (3) number of
inhabitants per square mile; (4) per cent of
farms having telephones. These measures
are only relative, but it is believed that they
present the problem of isolation sufﬁciently
well to warrant consideration. Many of the
mountain counties do not have the contact
with the outside world that the more fav-
ored counties have in normal development.

There are large mountain areas Of forests
and lands where cattle are permitted by law
to run at large. Farm lands are fenced in.
Cattle make their own living during the
summer and fall. The people do not have to
feed them at this time. Milk cows come
home at night, and are released the next
morning when they take to the ranges. They
herd together from their respective settle-
ments. Many carloads of cattle from the
drought sections of the west were shipped
to the mountain ranges last summer. They
were released to make their own living
during the growing season. The places of
shade, coolness, and sparkling waters were
of untold beneﬁt to the starving cattle from
the plains.

The people in these areas are served by
the RED. mail carrier. In some of the
isolated sections the carriers make their
rounds with the mail on horseback. The
horses become well trained to their work,
and stop at the mail boxes along the moun-
tain roads without any guidance on the part
of the riders. The day of the saddle pockets
is not over. The mail brightens the homes
of the people on the route. Families along

Page 99

the way know the mail horse, and he seems
to know that he is rendering them a service
and appears to be proud of his job. There
are many opportunities here for philan-
thropic minded people.

The Smoky Mountain National Park, in-
cluding portions of East Tennessee and
Western North Carolina, has just been
established by the government. This will
help to preserve the beauty of the forests
and protect wild game and ﬁsh.

Monkey Manners
FLORENCE H. MOORE

T a Century of Progress, a small army
A of monkeys daily attracted throngs of
people and sent them into gales of laughter
at their amusing antics. A circular moat Of
water surrounded the animals on their
roomy island, while a tall, irregular struc—
ture of imitation stone afforded ample free—
dom for climbing and playing.

The public was permitted to feed them,
and especially prepared, inexpensive pack-
ages of food could be had near by. The
moment some one appeared at the railing,
with a package in hand, immediately the
water front was lined with the expectant
little fellows.

On this particular day, a by-stander
threw a package over to them and there
followed the usual lively scramble, which
resembled a league football scrimmage. The
winner ﬁnally emerged with the coveted
parcel, and what followed would have to be
seen to be appreciated.

At once, as if by unspoken accord, all ac-A
tivity ceased. There was no attempt to rush.
the winner, no crowding or pushing each
other. Each monkey stopped and sat down
right where he was, in a half circle, and
waited.

But what excited, tense waiting! Every
bright eye was ﬁxed on the lucky one, as he
proceeded to investigate the prize. How
tantalizingly slow he was! He daintily
picked out a bit of carrot, tasted it, then
laid it on the ground and took a morsel of
something else. He sampled everything in
the package, until it was empty and the
contents laid on the ground, where he lei--
surely picked out and ate what he wanted.
He seemed to be aware Of being in the spot-
light and deliberately prolonged it.

Finally he stopped eating and began tO-
spread out the food that was left, so that
much of it was within easy reach of the
others. And all the time the excitement.
grew. Muscles twitching, little forearms
gesticulating, much chattering and turnlng'
of heads and blinking of quick, bright eyes.

Suddenly the host turned away, as if 1n-
terested elsewhere. It was evidently the
signal to “come and get it,” for the ranks
broke and, in less than no time, not a ves-
tige of food remained.

Human beings are the most interesting
objects on earth, and to know themselves
and get along with one another is their most.
important business. That business drags be--
cause they do not know . . . what they could'
do if they stopped quarreling among themr
selves and used their brains to solve their'
common problems.

PROFESSOR GEORGE A. DORSEY, Ph. D..

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126

(the Earth nf ﬂurry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the preSIdent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy hterature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and eighty new Bands of
Mercy were reported during June. Of these
17 7 were in Illinois, 36 in Rhode Island, 29 in
Massachusetts, 23 in Pennsylvania, 8 in
Texas, 6 in Lebanon, and 1 in Palestine.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 210,715.

 

Remember Your Pets During Vacation
Time! They Must be Cared For! Don’t
Desert Your Cat When You Leave Home,
or at Your Summer Resort! It is a Crimi-
nal Offense to Abandon an Animal that
You Own.

The Good Dog “Jack”

Lately was prosecuted before the court of
Blackpool an old, unmarried lady, Miss
Kathleen Hutchinson, sued for not having
paid her dog’s license. The Royal S. P. C. A.,
after making inquiries into the matter, paid
the ﬁnes. Their representative stated that
Miss Hutchinson, inﬁrm and living quite
alone, was depriving herself for the food
and care of her dog Jack, whom she loverl
to adoration, and that this intelligent ani-
mal was going errands for his Mistress,
confined to her arm-chair.

The English press having related the
story of Jack, the British public was
moved and the old lady and her intercessors
have, in a few days, received more than 600
letters containing checks for some 30,000
frs., boxes of dogs’ biscuit, sugar, flowers
and gifts of all kinds.

The London Tail Waggers’ Club elected
Jack honorary member and assured the
payment of the tax during his life.

Miss Hutchinson became, in a day, re-
nowned at Blackpool. Unknown friends re-
vealed themselves. Her apartment is al-
ways full of visitors and Jack, the uncon-
scious producer of this miraculous change,
is bearing with much ado this invasion
which disturbs his faithful habits of hidden
and unknown devotion.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Baby Sea Lion

A. S. LAWRENCE

E’S an orphan—this baby sea lion!”

That is what Bill Smails of Long
Beach, California, said the other day, when
he came home lugging the heavy little fellow
in his arms. He then explained that he had
discovered the lonely orphan in Alamitos
Bay and had lifted him into his boat and
had brought him home in order to save his
life. Bill is a good swimmer, he knows
about sea lions for he swims in the water
with them, and he loves them.

“His ma is dead—shot maybe, or killed by
a whale, or something. Anyway, she’s miss-
ing,” said Bill, “and the baby pup has got
to be fed, and it’s up to me to feed him.
Guess I’ll call him ‘Philbert.’ ”

So for about a week, little orphan Philbert
dozed on the family sofa by the ﬁreplace,
awaking from time to time and uttering
croupy yells for his lamented mother. Bill’s
idea of feeding babies is with a nursing
bottle; so he pried Philbert’s mouth open
and made him taste milk. Now he likes milk
and swigs about two quarts a day.

“That’s nothing,” said Bill, “one pup down
here drank six quarts a day and starved to
death on it. They must learn to eat ﬁsh or
they die. I’ve watched the old mother sea
lions out in the Bay. They take their baby
on their neck and say:

“ ‘Hang on Son, and I’ll give you some
pointers on how to catch sardines.’ Then
they dive down under the water with the
baby pup, and stay a long time, teaching him
to catch and eat ﬁsh. But Philbert was too
young for that, and now he turns up his
nose at the best sardine on the market, but
mark me, he’s got to learn to eat ﬁsh, and
I’m cultivating his taste for them, by mix-
ing his milk with cod liver oil. I’ll teach the
young rascal, if I have to swim under water
with him myself. He’s got to learn, for he’s
about a month old and cutting his teeth.
Don’t you think he’s pretty?” Bill said, as
he stroked the animal’s thick fur of gray
with small black spots on it. Philbert’s
head is round and smooth, with no visible
ears. His eyes are black like his spots.
And his whiskers are stiff as steel wire. His
favorite pastime is teasing the little red
crabs he ﬁnds in the shallow water of Naples
CanaL

“Can he dive?” we asked.

“Can he!” ejaculated Bill, and his eyes
snapped with interest. “You should see
him! He turns back dives, front dives and
side dives. And since he has no mother, he
loves to go on swimming trips with me.
And I’m going to break him of turning up
his nose at ﬁsh. He has good teeth and I’ll
make him eat sardines and like ’em!”

..w .

Aug. 1935
The Dog Speaks

MARGARET L. WHARTON

Whither Thou Goest—there must I
Follow in deep content;

My ears held high for your command,
My eyes on your intent.

No place too high I will not climb;
No way too darkly low

But I will travel eagerly
If it is there you go.

The selﬁshness of people’s minds
Their insinc-erity,

Reﬂected moves from soul to soul;
But, Master, not in me.

And if the time must ever come—
My eyes will be your eyes;

My steps will lead your slower steps;
My heart grow human wise.

And through the Land of In Between
Where I can speak and hear—

I f muteness ever touches you,
My faith will still be near.

Foreign Literature

We have a quantity of literature trans-
lated into Spanish and Portuguese which we
shall be glad to send to any reader who
will carefully distribute it among people
speaking these languages. There are also
some Portuguese Band‘of Mercy Buttons
reading Justica E Piedade Para Tudo useful
to anyone organizing Bands of Mercy among
Portuguese children.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 

MASTER BILL SMAILS OF LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA, AND HIS
PET SEA LION, AN ORPHAN, WHICH HE RESCUED AND
SUCCESS

IS REARING WITH GOOD

 




 

 

 

 

 

Ihge6

Feeding Sparrows in Winter
ELLA McELLIGOTT

OW that the branches are bare and

green growing plants and roots are
disappearing, the sparrows will soon face
the yearly problem of getting something
to eat in winter.

Every boy and girl, and adult too, should
consider it his duty to feed the sparrows
and other birds that stay with us in cold
weather. It takes but a minute to place a
few crumbs of bread or a handful of grain
on the fence, in the yard, or in any other
place that the birds can easily ﬁnd.

The person who assumes this pleasant
duty will be rewarded by the feeling that
he has done a worth while task in conserving
valuable bird life. Also, he will be gladdened
by the happy chirp of the little birds as they
joyfully pick up the feast set for them.

Sparrows enjoy uncooked rice grains, raw
oatmeal flakes, softened bread, and cake
crumbs. Put a little of any of these foods
on an old tin cover or broken dish and place
it on the fence or tie it to a tree. It will not
be long before the grateful birds will dis—
cover your offering, and then will quickly
invite all their friends to dine.

However, birds, like all boys and girls,
and grown-ups, too, are not particular when
they are hungry, and they will eat almost
anything. Give them whatever is left from
the table, and they will quickly leave the
dish bare. From experience I know they
will eat meat, potatoes, vegetables and
fruits, all mixed together with water.

It is better not to throw crumbs or food
on the ground as the rain or snow will wash
them away. Then, too, cats and dogs who
pass by, sometimes eat the food before the
birds have a chance to feast. Of course dogs
and cats have to be fed also, but, as a rule,
they have a home, get regular meals and can
make out better than the birds.

The birds quickly get to know their bene-
factors, and they will stand and chirp before
your house in thankfulness. You will enjoy
many happy moments watching them from
the window as they nervously pick up bits
of food and ﬂy off with it to their nests,
where young birds may be waiting to be fed.

After the birds become accustomed to
coming to your grounds for food, they will
be disappointed if at any time you neglect
to set out something for them. They will
stand mournfully, ﬁve and six in a row,
without a sound, looking in toward the house
very dejectedly, as much as to say, “It’s
dinner time. We’re hungry.” Then when
you hasten to give them something, they
will show great activity, hopping about and
calling all their friends to join.

Many people do not like sparrows, as they
say they are noisy and destroy gardens. On
the contrary, they are constructive workers,
as they eat pests and worms that are not
desired in any garden.

Imagine how uninteresting life would be
without the song of even the sparrows. Their

‘little chirp is a friendly note in a dark day.

To be awakened in the morning by the
sparrow’s song is a great privilege and an
experience that will stay long in the mem-
ory. Birds have a mission to perform, as do
all of us, and we must co-operate and help
them during the period when nature is
asleep. Will you do your part ?

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan.1935

Family Fun with Birds

JULIA K.

taken any particular interest in either
summer or winter birds. Now even
our girls of seven and eleven have an inti-
mate acquaintance with the more friendly

UN TIL a year ago our family had never

 

CHICKADEE LEISURELY EATING
FROM HAND OF SEVEN-YEAR-OLD

of them and an interesting knowledge of
many others.

Some gorgeous crested blue jays, re-
splendent in an attire of several lovely
shades of blue and gray with a black streak
which made a veritable necktie, ﬁrst
sampled the contents of” our feeding tray on
the porch. We have been irresistibly
amused to watch their acrobatic perform—
ances; to hear their raucous scolding when
suet was substituted for their favorite, the
plebeian doughnut; to see a greedy jay stuff
his bill with six to eight huge pieces.

The blue jays were .soon joined by two
pairs of chickadees, the birds most loved by
our children. So small they were and yet
so conﬁding and friendly that they seemed
almost domesticated. We cajoled them into
eating from our hands until one gay, pert
little fellow ate there by preference, even
when the tray was full. When he arrived
on the porch, he would alight on the window-
sill and with head on one side, proceed to
tease in bird fashion for some member of
the family to put in an appearance. Often-
times he would leisurely eat his ﬁll from
the hand of our seven-year-old. However,
any other chickadee stayed only long enough
to select the piece of doughnut which .most
intrigued him. Then he ﬂew nimbly to the
woodbine and securing it ﬁrmly under a tiny
foot took small, hurried bites until all the
outside was eaten. Then he let the undesir-
able pOrtion fall to the ground, while he
blithely secured a fresh morsel. If your
children have never known the thrill of a

BYINGTON

tame chickadee, they have an extraordinary
pleasure awaiting them to which the city
child’s movie is in no way comparable.

A pair of downy woodpeckers, affection-
ately called “Bill” and “Mrs. Bill,” a pair
of hairy woodpeckers, “Harry” and “Har—
riet,” have been particularly amusing to
watch and study. The woodpecker’s bill is
so constructed that he bores for grubs,
worms, and bugs in the crevices of trees
and poles. To watch such a bird trying to
eat doughnuts from a level shelf convulsed
us all with laughter. After repeated efforts
to swallow a small piece, Bill decided that
it would be the part of wisdom to tuck this
strange food into a crevice and consume it
in comfort. This proved to be a very satis—
factory method. Harry promptly adopted a
stick used in banking the house for his pur-
pose, a stick accommodatingly left for him
until late June! Later the woodpeckers be—
came much more expert at eating directly
from the table. To see Harry shinnying
down the blind to reach the window shelf,
using his tail as a prop and to hear him
uttering his loud but cheery squawk at each
step, has brightened many a day for our
family.

One sunny day in late April two tiny red—
breasted nuthatches tested and approved the
contents of our feeding shelf, making funny
little cracking noises the while. In about
ten days we discovered them in the process
of making their nest in a decayed limb of
an elm tree in the yard of our next—door
neighbor, boring vigorously into the wood
with their sharp, powerful bills. While the
female worked so actively, the male made
frequent trips for doughnut tid-bits which
he tucked into her mouth as he uttered sym-
pathetic little messages to her. When it was
his turn to work at the nest, the little lady
treated him likewise. The children were
heard to remark that “the nuthatches board
with us and room next door!”

After these nimble birds began nesting
they would drive our favorites, the chicka-
dees, from the feeding tray. So tame they
were that it took the persistent waving of
a broom in a threatening manner to ward
them off long enough for the chickadees to
appease their hunger. The sight or sound
of a Chickadee on the porch—and they in-
sist upon announcing their arrival with a
friendly chirp—was the signal for a nut-
hatch to rush to the scene, apparently on
the verge of starvation unless sustenance
was forthcoming immediately.

For eight days these remarkably persist-
ent workers, the nuthatches, continued their
arduous labor by turns, evidently very
solicitous of each other’s welfare. After
the passage was many inches deep, no
vacuum cleaner aided them in ridding their
home of accumulated shavings. No indeed;
they picked them up in their bills, went to
the opening and dropped them to the ground.
All of us watched the activity of the little
homemakers, astonished at the progress
they made, working from dawn until nearly
dusk. Their departure after nesting—time
left a real void in our lives for their cease-
less activities, their persevering efforts had
been an enlightening source of deep interest
to us.

 

 




 

 

-~.q,.- . ’ ..

 

 

.4 ., aw .m;vwn-ur~rvt ..

Page 30
Ellie Earth at merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address Of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Thirteen hundred and sixty-seven new
Bands Of Mercy were reported during De-
cember. Of these 501 were in Illinois, 170
in Virginia, 140 in Georgia, 108 in Massa-
chusetts, 84 in New Hampshire, 76 in South
Carolina, 73 in Florida, 68 in Texas, 52 in
West Virginia, 39 in North Carolina, 21 in
Rhode Island, 11 in Lebanon, seven in Pal-
estine, ﬁve in Tennessee, four in Pennsyl-
vania, three in Washington, two in Syria,
and one each in Colorado, Minnesota and
Oregon.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 207,146.

A Pet Groundhog

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

ROUNDHOGS make very interesting
pets, and frequently children who live
in the country make friends with them and
have much enjoyment in their pet com-
radeship. Usually it is best to take them
when they are young and to train them
then into home ways as far as may be
done with such creatures who live wild.
I know of a little boy whose father
brought in from the ﬁelds a young ground—
hog for a pet. There was a hole in the

 

 

’ ' . , z -~ ' " 4 ”' . x
.hf ‘ v; 5‘“ .1 ‘ a. .5; ,f‘ , {a

SOMETIMES EVEN THE WOODCHUCK
BECOMES TAME

OUR DUMB

stone wall which held
up the porch on their
house, and the little
brown newcomer im—
mediately decided to
make that his own
home hole.

It wasn’t long until
he was as tame as any
cat on the farm, and
soon liked best of all
to eat at mealtime
with the family. A
high chair was pro-
vided for him and he
would Sit in turn at
the different meals
beside the different
members Of the fam-
ily. They fed him just
as little children are

ANIMALS

Feb. 1935

 

fed agtfellljble- He MISS VIRGINIA W. SARGENT, PRESIDENT, ANIMAL
seeme 0 1 e “er-‘7‘ PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION, WASHINGTON, D. 0., AND

thing but meat. That,
nothing could get him

“ZIPPY,” HER “GUARDIAN ANGEL”

 

to touch or even taste.

This, of course, was not surprising, since
ground'hogs feed upon vegetables and herb-
age. This is Why they are not permitted to
multiply but must be hunted from time to
time as food which many people like very
much.

The cats and dogs on the farm soon
learned to respect this pet from the wild,
for it early taught them lessons in scrap-
ping which they never forgot, and even
visiting dogs that came around now and
then quickly learned about its home rights
which were to be upheld.

In early October the groundhog began to
eat twice as much as usual, and in a few
weeks it had gained several pounds and
was as fat as butter. In fact it looked
like a great big round butter ball. When
fully grown, woodchucks Often weigh as
much as twelve or thirteen pounds.

At this season this apparently happy pet
began to carry straw, dead grass, and dry
hay by big loads into its hole. And one
day it started to fetch down from upstairs
one of its master’s shirts, which it evi—
dently intended to take into its hole for a
sheet or coverlid for its winter bed.

When the end of October came, into its
hole it would go to spend the winter, sleep—
ing until it was springtime again. As far
as any of the family on the farm knew,
this groundhog never came out on Ground-
hog Day, and was never seen until April
came with its warm winds and showers.

I don’t think groundhogs do come out
on Groundhog Day unless in such parts of
the country where there is a very warm
winter or a very early spring. If they do
come out that early, of course, you know
why. It is to look around and see if there
is any sign Of green things growing for
them tO eat.

“Were half the power that ﬁlls the earth
with terror,
Were half the wealth bestowed on camps
and courts,
Given to redeem the human mind from
error,
There were no need of arsenals or forts.”

LONGFELLOW

The Furry Cat

CORNELIA BENNINGHOFF

A CURIO store in Jackson Hole, Wy-

oming, was saved from robbery by a
gentle Old cat who little knew he had pre—
vented a theft of many dollars’ worth of
furs.

“Old Tom” is yellow and white and has
a bad habit (for which he has been well
spatted) of sleeping on the fur tables.
There are bear and fox skins, but his fa-
vorite place is the middle of a very hand-
some coyote skin displayed on a table near
a sunny window. Tom’s markings are al-
most identical with the coyote, the colors
blending so well that you can scarcely dis—
tinguish one fur from another, and more
than one startled customer has shrieked,
“Oh, look! That coyote is alive! It moved,
I know it did!”

On this particular day Tom had been
outside busy with mouse interests and had
not been present when two nervous cus-
tomers had been especially interested in
furs, but Tom’s master had not been able
to make a sale. The men promised to re-
turn next day and make a purchase. Truly,
they did return but it was early morning
before anyone was astir.

They entered by the window. The moon
shone brightly, making the shop as light as
day. The thieves had two sacks into which
they stuffed all the best furs. One of the
thieves reached for the coyote skin. His
heart leaped into his throat The coyote
was warm and alive! It grabbed his thumb
with sharp teeth and commenced a thrO'aty
rumble. The man let out a yell that was
heard a block away! TOO late he realized it
was not a dead animal come to life but an
old cat wanting to play! The robbers ﬂed
through the window, leaving the sacks be-
hind them as the night watchman rattled the
door.

. O
.

Teacher: “Make a sentence using the
words ‘defeat,’ ‘d-efense’ and ‘detail.’
Smart Boy: “De feat of de cat went over
de fence before d-e tail.”
——Muskogee (Okla) Daily-Phoenix

 

 

 




 

 

‘H A“

 

July, 1935

       

SHORT-EARED OWL

IGH‘T—dark night—silent gray shard-
N ows move about us; ghostly forms

silhouetted against the deep night
sky; strange sounds, dolorous and mourn-
ful issue from near-by trees. Owls ——
birds of darkness — are abroad in search
of food. Although nearly all species of
owl appear to see equally well in daylight
or darkness, keen hearing, peculiar vision,
and noiseless ﬂight give them every ad—
vantage in this night hunting habit, and
thus they destroy many insects and rodents
not found by diurnal birds.

Wakening in the middle of the night, I
heard what sounded to be an auto horn,
“Hoo-hoo-hoohoo,” and a short distance up
the street another, “Hoo-hoo-hoohoo.”
Visions of bandits, chicken thieves or what
not, ﬂashed through my mind. However,
after several repetitions, I realized that I
was listening to the nocturnal conversation
of a pair of barred owls, more commonly
called hoot owls.

One day we heard a terrible scolding and
commotion among the birds, the uproar ap-
parently centered about and led by a
pair of cardinals, which we knew had a
nest near by. Expecting to ﬁnd a cat an-
noying our friends, we looked all about,
but found nothing. Still the worried birds
fussed and scolded. Chancing to glance
up into a tree close by, we discovered the
cause. Seated upon a limb side by side
were four such very solemn-faced young
screech owls, who, even at this tender age
seemed to regard this old world a grave
and troublous place in which to live.

Throughout the summer we were kept
aware of the presence of the screech owls
by the cries of alarm from our bird neigh-
bors. During this time the nest of a pair
of cardinals near our home was looted.
We blamed this crime upon the owls, and
perhaps rightly, for, although they are use-

OUR DUMB

The Birds of Darkness

V. WINIFRED CHIVENS

ANIMALS

AMERICAN BARN OWL

ful citizens, destroying house-mice, ﬁeld-
mice, rats and many injurious insects, they
are also known to prey upon small birds
and so are not very desirable to have about
where the presence of song birds is en-
couraged.

Almost every evening at dusk, as we sat
in the garden, the young owls would ﬂy
about, soundlessly, like spirits from an-
other world, stopping to perch upon martin
houses, bird-bath, or in trees above our
heads, now and then uttering a faint husky
imitation of the parents’ wailing cry.

Our closer acquaintance with the young
screech owl came about in an amusing
manner. Hearing shrill cries of alarm
among the birds, we said, “screech owls
again.”

One of the young owls, feathers drenched
by a heavy shower, attempted ﬂight, and
fell, helpless at our feet. Despite snap-
ping beak we captured him and placed him
in a cage in the basement until his plu-
mage became completely dry, when it was
unbelievably soft and thick. We fed him
bits of meat and insects, which he snatched
and ate eagerly. When taken from dark-
ness of the basement into sunlight, he be-
came very sleepy-eyed, and only by mak-
ing a quick movement or sound to startle
him, did we get the wide—awake expression
we desired.

After shooting several pictures we de-
cided to take him into the country, where
legitimate food might be more plentiful.
Allowed his freedom during the drive, he
paraded solemnly back and forth along the
windshield, now and then eyeing us dis-
dainfully, no doubt in disgust at this queer
mode of travel. Soon however, he discov-
ered the open car window and perched
there, evidently trying to decide whether
or not to venture forth. Along came a
stronger puff of wind, he lost his balance,

Page 103

 

SCREECH OWL
and spreading his wings, drifted away into
new adventures. '

The screech—owl is known as a bird of
ill-omen, and indeed that plaintive, shiv-
ering cry does suggest to our minds coali-
tion with the powers of darkness and dis-
aster. In reality it is a love song, appre-
ciated as such, however, only by the ears
of the one it is intended for. The parent
owls are ﬁerce in defense of their young,
and I have had them swoop at me in the
garden at dusk, wings brushing my hair
in passing. I think it was not because I was
frightened that “my hair stood on end.”

Roaming the woods on an early April
day, with sights and sounds of awakening
spring all around us, we espied upon a
pile of sticks high in the fork of a tree, a
downy member of owldom, a young short-
eared owl. He sat and gazed unblinkingly
at us, turned his head about to follow our
movements, but seemingly very little dis-
turbed by our presence, and posed very
nicely for his photograph, even though the
camera was held within a few feet of him.

Spring Night
JUDY VAN DER VEER

I drive the horses down the quiet road,
The warm spring day is over;

The tired beasts linger on the way
For stolen bits of clover.

Between the trees the road is white,
Sweet mustard flowers grow high;

And there seems scarcely any space
From tree-tops to the sky.

The horses reach the old stone trough,
Today they traveled far. . .

They dip their eager heads to drink
Reflected leaf and star.

 

 

!
3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’7 8

Eh» Earth at wrrtg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and eighty-two new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
March. Of these 449 were in Illinois, 112
in Massachusetts, 95 in Texas, 71 in Vir-
ginia, 69 in Florida, 30 in Georgia, 27 in
Pennsylvania, 18 in Louisiana, four in
Lebanon, two in South Carolina, and one
each in Colorado, Maine, Michigan, Okla-
homa and Transjordan.

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent American Society,
209,068.

Queer Dog, This

ERE is a good story from Mrs. M. W.
Baldwin, secretary of the Humane
Society, Sioux City, Iowa:

Donald Craig, 8, hurried into the
animal shelter one morning, looking for
his dog “Pat.” He anxiously peered into
every pen and every bench cage, and even
looked behind the doors, but “Pat” was
not there. We told Donald we would help
him locate his pet, and would register him
in our “lost and found” record book. “Now,
just what kind of a dog is he?” we asked.
“Well,” said Donald, “he’s little and fuzzy
and he’s half shepherd, half rat terrier and
half police, but he looks a lot like a spitz,
cause his tail curls right over his back.”
Donald reported later that his dog had
returned home and had been placed under
guard.

 

A Beloved Companion

This is “Wafﬂes Bobby.” Years ago he
drifted into the ,care of a lonely woman
whom he at once saw would prove his
friend. He was a handsome fellow; did
many clever little tricks which he seemed
to have taught himself. The. companion-
ship was long and intimate. The parting
had to come at last. How much he is missed
only those who have loved dogs know. In
his memory and because of his mistress’
many years of generous gifts to our work,
we reproduce his picture.

OUR DUrllB ANIMALS

A Charming Fountain

ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

VERYBODY loves the humorist. From
the earliest days the fun maker and
wit has never failed to get an appreciative
hearing and has usually established a warm
place for himself in every country in the
world. Such a humorist and amiable jester,
about whom all sorts of tales are still told
throughout his native Germany and who
probably did not play
half the pranks nor
crack half the jokes
which are attributed
to him, was Til Eulen-
spiegel. A more or less
legendary ﬁgure, Til
is the hero of a col-
lection of widely pop‘
ular folk tales. These
were collected and
were printed in 1516,
becoming a widely
used and universally
popular German chap-
book.

Til is reputed to
have been the son of
a peasant, born in the
province of Bruns-

May, 1935

makes a specialty of reproducing in cake
form owls and monkeys such as Til used to
bake. These toothsome ﬁgures are made of
a sort of pound cake mixture. They are
about six inches high and baked in moulds
which make them faithful replicas of the
animals and birds. Their eyes are made
of currants with a little circle of white
frosting outlining them. The baker ar-
ranges the cakes in the tiny shop windows
in such a' tempting fashion that they sell
rapidly. They have more than a local fame.

 

FOUNTAIN COMMEMORATING TIL EULEN‘SP‘IEGEL

 

 

wick in North Ger~
many, away back toward the close of the
thirteenth century. Although he lived so
many hundreds of years ago his fame and
popularity have not diminished with the
passing of time.

In early life Til came to the city of
Brunswick as a baker’s assistant. His
natural tendency toward merriment and
practical jokes manifested itself in his work
for he baked owls and monkeys out of
gingerbread, giving them such unusual and
whimsical expressions that his good mas-
ter, the baker, was frequently .scandalized.
Consequently owls and monkeys are still
invariably associated with Til’s name and
doings.

The medieval city of Brunswick, which
has long claimed Eulenspiegel for its own,
has among its other attractions a unique
and utterly charming fountain which com-
memorates the lovable and immortal jester.
It shows the hero of so many folk tales
seated on the edge of the stone fountain in
an attitude of high good humor, with an en-
gaging smile on his lips and a twinkle in
his eye. With legs crossed and balancing
a worn slipper on one foot, he faces a cir-
cle of several solemn owls and monkeys be-
fore him. They are perched alternately on
the rim of the fountain and are spouting
streams of water from their mouths into the
basin. Til seems to be holding friendly
converse with them, apparently giving them
sage advice which is to be taken with a
grain of salt.

The fountain appeals to young and old
alike, but especially to children. It is al-
ways surrounded by admiring and smiling
groups. It occupies a prominent posi-
tion in the midst of the little square in the
heart of the fascinating old city and is
ﬂanked by ancient, tall, half-timbered
houses little changed from Til’s day. In
one of these the jester is reputed to have
plaYed many of his tricks. The ground
ﬂoor is occupied by a little bakeshop which

Film for Junior High Schools

HE two-reel silent motion picture,
“On Behalf of Animals,” was shown

to the members of the Oliver Hazard Perry
Junior High School, Providence, R. I., on
Tuesday noon, March 12. Robert K. Ben-
nett, principal of the School, writes to Miss
Elizabeth Olney of the Rhode Island Hu-
mane Education Society, as follows:

“Pupils and teachers alike agreed that
this movie is most interesting as well as
instructive. This is not a child’s entertain-
ment but is well adapted for Junior High
School youth and adults. This picture
shows in a fascinating way how sick and
injured animals are cared for in humane
fashion and by the application of the most
scientiﬁc methods. In fact, one is amazed
to note the very remarkable progress which
has been made in animal surgery and
medical treatment during recent years.

“Since this ﬁlm tends to awaken in one
a feeling of kindness, justice and compas-
sion for defenseless animals I consider that
it is a direct agent in the promotion of
character education and therefore all the
more worth while. I believe that its presen-
tation may be made even more effective if
a word of explanation is made to the audi-
ence in advance of its showing.

“I heartily recommend this picture for
use in all Junior High Schools for promot-
ing humane education.”

The best way to keep a dog that needs
restraint is to put him in a yard with a high
fence. If this is not practicable, fasten a
wire across any yard; on this put an iron
ring which, when attached by a cord to the
dog’s collar, will allow him to run backward
and forward the full length of the wire.
The yard should have shade as well as sun-
shine, to protect the dog from too great
heat of the sun, and a dish of water.

 




 

 

._- .__A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 102

 

The Little Goose Man

ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

MONG the innumerable and lovely
public fountains in the ancient and
picturesque city of Nuremberg in Germany
there is probably none better known or
which has a greater appeal than the charm-
ing little Goose Man (Gansemannchen)
fountain. It stands in the rear of the mag-
niﬁcent Liebfrauen church, quite close to
the colorful public market place, and is a
delightful creation in bronze, cast in 1530
by the eminent sculptor, Pankraz Laben-
wolf. The fountain depicts a peasant
manikin carrying a ﬁne goose under each
arm. From the bill of each bird water
spouts into a basin below. The “little
gooseman” has such an engaging smile and
pose and the geese are so lifelike and beau-
tifully sculptured and seem so content in
their master’s arms, that the fountain im-
mediately provokes a responsive chord in
every beholder. This ancient creation is
greatly admired by all sorts and conditions
of men, women and children, even in a city
of beautiful fountains. It is unique.
There are several reproductions of this
lovely piece of sculpture in other places in
Europe but the original in Nuremberg, in
its ideal setting and superb environment
has, of course, the greatest charm.

Army and Navy Cost

Assuming that the militarists do not
weaken, the government will probably
spend $1,300,000,000, possibly more, on its
naval and military establishments during
the coming ﬁscal year. This is more than
one-third of the “normal” budget, and it
will be spent, not to relieve economic dis-
tress, not to help business, not to provide
for any of the thousand and one other
functions of government, but to prepare
for a war with some unidentiﬁed country,
a war which nobody wants and which cer-
tainly can be averted if we are not pushed
into it by the short-sighted jingoism of the
militarists—Baltimore Sun

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1935

The Laboratory Dog

WALTER A. DYER

the subject of vivisection, but I am not

planning to discuss that very contro-
versial topic at this time. It is complex,
with much that has been said on both sides.
My ire is not infrequently aroused, however,
by reports of experiments on animals which
seem to me not only unnecessary, but in-
dicative of a. low order of ethics on the
part of the experimenters. One such re-
port, in a series of “science notes” in a
newspaper, caught my eye quite recently.
Someone conceived the bright idea of mak-
ing drunkards of dogs in order to determine
why it is that habitual drinkers seem to be
able to take care of more liquor than per-
sons who usually abstain. Deliberately
these self-styled scientists fed increasing
amounts of alcohol to laboratory dogs in
their drinking water until they became
addicts.

Perhaps there are those who think this is
funny; I don’t. The report stated that this
was followed by chemical tests on the brains
and stomach-s of canine drinkers and non—
drinkers, which doubtless means that they
were the victims of vivisection. And in the
end it didn’t prove a thing. Even if it had.
I fail to see how the result obtained could
possibly compensate for the de-basement
and death of these animals.

Anyone who has the least affection or
admiration for the canine tribe—and I
happen to have a great deal—must realize
that these intelligent creatures can be tor-
tured or degraded only by persons who
have lost all sense of what is fair or hu-
mane. I cannot help feeling that the man
who would willing-ly torture or even hu-
miliate a dog would beat a human slave
if he had a chance. Perhaps some day our
race will become civilized, but the time is
not yet.

A similar instance was reported some ten
years ago, of which I made a note at the
time. According to an Associated Press
dispatch, Dr. E. P. Roger of London had
bee-n experimenting with tobacco. He had
proved, he said, that the danger to smokers
from nicotine poisoning was “so small as
to be almost negligible.” He had reached
this interesting conclusion after a series
of laboratory experiments.

He ﬁrst took ten grains of tobacco
steeped in alcohol and water in order to
extract all the nicotine. He found that the
solution was strong enough to kill a dog
weighing four stone (56 lbs.). He then

H HAVE my own convictions concerning

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
       

took a similar quantity of the same tobacco
and burned it in a pipe so constructed as
to retain the whole of the smoke produced.
The resulting liquid was administered to a
second dog with no worse effect than to
upset his digestion slightly. This dog was
the same weight as the one on which the
nicotine had been used with fatal effect.

Thus scientiﬁc knowledge was increased,
a scientist won publicity, and smokers were
possibly comforted—but the ﬁrst dog died,
probably in agony.

More recently there was brought to my
attention the story of a research chemist
in California who, according to newspaper
reports, claimed to have succeeded in re-
storing life to guinea pigs after he had
frozen them to death. I need not go into
all the technical details of this triumphant
experiment. Sodium citrate was injected
into the animal’s system to prevent coagula-
tion of the blood. The little body was then
frozen solid and the heartbeats ceased.
Later it was thawed out and adrenalin and
ephedrin were injected, and life was ap-
parently restored.

Of course the scientist is alleged to have
claimed some ultimate gain to human life"
likely to result from this extraordinary ex-
periment; they always do. But the animal-
loving public is not so easily persuaded,
and a subsequent dispatch stated that this
chemist had been prevented, by threat of
legal proceedings, from freezing a dog.

The progress of scientiﬁc research has
often been blocked by popular incredulity,
and I suppose that scientists, in such cases
as this, will scornfully attribute» the opposi-
tion to backwardness and ignorance. It
seems to me, however, that some line should
be drawn between purposeful research and
useless experiment whose chief aim ap-
pears to be to satisfy the experimenter’s
curiosity and perhaps gain for him a little
transitory notoriety at the expense of help-
less animals. There is something to be said
for fostering the spirit of humanity as an
end in itself, and the scientist, of all men,
should be aware of the biological kinship
between man and the beasts.

I do not wish to imply that these men
of science, these laboratory wizards, are
more heartless than other people, but some-
times their concentration on scientiﬁc prob-
lems seems to dull their humanitarian per-
ceptions, and—merciful heavensl—what
has become of their imagination?

 

  




 

    

, FEBRUARY |935

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY .

 

 




 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to_ Animals,

 

u U. S.Trade Mark, RegiStered \

GELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a. worm.
—COWPER

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

£11778

ED 8}» HIM

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY To ‘
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 68

February, 1935

No. 2

 

The Manchester Guardian says that Dr.
Axel Munthe, the author of “San Michele,”
and because of whose interest in birds
Mussolini made the island of Capri a bird
sanctuary, has regained his sight. He had
become blind. All animal lovers will re-
joice with him.

An interview with George Arliss, ap—
pearing recently in The Animal’s Maga-
zine, reports him as saying, “Had it not
been for my wife’s inﬂuence, I should never
have interested myself in the question of
animal suffering to anything like the extent
I have. She is the pioneer: she does all
the work and I get the credit.”

The Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds appeals to all travelers who travel on
oil-burning ships to ask if the ship has a
separator so that the waste oil will not be
discharged into the sea to destroy water-
fowl, and if the ship has none, to ask, why
not? Also to all stockholders in ship com-
panies to put the same question to the man—
agers of such lines.

Any special contribution to aid in the
important campaign our Society is carrying
on to stop the pollution of coastal waters
by the discharge into them of 011 from 011-
burning ships will be gratefully received.
Millions of our sea birds are annually killed
by this practice. An illustrated pamphlet
on this subject will gladly be sent free. A
postal will bring it to you.

Trees, not animals, but they are living
things. A deadly foe is steadily creeping
northward, and, unless stayed, will destroy
the stately elms that have been for genera-
tions the pride and glory of New England.
It is the Dutch Elm Disease. Thousands of
elms have already been cut down and
burned to the south of Massachusetts in
the effort to check this fatal blight. The
alarm should be sounded from Connectlcut
to Maine. Write to the Massachusetts For-
est and Park Association, 3 Joy Street,
Boston, for information.

The Motion Picture and Humane Societies

HAT is the Motion Picture Re-
search Council? “Its objectives

are to focus the public attention on
the motion picture. as a social inﬂuence,
and to ﬁnd and set in motion forces that
will progressively improve the quality of en-
tertainment and education it provides.” In
a word, its purpose is to seek such a change
in the management and policies of the mo-
tion picture business as will eliminate cer-
tain evils from this business, and put an
end to such pictures as tend, by their char-
acter, to degrade and demoralize the peo-
ple who see the-m. Especially does the
Council seek to save the youth of the land
from the inﬂuence of pictures that are not
only indecent and unﬁt for public exhibi-
tion, but such as would lower in any way
the ﬁner standards of thought and action
that should characterize the social life of
the nation.

Naturally every humane organization
must be interested in this movement. Not
only do such organizations stand opposed
to all that could degrade youth and incite
to crime and social evil in any of its various
forms, but the treatment of animals in the
movies is a matter of deep concern to hu-
mane workers everywhere. A picture in
which animals are subjected to cruelty
lessens, among children particularly, that
regard for their welfare that is an essential
part of all right character and good citizen-
ship. For these reasons both of our So-
cieties have become affiliated members of
the Motion Picture Research Council, which
will seek to guard against all cruelty to
animals in the future.

The Council also seeks to put an end to
the compulsory block-booking and blind-
selling of motion pictures. Exhibitors gen-
erally have to buy their pictures in large
blocks—on the principle of all or none——
whether or not the pictures are the kind
they and their patrons desire. Of this sys-
tem of block-buying it is said:

“Your exhibitor has to buy these blocks

of pictures for the most part without see-
ing them, or knowing what they are going
to be—before they are even planned, and
months before you and your children see
them on the screen.

“Of ﬁlms forced into your community
by block—booking and blind-selling Father
Daniel A. Lord truly said ‘into the pictures
was pouring a whole philosophy of evil’
that ‘sin was openly defended.’ The ‘sex’
relationships became easy and careless.’
That the gangster was ‘a gloriﬁed hero of
the movies.’

“According to psychologists, sociologists
and educators your child catches seventy
per cent as much of this objectionable ﬁlm
subject matter as adults, and remembers it
better.

“This trade practice of block-booking and
blind-selling takes away the right of your
community to select its own ﬁlms and gives
autocratic power to the producers to force
into it whatever they care to make.

“In England compulsory block-booking
and blind-selling were forbidden by Parlia-
ment as long ago as 1927.

“With our system of federal control of
interstate commerce, the only way compul—
sory block-booking and blind-selling can be
got rid of in the United States is by fed—
eral legislation.”

You can help to further the passage of
this bill by writing for information to the
Motion Picture Research Council, 336 Mad-
ison Avenue, New York City.

Membership in the Council is sought from
all who would give moral and ﬁnancial sup-
port to its work. Any one wanting to be-
come a member, by sending a postal to our
ofﬁces, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, will
receive a card giving particulars as to
membership, or by writing to the Motion
Picture Research Council at the address
given in the preceding paragraph.

The drying of a single tear has more

Of honest fame than shedding seas of gore.

 

 




 

 

 

MARCH

|935

 

 

PRICE

 

 

:. :4 .' WWW!
f%%% 1 5m ﬂﬂ
'u ‘r ,

' I
' u 'I
‘ ,.
"’:’"'"I,r’z’.",{I/'/"
ﬁl/ﬁ/lel
1’] 27,795. 5,5,7
. aft/412,717,,
" / ,né
I] g #11,”,
I a 6" /, I I/ //
. ,‘I 1%,!in 1 "577,124! I
V . . ”I
.ﬁqlﬂﬁki: .HM wwﬂ,

1 £7," @ﬁi I,

p

r!

.

I

I
II” 7:52":
1,9", 11,”, 1,31,“
{53; ' ,4’ "IS/'1’
may, ,, III,

I l : #31:.
m. ”d "imé "jvﬁggg
u'} _ 2, ’7 mm},
5': . n.1,, N

J .

H] I ﬂ'l
'7 ' fig]
1 [I

m
and},
l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1985

For a Little Blind Dog

GWENNIE JAMES

Often I watch them pass
On the city street:

A man, and a little blind dog
With stumbling feet.

He strains at his master’s leash
As eager and bright

As he did in those simpler days
When there was light.

But there is no light. There are sounds
That come unawares,

And obstacles unforeseen,
And sudden stairs.

But he trots at his master’s side
As patiently

As in other, happier days
When dogs could see.

Oh God, I have naught to compare
With this distress:

Let me learn from a little blind dog
Submissiveness.

Dogs in History
EMORY WARD

ROM the early dawn of history when
pre-historic man ﬁrst showered his
affection upon the ancestors of the modern
dog, the animal has always found fondness
in the hearts of men in all nations. Herod-
otus, the famous historian, explains the
sanctity with which the dog was held by
the early Egyptians when he tells in his
ancient accounts that the people of every
Egyptian family in which a dog had died
shaved themselves as an expression of
mourning for their departed animal friend.
The annual ﬂoods of the Nile River were
preceded by the appearance of the star,
Sirius, in the heavens, and when the star
was ﬁrst seen each year, the Egyptian
farmers moved their ﬂocks to the safety of
higher ground. Calling it their guard and
protector, the ancient Egyptians associated
it with the watchfulness and guardianship
of the dog, and as a result they worshiped
the star and called it the dog-star—the
guardian.

In the early history of Ethiopia, the in-
habitants elected a dog as their king and
worshiped it with all the dignity and pomp
of a royal office-holder. When it fawned,
the dog was said to be satisﬁed with the
affairs of state, but when it growled, it was
supposedly displeased with the manner in
which the government was being run, and
amends were made immediately to correct
the misdeeds and regain the good favor
of the royal beast.

In the founding of his new sect, Pythag-
oras believed that after life was ended, the
soul passed on to other animals, and after
the death of any of his followers, he held
a dog close to the mouth of the dead man
so that it might catch the departing spirit.
“There. is no animal in all creation,” the
philosopher declared, “that could perpet-
uate man’s virtues better.”

Whosoever loveth me loveth my hound.
SIR THOMAS MORE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 55

A Paradise for Cats

old castle in Rome,

the cats which form-
erly lived in the Forum
now live in content—
ment as a result of
Mussolini’s edict. Re-
cently Mussolini ord-
ered all the cats in the
Forum to be rounded
up and destroyed.
When the news of this
order leaked out there
was such a hue and cry
raised that even the
Duce‘ himself found it
impossible to have his
orders carried out. As
a result, the order to
destroy all the cats was
modiﬁed to an order to
ﬁnd other quarters for
the cats. In the center
of the city of Rome
there was found the
ruins of an old castle
standing in a beautiful
park. This, then, is the
haven for the cats and
here is located what is,
perhaps, the only cat
paradise in the world.
Every day men, wom—
en, boys and girls
bring tidbits to their
particular cats who
dwell here unmolested. ~

HN the park of an N

 

  

 

Publishers’ Photo Service, Inc.

 

 

Orphans of the Street
R. P. GRUBER

FTER reading newspaper articles

about the wonderful work carried on

by Irene Castle, I was always ﬁlled with a

longing to do something for unfortunate

animals. But, I lacked money; I was only

a housewife with a limited budget and my
friends were of my kind.

What could I do? A big elaborate ani-
mal home was out of the question. Then,
one cold winter day, my desires were
answered. I picked up a dirty little white
puppy. He was so weak that his hind legs
collapsed as he tried to walk. He was an
ugly little fellow, with a bull-dog nose and
chest.

A week’s good food and undisturbed sleep
beside the furnace found him ready for a
hot soap-sudsy bath, and another week
found him out in the yard ready for a
romp with my fox terrier. Two months
later he was a plump rollicking fellow with-
out a care in the world. Kindness and a bit
of teaching brought out a friendliness and
lovableness that won him a home with an
elderly couple. He has been with them two
years now and ﬁlls the. niche in their lives
left open by the growing up of their chil-
dren.

Then, pleased with my good deed, I
again brought home a little dog waif of
the streets. I always make sure that the
dog is not someone’s pet. I can usually

learn something about the dog in question

from the neighbors. My inquiries are usu-
ally answered like this: “No, lady, he ain’t
ours, his owner moved away and left him,”
or “No, lady, he don’t belong to anyone, a
man shoved him out of a machine last
week.”

Out of twenty homeless dogs, I have had
only three that had to be put to sleep. The
other seventeen are. in good homes. I
never have more than three dogs here at a
time and my expenses are more than taken
care of by the freewill offering of the-
happy new owners of my “orphans.” Sur-
prising as it may seem, people who can
afford a pedigreed dog often prefer my
waifs. Today, I have one doggie guest and
a waiting list of homes.

My friends save choice bones and table
scraps and our butcher, a proud owner of
a shaggy-haired broWn-eyed waif is only
too glad to save the meat scraps for my
dogs. A veterinary, a true lover of dumb
animals, gives his advice and treatment
gratis to the dogs.

The only trouble with my hobby is this
— I often become too attached to some
little fellow. But to date, my common
sense has demanded that I ﬁnd the dogs a
home and keep none other than my fox
terrier.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 32

 

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

SEVENTEEN CRISES IN WORLD
HISTORY. Sister M. Fides Shepperson,
Ph. D.

Readers of Our Dumb Animals have been
made acquainted from time to time with the
writings of the author under the title of
“Cloister Chords,” now published in two
volumes. Her latest work is a scholarly
production revealing a profound knowledge
of general history, of which she is a college
professor. The pivotal events in the prog—
ress of civilzation are put in their order of
occurrence and are, the battle of Marathon,
Arbela, Zama, Teutoberger Wald, Adrian—
ople, Chalons, Tours, Hastings, Orleans,
Lepanto, the Armada, Naseby, Blenheim,
Pultowa, Saratoga, Valmy, and Waterloo.

“Would our civilization today be what it
is if any one of these battles had dipped
the scales in reverse of that which we
know?” Her answer and reﬂections upon
these epochal events are of the most absorb-
ing interest. By each and all these titanic
struggles civilization was aided rather than
retarded in the westward march of empire.
The conquest, downfall and rise of success-
ive peoples have been a “mighty maze but
not without a plan.” We quote the author’s
eloquent words in her concluding chapter:

“Knowing only too well the historic past,
we stand in a troubled today and eagerly
ask, “What of tomorrow?” There is no
answer. The hate forces, whose outlet is
war, are deep in the minds of men. Mental
disarmament must precede military.

“Sometime, no doubt, in our upward
strivings we shall come at last into the
penumbral light of the Christ who lived
more than nineteen hundred years ago and
is still ten thousand years ahead of our
times.

“The world is on its way upward. Good
women—high in heart and in intellect—are
mighty forces pulling the people on that
upward way. They will endure and attain:
and all the forces of good will ultimately
join them. Then wars will cease. And on the
height some glimmerings of the eternal
Truth will ﬁll the minds of men with under-
standing and with sympathy. The battle
peaks will fade in the mists of evolutionary
ages and be remembered no more in the
Great Peace.”

238 pp., $2. Dial Press, New York.

HEAVEN’S RAGE, Helen Trevelyan.

This is a strong indictment of the in-
evitable crueltV involved in the training of
performing animals for public exhibition.
Brieﬂy but forcefully are the tyrannical
methods of the trainer laid bare and the
resultant misery and suffering which the
animals must undergo. No more convinc-
ing argument in disproof of claims that
“kindness” is the rule or the practice in
the training process could be made. We

 

 

OUR DUMB

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt to Anim l
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............. y. ........ it .8 (or
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property). ' i . .

ANIMALS

commend this booklet to our more than
half million of Jack London Club members.

31 pp. 1s., net. The C. W. Daniel 00.,
London, England.

 

Humane, truth-seeking people have
been shown the cruelty and injustice
of torturing and exploiting wild ani-
mals. In sympathetic response they
are refusing to attend animal per-
formances.

 

 

 

The Lioness and Her Young

FLORENCE H. MOORE

HEN a magniﬁcent lioness was pre-

sented to the new Chicago zoo at
Brookﬁeld, Illinois, the keeper was told
by the generous donor not to ﬁgure on
raising any of her cubs; that she ate them
as soon as they were born. The keeper
scratched his head, but knowing something
of the nature of animals in general and of
this species of the cat family in particular,
he said nothing.

In due time the lioness presented the
zoo with three ﬁne cubs, but—she did not
eat them. Instead, she fondled and cared
for them in the way of all mothers. Why?

The answer was evident in the private
“hospital” especially made for her. This
was a roomy, wooden box, the opening of
which faced the rear of the cage. Here,
within the secluded, semi-darkened re-
treat, which all wild animals instinctively
seek at such times, the cubs were born.
When they were old enough and began to
crawl out of their own accord, the box
was removed and they played around in
the cage with their mother. She had learned
by now that her babies were safe. It is
her ﬁrst wild instinct to hide them, that
no harm might come to them, as explained
by this wise zoo keeper, which impels her
to eat them, when no hiding place is pro-
vided.

A similar case where a lioness ate her
cubs came under the writer’s notice recent-
ly, which would indicate that knowledge
of the above simple precaution is not gen-
erally known, even among zoo keepers.

Take no pleasure in the death of a crea-
ture: if it be harmlesse or usefull destroy
it not: if uselesse, or harmefull destroy it
mercifully: He that mercifully made His
creatures for thy sake, expects thy mercy
upon them for His sake.

FRANCIS QUARLES (1592-1644)

 

 

 

 

 

F eb. 1935

Lincoln and the Kittens

RESIDENT LINCOLN was as sensi-

tive to external impressions as the test
paper of the chemist. The results of a bat-
tles pained him as though he himself were
among the wounded or had lost a brave son.
This sympathy—that is, his power of put-
ting himself in another’s place—extended
even to animals.

The day on which Grant’s army began
the. ﬁnal advance, the President sat in a
small telegraph ofﬁce at City Point, receiv-
ing telegrams and examining a pocket
chart. Three little kittens were running
about the hut in which was the ofﬁce. The
President of the nation, whose fate was in
the scales, picked up the kittens, placed
them on the table, and said:

“You poor little miserable creatures,
what brought you into this camp of war-
riors? Where is your mother?” '

“The mother is dead,” answered the
Colonel in charge.

“Then she. can’t grieve for them,” said
the President, with a sigh, “as many a poor
mother is grieving for her son who has
fallen in battle. Ah, kitties, thank God you
are cats, and can’t understand this terrible
strife.”

“There now, go my little friends, wip-
ing the dirt from their eyes with his hand-
kerchief: “that is all I can do for you.
Colonel, get them some good milk, and
don’t let them starve. There is too much
starvation going on in this land, anyhow.
Let us mitigate it when we can.”

The great President, even at such a cri-
sis, could, as Admiral Porter says, “ﬁnd
time to look at God’s creatures, and be
solicitous for their comfort.”

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used. for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your gift. Please make
checks payable to Treasurer, American Hu-
mane Education Society, 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

H

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world. _
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.
RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

~_ 1‘“.




 

Feb. 1935
First Robin

MRS. H. A. DANNECKER

I did not need to see his rust—red throat
To name the warbler singing at the dawn;
I’d hungered for that optimistic note
Through all the cheerless days he had
been gone.

“Good cheer!” he cries, and in his magic
song
I sense through wintry chill each spring—
time grace.
“Good cheer!” Gray skies and cold are not
for long,
Since Robin Redbreast seeks his homing
place.

I think the leafless trees wait for his call
To wake their sleeping buds to life again;

It reaches to the sky; the clouds let fall,
Instead of sleet, a gentle, vital rain.

Oh, Robin, how my heart needs your “Good
cheer!”
For grief had sapped its very life away;
But there’s no death, I know, since it can
hear
Your call; there is another life, another
day.

A professor was in the habit of letting his
dog sit by the side of his chair at meals.
One evening when he was out at dinner, the
lady next to him, wishing to attract his at-
tention, gently touched his sleeve. To the
consternation of all present he mechanically
transferred a bone from his plate and said:
“Oh, get away! Take this out on the mat
and eat it.” ——London Tatler

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 21

The Winter Yard of Moose

EARLE W. GAGE

NE of the most interesting traits of
American animals is the habit of the
moose, monarch of our large animals,
to form and maintain a winter “yard.”
Usually these “yards” contain ﬁve or six
animals, including bulls, cows, and calves.

There are several different descriptions
of the moose “yard,” and the life led by the
moose: in it. Observation and the collection
of information from among experienced
woodsmen and guides of the north causes
one to believe that a few moose gather at
points where there is an abundance of their
favorite food, which is the bark of the
striped maple or moosewood. The number
of moose is quite accidental.

An Indian, veteran of the north woods,
advise-s that during one winter he saw a”
“yard” containing sixteen moose. The fol—
lowing winter, another yard a quarter of a
mile to the south of the ﬁrst-named. yard
(which was unoccupied that winter) con-
tained ﬁve animals—an old bull, a yearling
bull, a cow and two calves.

As the snow gets deep, the moose beat
down trails to get at their food, and as the
food gives out at one place they make their
way to another, and so on, from time to
time. Therefore, quite naturally, by the
latter part of the winter these trails: be-
come very numerous in a restricted area,
which is. called. a “yard.”

If undisturbed, the moose remain in the
same “yard” all winter, unless, of course,
the food gives out, in which event they move
to another point, according to their knowl-
edge of the district. On such excursions
they move in single ﬁle, each animal step—
ping in the hoofprints of its predecessor,
in such a way as to leave the impress-ion
that but one animal has traveled that way.

Usually, but not invariably, the oldest
bull leads the procession breaking the trail

 

A WINTER SCENE IN NORWAY

for the others, followed ﬁrst by the youngest
bulls, then the cows, with the calves bring-
ing up the rear. When the leader becomes
tired, it appears that he merely steps aside,
allowing the others to pass, which is re-
peated when the next leader tire-s. In pass-
ing some obstacles, such as: windfall, a shelf
of rock, or some other impediment, they
each get around or over as best they can,
falling into line again when they reach the
other side. It is at such points that a per-
son may determine the number of moose) in
a herd.

The only time that moose are open to
attack from wolves is when they are mov-
ing from one “yard” to- another. Even then
they have the advantage unless the snow
be crusted. In loose snow, wolves will rarely
attack moose knowing only too well the
power of the knife-edged front hoofs, and
the unusual dexterity with which they can
use them. If the snow is crusted, however,
the moose is. helpless, sinking through the
crust to his stomach, while the wolves run
lightly over the surface without breaking
through. They have little difﬁculty in mak—
ing a kill under such circumstances, seem-
ing to actin unison—«a few snapping and
howling at the moose’s head, others only
wait for an opportunity to dive in and ham-
string the animal. However, fewer moose
are killed annually by wolves than most
people imagine.

During the month of February, another
wonderful change occurs. The huge spread
of antlers, which make a moose so beautiful
a picture, drop oﬁ, usually within a day of
each other, although I am advised that it
is not uncommon to see a bull moose with
a single horn. This is a wise provision OI
nature. The moose do all their ﬁghting
during the rutting season, and two or three
weeks before this commences their antlers
have grown to their full size and are ﬁrm
and free from velvet.

A month or so after the rut, when they
have served their usefulness, the antlers are
shed. It must not be supposed that the
moose is defenseless after the loss of its
antlers. Its ever-ready fore hoofs offer a
better defense to its only winter enemy——
the wolf.

When the snow melts thin, and the moose
cows again move down to the water where
they nibble the buds of willow, aspen, a1-
der, and sometimes birch, they seem to lead
a solitary existence before again seeking
the seclusion of a thicket, where the calves
are born.

A Remote Subscriber

A county ofﬁcer in Pennsylvania has sent
in a subscription to Our Dumb Animals to be
forwarded to a lady in Arizona, who 18 a
great lover of animals and happened to see
a copy of the magazine. Our correspondent
informs us that this lady lives 160 miles
from the nearest post ofﬁce or railroad sta-
tion!

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8—13;
Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935.

 




 

Jan. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

' IVA;

 

     

A /
, J° fwd—l 7/. //

.. \ \k \V§\

3 r J
SM?

  

The Child and the Year

Said the child to the youthful year:
“What hast thou in store for me,

O giver of beautiful gifts! what cheer,
What joy dost thou bring with thee?”

“My seasons four shall bring
Their treasures: the winter’s snows,

The autumn’s store, and the flowers of spring,
And the summer’s perfect rose.

“All these and more shall be thine,
Dear child,——but the last and best

Thyself must earn by a strife divine,
If thou wouldst be truly blest.

“Wouldst know this last, best gift?
’Tis a conscience clear and bright,

A peace of mind which the soul can lift
To an inﬁnite delight.

“Truth, patience, courage, and love,
If thou unto me canst bring,

I will set thee all earth’s ills above,
0 child! and crown thee a king?”

CELIA THAXTER

Watching the Cedar Waxwings
JULIA K. BYINGTON

OME beautiful birds known as cedar waxwings, with their

several lovely shades of brown and the contrasting bright
wax-like spots on their Wings, proved irresistibly amusing to
our family last summer. Four of these unusually tame feath—
ered creatures appeared in our yard. Sometimes they seemed
to have a head crest, making them look very perky and wise;
then they would ﬂatten it out so that it hardly showed at all,
making them look so very meek.

The children draped long pieces of twine'over a clothes-line
on the porch and the waxwings eagerly appropriated them for
the nests they were building in near-by trees. Somtimes a wax-
wing, in getting a last piece of string, would unknowingly
pick up both loose ends and ﬁnd himself hopelessly en-
tangled. But nothing daunted, she dropped all the coveted
material and made a fresh start, working until she was
successful.

After the waxwings had taken more twine than six bird
families could possibly need, the children mischievously decided
to put out some gaily colored yarn—red, orange, and yellow.
But those lovely birds could not be intrigued into furnishing
their homes in such modernistic color schemes. Heads on one
side, they looked the bright—colored building material over but
stubbornly refused to take it. The minute a white string was
offered, a ,waxwing joyously pounced upon it and away she
would ﬂy with it.

So much available material sent these stately birds into a
perfect frenzy of endeavor in their greed. After the leaves
fell in the fall so that we could see the nests, we had a great
laugh at the useless string left hanging to no good purpose.

3 - z 4 {£3 03*“, 9 I a ~~ -- -
-« 1.“:ll ’7/ l
' "2'? e ‘ ¢ ,E, 4‘ 4,49. ‘ “9%,: VI. /
, .. . (u r
W 121% 3”? Wig: «2” l’ \
,."" ‘ .. g3? ,~ ___ V __
h ~— T ‘lr/ ”I‘ll/l ' ( f I"! ”I
WWJIL / §f§f‘/. 'r‘” / 4, \ lg I,
K ”‘7 43.2 , .
. “ w ,7 “ /
V\

V; ”A , 4 o , / \
v ﬂﬁfiymgjm‘ym/JW%%%MW mléﬂﬁfWV/V

   

  

xiii .
Can you imagine anything that would be more fun for a

family than watching a lovely crested waxwing make a home
for her babies? Try it.

A Schoolboy’s Odd Pet

FERN BERRY

OU needn’t talk about the

cruel practice of trapping
wild animals to one school boy
who lives at Marion, Michigan,
for he has learned to appreciate
and love a member of the wild
folk of the forest, and regards
his pet, a grown raccoon which
he acquired when it was but a
tiny ball of inquisitive fur, as
a real pal. It will play games
with his. little own-er and with
the family dog and has so many
amusing and entertaining ways
that it is a favorite with all of
the neighborhood children. It is
allowed to go about the premises
and will climb high into the trees
about the place. It has an amus—
ing habit of washing all food be-
fore eating.

“Fuzzy” will wrestle with the dog or will sit up and take
notice while his little owner, Norman Johnston, son of the
superintendent of the public school gives him a lecture on good
behavior. Fuzzy has never been inclined to “go wild” and is as
gentle and well broken as a pet cat.

 

Questions
MISS ROSE WEIGLE

What’s up,

Little pup?

Why that wistful eye
And that plaintive sigh?

Did a pal run off
And leave you alone;
Or cook deny you
That choice marrow bone?

Perhaps that soft nose
Has felt hitty’s claws;
Or is the reason
Just simply “Because”?

Who knows

All the woes

Of puppy-dog life—
With sorrows it’s rife.

RESOLVED: That I will be kind to animals every day of this
new year and always try to protect them from cruelty.

 




 

   

 

 

  
  
    
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literat re and B [l l M S l
FREE WRITE FUR 1
BOOKLET N0. 652 For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid
on the practical removal °
5 of worms in Dogs of all Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets l
I breeds and ages. ‘1
1 FOR DOGS Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00 Humane Education
1 ' Earlier bound volumes ................ .75 C d . ,
‘ ., Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with ago an] Kindness for Our Ammal
, attractive pictures and verses, six in illiiisen s, 29 pp, paper15cove‘16's mlany f $1. 00
fRAGHLORE'I‘HYl-ENE C 1', theset .............................. 1.00 ‘ """"""" censeac seven or
) Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%;x3% . .$0. 50 per 100 Kindness Picture 3001‘ 32 ppu 15 cts :Seven for $1 00
1.w o R M c A P S U L Es The t'l."each3e2r’ s Helper in Humane Edu-
ca 1on pp. ..................... h, .
effectively remove About the Horse Humane, E ducation—for Parents and eac 10 cts
Large Roundworms and Hookworms Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents; paper, 20 cts. TeacherS, 20 pp .................... each, 10 cts.
Dependable, safe, easy- --to -give worm treatment. What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H An Early Start to Kindness’ Lucia F
Helps keep your dog thrifty! Rowley ............................. $0. 30 per 100 Gilbert 48 pp For ﬁrst and second
For Free BOOklet write to Desk N_ 58' F Humane Horse book, 32 pp, 5 cts each or 5 00 grades ............................. 83.011, 10 cts.
ma] Industry Dept” The Horse—Treatment of Sores. etc. .. .60 “ “ Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
PARKE, DAVIS & co" DetrOit, MiCh Humane Education Leaﬂet, NO. 5 ...... .50 “ “ H Of eight ............................ 35 cts.
Drug, Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “ “Be Kind to Animals” pennants ----- each, 25 cts.
The Bell of Atri poem by Longfellow __ .50 .. .. Be K1nd to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “ “if Iliumane Idea, Dr Francis H-
. ow e ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
About the Dog Fr1ends and Helpers (selections for
B t1 1 J .11 $1 50 11 50 t Aschogl use), ,sSarahbJ. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
eau 1 u oe, new, 1 us., . ........ sma , c s. nlma s as t
NEW BOUND VOLUME OF IIéisgemper El Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free Richardson, 3e2enp. Y. . . .e‘Po-et‘si,' .Guy cloth, 35 cts.
a ies vs. unning Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free Address to Boston pPublic Schools ...... 2. 00 10
‘ ‘OU R DU MB AN I MALS’ ’ Eulogy on the Dog, by V9513: D0513 card - $1 00 per 100 Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... $3 3.00 per‘ 0
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 The B—K—T—A——Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Including the twelve numbers for 1934 Feeding. the Dog and the Cat, Dr. Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts. each; six for 25c
Beautifully bound 1n cloth and stamped in gold Schne1der . . .. ........................ 2. 00 “ “ “And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.
Ideal gift for humane friends and for 1nst1tut10ns of Humane Educatlon Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4.50 “ “ play .................... 3 cts. each, ten for 25 cts.
all kinds. 192 Pages—150 Illustrations )l‘llilhatstthe Chaﬁned Dog Says ........... .50 “ “ Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .
Postpaid to any part of the world for One Dollar e ory o arry . .......... . ........ .30 Humane Exercises 3 cts. each; ,tgrli £81,235. 1080
Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS Th B d f G dAbout the Bll‘d Humanethy in SChOOlS, Wlth class-room
e ir s o o , 318 pp” illus. ...... cloth, $0.45 prOJec , pp. ....................... 2.00 “ “
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts. Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr-
gumarile Eéiucation Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100 O Ro‘f’lleyf 5}]1301'13 ﬁadio address, 2 0135- each; .75 “ “
1 1 ow t e irds Help the Farmer ______ 0 ur itte rot ers and Sisters, sermon
1 . i t. S The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “ Hfor boysEaind glrls,by113r Jeﬁersono 4pp. .50 “ “
. 1 umane ucation, W at to Teach and
I i} 1 cu ’Qtyra. P About the Cat OHIOW to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
‘ ‘ i or C ut ines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
‘ Bail y care glllllepﬁgtzgg Care in Health and Disease $0. .68 per 100 Earriiyuf‘essogs in Kindness or Cruelty . . . .50 u .1
------------------------- 't theTeacher.............. .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “ a W1 '
ofyoul' Hands \ £10 llNot V‘Irileave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “ 0mi- 151;) ve for Animals, a sh02rt cIthhceaili-; 1. 00 “ “
0 ie itefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “ H """"""""" 1; u n
It (.0111 do much to I ‘ “The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “ TmhsgjénilgumﬁaélfcftugidayY, Dr. Rowley 1' 'gg u ..
keep them. 80ft andsmooth? Tommy’s Tavern, 4 PP- --------------- 1-00 “ “ Need of Hugmane 1111152111511 senses and
, Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
. About Other Ammals A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Prmce Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
1 Tlppétsplicialt . Sh. . . .’. . . .1. th . .3.0 ....... boards, 50 cts. Band of Mercy
‘ ‘ e r1 e a ane s c o , cts. .. paper, 7 t. . ,. . . ,
| THIS bPACE For Pity’ s Sake ...... , ................. paper, 5 2t: Be K1nd to Animals’ Buttons, three
1 1 Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. styles—Band Of Mercy, Humane 80'
1 Heavens Rage, Helen Trevelyan _____ 25 cts ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100
‘ CON First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100 Buttons—white star on blue ground With a u
1 . TRIBUTED What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 gilt letters and border, one cent each 1‘00
, 1, Foreword from “MichaehBrother' of Jerry” .30 .. ,. Badges, gold ﬁmsl’i, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
‘ ‘ Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “ Band of Mercy Pennant ........... 35 cts.
{ , Igovsfri to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “ S°§ngd°fy Happy L‘fe' With mUSic’ 5' 50 t
, 1‘ ea ets, No. 6, Animals ............... .5 “ “ """"""""""""""" c S'
‘ it Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .58 “ “ Songs Of Happy Life (56 pages, words
1 ‘ 1 Ways of Kindness ..................... 50 1. ., only ) .............................. $3. 00 per 100
‘1: Since 1832 H Ed ' gandy tofFMercslr3 Membership Card ...... 50
11 J S WATERMAN umane ucation ow o orm ands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
I ' u u
& SONS’ INC“ The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools, Does It Pay, Story Of one Band Of Mercy '30
mnhettakerg 96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00 No order by mail for less than 5 cts.
BOSTQN—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE Please enclose remittance with orders for less them $1
City and Out-of-Town Service I
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Lon wood Ave. Boston Mass.
, 9

 

 

 

BEST FILMS TO ILLUSTRATE KINDNESS To ANIMALS
THE BELL OF ATRI

Blade for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Blade by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the hiassachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Societ ty’ 3 Rest Farm for
Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 15 minutes each

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 80

Chicago Humane Work

Report of President of Branch of American
Humane Education Society for February
11 to March 10

VISIT we made to the Dog Pound on
February 13 revealed everything
scrupulously clean. Captain McCauley
stated that there was some fear of rabies,
and that he had placed dogs exposed to in-
fection under a quarantine of ﬁfteen days.
A dog brought in whilst I was there showed
symptoms of rabies.

An article on the abandoned dogs on the
Joliet and Harlem Roads printed by the
Daily News and the Daily Illustrated Times
was sent to Sheriff Toman, with which we
sent a request for his co—operation to end
abandonment of animals on the State high-
ways. A reply was received, pledging this
co-operation. An interview with him to
work out details will be sought. In January
the city dog catchers picked up 938 strays
—the Anti-Cruelty Society nearly 2,000.
Suggestions have been made relative to
reduction of this appalling oversupply, and
necessary suffering, of the animals.

A visit with Mrs. Baldwin and Mrs. Krahl
was made to Mr. Paul Sheehan, superin-
tendent of rural schools in Cook County as
a result of which humane education is to
be introduced into these schools. The Anti-
Cruelty Society is supplying posters for
them, as well as for the city schools, for
“Be Kind to Animals” week, and the coun-
try will be visited later in April, to organ-
ize the work. Protests on the starvation
of cattle were sent to Secretary of Agri-
culture Wallace, and to Governor Ohlson.
We urged them to bend their efforts to-
wards alleviating conditions. A reply from
the State (Minnesota) Emergency Relief
Association was received saying that feed
had been rushed, and that $1,500,000 per
month for three months had been allotted
to drought areas in Minnesota. A letter of
thanks has been received from Governor
Ohlson.

Correspondence was also received from
Mr. Woods, Institute of American Meat
Packers, promising a speaker if a humane
conference is held in this city. Mr. Tefft
has ordered equipment from England and
will test thoroughly the English device for
humane slaughtering.

The New Jersey legislature this season
passed a bill making it a violation of the
law to cut the tissues of horses’ tails and
setting a ﬁne of $100 for violations.

I

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Airplane and the Buzzard
PAUL RAWLINS HUGHES

An airplane hummed through the clearing
sky

With the grace and poise of a butterfly;

A buzzard lolled in the vaulted blue

And glided aside as the plane went through.

“Old man,” said the plane, “the like of you

Should hide away and keep out of view.”

The buzzard said nothing but circled away,

And the plane returned the following day ;

It sputtered and coughed and ﬁnally sank

To a wretched heap on a river bank.

The buzzard, on watch from a near-by tree

Said, “Man made you and God made me,”

And' the homely bird that could not sing

Flew down and perched on a crumpled wing.

Orphan Bird Becomes Radio
Singer
MARY A. BACON

HEN one looks at a picture of the
W chubby, handsome, little mocking-
bird, “Peter,” it is hard to believe that three
years ago, he was a peeked, bleeding mite
of a bird, dying all alone in a chicken yard
of Mrs. Berg, Orange Street, Loma Linda,
California.

There had been quite a disturbance out
in one of the near—by palm trees. Butcher
birds were trying to exterminate a family
of mockers. They all but succeeded. Peter
alone survived. Fortunately Mrs. Berg
heard his faint, plaintive chirps. Being a
bird lover, she hastened to his aid. Ten-
derly she carried him into the house, drop-
ped sweetened water and bits of egg and
bread in his famished mouth. Almost mi-
raculously, within a week, Peter had ac-
quired ﬂesh, feathers and strength.

Mrs. Berg, thinking that Peter would
like the freedom of the out-doors, placed
him in a rose-arbor. But Peter came peck-
ing at the door, begging admittance. After
several unsuccessful attempts in getting
him paciﬁed, it was decided that Peter
should be taken in—a sort of adopted
bird-child.

Preparations were made for his comfort.
The front porch was screened, the ﬂoor
sanded, and perches erected therein. From
that sanctuary, Peter heard the melodies
of other songsters and rapidly learned to
sing.

But all of his time was not given to .song.
Peter was a playful fellow. He loved to
pull down the wickets of indoor croquet

 

 

T O OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals “for the. use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Socrety and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education. Society), the sum of ............. y. ..............

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

May, 1 935

 

“PETER” BROADCASTING HIS SONGS

that the children were playing, or to run
after a string to which was attached a
piece of paper. To tease Mrs. Berg by
hiding her thim/ble- and needles was! one of
his tricks. Bathing was indulged in at any
time a tumbler or dish of water could be
discovered. Food was so good taken out
of someone’s mouth. Perched atop of the
piano, Peter would sit and listen to his
foster sister practise her lesson. Her name
“Ruthie” he could call just as her mother
did.

Peter took many trips with the family
in the car and it was while on one of those
journeys that a radio manager heard Peter’s
lovely singing voice. He urged! that Peter
be allowed to come to San Francisco and
join a bird chorus for Dr. Cross’ Cut Saw
program on N. B. C.

It was hard for the foster family to say
good-bye, but they wished to share with
others the beauty of Peter’s song. So now
he sits on a new perch and helps make
merry the heart of radioland—all because
someone cared and rescued a dying bird.

Kindness must be taught. Teach the
children kindness to animals and they will
learn to shun cruelty in every form.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
e

nue.
Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

.All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two-
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life

_ . $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00l
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
1E. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood. Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

C
_ ...—,-‘ ‘rﬁawrM

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page56
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 wards, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Encouraging with Regard to
the Oil Pollution of Our

Coastal Waters

MONG those with whom we have had

correspondence relative to the pol-
lution of coastal waters through the dis—
charge of oil from ships using oil is Mr.
Robert F. Hand, Vice-president of the
Standard Shipping Company, New York.
Mr. Hand sends us a chart compiled by
the United States Coast Guard from their
surveys made in 1923 and 1934. “These
surveys,” he says, “were along the coast
of New Jersey which has always been
considered the worst in the United States.”
At 39 places along this stretch of coast
careful examination was made and a great
improvement seems to have been brought
about so that the oil pollution is no longer
the serious problem in this locality that it
was.

For example, starting near Sandy Hook
the record reads, “1923, beach practically
oil coated; 1934, no oil pollution during
past year.” Some miles farther down,
“1923, bathing spoiled, fishing ruined;
1934, condition greatly improved during
recent years.” Still farther down, “1923,
bad, prevents bathing, spoils clothes;
1934, improvement very noticeable.”
Passing on downward we have such re-
ports as: “1923, bad, prevents bathing,
ducks covered with oil; 1934, greatly im-
proved. 1923, bad, prevents bathing;
1934, practically no pollution. 1923,
harmful to bathing and fishing; 1934, pol-
lution seldom seen. 1923, slight, fishing
not affected; 1934, only one time in five
years has oil pollution been seen. 1923,
bad, prevents bathing, ruins clothes; 1934,
oil pollution conditions improved little, if
any.” Opposite Ocean City, “1923, bad,
prevents bathing, yachtsmen complain;
1934, oil has gradually decreased. 1923,
bad, prevents bathing, ruins household fur-
nishings; 1934, oil pollution has increased,
may be due to mosquito extermination.
1923, bad, waterfowl covered with oil,
harmful to bathing; 1934, not nearly so
much oil on beaches as in former years.
1923, bad, harmful to bathing; 1934, can-
not see any improvement, impossible to
walk on beach without stepping into oil.”

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

Down at May Point, “1923, oil pollution
present since 1918, harmful to bathing,
wild fowl covered with oil; 1934, condi-
tions have greatly improved during past
two years.”

On the whole this is an encouraging re-
port, there being a very large decrease in
the oil pollution seen along this formerly
badly polluted coast.

Mr. Hand says, “I believe the improve-
ment in conditions ‘is due to the co-
operation which the owners of ocean-going
vessels are giving and to definite instruc-
tions being issued to their Masters to re-
frain from pumping oil-contaminated
water overboard within 50 miles of our
coasts. However, although conditions have
materially improved, I am still strongly in
favor of the ratification of the terms of
the 1926 International Conference, which
Conference the three nations, Italy, Ger—
many and Japan, refused to ratify. It is
my feeling that if any action is to be taken
it should be towards bringing pressure to
bear upon the nations concerned with a
View to having them ratify the terms of
the International Conference as soon as
possible.”

Let us hope that now the matter has
been presented to the League of Nations
an effort will be made to secure the proper
action by these three nations mentioned
above.

The Frozen Lambs

From the reply to our letter to the Unit—
ed States Department of Agriculture con—
cerning the 1,400 lambs frozen to death in
transit from Texas to St. Louis we quote
the following:

“We are very much in sympathy with the
effort of organizations such as yours to
prevent undue suffering of animals in tran-
sit but regret that there seems to be no
legal action that we can take in such cases,
The Department has, however, in instances
similar to the one reported, communicated
informally with officials of the railroads
carrying the animals, calling attention to
such conditions.

“We are asking the chief of our Bureau
of Animal Industry to communicate to you
any further facts of interest that may be
developed through the inquiries of its in-
spector in charge at National Stockyards,
Illinois.

Very truly yours,
(Signed) J. D. LECRON
Assistant to the Secretary”

Some one was responsible. Was it the
shipper, the railroad or the one to whom
the lambs were consigned? The bitter
weather of this winter has taken frightful
toll of cattle in certain western states. The
Labor Journal, Houston, Texas, reports L.
B. Sherril, livestock inspector, as estimat-
ing in one single locality 20,000 to 25,000
frozen to death. Between the weather and
the Government’s killing of livestock, no
wonder meat prices soar l

The great auk is now extinct. The last
spec1men was shot in Ireland in 1844. Six
auk eggs were sold some time ago for

$6,675. There are only 72 known to be in
existence.

A pr. 1935

Protection for the Hawks

AST summer there was established
on the Kittatinny Ridge, a spur of
the Appalachian system, in Pennsylvannia,
the “Hawk Mountain Wild Life Sanctu-
ary.” Every fall many species of birds of
prey including great numbers of hawks fol-
low this mountain ridge in their migration
to the southern feeding—grounds. This well
marked route is the “hawks’ highway.”
Many thousands of birds sail along easily
on favoring air currents and present a fine
opportunity to observe and identify them
at comparatively close range.

For the past dozen years hunters have
been permitted to gather on the promonto-
ries along the crest of the ridge, according
to the superintendent of the new Sanctu-
ary, and use the passing birds for their
target. A hundred and fifty to two hun-
dred gunners on a single day have been
known to be on hand to pour shot indis-
cniminrately into these birds of passage and,
so great has been the slaughter that from
three to five thousand hawks are estimated
to have fallen victims each season while
running the gauntlet of the ruthless hu-
man killers. The hunters themselves state
that less than a quarter of the number of
hawks ﬂy over the ridge now than did ten
years ago.

The Sanctuary was a wise and strategic
move. The area under control comprises
over two square miles, the credit of acquir-
ing which belongs to Mrs. C. N. Edge of
the Emergency Conservation Committee of
New York. It has effectively checked the
annual horde of hawk-hunter's and arrested
the orgies of wholesale murder of valuable
spec1es.

Few, if any, birds have been more mis-
understood and maligned than the hawks.
The harmful habits of only two or three
species have too long kept the whole fam-
ily in disrepute. They are birds of prey to
be sure, but their prey chiefly consists of
destructive rodien'ts, rats, mice, gophers,
grasshoppers and insects, and other numer—
ous enemies with which the farmers have
to contend.

O

Thousands of caged birds have been set
free at Istanbul (Constantinople) follow-
ing a police raid on a local bird market.

When the market opened, a dozen police-
men appeared without warning and began
smashing the cages, liberating thousands
of valuable birds. In half-an-hour not a
bird remained, and many of the fanciers
were ruined.

It is understood that complaints regard-
ing the treatment of these birds had been
made to the authorities.

——The Morning Post, London

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation.

We will welcome your gift- Please make
checks payable to Treasurer, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, marked for Trust
Fund.

 

 




 

July, 1935

fore releasing them. A most unnatural act
for a cat.

One day this gentleman saw a large dog,
evidently sick, partaking of a drink. Coax—
ing him up on the step -— a laborious ef-
fort for him — he prepared a soft bed for
the dog to rest on. Later, going out he
found the dog still there, sleeping, but it
was his last sleep. A little later some boys
came seeking their pet. Yes — he was
”there.

To go a little farther away. In France
a young puppy, the pet and inseparable
companion of a little boy, was run over by
a car, and severely injured. It was not
thought that he could live. Constant care
and watchfulness, however, saved his life,
and with no ill after—effects. For all he
was to that little family, their care and
watchfulness was but a slight return.

Doubtless there are many such instances
of faithfulness and devotion of these
friends. It is little for us to do, but let us
all do even that little.

Friendly with the Fishes

BERNARD LYLE KOBEL

RNOLD VOGT, of Omaha, Nebraska,
A enjoys taking his summer vacation
and naturally goes to the summer cottage
on the Long Lake at Aitken, Minn. But
just because he goes to the lake is no sign
that he tries to see how many ﬁsh he can
hook out and destroy.

In fact the ﬁsh have come to look upon
Mr. Vogt as a friend because he has tamed
several of them to the extent that they
will eat from his hand. The lake is well
stocked with northern pike, pan-sized sun-
ﬁsh, and bass, and a few years ago Mr.
Vogt was washing sheets in ’the water
along the bank of the lake when he noticed
that several ﬁsh had been attracted by the
color. By throwing them food, he gradu—
ally tamed them. Since then they have
become so tame along the Vogt pier that
they will sometimes jump as high as two
feet out of the water to get a bite to eat
from his hands.

He feels that it would only be playing
into the advantage of more heartless souls
if he did not train the ﬁsh against tackling
casted bait—and so, when Mr. Vogt is not
feeding the ﬁsh by hand, he teaches the-m
to ignore casted lines by “fooling” them
with wooden plugs which have no bait and
no hooks in the-m.

So we feel that he is one man in a
thousand when it comes to making friends
of the ﬁshes.

The means to gain happiness in life is
to throw out from one’s self like a spider,
in all directions, an adhesive web of love
and to catch on it all that comes: an old
woman, a child, a girl, a policeman.

TOLSTOY

He might have added even the lowliest

of the animals.

I think it is Bacon who writes, “Your
heart should not be an island cut off from
other lands, but a continent that joins to
them.”

MARGOT ASQUITH

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jake Hetherington and His
Mule

FRED B. JACOBS

HOUSANDS of stories have! been told

of strong affection existing between
human beings and horses, dogs and cats,
but deep devotion of a man for a mule
is unusual for a mule often is looked upon
as a vicious animal inclined to kick at the
slightest opportunity. However, the mule
in this instance was very gentle and affec-
tionate.

Many years ago an English coal miner,
Jacob Hetherington came to this country
and settled near Bellaire, Ohio. He was
a thrifty man though he could neither
read or write. It appears that he: had a
slight amount of capital and he leased a
coal mine on the banks of the Ohio River,
near Bellaire. Later he bought eight acres
of land on credit. He got out his coal
with pick and shovel and wheeled it out
on a wheelbarrow. Later he “took a part-
ner,” as he expressed it, and this partner
was his little mule “Jack.” For many years
Mr. Hetherington, or Jake as he was fam-
iliarly called, mined his own coal with the
help of his silent, but active little partner.
Jack was indeed a “little partner” for he
stood only 3%. feet high. As time went on
an unusually strong affection grew between
the man and the mule. They seemed to
understand each other perfectly. Jack was
never kicked nor beaten, but controlled
Wholly through kind words.

As time went on Mr. Hetherington’s
business grew to the point where he was
mining hundreds of tons of coal a day.
Mr. Hetherington in the meantime had
been a shrewd business man. He invested
his money in many paying ventures. His
eight acres increased to 800, he owned
shares in glass works; owned some thirty
houses and a number of steamboats that

HE TAMES AND TRAINS THE FISHES

Page 107

plied up and down the Ohio River. He
could not read the names on his own steam-
boats, but he knew them by sight.

About the year 1870 Mr. Hetherington
built a palatial residence on the banks of
the Ohio, said to have cost over $35,000, a
huge sum for that day. He- always called
it “The House that Jack built,” for he
attributed his good fortune to his faithful
little partner of early days. By this time
Jack was 28 years old, sleek, fat and re-
tired from active. business. Mr. Hether—
ington dedicated the house to Jack and
from the keystone of the arch over the
doorway projected the head of a mule, a
likeness of Jack.

After the house was completed and fur-
nished, Mr. Hetherington held a house
warming to which his neighbors and
friends were invited. In the presence of
the assembled company, Mr. Hetherington
led his faithful mule, Jack, all over the
house and explained every detail to him,
and of course Jack understood in his mule
way.

Jack lived many years longer to die at
last of old age. He was forty years old
at the time of his death, a venerable old
mule whose hair had turned almost snow
white. While Jack received the best of
care during his last sickness, his time was
out. Mr. Hetherington was genuinely
grieved at the loss of his partner and for
many years later he would show visitors
Jack’s grave under an apple tree and re-
late his many virtues.

Although unlearned and perhaps eccen-
tric on some points, Jacob Hetherington
was a man of ﬁne character as evidenced
by his strong affection for his little partner,
Jack. He showed one of the noblest attri-
butes of man, kindness and gentleness 'to-
ward one of the least of God’s creatures, a
humble mule who understood his master
and probably appreciated his consideration.

 

.,r
-/

 

l
g

 

 




Alay,1935

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

/3

 

    

,. 7/3); - /
/ \\ I &_. —\/% —l / /—/ I/ ’
/ / ), 1:3,} I WM/A/ \ “@Qf/‘ 5 I; ~
‘ .w’ ; gif— \ . .

.1
\

 

 

Dumb Animals
RUTH E. CUSHMAN

God gave you ways to speak to us,
That we might understand—

Two pleading eyes, expressive paws,
Cold nose against the hand.

’Tis we are dumb, not you, dear friends,
Whene’er we fail to read

The message that you make so plain
For human hearts to heed.

 

 

 

A Lad’s Love for His Dog

ARTHUR. HEDLEY

HE noble love of an English boy for his faithful big black

retriever dog, “Joan,” was revealed in a brave and beau-
tiful incident, which took place recently on the rough and
fl rugged coast of Cornwall, in the West of England.

The boy, Andrew Playfair, was the 15-year-old son of the
late Sir Nigel Playfair, the famous actor-manager. Andrew
l took his favorite retriever for a long run along the beach
beneath a towering cliff, 250 feet high. The rising tide came
in sooner than he expected, and to his dismay he found himself
and Joan trapped by water.

The sea swept in upon them and there was no hope of escape.
They struggled through the water and reached a narrow ledge.
There they sat side by side, the boy with his arm around his
dog, whilst the water slowly but surely rose nearer the level
i of the ledge. The boy shouted and the dog barked to attract
f attention. But no one heard them and as they were cold they

 

 

CHILDREN

’ ﬂaw/WW

  

huddled together for warmth and then waited as bravely as
possible for the end.

Just as it was getting dark a man, passing along the top
of the cliff, happened to see them in their perilous position.
He telephoned immediately to the coast-guardsmen eight miles
distant, who came speedily by automobile. Clinging to a life-
line, the coast-guardsman, Mr. Strang, descended the cliﬁ and
was badly cut and bruised as he made his way down in the
darkness. ,

But although the water was swirling round his ankles, the
boy’s ﬁrst thought was for his dog, and he refused all help
for himself until his beloved retriever had been sent safely
to the top of the cliff. Only then would he suffer“ being helped
to save himself from a watery grave.

The Good Samaritan

HOLGER NORDIN
(A thirteen-year-old Chicago school-boy)

WAS just one of those pushing Saturday afternoon shop-

pers of Chicago’s downtown when I witnessed the most
unusual act I have ever seen.

A French poodle puppy, having a leash, escaped from its
owner and tried desperately to cross the street, for some
unknown reason, at State and Madison Streets. He was just
about to meet a certain doom when a straying German police
dog took the leash in his strong teeth and pulled the poodle
to safety on the curb.

All this, time the crowd was held spell-bound, the owner of
the poodle praying for his pedigreed dog’s safety. When he
grasped for his poodle he did so to no avail, for the police
dog intended to carry out his good deed to the fullest
extent. So, when the lights allowed, he crossed the street
very nonchalantly with the poodle, on the leash, right. at
his heels.

When the dog was to be rewarded he could not be found.
If all pedestrians followed this dog’s example, there would
be few accidents.

Apartment House Birds
BETSY MANN COLLINS

The martins are such friendly birds,
They like to live in ﬂocks,

Of ten or twenty families
In a big, old packing-box.

My daddy built a lot of rooms,
With family doors for each,

And nailed the house against the barn,
Quite out of Pussy’s reach.

And pretty soon the martins came!
They chattered as they flew

For twigs and dirt to build their nests,
With, “Neighbor, how are you?”

They teach the ﬂedglings soon to fly,
And late in August when

They leave for South America,
I long for spring again!

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 128

Three Down-and-Outers
(Continued from page 118)

facing in the other direction—dull, peaceful
and undisturbed. It was clear that they
were not in the least afraid of the big cat,
and that his visit did not even excite them.

Again, the following night, the door was
left open and the white man watched. And
once or twice again the panther came and
lay quietly outside the open door. But his
senses were always on the alert, and each
time some slight noise frightened him away.

One night it rained heavily. In the
morning, the panther’s tracks were mingled
with those of the horse and the bull inside.
There was no question about it. He had
sought refuge from the weather in the poor
shed which was the lodging of his two
friends.

Then, in spite of the white man’s warn-
ings, the troubled natives, whose ghastly
fear of animals always has in it an element
of superstition, could stand it no longer.
They had been ordered to leave the animal
alone unless they could catch him alive.
But they set a trap and killed him. The
white man’s anger was violent but unavail-
ing. The drama was ended.

The body was that of a gigantic male.
His fangs were dulled and rounded. The
majority of his teeth were gone, and those
that remained were decayed and loosened.
There were tiny worms at the base of his
ears, at the articulations of his thighs, and
on his belly. There were great patches all
over his body from which the hair was gone
entirely.

He could not have lived much longer, in
any case. He had no doubt been subsisting
for a long time on lizards, snails, and other
small fry, and his body was gaunt and
wasted. But at the end of his melancholy
life he had happened upon congenial com—
pany—the company misery ﬁnds.

Thus did the sick lion lie down with the
sick lamb.

What of the Horse?

CARRY LIZBETH JOY

00 little is said and written about the

poor horse now; we sometimes feel that
he is in reality a thing of the past. Is it be-
cause the automobile and bus have driven
him from the earth; is it because machinery
has displaced our faithful friend, our
friend that could be petted, and would re-
spond to the touch; our friend that we
could talk to, and feel that more than often,

 

 

AN OBSERVING OPOSSUM

 

we were not only understood, but thanked?
Differing, yes, but in many ways just as
faithful as the home—bred and house-fed
dog, and in so many many ways of more
real help to mankind.

I offer nearly every. morning a silent
prayer of thanks that milk —— for the pres-
ent at least — is left at individual door-
steps. Hearing the plump, plump, plump,
the slow rhythmical plod of the patient and
kindly hoofs, ever ready to go and ever
ready to stop, is still music to my perhaps
old-fashioned ear.

I dread the time that probably soon will

come when milk and cream will be wel-
comed through a frigid air tube-attachment
of some kind, connected, no doubt, with
the cows in the pasture or the farmyard.
Yes, the horse is nearly a thing of the past,
this fast world is too much for him; even
the fastest racers cannot compete with the
whir of the rubber tire, or the whiz of the
airplane. But for the present, at least, we
have a few old milk—routes where the real
horse is still on duty, ready to go slow, and
ready to stop often; so we can yet hear the
plump, plump, plump, the rhythm, poem,
dream of the old days, coming through the
early morning air. Don’t turn on the radio,
just open the window, you will hear it, the

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequest espemally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals for the. use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Somety and IS conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Societ for the Preventio f C it '
to The American Humane Education Socyiety), the sum of. . .n. .0. . . rue .y. .tf). Animals .(or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Aug. 1935

only thing today of the old time sounds;
the iron shod hoof of the faithful horse,
beating his slow and steady march over the
pavement.

We have often heard the expression,
“horse-sense.” We know the horse is a
very intelligent animal; we know he has
been taught to do many ﬁne tricks, and
that he has done them Well; we also know
that, as a rule, the every-day traveling or
working horse is to be depended upon and
trusted.

Have you ever as a child ridden home
from a day’s visit in the country, miles
away, and when it got to be late in the
evening and the darkness of the coun—
try road almost frightened you, have you
ever seen Grandpa sit back comfortably
in the seat of the old buggy or old chaise
and apparently sleep soundly for the rest
of the journey, and have you ever won-
dered how he dared to do it? Have you
marveledxas well, how he dared to leave the
reins dangling loosely over the dash-board,
while sleeping; have you ever sat trembling
between desire to wake him and fear of
doing so, and then at the end of your jour-
ney, have you ever been ﬁlled with wondcr
still greater, that old “Bess” would turn
wisely into the door-yard of his truly home,
and stop, as if to say, “There, that is taken
care of all right”? And then ﬁnd Grandpa
waking suddenly and crawling out of the
carriage, ready to unharness and put up
Bess, as if it was nothing at all that the
“horse-sense” of old Bess had landed you
and him in good time and safely. If you
have not, you have missed something of
the real eye-witnessing of horse-sense.

Where are now piles and piles of old
rubber tires, were once piles and piles of
discarded horse-shoes, usually deposited
near some busy blacksmith shop, or per-
haps ship-yard, for future use.

For the old worn out horse-shoe played
an important part in the building of ships.
After it had sung its song over hard city
pavements, and rocky country roads, after
it had been battered and welded, hardened
and strengthened by much service — no
longer of use as the protector of the hoof
— it was then given over to the blacksmith,
to be wrought into anchors for ships.

“Cruelty is a tyrant that’s
attended with fear.”

always

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: .180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual 3510 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,;
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

I
i
i
r

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 51;

a double bridle containing a set of bits
which would, in many cases, be entirely
unnecessary, were the horse to be used for
any purpose other than polo. After being
a ﬁrst string polo pony for a time, he will
eventually fall to the lower circles of polo
where his mouth is likely to receive harsh
treatment at the hands of inexperienced
players. Thus, his mouth will become
hardened beyond repair, and he will prob-
ably become known as an “outlaw pony.”

The game begins, and the pony is com—
pelled for two separate periods of seven
and one-half minutes each to gallop up and
down the length and breadth of a ﬁeld
which measures three hundred by one hun-
dred and sixty yards. The ﬁeld is sur—
rounded by sideboards of sufﬁcient height
to trip a horse, and many times during his
chukkers the pony is obliged, when his
rider does not stop him in time, to ride
over these. boards. Sometimes: without
mishap, sometimes with. Often his legs,
already weary from the continuous run—
ning, twisting, and turning, are struck by
a hard willow-wood ball weighing approxi-
mately ﬁve ounces. At times he will acci-
dently step on that ball, and twist his leg.
When he is galloping at top speed, he may
be pulled up more: sharply than is comfort-
able for not only his mouth but his entire
body. Without warning he may be sent
up the ﬁeld in a headlong dash with his
rider leaning far out of the saddle. Or his
rider might have occasion to ride off an
opponent, and in doing so there is apt to
be contact between the two ponies which
will result in leg or other injuries.

Those are some of the things to which a
polo pony is subjected. It is not surprising,
after reviewing them, to ﬁnd that a. polo
pony has unsound legs, a scarred body, or
a hard mouth. Or, to discover that he has
some habits which, though committed with-
out vicious intent, are hardly conducive to
park riding and forms of riding other than
polo.

In pondering upon these things, one
senses that what makes them more repul-
sive is that a player is obliged to practise
many of these injustices to the horse in or-
der to do justice to the game. He must
abide by the aphorism, “Spare the horse,
and spoil the game.” However, so.as not
to commit an injustice to certain individu-
als, I hasten to add that there are some
players who represent an exception to this
rule. It is reasonable to suspect that many
players are conscious of the cruelties they
effect, but must stiﬂe their consciences so
that they may give their unprecedented
support to their team mates and to the
game itself. But then, this offers no solu-
tion, only a slightly acceptable excuse.

Granted that the arguments which have
been raised do reek strongly of futility.
One shrugs one’s shoulders, and says, “All
you say is true, but what’s to be done about
it? P010 is a game which is centuries old.
It is well established as a national sport.
To modify it would lessen its interest and
detract from its effect. There is evidently
little we can do.”

Well, I should like to qualify the last
statement. “There are evidently some
things we can do.” Perhaps we can not
achieve a complete New Deal, but some
things are feasible. I refuse to admit ple-
nary defeat. There are some reforms which

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

might be effected that would at least tend to
bring about more consonant conditions be-
tween polo and humane standards.

It seems that the more advanced reforms
could be accomplished among the novices.
They should, when being taught the funda-
mentals of the game, be taught the basic
principles of good sportsmanship and the
humane treatment of dumb animals. The
rules which are maintained to prevent acci-
dents and undue abuse should be strongly
emphasized. In their inexperience, they
should be advised to consider the horse be-
fore the game. That is, to bungle or even
pass up a shot entirely if it is apt to result
in any injury to the pony. Thus, as they
become more seasoned, they will have
learned to play efﬁcient polo as well as to
inﬂict a minimum of hardships on their
mounts. The future generation of polo
players should be better off for such policy.

Moreover, the societies for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals ought to main-
tain.more rigid standards regarding polo.
Agents of the societies should be present
at all games, whether they be internation-
al, East-West, club, or college games. The
ﬂagrantly guilty should be prosecuted, and
mild offenders warned and advised. En-
lightening and advisory literature might al-
so be- distributed to make for a wider
knowledge of the existing conditions and

a better understanding of what should be

done.

Still another needed reform is possible.
Many players of the lower circles who can
not afford to keep a full string of ponies
are guilty of using a pony for more than
two periods of one game. Needless to say,
this over—taxes the stamina of the average
pony. In addition to this, a tired pony will
invariably “lay on the bit” and will soon
become a “puller” or a hard-mouthed horse.
This obvious and unnecessary abuse could
be easily obliterated with a good amount of
pressure from the societies.

In the higher circles of polo inﬁnite care
is taken in the selection and breeding of
horses for polo. But among groups of
lesser eminence unsound judgment is often
exercised. In many cases the in-bred thor-
oughbred is being used, rather than a horse
which is bred especially for polo. That
this type of thoroughbred is not suitable
for polo is an irrefragable fact. Being bred
closely after racing lines, he is not equipped
with the necessary ruggedness that polo
demands. Some stables which are breeding
horses of this type are, and have been sell—
ing them for polo purposes. The horse
concerned in the incident recounted above
in the third paragraph was the victim of
just such a practice.

Since no authority exists which gives
power to prevent such procedure, the most
that the societies can do is to advise
against, and unofﬁcially attempt to prevent
it. This much can and, certainly, should be
done.

I ’
O

The heart is hard in nature and unﬁt

For human fellowship, as being void

Of sympathy, and therefore dead alike

To love and friendship both, that is not
pleased

With sight of animals enjoying life,

Nor feels their happiness augment his own.

COWPER

Apr. 1935

 

“ Wolf”

OLF von Ever Faithful” was a

handsome, thoroughbred, German
shepherd dog whose death occurred last
month at the home of Mr. Seymour Car-
roll in Columbia, S. C. His owner Mrs.
Woodworth of “Oak Crest,” Jacksonville,
Fla, had committed him to Mr. Carroll’s
care some few months previously. “Wolf’s”

,pedigree was traceable through distin-

guished forbears registered for four gen-
erations in the American Kennel Club. One
of Wolf’s many adventures attracted much
attention in the press at the time it oc-
curred. From a kennel in Rensselaer, N. Y.,
where he had been placed temporarily, he
slipped his leash and made a dash for liberty
and home across the Hudson River in
Albany. His effort was a near-tragedy; he
was pulled ashore by a river boatman and
taken to the police station. Revived from
exhaustion and excitement after a night
in jail “Wolf” was restored to his own
home and friends.

Sacred Cats

N the middle of the sixth century of the
HChristian era, according to a Japanese
writer, sacriﬁces were made to the domestic
cat as the “guardian of the manuscripts.”

All of the learning of the time was re—
corded on long rolls of papyrus, and. cats
were used to keep away the mice who would
have eaten the precious documents. In
some instances, it is recorded, placards
were placed in conspicuous places among
the papyrus manuscripts as a warning to
the invading mice. “Beware! A cat is
here”; the placards read. “She drives
mice.” Life-sized. portraits of cats were
also kept in places frequented by mice.

Because of their usefulness in preserv-
ing the sacred papers, it was only natural
that the cat should soon come to be revered,
and for a long time. they were kept only in
temples. But their attractiveness, their
grace, and devotion, to mankind. soon made
them the pet of the nobility, and from there
they won their way into humbler households.

 

 




 

111m. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 37

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8—13
Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935
Humane Day in Schools, Friday, April 12

Be Kind to Animals Week

HE most outstanding movement in the

work for protection of animals in this
country, since the inauguration of the
American Humane Education Society by
Geo. T. Angell in 1889, is that known as
BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK, ﬁrst
celebrated in 1915.

Publicity is the keynote of the observ-
ance—publicity for the animal protection
cause in general. Be Kind to Animals
Week is not (or should not be) primarily
nor directly a means of getting ﬁnancial
support, but a most wonderful means of
giving—giving facts, giving advice and
warnings, giving instruction and informa-
tion, in short, giving the public an intensive
and comprehensive and concise survey of
the whole problem of animal welfare and
man’s duty towards the so-called lower
creatures.

Be Kind to Animals Week affords a great
opportunity for introducing humane educa-
tion into schools of every sort and grade.
Of course we want humane education dis-
seminated every week in the year, as we
Wish newspaper publicity and all other hu-
mane activities carried on every week in
the year, but the fact remains that many
schools can be reached principally, or can
be reached more effectively, during Hu-
mane Week than at any other time. And
even if schools are in that select class that
do have regular systematic humane instruc-
tion, or exercises, throughout the year,
there is wonderful opportunity for crystal-
lizing Be Kind to Animals sentiment dur-
ing this special week.

Some organizations plan a series of talks
to be given on each school day of the Week
in the larger school auditoriums by inter-
ested lay workers, such as clergymen, law-
yers, and other prominent citizens of the
community.

The tremendous and ever-growing suc-
cess and popularity of the special national
poster, put out by the American Humane
Association, is exceeded in its inﬂuence for
good only by the original individual poster
designs made by countless impressionable
pupils in thousands of our public and pa-
rochial schools as the result of national,
state—wide and local contests sponsored by
the different humane organizations.

The Humane Sunday movement has been
very much worth while. We know that
many humane sermons are preached, and
probably in many more instances refer-
ences to kindness to animals are made in
the pulpit, and frequently Sunday evening
services are given up to a humane program,
often featuring slides or moving pictures.

From an address, “Twenty Years of Be Kind to
Animals Week,” by Guy Richardson, at annual meet-
ing of the American Humane Association, Columbus,
Ohio, October 10, 1934. Copies of the complete address
will be mailed anywhere for three cents each, or ten
for 25 cents, by the American Humane Education
Society, Boston.

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Humane Exercises for 1935

O assist teachers in the elementary
grades of the public schools of Massa-
chusetts to observe Humane Day in Schools,
Friday, April 12, the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. has compiled a special pamphlet con-
taining eight pages of suggestive exercises
and recitations. Every superintendent of
schools in the state will be sent a copy of
these Exercises with an offer from the
Society to furnish as many free copies as
he has teachers above the second grade.
Teachers, humane societies, and others
outside of Massachusetts, who may wish to
make use of this new pamphlet, may order
copies at two cents each in any quantity.
Samples free upon application to the Sec-
retary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Humane Sunday Leaflet

In response to the demand for literature
in connection with Humane Sunday (April

.7, 1935), the American Humane Education

Society, Boston, has issued a two-page
leaﬂet written by its President, Dr. Francis
H. Rowley. On the ﬁrst page, Dr. Rowley
answers the question, “Why a Humane
Sunday?” and on the second page he pre-
sents a three—minute address for Humane
Sunday entitled, “The Value of a Spar-
row.” This is a concise and helpful piece
of literature to send to ministers of all
denominations, and to ofﬁcers of Sunday-
schools and young people’s societies. Cop-
ies are priced at one cent each, in any
quantity; sample free. Send also for “Our
Little Brothers and Sisters,” by Dr. Jeffer-
son, 4 pp., and “A Festival of Tender Mer-
cies.”

Striking Poster for 1935

ERE is the new national poster, in

three colors, especially designed by
Morgan Dennis for BE KIND TO ANI-
MALS WEEK. It is exquisitely printed on
ﬁne paper, size 22 inches long and 17
inches wide. It depicts a cruel practice
and teaches a greatly needed lesson in
kindness. It will uplift every society that
uses it.

This poster merits enormous circulation.
It should be in every classroom and library
in the land. It will decorate every store
window wherein it is exhibited.

Note that there are no dates on the
poster—it is good for every day in the
year. Copies bearing the imprint of the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, are for sale at
these prices, postpaid: Single 10 cts., three
for 25 cts., eight for 50 cts., twenty for $1,
seventy for $3, 125 for $5, and may be or-
dered from the Society. Orders for larger
quantities, however, and all orders requir-
ing special imprints, should be sent to the
American Humane Association, 80 Howard
Street, Albany, N. Y. _

It is essential to order early to av01d
disappointment, as the supply is limited
and it takes time when required to imprint
with Society’s name.

Cash Prizes for Best Stories

N connection with the approaching Be
Kind to Animals celebration Om" Dumb
Animals offers three cash prizes for the best
manuscripts on “The Most Remarkable
Story of Animal Intelligence,” of not more
than 250 words each. The contest will close
Tuesday, April 30, after which date no
more manuscripts will be considered.

The prizes offered are: First, $10, cash;
second, $5, cash; third, $3, cash. They w111
be paid to the winners not later than May
10, 1935. The conditions are: . .

The stories may or may not be original
but they must be absolutely true and satis-
factorily vouched for. If not original, they
must be told in the writer’s own language
and the sources from which the facts are
taken must be given.

All MSS. must be typewritten, on one
side of the paper only, preferably on one
sheet, 8% x 11 inches. .

The name and full address of the writer
must appear at the top of sheet containing
the text of the story.

No MSS. will be returned so do not for
this contest send return postage or ad-
dressed envelopes. .

Address all entries to Contest Editor,
Our Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass., to reach that ofﬁce not later
than April 30, 1935. .

Announcement of the winners W111 ap—
pear in the June issue of Our Dumb Am-
mals, where the winning manuscripts Will
be published.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New Bound Volume

“ OUR DUMB ANIMALS ”
Including the twelve numbers
for 1934
Beautifully bound in cloth and
stamped in gold

Ideal gift for humane friends and
for institutions of all kinds
192 Pages—150 Illustrations
Postpaid to any part of the world for
ONE DOLLAR

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
    
 

 

For Baby’s Tender Skin
Cuticura Taleum

Medicated and pure, it prevents chaf-
ing and assures Baby’s comfort.

Price 25c. Sample free.
Address: "Cuticura,” Dept. 11K, Malden, Biass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Calendar

for 1935

With colored picture of boy and dog,
“Heir of All the A ges,” or black and
white picture of woman, child and
cat. If no preference is stated,
colored picture will be sent.
Humane hints and suggestions on
each leaf of pad, especially suitable
for the school-room.

20 cents per copy; two for 35

cents, or 12 for $1.80 to a single

address.

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

ﬂanhtrtakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free
Humane Calendar for 1935 ............ each, 20 cts. - About Other Animals—Continued

Two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen A Wlse Fish ., ....................... . .50 per 100
Our Dumb Animals, 1934, bound volume $1.00 Professor Frogs Lecture, 8 pp. ....... .75 “ ”
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem- Why the Toad 1s so Useful ............ .30 “ “

ber, 1929, 1931, 1932, and 1933, bound

in cloth, special, each ............. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .......................... .00
Be Kind to Animals Blotteis, 6%x3% . .$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ..... . Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5. 00 “
The Horse— —Treatment of Sores; etc. .. 60
Humane Education Leaﬂet, N0. 5 ...... .50
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease 6.0
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .......................... 200 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4.50 “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ....... '9 . . . . each, 2 cts.

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2
How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

.50 per 100
.50 S‘ £‘

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50

..........................

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “

“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. ., special . . ...................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .paper, 7cts.
For Pity’ s Sake . .................. paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” . ....................... .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ "
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ ‘
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “
A Word for Our Woolly Friends ...... .50 “
Simon Grub’s Dream .................. .30 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp. ., paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.

Animals as Seen pby the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32p ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston pPublic Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “
The B—~—K—T——A——Club, play, 3 cts., each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each, six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’

payl ................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for use in Schools .$1. 50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class- -room
project, 8 pp ....................... .00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and glrls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It

Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1:50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness 0r Cruelty .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............. .50 “ “

Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ............... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society .. Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ...................... 50 cts.
Songs ofy Happy Life (56 pages, words

only y) ........................ $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... 50
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

ON BEHALF

 

 

Best Humane Films!

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for
Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,

PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv 10*
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter
Acceptance for mailing at special rat

Vol. 68

The American Game Association, in spite
of the rapidly disappearing number of the
nation’s wild fowl, refused to pass a resolu-
tion in favor of a closed season for 1935.

0

Dog racing is evidently popular in Flor-
ida. A ﬂamboyant advertisement of ten
thrilling races has been sent us taken from
a Florida paper. Grouped about it are
eight advertisements of places where liquor
is for sale. Do these things go together?

The report has been widely circulated
through the press that 1,400 lambs. were
frozen to death in transit from Longview,
Texas, to St. Louis. Blame for this ap-
palling event should be placed, where it
belongs. Someone was responsible. Ship-
pers, railroads, conductors of trains. Does
it distress you? Write to Secretary of
Agriculture Wallace at Washington, D. C.,
and ask if anything has been done about it.

From the Museum of Natural History,
Hanover, Germany, we have received a re-
quest for a generous supply of our illus-
trated pamphlet, “An International Ap-
peal,” which seeks international action to
stop the pollution of the world’s coastal
waters with oil discharged from oil-burn-
ing ships, the oil so fatal to millions of sea
birds and ﬁsh. Copies of the pictures were
also asked for, that the Appeal might be
reproduced in German.

At the 21st annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Game Conference held last month in
New York, when the slow extermination of
our wild life was seriously discussed by
hunters and where nearly every reason for
their extermination was put forth except
the chief one of too many hunters, a Wise
man from the University of Wisconsin
said: “The ducks need two things — more
marsh (for breeding) and less killing.” If
the droughts are drying. up breeding

grounds, then why not stop the slaughter
of the ducks and geese that are left?

, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879

e of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919
Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

March, 1935

An Interesting Letter from
the War Department,
Washington

January 18, 1935
Dr. Francis H. Rowley,
President, Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Boston, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Rowley:

I am in receipt of your letter of Decem-
ber 20, 1934, transmitting the pamphlet
“An International Appeal,” regarding the
waste of animal life and expressing the
hope that special attention will be given
to the question of destruction of wild fowl
by the pollution of waters with oil.

The pollution of waterways by the» dis-
charge of oil and other refuse is receiving
the careful attention of a sub-committee of
the Water Resources Branch of the Nation-
al Resources Board which is making a study
of the problem with a View to determining
what can be done by the federal and local
governments to combat the evil. An inter-
departmental committee under the auspices
of the State Department is also studying
the matter of pollution with a View to de—
termining to what extent the United States
should co-operate in an international under-
taking to eliminate or reduce injurious dis-
charge of oil at sea.

These committees have not completed
their deliberations but you may be assured
that it is their desire to arrive at a practi-
cable solution of this problem whereby the
evil effects of pollution of inland and coast-
al waters may be eliminated.

Very truly yours,
GEO. DERN, Secretary of War

To our everlasting shame as a nation it
must be recorded that 5,068 persons have
been lynched in the United States during
the last 52 years. Asked once what he
thought of Christian Missions, Sir Rabin-
dranath Tagore of India replied: “So long
as such things go on in your country, do
you think you have any Christianity to
export?”

No. 3

Compulsory Military Train-
ing in America

HE Supreme Court has decided that
any university known as a “land-
grant institution” can compel every stu-
dent to take military training whatever his
religious or conscientious convictions may
be. So the two young men, Hamilton and
Reynolds of the University of California,
will have to give up their college course or
their ideals of what duty demands of them.
Furthermore, the Supreme Court has gone
on record as afﬁrming that military service
is obligatory upon every citizen, man or
woman, and each must resort to force of
arms to defend the government when called
upon. This liability to military service de-
cision appears far more extreme than any-
thing “ever established by Congress.”

Doubtless the Court’s decision is in keep-
ing with the Constitution, but let the Gov-
ernment get into another war and it will be
surprised to ﬁnd the number of citizens
who will refuse to obey its mandate, Con-
stitution or no Constitution. Wars, some-
day, will not be made without the consent
of the people. who will have to do the ﬁght-
ing if ﬁghting is to be done. Henry Wads-
worth Longfellow Dana is, we are conﬁdent,
no false prophet when he says,

“In the ﬁrst World War which we like
to think was the last World War, the com-
mon people were forced to listen to the
voices of the politicians, the war makers,
the munition makers, the bankers. Before
the next world war the bankers, the muni-
tion makers, the war makers, the politicians
will have to listen to the voices of the com-
mon people, to the voices of the workers,
to the voices of the younger generation.
They will ﬁnd that those whom they would
use as cannon fodder will no longer be will-
ing to make arms, to transport arms, or to
bear arms that are going to be used against
their fellow workers in other countries.”

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8—13;
Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935.

l
I
I
l
ll l
U_S.Trade Mark,Registe;-ed l‘ '
£0 ‘-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

AL:.:‘. .v‘—— -4-...__a..._._...- _.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 20

Incident in the Zoo

The little fennec foxes from the veldt are
shy
And quiet and they keep
The largest ears of anything so small
Wide open in their sleep.

There in the corner of the slatted cage
Stirring awake

They shudder at the city’s iron pulse.
You cannot make

Friends with them. No one can make friends
with them.
They are too shy
From fear of the shaking ground, the
thunder
From track and sky.

They move in memory among mint leaves.
Their lives are bound
To a lost land, all night their ears have
captured
No friendly sound.

Once only did I see their hearts uplifted——
Wild hearts so wrung!
It came as the lion house—remote and
dreadful
Spoke, in its tongue.

LOREN C. EISEL‘EY in Prairie Schooner

Cruelty of Dog Racing

NDER this heading the editor of the
magazine published by the San Fran-
cisco S. P. C. A. says:

Abandoning Florida for more lucrative
ﬁelds of operation, dog-racing tracks have
invaded California within the last year in
wholesale numbers. Five dog racing tracks
are in operation in the state. In addition,
others are planned for the larger California
population centers inland and one for Reno.

While the belief prevails and is cleverly
fostered that the dog races are harmless,
one needs but to see a race to realize that
they are not as harmless as advertised.

It is true that mechanical rabbits are pur-
sued by the coursing greyhounds in the
races. But it is equally true that the races
are run solely for gambling purposes, and
gambling has ever been ruthless and un-
scrupulous in the means used to win.

It is not an unusual sight to see some dog
led out to the starting barrier in apparently
sound condition—the favorite to win the
race, in fact—only to have the same dog
spring from the starting box and fall into a
limping stride that leaves him hopelessly
last.

Professional gamblers and dog racing
insiders know the reasons for this. One of
the dog “attendants” may have had instruc-
tions to “ﬁx” the dog—a hard heel on the
dog’s paw, enough to disable him so he
could not win the race. Other tricks em-
ployed by the gamblers include the wrap-
ping of ﬁne wire tightly around the leg
joints of the dog, tightly enough to prevent
the dog from getting the proper snap to his
leaps and thus lose the race.

Opposition to the dog races is growing
daily and a show-down battle to close the
tracks is expected soon in California.

OUR

DUMB

   
   

Jack London Said

Let all humans inform
themselves of the inevit-
able and eternal cruelty
by the means of whidh
only can animals be com-
pelled to perform before
revenue-paying audiences.

Show the management
that such turns are un—
popular, and in a day, in
an instant, the manage-
ment will cease catering
such turns to its audiences.

Farmer versus Sportsman
L. E. EUBANKS

FEW years ago a certain man ac-

quired a small tract of wild land with
some rabbits and squirrels and an occa-
s1onal brood of bob-white or woodcock. He
w1shed these things to live. There were
also many ﬂowering plants and shrubs. He
did not wish to exclude the public because
a trail led through his land to the river, so
he put up signs; not of the usual prohibitive
sort, but permissive, asking only that the
property be not damaged.

He has been disillusioned. His shrubs
and ferns and ﬂowers have been ravaged
and carried away by the truckload. His
birds and squirrels have been killed. The
small cabin he built has been repeatedly
broken into—the latest occasion being the
work of a hunter; for the lock was broken
by two charges of shot. It is yearly less
dlfiicult for this owner to gain the View-
point of the farmer, and sometimes he
w1shes that he had a high, pig-tight and
bull-proof fence around his property with
three strands of barbed wire at the top.

As. I see it, farmers as a class have been
too indulgent with sportsmen. How can
there be any comparison of rights? In the
ﬁrst place, the outsider, even ordinarily has
no bus1ness on the farmer’s property with-
out the latte-r’s permission; and a man with

ANIMALS

Feb. 1935

JOIN THE JACK LONDON CLUB

The Vicious and cruel exploitation of
animals can be boycotted from the public
stage. Send your name for enrollment to
Our Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass.

at
International News Photo

DO YOU THINK THEY ENJOY IT?

 

a gun has no business to be loose anywhere
—unless he is an ofﬁcer.

Too long has the farmer been the victim
of vandals who called themselves sports-
men; too long has he listened to all this
bunk about the “rights” of people to come
with guns and kill animals» on his ground.
I have known two farmers who gave up
country life because of this very thing;
one after he had gone through serious
trouble with a sportsmen’s club. Both these
men had constructive aims, they desired
not only to produce crops but to foster and
protect animal life. Now, one afﬁrms ve-
hemently that “nothing on a country place
is safe from those predatory animals called
sportsmen.”

One hunter said that since I was neither
sportsman nor farmer, I had no say in the
thing. But have I not? The wild life of
this country belongs to no one class; and I
-——along with all other animal defender"—
have just as much right to “speak up” on
such discussions as have the sportsmen.
And I believe anyone who compares farm-
ers as a class with those fellows whose fa-
vorite recreation is killing will agree with
me in urging the: farmer not to endure any
encroachments from hunters.

They zay ’orses ’aven’t no souls. ’Tes my
belief t‘hey’m gotten souls zame- as us,
Many’s the Christian ah’ve seen ain’t got
the soul of an ’orse.

GALSWORTHY

 




 

 

 

Ellie iﬁanh nf Merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who "forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-oﬂice address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and ﬁve new Bands of
Mercy were reported during January. Of
these 181 were in Illinois, 92 in Massachu-
setts, 79 in Georgia, 55 in New Hampshire,
50 in Florida, 25 in Pennsylvania, 12 in Vir-
ginia, ﬁve in Tennessee, two each in Leba-
non and Palestine, and one each in South
Carolina and Syria.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 207,651.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS OF THE AMERICAN HU-
MANE EDUCATION SOCIETY FOR
JANUARY, 1935
(See list of ofﬁcers and ﬁeld workers on page 46)
Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 458
Number of addresses made, 373

Number of persons in audiences, 56,459

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Some Prosecutions in January

For cruelly abandoning two puppies a de-
fendant pleaded not guilty. He was con-
victed and ﬁned $15. Another for the of—
fense of abandoning a dog was ﬁned $35.

Unnecessarily failing to provide proper
food, drink and shelter for ﬁve head of
stock and one horse, defendant was ﬁned
$25. He appealed and was held in $200
surety.

For subjecting a dog to unnecessary suf—
fering and cruelty through injuries, a hit-
and-run driver was convicted and ﬁned $20.

 

gin—nn—nzz 3122:: :2: nit—9g}
l Shampoo Regularly with l
= CUTICURA SOAP a
I Precede by Applications of I
‘ CUTICUBA BINTMENT =
I Price 25c. each. Sample free. I
3 Address : "Cuticura,” Dept. 13K, Malden, Mass. =
55:: :2: :::: 3:22: :::: :2: :13:

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC

litinbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8—13
and Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free
Humane Calendar for 1935 ............ each, 20 cts. Humane Education

Two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00

Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, .with
attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n
the set ..............................

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael. Brother -‘of Jerry” .30 “ “

Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “

Ilow to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “
A ’Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ....... .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ “

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3 00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts., each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1935 ............ $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
prOJect, 8 pp. 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ “
A Talk With the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad~

dress ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
“Why A Humane Sunday?”, Dr. Rowley 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ ‘ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
J. Eddy 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

ON BEHALF

 

Best Humane Films!

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angel! Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts 8. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for
Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.
State whether regular 35 mm, or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Aug. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

I 'age 127

 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

\ //
~:«\ :7 &
Q |

\

  

__ “ﬁgs:

\

 

A YOUNG SHEPHERDESS AND HER FLOCK

 

My Dog’s Example
NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

MY dog constantly sets me a good moral example,” said
a boy to me recently.

“He always lives up to what I like to call the Dog Scout
laws.” And this without the ﬁne stimulus of such an organ.-
ization, for, of course, there is none.

“There are at least ﬁve of these laws which may be classed
under my made-up title, as follows: A good dog is always
loyal; he is always docile; he is always forgiving; he is al-
ways sympathetic; and he is always obedient.

“Every day I have clear proof that my dog obeys all these
laws, and he seems to take great pleasure in doing so, if I
am to judge from his happy, contented disposition. And
since he never goes to Sunday-school or church, he never has
anyone to remind him of his moral obligations except his
master.

“1 know if he could speak, and understand a little bit the
ways of human folk, he would probably say to me, ‘You
ought to be better morally than I am, for you have the help
of parents and teachers at both day and church schools.‘
Surely my dog’s example in right living is most helpful to
me.”

I agree with the boy friend of mine, himself a loyal Scout,
who paid this ﬁne tribute to his collie chum.

Thelumbled Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

cases of exhibits to label so he got out the box of loose
letters with which to make the names. As he picked out each
name he threw the letters in separate groups on the table,

and when he was ﬁnished, this is what he saw:

‘ H ‘HE other day the curator of the museum had some new

THE PLANE ONE SAIL ARM NET
NET SKIT CORN IS HERO ONE PLATE
RAP IT ROPE IN CUP YE COOT
PINK CHUM ANVIL HEAT RED OPAL

___.~ _ /
l?’ a" n“ f.” 7 ’— / , ’/ I T‘ V‘ i I 4-.ch
~’ ‘ sell/3W? * is»??? Mr «deaf-321mm”!

 

   

It A7 I Ji . ‘ -
., lj‘v "a! ,
:13; éﬁjfﬁ :1
4%; ,~- . \ ” _
: {fird M 4 I) "I
l ‘3'“ I V ,4" _ 3,” ¢_ /
Il‘ \.

 

' 4 o , I x
m. nil/4%”? M/ / ‘
,, . ‘E 1‘ 4’ I k // W {’5‘ I

.4242"

Can you unscramble the letters and ﬁnd the names of the
animals? Correct answers will be given on Children’s Page
next month.

Answers to “Hidden Birds” puzzle last month: Ostrich,
raven, bittern, grouse, heron, eagle, linnet, thrush.

Dog Loyalty
E. E. TERRY

‘He comes to meet me at the gate

And rears his paw upon my breast.

He seems to say, “You’re somewhat late
Returning to your place of rest;

But I have been on guard all day

To keep the trespassers away.”

He bounds before me to the door;
It opens wide; the light shines out.
Out rush the noisy, laughing four
To pull and tug me all about.

H e leads the way into the light;
The door is shut upon the night.

Upon the hearth he takes his stand
With wagging tail and kindly eye:

A sentinel sedate and grand.

No foe can lurk where he is nigh.

If men were brave and true as he,

How safe and sane this world would be!

Persons who go away in the summer and leave their cats
to suffer are guilty of great cruelty. A cat that has once had
a home is quite unﬁt to care for itself. It will suffer and
perhaps die from hunger, thirst and loneliness.

 

WE PAUSE FOR A PICTURE

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

IO CENTS

 

PRICE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

I
I
I

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PageIOJ;
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts, Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

 

JULY, 1935

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

Humane Legislation in

France

EOPLE who live in glass houses, we
P are told, should not throw stones.
Surely we in this land could be criticised
for many things by France, but in humane
legislation for nothing so archaic, so
shamefully behind the times as her Gram-
mont Law—her law for the protection of
animals. Put upon her statute books 85
years ago, there it still stands, hoary with
age, unamended, quite a step forward for
its day, but about as suited to our modern
times among civilized people as laws that
once abolished the thumb screw and the
rack.

What is this law? In substance it pun-
ishes the man guilty of any act of cruelty
to an animal committeed in public. On his
own premises he may treat his animals
as he pleases and no one can touch him.
And the punishment? A ﬁne of from ﬁve
to ﬁfteen francs or a possibility of ﬁve days
in prison, the ﬁve days in prison always
to be insisted upon when the law is broken
the second time.

French humane societies have been
working for years to secure such legisla-
tion for the protection of animals as would
give France in this respect a standing with
other progressive nations, but in vain. It
seems incredible that this old Grammont
Law should still stand as an expression of
the nation’s interest in animals. Of course
it doesn’t represent the attitude of vast
numbers of French men and women who
are seeking so devotedly the welfare of all
helpless animals.

The Bank of England, single-storied tri-
angular structure, the result of Soames’s
study of Imperial Rome, has been enlarged
by a most curious inner building masking
another two stories with modernistic sculp-
ture over the delicate shell of the old bank.
The ﬁne lime tree enclosed in the old court-
yard has had to be felled; but progress
was held up for a full summer until the
ﬂedglings of the wood doves that nested
there were hatched and ready to ﬂy.

I have never seen a war out of which
any permanent peace has come.

KITCHENER

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Slaughtering
(Continued from page 99)

for, and were steadily working toward that
end in spite of many difficulties that had
been encountered.

The vast numbers slaughtered in the
large abattoirs of the United States make
the problem a far different one from that
faced in countries where animals are
slaughtered in such small numbers com—
pared with the thousands daily destroyed
here. The latest device for stunning swine,
practically ready for demonstration, the
result of a number of the discarded meth-
ods, it was believed would prove a gratify-
ing .step toward the end sought.

The statement was also made that the
ultimate end in View was the stunning,
without suffering, not only of swine but of
all the smaller animals like sheep, calves
and goats by the same method. Mr. Re-gens-
burger and Mr. Teﬁ't, another representa-
tive of the Institute, also stated that study
was being made to discover, if possible,
how to avoid the injury to the meat of
cattle by the electric stunning method.

A report from the Institute by Mr. Hom-
er Davidson, another official and at the
head of the department on injury and loss
to livestock in transportation, was listened
to with interest. While the economic loss
was naturally the chief factor from a busi-
ness point of view with the packers, it was
easily seen that the nation-wide effort to
stop injuries to livestock in transportation
would save much suffering on the part of
the animals in transit.

Addresses were also made at the morn-
ing meeting by Lawrence Fine, of Chicago,
on “Man’s Duty to Animals,” by Mr. W. J.
Dethloff, Superintendent of the Wisconsin
Humane Society, and by Mr. J. J. Roberts,
President of the Chicago Anti-Cruelty So-
ciety. Of the work of this latter organiza-

tion we make special mention in the next
column.

Mr. Roberts presided at the afternoon
session, at which time Alderman Oscar F.
Nelson paid a rare tribute to the late Mrs.
Charlotte L. Hunt, the former President
of the Chicago Humane Education Society
and whose untiring services, assisted by a
handful of other determined women, led to
the building of the splendid Chicago Dog
Pound, probably without an equal in the
United States. In helping these women Mr.
Nelson was a loyal friend. Other ad-
dresses were made by Mrs. J. M. Baldwin
on the Arvey Ordinance which makes it
compulsory for the Pound to turn over
thousands of dogs each year for experi-
mentation to medical schools and labora-
tories, by Captain P. McCauley, the greatly
esteemed and humane poundmaster, by
Mrs. W. F. Krahl, whose address upon
“Character Building through Humane Edu-
cation” deeply stirred her audience. At
the dinner in the evening the ﬁlm “On Be-
half of Animals,” showing, in part, the
work of the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and its
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital was

thrown upon the screen, and Mrs. Dnow,
Mr. Roberts and Dr. Rowley, President of
the Mass. S. P. C. A., spoke brieﬂy.

On the whole it was a most successful,

July, 1935

helpful and interesting gathering of local
humane groups with the humane slaughter
of our food animals the chief object of the
meeting. Representatives were present
from Illinois, Ohio, Wisconsin, Texas and
Massachusetts. The hope was many times
expressed that the 1936 annual meeting of
the American Humane Association might
be held in Chicago.

The Chicago Anti-Cruelty
Society

'E wish we had space for the paper

read by Mr. John J. Roberts, pres-

ident of the above Society, at the meet-

ing of the Chicago Midwest Round Table

Conference held May 27, and briefly re-

ported on this same page. The work this

live society is doing in Chicago is so little

known outside its own fie-1d that we can-

not forbear to give it at least a little of
the publicity it deserves.

See these evidences of growth: In the
month of May, 1920, this Society respond—
ed to 404 calls for its assistance in the
behalf of unfortunate animals. During the
ﬁrst ﬁve months of this year the average
was over 2,300 calls a month. Up to the
26th of May this year 2,636 animals had
bee-n taken care of by its activities, largely
small animals that had to be called for,
homes found for some, the most of them,
however, unwanted, diseased or in such
condition that a painless death for them
was a mercy. From 20 to 30 animals daily
were treated at the free clinic. Over 400
complaints were investigated during the
year. The Society also during Humane
Education Week purchased and distributed
7,000 humane posters, and was very active
in the movement which broke up the so—
called bull-ﬁght with which Illinois was
threatened. It is now planning its new and
very attractive headquarters which will be
made possible by a generous bequest soon
to be received. This new structure will
have the best equipment for an enlarged
work, and special arrangements are being
made for an active and extensive Humane
Education Department.

Under the presidency of Mr. J. J. Rob-
erts, a leading business man of Chicago,
who is willing to devote no little time to
this great work and who is an enthusiast
about the fundamental and primary worth
of humane education, we predict a splendid
future for this organization.

In its report on work during the last two
months, the Chicago Humane Education
Society lists a wide variety of activities.
Of prime importance was the commence-
ment of humane educational work in the
Cook County schools by Mrs. Krahl, with
the courteous co-operation of the Parent-
Teacher Association. Literature was .sent
to all broadcasting stations during “Be
Kind to Animals Week.” At the dog pound
about 1,000 animals are being received
monthly from the hands of the dog
catchers.

More and more widely World Day for
Animals is being celebrated in many coun-
tries. This year the Day falls upon Oc-
tober 4th.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEPTEMBER |935 PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

PURE-BRED SALUKIS (Seepagel37)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Apr. 1935

3 $5
' 9 ea_ a.
- . . “Alumni“
m

i in"

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Of Boston Corporation.
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.-—MRS.

HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬁcers . . 11,930

Cases investigated ............... 364
Animals examined ............... 3,515
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 107
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 58
Number Of prosecutions ........ . 2
Number Of convictions ........... 1
Horses taken from work .......... 9
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 25

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,062
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 69,421
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 62

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the will of Isabella H.
Ellison of Lunenburg.

March 12, 1935.

In Northern and Western Alaska there
are 400,000 square miles capable of furn-
ishing pasturage for 10,000,000 reindeer.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

\ ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
‘ HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. _
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M. ‘

paomwm

 

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 633 Cases 1,762
Dogs 471 Dogs 1,404
Cats 150 Cats 338
Horses 8 Birds 16
Birds 4 Horses 2

Rats 2
Operations 825
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 .................... 127,069
Dispensary Cases .............. 299,671
Total ...................... 426,740

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........... 86
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 333
Operations ....................... 161

TAUNTON BRANCH OF MASS. S.P.C.A.

For the two. months ending January 31,
1935, Mrs. Howard F. Woodward, presi-
dent, reports these activities at the Taun-
ton Branch Of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Homes found for dogs, 12; dogs returned
to owners, 14; cat returned to owner, 1;
dogs humanely destroyed, 35; cats hu-
manely destroyed, 45. In addition Dr.
O’Brien privately destroyed 16 dogs and 11
cats.

Another Hero Dog

For saving the lives Of his three boy
companions overcome by asphyxiation,
“Sport,” a dog in Champaign, Illinois, was
recently presented a collar, fittingly in-
scribed with the fact, by the Champaign
Humane Society. Sport sensed the dan-
ger to the boys in their gas-ﬁlled room
and brought their father quickly to their
rescue. The inhalator crew of the fire
department promptly responded and re-
vived the boys, one of whom rescued
Sport himself from a garbage can some
eight years ago.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, having been
informed of Sport’s timely and intelligent
act, sent him the collar as a deserved rec-
ognition. In the presence of a public
assemblage of his many friends Sport re-
ceived his honor at the hands of the fire
chief.

Page 57
With Our Auxiliaries

T the February meeting of the

Women’s Auxiliary Of the Massachu—
setts S. P. C. A., held at the Hotel Lenox,
February 26, Dr. E. F. Schroeder of the
veterinary staff Of the Angel]. Memorial Ani-
mal Hospital gave a very interesting illus-
trated talk on fractures and dislocations Of
the dog and cat. The. March meeting, held
at the home of Mrs. John A. Dykeman,
Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, was fea-
tured :by :‘a bridge- and tea under the: chair-
man‘ship Of Mrs. Harry Cole.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president
of the Auxiliary, was the guest Speaker at
the. February meeting of the Springﬁeld
Branch Auxiliary. At the March meeting,
held at the Branch Hospital on Bliss street,
Treasurer Albert A. Pollard of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. gave an address on
practical problems confronting the Society
today. Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, president of
the Springﬁeld Auxiliary, broadcast from
Boston over station WAAB on March 9.

At the meeting of the Winchester Branch
Auxiliary, held at the home of the presi-
dent, Mrs. Richard S. Taylor, March 14,
Secretary Guy Richardson, was among the
guests and speakers. ‘

Book Free to Societies

NEW edition Of “Selections from

Three Essays by Richard Wagner
with Comment on a Subject of Such Impor-
tance to the Moral Progress Of Humanity
That It Constitutes an Issue. in Ethics and
Religion,” by Mrs. M. R. L. Freshel, found-
er and president of the Millennium Guild,
Inc., has just come from the press. This
volume, while dealing primarily with Specif-
ic cruelty to animals yet contains so much
material on the broader aspects of humane
education that a copy should be in every
library, particularly in those. used by hu-
mane workers. It is full of authoritative
statements from prominent persons of all
walks in life, and has been widely used by
ministers, radio Speakers and others in pre-
paring humane talks. Readers of Our
Dumb Animals will be especially pleased to
learn that this new edition is “Dedicated to
Dr. Francis H. Rowley, eminent in that ser-
vice tO humanity which recognizes Justice
as the true expression of Kindness.” There
are 184 pages Of large size, in attractive
typography, the binding being in orchid
linen. It is the purpose of the publishers
to distribute copies free to every humane
Society, and any S. P. C. A. or animal
protection organization that has not yet
received one should write at once to Mrs.
M. R. L. Freshel, 116 East 56th Street, New
York City, asking that a copy be sent with-
out obligation.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

u U S. Trade Mark, Registered &

ELLlN1868'AND FOR FORTy.

1. AN0 ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society
The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
———COWPER

   
       
     

GLonv TO
Go 0,
PEACE on EARTH,

  

AND MERCY TO
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass"

under the Act of March 3,1879

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13,1919
Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 68

Few people are more widely quoted than
the Prince of Wales. Recently he said:
There is in the heart of practically every
man, woman and child in our nation to—day,
a real desire to be a friend towards animals.
Kindly deeds react upon our own character
and make us better citizens.

During one period of eleven months a
correspondent collected 28 clippings telling
of fatal accidents caused by children under
15 using guns. Where does the respon-
sibility lie? Generally with the parents. If
guns and revolvers must be kept in the
house they should never be accessible to
children. , ,

A ﬁsherman, cruising within the three-
mile limit off an island not far from Cape
Town, South Africa, was convicted on three
counts for disturbing the birds on the island.
The fear of the birds leaving the island was
the reason for the law keeping people away
from it. South Africa has some humane
legislation that other countries might well

copy. . .

A certain chief of police in this State has
been quoted as saying that the only good
dog was a dead dog. What he writes us he
said was “an unlicensed dog means a dead
dog.” The whole point being that the law
demanding that all dogs must be licensed
was to be enforced. It should be. It 1s said
there are 200,000 licensed dogs in Massa-
chusetts and 200,000 unlicensed.

The loss annually to the packing indus-
try in this country in dealing with swine
that pass from the ranch or farm till their
carcasses are dressed at the packing houses
—loss from injury and their ﬂesh from
bruises and injuries is approximately thirty
million dollars a year. Five million pounds
are cut away from the hogs and about the
same amount from the beef animals where
these bruises and injuries occur. Not all of
the meat cut away is a loss but it falls into
classes below the higher grades. Repre-

sentatives of Humane Societies at stock-
yards save the packers thousands of dol-

lars every year.

August, 1935

Why so Much Indifference
to Suffering?

ECAUSE of the failure or the inability
B to put ourselves in the place of the
sufferer, whether the suﬁerer lee beast or
bird or human fellow. Must one have expe—
rienced just what another has to enter into
sympathy with him? By no means. My
neighbor’s home is darkened because death
has crossed its threshold. Let me but think
if it were my home, if out of my life had
gone what has vanished out of his. Can I
not feel his sorrow till its pain hurts me and
knocks at my door? Must I be a homeless,
frightened or injured animal to be able to
enter into its distress and hurry to its re-
lief? Not if I let my imagination put me in
its place. For lack of imagination how much
suffering goes unrelieved, how many a cry
for help unheard.

A friend writes in these words, “Few of
us have the capacity to bleed when another
is wounded. This kind of sensitiveness is
either the curse or the blessing of the human
heart.”

Birds to the Rescue

We’ve all heard about “How the Birds
Help the Farmer.” Now the cranberry and
blueberry growers are being told by the
U. S. Department of Agriculture that one
of the best things they can do to protect
their crops is to induce as many birds as
possible to come to their aid, encouraging
these insect destroyers to nest about the
places where the berries are grown and
giving them every possible protection.

Examination of the stomachs of many
birds by the Bureau of Biological Survey
shows that the European starling and the
English sparrow appear to be the more con-
sistent enemies of the blueberry and cran-
berry insects than are the native species.
The bobwhite, the crow, robin, meadow-lark,
red-winged blackbird, the cuckoo, the night-
hawk, swallow, and the ﬂycatchers are foes
of the insect pests that are particularly
harmful to the cranberry and blueberry
plants.

No. 8

Dog Racing in Massachusetts

HEN the people of this Common-

wealth voted to permit dog-racing
within its boundaries and the accompanying
gambling that goes with it, we are conﬁdent
they did not realize what they were doing.
However, the evil is with us. So far our
ofﬁcers have found nothing in the treatment
of the dogs that savored of cruelty. We are
under the impression, however, from what
we have learned, that, as in the case of per-
forming animals, the cruelties occur in the
process of training, not perhaps so much
with the dogs as with the rabbits. From the
last issue of the magazine of the San Fran-
cisco Society, Owr Animals, we take the fol-
lowing:

Whatever gambling on dog races exists,
whether outside the law or within it, the
public has no more chance than the rabbits
that are used to train the dogs. They are
slaughtered and so is the community that
permits dog races. The Humane Societies in
California have prosecuted trainers for ty-
ing live rabbits to mechanical devices to be
torn to pieces by dogs and a bill is pending
in the California Legislature making it un-
lawful to use machines for this purpose.

The president of the Parent-Teachers
Association of San Francisco says, in a pro-
test to the Governor, “Greyhound racing is
a sport which begins in cruelty with the
training of the dogs through use of live rab-
bits. It continues in brutality with the dogs
kept in a state of semi-starvation so that
they can run faster to reach the mechanical
rabbit they think is their supper. And,
worst of all, it fosters gambling and takes
tremendous sums from poor people who bet
on the races for ‘easy money’ and lose what
little they have of their own.”

California humane societies are working
hard for legislation that will stop dog rac-
ing in that state. The experience of these
societies with this so-called sport has really
compelled such action on their part.

The proper care and consideration of even
the most insigniﬁcant of living things helps
mankind to a better understanding and ap-
preciation of human rights.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BRO‘WN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton . . . . . . . .Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto. California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego. California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton. Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia. S; C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 818
Number of addresses made, 307

Number of persons in audiences, 60,272

High Commendation

For her twenty-six years of active serv-
ice, Mrs. Wilson Groshans, state humane
ofﬁcer of Aurora, Illinois, was recently hon-
ored by the Governor of that State.

My dear Mrs. Groshans:

It is a pleasure to commend your unsel-

ﬁsh devotion to so many causes of great
beneﬁt to the people of Illinois. Your good
works have not been limited, but have in-
cluded the lower animals, birds and plant
life; all of which tends toward making our
State and the nation a better and a happier
place in which to live.
. May you reap the full harvest of those
Intangible rewards which come to those
whose lives are spent in the interest of
others. Truly yours, HENRY HORNER.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Significant Meeting

We quote the following from an ex-
change:

More than 200 Christian and Jewish min-
isters of the New York area united in
Riverside Church, N. Y., on May 2, the eve
of the naval maneuvers, in an impressive
and solemn “service of penitence and dedi—
cation.” They marched into the church
singing “March On, 0 Soul, with Strength,”
preceded by the Tablets of the Law, the
Star of David, and the Cross of Christ,
carried side by side. Four ministers who
had taken part in the World War, Rev.
Robert W. Searle, Rev. W. Russell Bowie,
Rabbi Wm. F. Rosenblum, and Rev. Allan
Knight Chalmers, gave testimonies. The
200 ministers then repeated their “Coven-
ant of Peace”: “In loyalty to God I believe
that the way of Christ cannot be reconciled
with the way of war. In loyalty to my
Country I support its adoption of the Kel-
logg-Briand Pact, which renounces war. In
the spirit of true patriotism and with deep
persona-l conviction, I therefore renounce
war and never will I support another.”

The Rev. Wm. P. Merrin offered the
prayer of consecration and faced the con-
gregation of more than 800 persons, who
had stood with them to signify that they
joined in the Covenant.

Does anyone doubt that if the religious
forces of this country and Europe lived up
to their professed conviction that peace
would triumph and the day of war be
done?

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund.
the interest to be used for the benefit of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already one or two cases have
come to our attention and are being re-
lieved in this way.

What a little help has meant to one such
worker can be seen in the following letter:

“I am deeply touched with this won-
derful help and I feel so overcome that
tears ﬂow as I write my prayerful thanks.
Each morning when I awake I ask God to
this day use me for good in His service for
His helpless ones, but for the last three
years being reduced to nothing, I have
been obliged to add to my prayer, a re-
quest for supply with which to carry on,
and now this supply is made manifest to
me.”

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
and specify that the amount contributed
is for the Humane Education Trust Fund.

At the recent convention at Miami, Flor-
ida, of the National Congress Parent-
Teacher Association the following resolu-
tion was passed:

“We urge parents to recognize the harm
that comes to children from toys and play-
things that incite to war and crime, and
to the emulation of gangsters.”

July, 1935

Gratitude

CHARLES D. CRAIGIE

RATITUDE, grudgingly given is not

gratitude. This is true whether shown
to friends or to strangers. We think of gra-
titude, usually, as applied «to human beings
only. Is there not a gratitude that we owe
to other living creatures? The birds, the
cats, the dogs, the horses?

Unfortunately there are some persons
whose only interest in these creatures is
the extent to which they may gratify their
own selﬁsh pleasure. This is not grati-
tude, it is greed.

There are, fortunately, some who ﬁnd
pleasure and happiness in giving to those
not of the human race. The-re are, no
doubt, many such persons. Let us cite a
case. , '

In one of the suburbs of Boston, a gen-
tleman has for years found not only please
ure but happiness in his friendship among
these creatures. Yes, they are his friends,
and they show it, each in his own natural
way. Not only in the summer does he re-
member them daily, but also daily all
through the depths of the winter’s cold and

storms. Their drinking fountain —— it
may be only a wooden pail, but to them it
is a fountain — is kept free from ice, and

ﬁlled. With the snow cleared to furnish
them with a table, food is-spread upon it
and daily the grateful guests come and en—
joy their friend’s hospitality. And he, no
less, enjoys their pleasure, as with evident
pleasure they partake of his hospitality.
He does not say much — that is his way,
his very nature — but his enjoyment is sin-
cere and evident. ’

A cat in the neighborhood store has
“adopted” him, whose friendship and
friendly greeting and well-proportioned
diet of catnip have completely won the
cat’s affection.

Even the squirrels ﬁnd their way to his
table, and he enjoys, just as much as they,
their frequent calls. An unusual sight, in
these days of the automobile, was, for
some time, the weekly call of an unusually
handsome. pair of horses, prize winners, the
pride and the pets of their proud driver,
and for them there were the fresh apples,
which they, not greedily, but gratefully
ate.

A few months ago a family moved into
the neighborhood; there are nine children,
four of them of tottering age. With them
as their constant companion and playmate,
but more than that, protector, is a large
dog. His are busy hours, for the children do
not always all go in the same direction. But
he is faithful and cannot be diverted from
his duty which, the family say, has been
true for fully ten years. He certainly de-
serves ten service stripes. May he live to
add many more! He is a daily and con-
stant patron of the fountain.

In our friend’s family, some years ago,
the house cat, a great pet, on a raw, stormy,
wintry day, brought into his home, one at
a time, several sparrows, which had been
frozen, and were helpless. These he de-
posited in front of the friend’s wife, and
she knew what was expected of her. Ten-
derly she wrapped them in warm covering
and, when sufﬁciently revived, fed them be-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 112

Pet or Prisoner—Which 9

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

GREAT horned owl just missed being
A caught by the father of some stirring
children interested in all life, to the great
regret of the latter, who “wanted it as a
pet,” and to the relief of the mother, Who
foresaw that it would “never be anything
but a prisoner.” Owl nature has no aﬁec—
tion in its make-up. The bird may stand on
its perch quietly all day, yet it is never to
be trusted. Besides, who would want to
catch mice or rabbits for it to devour? And
who would relish being awakened in the
middle of the night by its loud “hoot?”
Surely it would never be anything but a
prisoner, and one with claws and beak al-
ways to be avoided.

A short time ago a whippoorwill with a
broken wing and other injuries was turned
over to the writer to care for as it “would
not eat” in the hands of its rescuers. It
was most interesting, its soft colors of
brown, black, and buff being protective to
a high degree. Its bill is too small to be of
much use in picking up food, but it has a
very large mouth stretching much beyond.
Its natural method of getting food is to ﬂy
through the air at dusk, its cagvernous
mouth, With bristles at the base which help
to entangle insects, enabling it easily to get
its supper on the wing.

But this habit made its feeding very difﬁ-
cult in our hands. Bread and milk forced
down were no more acceptable at the last
feeding than the ﬁrst. Egg seemed more
nourishing but not more attractive to the
bird. Dead insects it refused to touch. As
it migrates singly or in pairs, never in
ﬂocks, we hoped to get it into condition to
make the trip, even though removed several
miles from its mate. But September was
nearing its end, the limit for the summer
sojourn of this bird in our locality. It
proved to be mortally hurt; but it lived
long enough to show clearly that a whip-
poorwill could never be a pet or even be
happy out of its wild life.

On the other hand, a neighbor once had
a pet blue jay which seemed to fully enjoy
life, following her around the house as she
worked. Every night it repaired to its
perch in the loft but always came down for
breakfast with the family; and how it did
enjoy its diet of egg!

A motherless young woodchuck was hand
fed, and became so tame that it followed
its mistress about the house, as docile as a
puppy. It dearly loved cookies and was al-
ways ready for its share on baking day.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

In fall it disappeared, and all supposed that
they had seen the last of Chuck. One day
in the spring when its old friend was baking
cookies her little girl suddenly exclalmed,
“Look what’s coming.” In the open door-
way stood Chuck, emaciated, his nose.1n
midair snifﬁng at the delicious odor whlch
he evidently recognized.

Squirrels are interesting, yet a caged
squirrel is never so attractive as thosein
the park, which search the pockets of v1.s1—
tors for nuts, yet scurry away if one trles
to lay a hand on them, and at all tlmes
insisting upon making their own advances.
Surely children should be taught to think
twice in selecting a pet, whether it will
really prove a pet or just a prisoner.

Animals that Rule Islands

EWEN K. PATTERSON

WO of the queerest island kingdoms

in the world are a direct result of
man’s inhuman treatment of animals. One
is Raine Island, a lonely and isolated speck
about a square. mile in area, which lies
just outside the northern end of the Great
Barrier Reef of Australia. The island is
unique, for it is ruled by goats. These are
not ordinary goats, but are very extra-
ordinary animals, indeed.

About 100 years ago the British Navy
erected a lighthouse on the uninhabited
island, and at the same time placed there
a number of domesticated goats. These
were to provide fresh meat for any ship-
wrecked sailors who landed on the island,
but, fortunately, they were never used for
this purpose. Seventy years ago the light-
house was abandoned; the keepers were
recalled, but the poor goats were cruelly
left behind to their fate. As there were
no apparent means of support for them,
it was thought that they would die out.
But this inhuman treatment has had a re-
markable result.

The goats did not die out, as was eX-
pected. Instead they have multiplied great-
ly in numbers; there are now hundreds of
them, and although formerly harmless they
are now dangerous animals and rule the
island.

They live chieﬂy on the leaves of trees,
for, ludicrous though it may seem, they
have all developed tree-climbing tenden-
cies! It is by no means unusual to see the
animals perched on branches twenty feet
and more above the ground, contentedly
munching the foliage! Another remark-
able feature about the animals is that,
owing to the scarcity of fresh water on

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the cor orate ° ' ' “
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty topAnimaiig’e:Omﬁrgciglethsielzec’dgd
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
andAthatb it has no conihection with any other similar Societv. ,

ny equest especia y intended for the beneﬁt of the An ell M ' ° ° '
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Societygr for tﬁggitﬂeﬁghﬁadfléogdigy
to Animals ‘for the.use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Socxety and IS conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Societ for the Prev ' .
to The American Ht‘mane Education Sodiety), the sum I)??? .0.f. Cruelty to Animals (or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

July, 1935

the island, they have learned to drink sea-
water and thrive on it. They also eat
oysters and other shell—ﬁsh from the rocks
along the beaches. They break the shells
with their strong teeth and then suck out
the contents.

So far no man has ventured to challenge
the goats’ possession of the island. The
animals have absolutely no fear of human
beings; in fact, they regard man.as their
enemy, and under the direction of their
leader, a huge, old-man “billy,” they
ﬁercely attack and drive from the island
any visitors. A few years ago a ﬁsherman,
who was unaware of the ferocity of the
goats, landed on the island. Almost im-
mediately a mob of goats charged him and
before he could escape he was severely
injured by the animals, being permanently
crippled.

The inhuman treatment of animals has
had somewhat similar results on Juan de
Nova Island, in the Southern Indian Ocean,
which is ruled by dogs! The island has an
area of about two square miles, and its
only inhabitants are countless thousands of
dogs—dogs of all breeds, shapes, sizes, and
colors. The animals are all descendants of
dogs of many breeds that were purposely
left ashore to die when vessels in the old
sailing ship days used to call at the island
for fresh water.

But the, animals did not die; they have
multiplied and the island is now literally
alive with dogs. What the creatures live
on is a mystery. Very few birds visit the
island because of the presence of the dogs,
and no other animals are known to live
there. It is believed, however, that the
dogs catch ﬁsh, crabs, turtles, etc., and
that they have been compelled also to
adopt a vegetarian diet for an existence.

The animals have become very ferocious
towards man. The approach of a vessel
brings scores of them down to the water’s
edge, where: they stand howling and snarl-
ing deﬁance at would-be visitors. But no-
body has yet had sufﬁcient pluck to land
on the island for fear of being torn to
pieces. This would probably happen. On
one of the rocky beaches is the wreck of a
small unknown boat which crashed to her
doom on the island many years ago, and it
is believed that the survivors of this wreck
fell victims to the queer inhabitants.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood
Avenue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

.All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual 3510 C0
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’70

own use. In the winter of 1868 Comanche
with other horses made that icy swim
across the Arkansas river to serve in the
famous battle of the Washita where Black
Kettle was killed. An entire winter’s cam-
paign was exacted. On the homeward
march nearly all the mules died of starva-
tion so that the wagon trains were burned.
Comanche was in the parley near Red river
where Custer recovered two white women
from the Cheyennes. Then south to Ken-
tucky for two years attempting to break
up illicit distilleries. Then north to Da-
kota with thousands of miles of escort duty
for the International Boundary Survey
Commission. Winters were spent at Fort
Totten where the cold was intense.

In 1876 the regiment was called to Fort
Lincoln to advance against the Sioux in
Montana. Comanche was now 13, and reck—
oned too old for Indian. ﬁghting. The day
of the massacre of the ﬁve troops on the
Little Big Horn came. Comanche’s escape
lay in the fact that Custer dismounted two
troops at the junction of two ravines leav-
ing every fourth man holding his own horse
and four others. To this command Co-
manche owed his life for otherwise accom-
panying Keogh, he would have scrambled
to the knoll with the others and within two
hours have been killed.

Chief Gall and his warriors discovered
the horses hidden in the ravine. Comanche
escaped in the curtain of dust made by sev-
eral thousand Indians racing their ponies
like mad. His subsequent actions may be
pictured. Carrying the extra ammunition,
he had been trained to stay near his mas-
ter and thus made no attempt to escape the
conﬂict. Like a true soldier, Comanche
had not retreated for his many wounds
were in the fore part of his body. Blood
ﬂowed from his lungs, neck and shoulder.
The terrible dust like a pall formed a mud-
pack and gradually the bleeding stopped.
Among all the soldiers lying like gray
stones, he was the only living thing on that
blood-soaked battleground. Probably his
unbearable thirst drove him, stumbling
weakly over heaps of cartridge shells, to
water in a nearby ravine where he was
found two days later.

The soldiers were amazed that he lived
to walk the 15 miles to the boat on the
river and all predicted he could not with-
stand the thousand harrowing miles to Bis-
marck. But he did!

After his recovery he followed Troop I
for 11 years to many stations. The colonel
of the regiment, on account of misunder-
standings, was forced to pen a military or-
der, “—he will not be ridden by any per-
son whomsoever under any circumstances
nor will he be put to any kind of work.”

Comanche’s ﬁnal march was 500 miles to
Fort Meade, then 800 miles south to Fort
Riley, Kansas, where the ﬁnal days of his
28 years were at last lived in comfort.

He now stands mounted in a great glass
case in Lawrence, Kansas, where all who
admire faithfulness and fortitude can vis—
ualize it in the presence of a little buck-
skin horse.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-

'quest their local editors to republish.

Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Midget Melody Master

CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

HE best singers among birds are rarely
T beautiful. If a bird sings with glori-
ous melody, he will be heard by friends and
foes alike. Let a hawk hear him, and the
hawk will say to himself: “Now there’s a
juicy dinner.” So the hawk searches and
searches—but does he ﬁnd the tuneful fel-
low? No, the drab costume of the hunted
bird foils the marauder who cannot locate
him and therefore cannot catch him.

Probably every adult wren has had an
experience of this kind. Of course as soon
as he spies the hawk he prudently ceases
his song and scurries deeper into the under-
growth. He stays there quietly till the dan-
ger passes. But if he wore a colorful coat,
the story might end differently. Conse-
quently the wren is thankful both for his
musical ability and his lack of beauty.

A real thrill awaits the person who has
not yet discovered the wren. Some day he
will hear a lilting, enthusiastic, catchy,
stirring melody. The volume of those vi-
brant notes suggest a bird as large as a
robin or brown thrasher. One peers care-
fully into the branches, but detects nothing
that does not belong to the tree. If he is
persistent, however, he will locate a brown
sprite about ﬁve inches long. The wonder
of it all is how so much melody can emerge
from such a small body.

The nest may be close by. It may be in
that old stub where Mr. and Mrs. Wood-
pecker lived last year. The wren likes these
forsaken cavities, as they are cozy and free
from drafts. You may ﬁnd the nest in a
knot-hole or in some crevice about your own
house. Quite correctly named is the house
wren, for he likes houses and is not afraid
of people.

Proudly the wren carries himself with
head erect and tail perked upward, but
when he sings he lifts his beak toward the
sky while his tail droops decidedly down-

May, 1935

ward. He sings with such gusto that he
must surely consider himself the happiest
creature in the world; and he ﬂits about the
weeds, bushes and low trees with the agility
of a gymnast.

The home a wren prefers is one that man
has made for him. Tack up an old tin can,
and the wren may choose it. However, he
deserves better treatment. Build a little
house out of cigar-box wood with the en-
trance no larger than a quarter of a dollar
and fully half way up the front. A
perch is not necessary as sparrows will
alight there and pester the wrens. Though
the wren is a brave fellow, he and his wife
cannot successfully combat one or two dozen
sparrows. If you' wish to keep these melodi-
ous singers near, you must plan for them
so they can stay without having to wage a
constant war.

The mere presence of a cat will annoy
wrens immensely. If the male bird locates
a cat sleeping‘anywhere within ﬁfty yards
of the nest, he will scold by the hour. The
wren knows that the cat might climb up to
the nest and catch his mate or devour the
babies. Tack a large piece of tin well below
the wren home, and the birds will not be
molested by any feline raiders.

During the nesting period the husband hov-
ers nearby as. a guardian. When she leaves
to get something to eat he may go inside and
perhaps sit on the eggs till she returns.
Just before the babies come he begins feed-
ing his mate who stays constantly then on
her nest. Both parents feed their young.

What do wrens eat? Grasshoppers, beet-
les, caterpillars, bugs, cutworms, spiders,
weevils, ticks and plant lice. All are in-
jurious forms that greatly damage garden
or ﬁeld crops or both. The wrens damage
nothing. They are distinctly beneﬁcial to
man in their habits. Their tuneful melody
plus their preference for harmful insects
makes them truly desirable residents.

Birds in Late Winter

EDNAH F. B. PARKHURST

From a leaﬂess branch of the mulberry tree,

Swift as a dart, comes a Chickadee,

Like a bit of gray from the cloudy sky,

With a shining head and a glistening eye,

Across to the shelf of crumbs and seed

Outside of the window where he may feed.

The ground is covered with late, moist snow,

Through which the grasses of last year
show,

And in June pink roses climb on the stone

That today is a huge white-cushioned
throne.

With a seed the bird returns to the tree,

Where he picks out the kernel hungrily,

Then fearlessly flies again to the sill

And hurries away with food in his bill.

His Chickadee friends now follow his dare,

And nuthatches gather to take their share,

While the dainty ﬁnches arrive in ﬂocks

To lunch right there in the shallow box;

Some woodpeckers, ﬁnding suet to eat,

Keep nodding their heads when enjoying
the treat.

But the sky grows grayer, the night comes
on,—

The birds stop eating, and then are gone,

Scattered oﬁr to the woods and the hedge,

Andi dark descends on the window ledge,

A blue jay’s cry falling clear and shrill

As the rising wind blows over the hill.

 

 




 

 

 

 

\
l
1

July, 1935

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

DAVID A. BOLTON

HOWARD WILLAND

HARRY L. ALLEN
HARVEY R. FULLER

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec. .

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURRUSH, Treas.; MRS
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY AND

BRANCHES
Miles traveled by humane oﬁcers . 13,412
Cases investigated ............... 435
Animals examined ............... 5,119
Animals placed in homes . . ....... 53
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 23
Number of prosecutions .......... 4
Number of convictions ........... 3
Horses taken from work. . . . . . . . . . 41
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . . . 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,275

Stock-yards and abattoirs

Animals inspected. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 56,564
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
putto sleep...... ............. 36

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the will of George Harring-
ton of Winchester.

June 11, 1935.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

ANGELL‘ MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, V.M D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
R. EVANS, v.M.D.
. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

oammwm
bowwmq

 

m?

 

 

First Edition Sold

LONDON (AP) A ﬁrst edition of “Black
Beauty,” the horse story that has gripped
childish readers for half a century, brought
$110 at auction here. The book was writ-
ten by Anna Sewell in 1876.

Note: Its author sold her manuscript to
an English publisher for $100, and never
received another penny for her work. The
ﬁrst American edition of it was brought
out by Geo. T. Angell in 1890 and inside of
twenty years he had caused to be pub-
lished and circulated more than 2,000,000
coples.

Horses Will Get Relief

Eighteen thousand, ﬁve hundred and
eighty-seven times last summer the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A., at its watering sta-
tions in Boston, gave drinks to horses.
With between seven and eight thousand
horses in greater Boston and something
like forty-two thousand in the State, the
horse is still with us. The service will be
continued this summer and all contributions
for this work will be gratefully received.

Page 105

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

 

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 778 Cases 2,431
Dogs 608 Dogs 2,006
Cats 157 Cats 376
Birds 7 Birds 35
Horses 2 Rab-bits 6

. Rabbits 2 Horses 1
Sheep 2 Rat 1
FOX 1
Guinea Pig 1
Zebra 1
Goat 1
Operations 941 Monkey 1
Turtle 1
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 129,313
Dispensary Cases ............... 306,958
Total ........................ 436,271
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ........... 99
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 396
Operations _. ........................ 115

Auxiliary Annual Meeting

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. held its annual busi-
ness meeting and election of officers at
the Hotel Lenox, May 24. The President,
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, introduced
the guest speaker, Mr. Selden Allen,
chief of the Brookline Fire Department,
who spoke on “Fire Prevention.”

Officers elected were: Mrs. Edith Wash-
burn Clarke, president; Mrs. Arthur W.
Hurlburt, lst vice-president; Mrs. John
A. Jennings, 2nd vice-president; Mrs.
Charles C. Hoyt, recording secretary; Mrs.
William C. Bliss, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. A. J. Furbush, treasurer; and Mrs.
Agnes P. Fisher, chairman of the work
committee.

 

A GREATLY APPRECIATED GIFT

Two warm friends of our Society saw by our Annual Report that our Small
Animal Ambulance here in Boston had gone 67,000 miles. They wrote to know if
we did not need a new one. We answered that we were already planning for one.

The photograph of this generous gift is shown above.

Alas, we have two other

Small Animal Ambulances, one at Springﬁeld and one at Methuen, one of the
vintage of 1930 and one of 1931 which must soon be discarded. If any one would
like to replace either of these, the offer would be most gratefully accepted.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

June, 1935

Grouse of the Arctic
W. J. BANKS

HE only true grouse of the. Arctic,

the ptarmigans, have saved the lives
of many a traveler and native in the far
north. They are almost universally dis-
tribute-d throughout the Arctic regions} and
are the only game birds available for most
of the year. Peary, Gre-ely, Stefansson and
other noted explorers have at times found
in ptarmigan a welcome addition to dan-
gerously dwindling food supplies. But hap-
pily the numbers of the Arctic grouse are
too large to be reduced seriously by the
requirements of the scattered population
and few travelers. The Eskimos. hunt them
only when other food is scarce.

These interesting bird folk are the
fashion leaders of the northern feathered
world, and seem to spend most of their
time in altering their wardrobe to keep
abreast of the latest mode. Nature’s scheme
of protective coloring is highly developed
in the ptarmigan, and in their snow-white
winter plumage which covers even the legs
and feet they blend perfectly with the
great white world. The dark summer plu-
mage comes gradually as the snow melts.
During the transition periods no two birds
are alike, all being pied and mottled in
the most bizarre patterns. The short
Arctic summer decrees that the dark brown
and black plumage has not been worn for
many weeks before the ﬁrst signs of a
change back to white appear.

The willow ptarmigan is a little heavier,
and boasts a larger bill than the allied rock
variety, whose range is the more northerly
of the two. But both are common to many
regions and are often seen together. The
male bird stands guard while his mate is
nesting and warns her on the approach of
danger. The mother bird thus has time to
ﬂy up some distance from where the nest
is hidden, so that few nests are found
unless stumbled upon by chance, in which
case the hen will remain without stirring
until almost stepped upon.

Willow buds and leaves and the wild
berries of the north supply the ptarmigan’s
chief items of diet.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Useful Turkey Vulture

MARJORIE TERHUNE

In Bergen Evening Record, New Jersey

UT into the country we see our large,
graceful turkey vultures soaring
overhead, casting shadows, like clouds on
the ground below, no land bird in this
country is comparable to it in matter of
grace and majesty of movement while in
the air, with scarcely a wing—beat it sails
serenely on its way, searching the ﬁelds and
pastures for food.

Vultures are engaged in the useful occu-
pation of scavengers disposing of garbage
and carrion of the ﬁelds, which would
otherwise taint the atmosphere. Fresh meat
has little if any attraction for these birds,
their preference is ﬂesh sufﬁciently putrid
and in their constant search for food they
prevent many breeding places for trouble-
some insects.

Turkey vultures, commonly known as the
“buzzards” are very large birds, with color-
ing of blackish brown, head and neck naked
and red, is of livid crimson to pale cinna-
mon. There has been much discussion
throughout the years as to whether the buz-
zard ﬁnds its food by sight or by sense of
smell, various experiments have been un-
dertaken with the view of determining this
fact. It is today a generally accepted the-
ory that the eye of the bird leads it to its
prey.

Amidst the quarrels and cruelties of
other birds, the buzzard sails silently on its
way, molested by none, since it attacks
none, it makes no enemies. The youngest
chickens in the barnyard show no alarm
when he alights in their midst. He will not
molest them.

Without exerting themselves to form a
nest, the vultures seek out a secluded
swamp, and deposit in a rotted stump, or
wherever necessity presents itself, the one
to three dull white, yellowish or pinkish
eggs which are spotted with chocolate
brown. The naked young are soon covered
with white down, hence the old homely ex-
pression, “Every old buzzard thinks her
young the whitest.” At the age of four
weeks black wing-feathers begin to appear,
from eight to ten weeks are passed in and

 

WILLOW PTARMIGAN AT CAMP KUNGOVIK, BAFFIN ISLAND

Page 87

about the nest before the young are able to
ﬂy.

Turkey vultures at times anticipate the
death of an animal and gather about it
waiting for the appointed hour. It is said
that forest rangers have gone to the loca-
tion when they have seen a group of these-
birds soaring in spirals over the trees and
found there wounded deer and other ani-
mals.

Few except scientists, care to make a
close study of the vulture’s nesting habits,
for while approaching the nest, a few hisses
usually accompany a peace offering con—
sisting of a portion of her last meal, which
she humbly lays at your feet. This is the
only evidence of distress any of them may
exhibit; their defense is most offensive.

Although in no sense gregarious by day,
except when the common interest of food
discovered brings them together, turkey
vultures dearly love to come together at
night to roost. When evening approaches,
the birds, one after another are seen ﬂying
toward their favorite perches in the trees,
preferably dead ones, and settling, with
much ﬂapping of the wings on the middle
branches; then stretching and walking along
the roost like a turkey each bird arrives at
its chosen spot. It then hisses, grunts and
blows through its nostrils at the. next ar—
rival, whose additional weight frequently
snaps the dead branch and therefore com-
pels a number of buzzards to repeat the
prolonged process of settling again to sleep.

The Web

NORA HUNTER

I watched a spindly spider weave his web
with patient care,

And thought how very slender was the net
he fashioned there.

He wove in rhythmic circles from the center
to the rim,

And wrought a thing of beauty, very
delicate and trim.

But when the morning dew-drops made it
sparkling, ﬁlmy lace,

I thought I never saw a ﬁner masterpiece of
grace.

I passed that way at noonda-y and I saw to
my dismay

This gem of striking sculpture was a snare
to trap the gay,

For that voracious spider held a ﬂy with
cruel claws,

Ensnared among the net-work of his silken
mesh of gauze.

And, as I walked, I pondered o’er the thing
that I had seen

And asked myself with wonder what this
spectacle could mean.

With suddenness of lightning was its import
o’er me ﬂashed.

The startling revelation made me stand
there quite abashed,

For many beckoning pleasures with a
questionable phase

Had coaxed me to enjoy them and be lured
within their maze.

But now I saw with horror why this spark-
ling web was wrought,

And thanked the spindly spider for the
lesson he had taught.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 22

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Let’s Multiply Wild Life Sanctuaries

WALTER A. DYER

that the Massachusetts State Grange is

contemplating the establishment of
wild-life sanctuaries on a fairly large scale,
and that certain Women’s Clubs and Garden
Clubs are taking steps in that direction, but
I wonder how many people know what a
relatively simple matter it is to establish a
wild-life sanctuary on any private property.
Of course, the larger the tract you own,
and the more fully wooded and natural it
is, the better, but the only essentials are
posting and protection. The wild life will
do the rest.

I have posted my own woodlot, which is
only about ten acres in extent, and presto!
it has become a wild-life sanctuary. Rab-
bits and squirrels inhabit it, and doubtless
other four-footed creatures that I seldom
see, and grouse and quail and woodcock
nest there. It is astonishing how soon
wild creatures learn where they can take
refuge from hunters. My chief difﬁculty
is in enforcing the no-trespass prohibition
while we are away in the winter. The last
time we walked through our nature trail,
just before Christmas, I regret to say we
picked up an empty shotgun shell. How—
ever, the mere posting of signs is a deter-
rent. And what a pleasure it is to own a
bit of inhabited wilderness!

Many such small sanctuaries will help,
but much more can be accomplished by
property-owning institutions, if their in—
terest can be aroused. Phillips Academy at
Andover has a splendid wild-life sanctuary,
and now one is being developed by Am-
herst College.

A 60—acre forest tract was acquired by
the College some years ago in accordance
with its policy of purchasing land adjoin-
ing the campus for possible future expan—
sion. The land remained idle and uncared
for until the fall of 1932, when Treasurer
Charles A. Andrews suggested clearing it
in order to enhance its value and to give
employment to needy students and to local
citizens on the welfare list. The prelim—
inary trimming of trees, cutting of under-
brush, and elimination of worthless vegeta-
tion revealed the fact that the tract in-
cluded a noteworthy number of the plants
and trees indigenous to the region and
formed a natural arboretum of more than
ordinary value. Brooks ran through the
woods and both dry and swamp ground is
to be found there.

Prof. Alfred S. Goodale of the botany
department was placed in charge of the
work and, as it developed, the educational
and recreational value of the forest became
apparent. Gradually Professor Goodale,
who had had long experience with Boy
Scouts, conceived the idea of converting it
into a wild-life sanctuary.

Last fall the acceptance of FERA funds
made it possible to employ thirty students
in need of ﬁnancial assistance, and these
boys have not only been enjoying a health-
ful outdoor occupation but have developed
an intelligent interest in the educational
aspects of the project. The ﬁeld work is
being conducted under the, direction of
Professor Goodale’s assistant, one of his
former Scouts, Walter C. Markert.

[[T IS interesting and encouraging to know

Ground conditions have been improved
throughout the tract. The brook has been
cleaned out and dammed, producing two
pools for aquatic plant and animal life.
Some 3,500 new trees have been set, in-
cluding white pine, red pine, spruce, and
balsam. Diseased birches and poplars will
be cut down and replaced with hemlocks.
The rarer deciduous trees have been culti-
vated and have been given a chance at the
sunshine. Plans for the further develop-
ment of the tract include the planting of
more trees and ﬂowering shrubs, and it is
expected that with the improvement of
ground conditions the number and variety
of wild ﬂowers will increase.

Thus the College will have a living labor-
atory for botanical and zoological study
within ﬁfteen minutes’ walk of the main
laboratories on the campus. The tract will
also furnish an experimental ground for the
study and control of fungous diseases and
insect pests.

But that is not all. With further im-
provement of the drainage, preservation of
covers, and laying out of nature trails, it
is believed that bird and animal life will
increase in the woods. Grouse, pheasant,
and quail breed here, squirrels are plenti-
ful, rabbits will increase, and foxes may
possibly come. The pools will oﬁer a home
for muskrats and mink. A deer has occa—
sionally been seen. Nut-bearing trees and
berry-bearing shrubs will be planted, and
the birds are being fed this winter.

Visitors who are willing to co-operate in
preserving the wild life in the sanctuary
will be welcome with few restrictions. Fire-
arms, traps, and snares are, of course, for-
bidden, and ﬁres will not be allowed. It
may also be necessary to frame rules
against the picking of wild ﬂowers. Boy
and Girl Scouts will be invited to make use
of the sanctuary for their nature study,
and a gang of neighboring boys, who have
long had a camping-out shack near the
edge of the woods, will not be disturbed so
long as they obey the regulations.

The educational value of this tract will
not be conﬁned to the students of Amherst
College. It will furnish a living example
of what can be done in the way of protect-
ing and preserving wild animal and bird
life, and an object lesson to boys and girls
who have never learned at home, perhaps,
that deer and rabbits and game birds exist
for any other purpose than to be shot and
trapped.

I 0
0

To be popular at home is a great achieve-
ment. The man who is loved by the house
cat, by the dog, by the neighbors’ children,
and by his own wife is a great man, even
if he never had his name in “Who’s Who.”

THOMAS DRE'IER

I have found that those who love

A dog, a cat, a bird and ﬂowers,
Are usually thoughtful of

The larger needs that may be ours;
TV ho for God’s creatures small will plan,
Will seldom wrong his fellowman.

EDGAR A. GUEST

Feb. 198-5

 

An Efficient Rc-forcstcr

CONRAD O. PETERSON

ORESTERS, with the assistance of

young men of the Conservation Corps,
are busily planting and nursing new
forests of young pines. The seeds which
give life to the young pines are found in
the seed cones suspended on the brittle
branches high in the crowns of seed-bearing
pines. Finding it difﬁcult to gather these
cones without damage to the limbs of the
pines, the foresters, enlisted the aid of the
squirrel.

The pine cone is greatly relished as winter
food by the squirrel, who harvests them
when the seeds are prime. This they do by
cutting the cones down and then gathering
them in heaps around the base of the tree,
before caching them for future use. The
foresters then cart away the cones and
leave other grains in their place. In this
way the squirrel still has his food supply
and the tree nurserymen get enough to
supply the tremendous demand for pine
tree seeds.

The once great pine forests so abundant
in the years gone by have almost dis-
appeared, which may be the reason fewer
red squirrels are now seen. With the pine
trees coming back the squirrels may come

back too.
Ca gcd

O useless, flutt’ring wings that strive in
vain!
Poor thwarted spirit, lordling 0f the air—
Sweet child of royal freedom, born to reign
Amid the skies we earth—bound hardly
dare—
Alas, the sun mourns for thy prisoned grace,
The wind grieves, lacking thy swift
flight; the stars,
Aflame with pitying anger, cry through
space,
“Beat out thy life against the hideous
bars!”

—Cinquefoil, Melbourne

 




 

 

 

Afar. 1935

nearly blind, and toothless. But for many
years he had been Shorty’s lead-dog. To-
gether they had followed one gold stam-
pede after another, faced death on river
and tundra. Now their trail days were
over —— both man’s and dog’s. Shorty ran
a species of road house on the river; Mur-
phy was pensioned to a life of ease. Every
day Shorty cooked rolled oats and salt sal-
mon for him —— soft foods that did not call
for teeth. He lay on a deer-hide beside the
stove, rumbling uneasily of the lusty days
of his youth, while Shorty stepped carefully
over and around him.

Murphy’s master couldn’t possibly be as
crochety as he would have us believe, we
privately decided. And so it proved. Un-
der the mellowing inﬂuence of stories of
Murphy and of early days, he thawed re-
luctantly and, in an amazingly short time
had set before us a savory stew of rein-
deer with blueberry preserves and delicious
light bread of his own making.

Murphy’s status is not unique. In every
cabin along our route of travel we found
some favorite sled dog enjoying special
privileges in his master’s cabin while the
rest of the team were comfortably housed
outside. Usually some rangy, battle-scarred
leader of former days, these inmates of the
cabins. Of all breeds, pure and mixed
strains, imported from the States for spe-
cial qualities of speed, endurance, or intel—
ligence. But now, time has leveled them all
to the same status. Pensioners!

Open thy lips and speak,
Protect the dumb and weak
Their cause maintain.
Why should we them abuse?
Why these kind friends misuse?
0! let us never choose
To cause them pain.

 

 

“ Dodi,” Aberdeen Terrier

This perky puppy belongs to Ishbel Mac-
donald, daughter of Ramsay Macdonald,
Prime Minister of Great Britain. He ac-
companied Miss Macdonald and her father
on their trip to Canada and Newfoundland
last summer, sailing with them on the
H. M. S., “Dragon.” A regular little sea-
dog was “Dodi” at four months old. The
photograph was taken by Gertrude W.
Smythe.

‘operation of law.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
Red-Eyed Vireo

HE range of the red-eyed

vireo in the United States
is restricted in general to the
territory east of the Rocky Moun-
tains; in Canada, it is practic-
ally transcontinental, with Great
Slave Lake in the Mackenzie
region approximately its northern
limit. In migration the red-eye
is reported as far south as Brazil,
according to a bulletin of the
United States Department of Agri-
culture.

When the mating season arrives,
from the middle of May to the last
of June, the nest is started in a
convenient fork of a branch, often
near the ground; and, when ﬁne
ished, this is suspended by the rim
rather than supported from below.
The nest is a trim affair, about the
size: of a. small teacup, woven of
ﬁbrous matter, among which are
such substances as bits of birch
bark, grapevine bark, or ﬂax.

Practically six-sevenths of the
food consumed by the red-eye is
of animal origin, and very nearly
all of it is insects. The remainder
is composed of the small snails
that are found more or less fre-
quently on leaves and grass.

 

Page 39

 

RED-EYED VIREO ON ITS BEAUTIFUL

HANGING NEST

 

Thoughts from the Past

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HE bill introduced into the British

Parliament over one hundred years
ago by Richard Martin, member from Gal-
way, and designed for the protection of
dumb animals, inspired Christopher North
to pen these signiﬁcant thoughts:

“It is not possible to deﬁne cruelty to
animals so as to bring it within the salutary
I much question the
efﬁcacy of law to protect the inferior crea-
tion against the human. Let that protection
be found in the moral indignation of the
people.”

Written over a century ago, these words
of the famed Scottish writer are equally
true today. Particularly the latter sentence
which is the most expressive, summing up
as it does all that might be written on the
subject of the protection of our dumb ani—
mals from human cruelties, thoughtlessness
and carelessness.

Not that North decried the value of such
legislation. Rather that he believed in the
force of public opinion and the proper edu-
cation of the people to a better apprecia-
tion of the rights of dumb animals as a
more potent factor than any statutes that
might be written into the laws of the land.

Again he wrote: “I know nothing about
legislation. But I do know something about
humanity — and cruelty to the dumb crea-
tion is practical blasphemy, and will not go
unpunished. Habits of cruelty terminate
almost of necessity in atrocious crimes. The
carter who brutally ﬂogs his horse will beat
his wife.”

Is not that equally true today, as it was
one hundred years ago? Few thoughts up-
on this subject are more expressive, or
more direct in their tone and implication.

The Deadly Oil

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

Beautiful strong wings,
Made to cleave the sky,

Swift and joyous things—
There they lie!

Fair, and ﬁne, and fleet,
Where man has not trod

These all “seek their meat”
Still “from God”!

Yet man’s careless greed
Leaves its loathsome trail!

Help to serve their need?
What avail?

If men could but see,
If they could but feel,
These things could not be!
They would kneel

By their victims weak
0f their blinded greed,

Misery would speak—
They would heed!

“Law alone can ﬁght
This mad, tragic waste”
Swiftly let it smite—
Haste, oh, haste!

Most attractive birds in the West Indies
are the humming-birds. I had never seen
them on the wing before. You will catch
a glimpse of them in any garden, by any
wayside, darting to and fro in the sun-
shine, dainty as a ﬂower, the light glinting
on feathers that are blue and green and
bronze and golden. They are like living
opals. OWEN RUTTER

 

 

 

 

v. ‘ww ~44».— ~_—_mmﬂ—
_‘. Am A- _ ‘ ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

l4pr.1935

Our Branch in Chicago

The New President Reports on Activities

of Humane Education Society

HE Chicago Humane Education So-

ciety, which did such effective work
under its late president, Mrs. Charlotte L.
Hunt, has been re-organized and is here-
after to be known as the Illinois Branch of
the American Humane Education Society.
Mrs. E. C. Dow, who succeeded Mrs. Hunt,
writes:

The last report of this organization was
read by Mrs. Hunt, our loved leader, who
died May 29, 1934. Her real monument is
the municipal dog pound, but a memorial
fountain was dedicated to her memory
September 29, in the reception room at
the pound.

A report was made to the organization
of bull-ﬁghts being planned at Riverview
Park, commencing June 29. Letters and
wires were sent to humane societies
throughout the country, and to local ofﬁ-
cials. Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin did much
work on this. The Anti-Cruelty Society be—
came interested, and decided to ﬁnance
legal proceedings. With Mrs. Baldwin I sat
through one performance. The matadors
were arrested and, after a continuance,
despite strong political pressure, Judge
Hasten, July 11, stated there would be no
bull-ﬁghting in Illinois. This was. the be-
ginning of an attempt to bring real bull—
ﬁghts into this country, with 400 Mexican
bulls and Sidney Franklin.

The Century of Progress brought much
animal exploitation. The Standard Oil so-
called wild animal act was bitterly opposed
by humane organizations throughout the
country, but it went on, even after King
was wounded. Permission was obtained for
a humane committee of ﬁve to visit the
ground and concessions at any time. We
were not able to eliminate the animal acts,
butundoubtedly did better conditions for
them. Smith’s Diving Ponies, which has
been opposed in many cities, was canceled
because of the strong protest sent in.
Abandoned animals from the concessions
are still being picked up.

Conferences have been held with the
ofﬁcers of the Institute of American Meat
Packers. It is now stated that humane kill-
ing will be installed shortly, due to eco-
nomic pressure, the captive-bolt, an Eng-
lish device, being adopted for use, and a
conveyer system installed for hog slaugh-
ter. Protest against the freezing to death
of 1,500 lambs in transit—through gross
negligence—to Washington has resulted in
an investigation to improve methods of
transit and prevent a repetition of similar
suffering. Some supervision was made at
the Chicago Stock-yards during the strike,
and letters sent to all Governors of states
where drought prevailed, pleading for a
humane death for starving cattle.

Mrs. Dorothy Krahl, vice-president of
the Chicago Humane Education Society and
state chairman for the Illinois Congress of
Parents and Teachers, has accomplished
ﬁne work in the schools, with a View to
lessening youthful crime by the scrapping
of dangerous toys. Mrs. Toomim, spon-
sored by the American Humane Education
Society of Boston, is doing equally ﬁne

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

HUMANE EDUCATION EXHIBIT OF STATE PARENT-TEACHER CONVEN-
TION AT COVINGTON, TENNESSEE

 

work in the city schools, forming Junior
Humane Leagues in every school where she
Speaks.

Waco Clubs of Many Names

From Miss Kate Friend, secretary of the
Texas Humane Society, we learn that down
in Waco, Texas, humane clubs among the
school children, white and colored, are very
active. Under their own adopted names
there are the “Pal Club,” the “Chum Club,”
the “Kindness Klub,” the “Band of Mercy,”
the “Bird Lovers,” and the “Bird Trailers.”

The National Parent-Teacher organiza-
tion is now stressing the humane education
program for children. As their recognition,
the local Humane Society of Waco ar-
ranged for a series of ten broadcasts. ‘Each
week, a ﬁfteen minute program is on the
air, presented entirely by the children in
the humane education group of its school.
Mothers all over the city tune in; teachers
open the school radios. The event is of
such widespread interest that one father
listened from an adjoining state. The hu-
mane pledge opens each program. Consid-
erable rivalry has arisen among the schools,
so variety has given the public at large a
review of what a child’s humane group
means. As by-product, the. local broad-
caster says he has discovered material
which he will encourage as this promises a
profession later in life.

Character is nature in the highest form.
It is of no use to ape it, or to contend with
it. Men of character are the conscience of
the society to which they belong. Character
is this moral order seen through the medium
of an individual nature. Rectitude is a
perpetual victory. EMERSON

The cattle are very glad of a great tree.
They chew the cud beneath it while the
sun is burning, and there the panting sheep
lie down around their shepherd. VAN DYCK

Tennessee P. T. A. Meeting

E greatly regret that, in common

with several other timely features,
the picture on this page was delayed publi-
cation because of the pressure on our space
by our annual report in recent previous
issues. The Parent-Teacher Association of
Tennessee is to be congratulated upon such
a ﬁne humane~ educational exhibit as that
held during its convention in Covington,
November 7 to 9 last. We are glad to pre-
sent here a ﬁne photograph of it, showing
the president and her chairmen of im-
portant committees, as follows (reading
from right to left): Mrs. George Oldham,
Knoxville, president; Mrs. Eldran Rogers,
Memphis, legislation; Mrs. Herman Ferger,
Chattanooga, budget; Mrs. E. W. Hale,
Whitehaven, student loans and scholar-
ships; Mrs. Eugene Crutcher, Nashville,
Founders’ Day; and Mrs. J. Thomas
Haynes, Medon, humane education.

The Tale of Two Cats

Writing to the magazine of the Animal
Welfare League, of Victoria (Australia),
Maud Walsoe of South Yarra relates this
unusual happening:

People say cats have less affection than
dogs and that they are attached to places
rather than to people. I have not found it
so. When I was packing to go to England
my two cats, “Pongo” and “Santiago de
Cuba,” seemed to know that more than a
mere trip to Melbourne was in the air. They
each chose a cabin trunk and got into it,
and each time they were lifted out they
watched their chance and got in again.
When I had gone both cats disappeared.
My mother thought they must be dead, and
did not tell me for fear of grieving me. But
the day I returned, after a year’s absence,
they were both there waiting on the front
doorstep to greet me as I drove up.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 81;

At the Rodeo
ELAINE GOODRIDGE HOWARD

Wild from the range, down to the strange
Haunts of men I am brought. ‘
They bridle and saddle me, cowboy a—straddle

me,
By their wiles I am caught.

Free as the air, without fetter or snare
I once roamed at my will.

Now I am fast. Man has me at last.
I obey and am still.

The rope tightens quickly, my breath comes
more thickly,
They cover my eyes.
Panting and quivering,
shivering
I now cannot rise.

straining and

Blinded, I try to rise and to fly,
But a bite on my ear .
Holds me again on the ground, and the pain
Makes me tremble with fear.

That’s over at last, and the saddle is cast
On my back while I shake .
They tighten the cinch so hard that I flinch

At each pull that they make.

Now we are ready, “Whoa, pony, be steady!”
The cowboy is on.
“Let ’er go! Let ’er buck!” cry the people,
“Good luck!”
Like a ﬂash we are gone.

Then it’s my turn. That cowboy I spurn.
With a leap and a bound

Right over my head I ﬂing him, half dead,
With his face on the ground.

Oh, to ﬂee to the range, away from the
strange
Haunts of men as before.
Ne’er again would they ﬁnd me, the world
left behind me,
Free, free evermore!

But gone is all hope, for quick comes the
rope,
My neck it holds tight.
Broken, beaten and cowed, I am led past the
crowd,
A slave in their sight.

 

JACK LONDON SAID:

“Let all humans inform themselves
of the inevitable and eternal cruelty
by the means of which only can ani-
mals be compelled to perform before
revenue-paying audiences. Show the
management that such turns are un-
popular, and in a day, in an instant,
the management will cease catering
such turns to its audiences.”

Do you know that since 1918, when
the Jack London Club started, 641,-
808 persons in this country have
joined as a protest against this form
of cruelty? Send your name and ad-
dress today for full information to
The Jack London Club, 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1935

Texas Longhorns

SALLIE MORRIS SIMPSON

NE of the most highly prized herds of
Q cattle in the world is that of the

Texas Longhorns now in, sanctuary
in the Wichita National Forest and Game
Preserve in Oklahoma. Numbering approx1-
mately 100 cows, steers, bulls, and calves,
the herd has now reached the
desired goal in numbers and
surplus cattle may now be
disposed of from time to time
to lovers of the old-time breed
and the things it stands for.

The Longhorns’ trail is
etched deep in the history of
the Southwest. They were
ﬁrst brought over here by the
Spaniards in 1521 and, as the
climate and range conditions
here were especially suited to
their growth and development,
the cattle increased until in
the days following the Civil
War millions of them roved
the wild plains of Texas and
the country all around there-
about. From the Gulf of
Mexico to Canada this hardy
breed pushed the Indian and
the buffalo back until the
Whole country was theirs.
They were the foundation in-
dustry of the great new coun-
try, and story and song today
record the romance of the
cattle business that grew up

that would violate the privacy of their
sanctuary there. Long of leg, lean of
thigh, a spreading expanse of horn, the old
Longhorn today is one of the most inter-
esting species of animal life preserved by
the government.

 

THE GOVERNMENT MAINTAINS A HERD OF
100 LONGHORNS IN OKLAHOMA IN AN EFFORT
TO SAVE THE BREED FROM EXTINCTION

 

because of their abundance.

But things changed with the progress

of civilization. The. long horns of the
cattle that often reached a spread of eight
feet were hindrances and the long legs
that carried them over the trails to market
were not needed with the introduction
of railroad cars. Before lovers of the
breed hardly realized what had happened,
the short, stocky, shorthorn had supplant-
ed the Longhorn in favor and he threat-
ened to go the way of the buffalo, the elk,
and the antelope that had disappeared
from the plains with the coming of
settlements.

After years of delay, Congress ﬁnally
appropriated a small sum of money in 1927
to buy a foundation herd of these Long-
horns to put on the Game Preserve in the
Wichita National Forest to prevent the
breed from becoming extinct as such.
It was only after months of search that
20 head were gathered together in South
Texas and Northern Mexico in that year
and trailed into the forest to be taken
care of by the forest supervisor, Harry
H. French. He was very much inter-
ested _in this herd and much credit is
due him today for the herd that has been
built.

The cattle were placed in a pasture to
themselves and left to live in very much
the same condition that they did when
grass waved three feet high over the fer-
tile plains of Texas. They are never fed
unless grass gets too short in the winter
and a high Longhorn fence shuts therrl
away from the world and prying eyes

Beavers and Forest Fires
JOHN P. DINNENY

T is now an accepted belief of rangers

and other forest authorities that bea-
vers help to prevent forest ﬁres. When-
ever logging companies move into a virgin
forest they employ hunters to clear the
streams of these busy animals. Their nu-
merous dams regulate't‘he- ﬂow of waters in
the region with the result that the sur-
rounding lands retain sufﬁcient moisture to
check the easy outbreak of ﬁres. With the
extinction of the beavers and their dams
the waterways gradually dry up. The dead-
wood and brush, left by the logging com-
pany when it moves on, become dry as
tinder, easily ignited.

A case in point is that of a virgin terri-
tory in northern Saskatchewan. With the
appearance of the mill company the bea-
vers disappeared. A million feet of lumber
were sent out of the region every twenty—
four hours. Due to the absence of dams
the streams dried up; so did the dead-wood.
A ﬁre broke out, destroying the mill and.
much of the remaining forests. In con-~
trast is an adjacent heavily wooded area,
where the beaver still holds forth. It is.
green; the streams are well stocked with
ﬁsh, the forests with woodland creatures.
But presumably it won’t be long before
man sets his clammy hand over it.

Remember the great need of all animals
for plenty of water in hot weather.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 68

game destruction. The killers have been
(gged on by the inventors and makers of
those awful repeating shot-guns, by extra-
powerful gun powder. by “choke bores,”
“magazine extension,” the “sneak-boxes,”
“blinds,” the deadly automobiles and the
wage-eager guides.

And latterly, there have come the “com-
mercial” club, the permanent “gun-pit,” the
“live decoy” lure, and the “baiting” of
shooting waters and lands with grain to
lure hungry ducks and geese into shooting
range so close that “it is impossible to
miss.”

And believe me, the hand of big business,
backed by $500,000,000 of capital, also has
borne heavily upon the wild ﬂocks. From
the Canadian line to the shores of the Gulf
of Mexico, the incoming ﬂocks, fresh from
their breeding grounds in Canada, are bom-
barded from October 1 to January 1; and it
is hell for the waterfowl.

I think the American people do not ade-
quately estimate the hard-hearted and sav—
age spirit of the average American hunter,
and his lust for wild blood. Let me give
you a ﬂash from the latest and newest spot-
light on the American seasoned sportsman,
or “hunter,” or “game-hog,” or whatever
else you choose to call him.

Some large measures of relief have been
insistently demanded of our federal gov-
ernment, at the hands of Mr. Darling, Sec-
retary Wallace and the President. And then,
instead of that, the ducks got it (in the
neck) in the famous “Duck Stamp Tax” bill,
of $1.00 per hunter. Those stamps. were
counted! We now know how many men
have been mean enough to hunt and kill
drought—stricken and half-starved ducks!
Surely the number doing so should be
mighty small! You know, hunters are “so
interested in preserving their Birds,” etc.

At the recent Game Conference, Chief
Darling triumphantly announced that the
number of stamp duck hunters last year, as
reported up to that date, was 504,000!
Over half a million!!!

And now consider the following bald
record of events of these last days of the
waterfowl of North America.

In 1923 a seven-years’ ﬁght for lower
bag limits on waterfowl was started. In
1930 it began to bear fruit, and in 1930,
’32 and ’33 important reductions in killing
privileges were made. The Army of De-
struction reached its highest point (nearly
7,000,000 licensed hunters) in 1929—just
when the present “greatest drought” set in
throughout a vast area of the United States
and Canada.

In order to avoid a total stoppage of
hunting, all the conservers of game, and
many sportsmen, proposed and begged for
a stoppage of four bad practices in hunting.
They were: baiting game to kill it, the
treacherous use of live-decoy ducks and
geese, the sale of game in “commercial”
clubs, and a reduction of the annual open
season to thirty days only.

In 1933 President Roosevelt granted none
of those reforms!

But Chief Darling would not propose any
worth-while reforms in game killing. On
the contrary, he presented to the killers his
vicious scheme of “staggered rest days,”
and three and a half months of “open sea-
son.” And of course President Roosevelt

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

May, 1935

Playful Bears

EARLE W.

bear, is the biggest kind of practical
joker and the most friendly fellow. A
genial chap, too, or so it seems to the mil-
lions of visitors to the great parks and
reserves that have been set aside to pre-

HN his own backyard, Bruin, the black

GAGE

enough to please the cautious mother, she
returns and gives them a good spanking or
cufﬁng, as would any mother.

The furry, sharp-nosed play-boys oft-
times may be seen staging a real boxing
match, as a pair of the. cubs standing on

 

 

MK

FRIENDLY B‘EARS IN JASPER NATIONAL PARK

serve forest and wild life, common play-
grounds for lovers of Nature and for Bruin
and his pals of the wildwood.

Within the conﬁnes of the vast park
system, Mr. and Mrs. Bruin, and all their
little Bruins, possess no fear and share
with visitors the beauty of the place. In
such places as Jasper National Park, Can-
ada, or the Yellowstone of the West, the
antics of the amicable bears have proved
a source of great amusement to guests.
Here we see the bear as an overgrown
play-boy, with a sense of humor. But
when Mother Bear is protecting her little
brood, whether two or five cubs, she is
an animal to leave alone. Make a move
toward those cubs and she will quickly
show her resentment.

The sight of the mother and her cubs
is worth going miles to see. Usually she
goes ahead down the trail, permitting the
cubs to follow only when she has made
certain that it is safe. Unafraid and
anxious to explore, more than once the
little cubs hurry after her. Usually a
glance back over her shoulder is sufficient
to warn them to “stay put” and they
scramble back of a tree, to peer after their
mother. But if their retreat is not soon

their hind feet, cuff each other’s faces.

Each morning at nine o’clock an old
black bear wanders across the first fair—
way at Jasper Park Lodge, for no other
reason than to indulge in the cooling com-
fort of a shower. A pipeline borders the
green; the brightly burnished taps are at
intervals for sprinkling. The sly old bear
soon solved the mystery of these taps.
Walking straight to her favorite spot, she
pounds at the tap until the water is turned
on, and then she proceeds to enjoy fifteen
minutes of real sport in the center of the
spouting water.

One day, while several bears where gam-
bolling on the green, a greenkeeper picked
up a heavy water hose. and started pulling
it to a new location. It was a heavy pull
and, to his amazement, one of the bears
rushed to his assistance, picked up the hose
and putting his weight to the task, helped
to move it at a greater rate of speed.

The best part of these amusing happen-
ings is that Bruin seems to get a real
laugh out of his pranks. You can actually
see a wide smile spread across his solemn
countenance and, when he draws a laugh

from his human friends, he is as happy as
a child.

 

took no independent initiative in behalf of
drought-stricken and vanishing game.

January 23, 1935, in the largest Ameri-
can Game Conference ever held, after many
facts and a long discussion of “duck
scarcity,” “decrease,” “drastic measures,”
and strong demands for “no shooting in
1935,” with its same old cowardice the
whole Conference voted to pass the buck,
and leave everything to an already delin-
quent Biological Survey.

And then Chairman Hoyes Lloyd, of the

Canadian Department of Agriculture, did
a wise and courageous thing. Against op-
position, he forced that Conference to vote
“aye” or “no” on the question of “no shoot-
ing in 1935.” The vote was 38 to 22‘
against any stoppage of shooting. Yes; it.
was cowardly, short-sighted and extermina-
tory. And we fear that the Young-Man—

Afraid-of-His-Horses will now accept the

acts of that Conference as his all-sufﬁcient

mandate to let shooting go on “as is.”
March, 1935

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 110

El}? iﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to ever“r person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pre51dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy llterature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and twenty-one new
Bands of Mercy were reported during May.
Of these 230 were in Massachusetts, 201
in Georgia, 134 in Texas, 133 in Illinois,
62 in Virginia, 58 in South Carolina, two
in Florida, and one in Wisconsin.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 210,435.

We have received a report of a Band. of
Mercy organized in the School for the Bllnd
at J anesville, Wis. The original letter came
to us in braille, and a number of the children

signed the pledge in braille.

A Canine Cartoon
HARRY t. KINNE

We have a little mongrel dog,
Whose ancestry is lost in fog.

He’s everything he shouldn’t be—

A creature strange as you may see.

Assembled without help of arts,
A heterogeneous bunch of parts,
Put together all too soon;

A badly made, canine cartoon.

The family all must wait on him,
And rush at risk of life and limb,
As just outside the door he stands
And loudly voices his commands.

In his brown eyes there beams a love
Reﬂected straight from Heaven above.
His little life he’d gladly give
That any one of us might live.

He guards the household day and night.
He hardly lets us out of sight.

And jealous? He resents each pat

That we bestow upon the cat.

0 little pup with eyes of brown!

0 little faithful, loving clown!

We’ll hardly know just what to do

When your short span of life is through.
Not every one who eats honey knows

that it requires 570 bees, working during

their whole lifetime, to produce a single

pound of this healthful sweet.

0 J
I

“There are some people Whom you can-
not change, you must either swallow them
whole or leave them alone.”

Farmer: “If things get too bad we can
eat our forest preserves.”

City Boy: “You’ve got nothing on us;
we can eat our traffic jams.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Polar Bunnies
W. J. BANKS

HE hare of the far north (lepus

arcticus) is not unlike his cousin of
the prairies. His summer coat is a soft
gray with tail, belly and feet of pure White.
But in winter he puts on his warm robe of
snowy white, varied only by tiny black tips
on his ears and by bright amber eyes. On
Ellesmere, most northerly of the large

 

YOUNG ARCTIC HARE

Canadian islands, adult hares are whitish

all through the summer. For in that
latitude summer is so short that traces of
snow and ice are always to be found as a
protective background for the white bun-
nies, who in any case would scarcely have
time to put on their gray coats before
winter came again.

Less speedy than the Jack-rabbits of
more southerly climes, Ookalik, the great
white hare, has many enemies. Bears,
wolves, wolverines, foxes, gyrfalcons, snowy
owls, weasels and other killers constantly
threaten his life. The Eskimo, too, con—
sider him a delicacy and trap and hunt him.
He seldom ventures far into the woods but
keeps beyond the timber line where he has
a clear View of his surroundings. Some-
times he plays in the very midst of caribou
or musk-ox herds, possibly aware of safety
there from wolves, who usually attack only
stray animals. Even in districts where he
seldom sees humans, Ookalik is ready to
run at the ﬁrst sign of man, doubtless on
the theory that the unknown is most likely
to be only another enemy.

Many rabbits use the night as a pro-
tection, but in the summer there is no
night in the arctic, so that is a bad time for
Ookalik. Autumn is his happiest season.
The birds of prey are gone, the foxes well
fed on small life and the wolves gorged
with caribou too- fat to run. But soon
winter is upon the arctic, with its shortage
of food for human and animal folk alike.
The white hare dares not sleep in a warm
hole now, but ﬁnds scanty shelter on the
open snow and ice ﬁelds. His own hunger
as well as that of the killers threatens him,
and it is not easy to eke out a living from
the dwarf willow bark and the other scanty
fare of an arctic vegetarian. Life, indeed,
is not easy for Ookalik, the big white hare.

July, ] 935

The Policeman of the Bird
World

Perhaps no bird is better known and
loved than the plebian and self-reliant
robin. His numbers seem to be increasing.
Sometimes coming north as early as Janu-
ary 20th he stays till late in the season,
although not so noisy nor so much in evi-
dence during late summer and fall.

The robin .is wise in selecting a place to
nest. Generally up high in the maple or
a large apple tree is where the nest is
found. Being near human habitations
crows and hawks do not molest it. As for
the bluejay the robin is more than a match
for him.

The robin, being an avid insect-eater, is
one of man’s best friends. Nor does he
ever in any way impose on any other
species of bird. He is the friend and co-
operator of the feathered world. Usually
rearing two brood-s a year he builds a new
nest for each brood. His nest is a sub-
stantial structure made of mud and
grasses. Often after the robins are through
with a nest the innocent but indolent
mourning dove plays squatter by taking up
his abode in it and rearing a family therein.
The robin’s notes of deﬁance scare maraud-
ing creatures away and are a protection to
his own family as well as to the families
of other small birds. WILLIS MEHANNA

A Haven for the Homeless

The Bangor (Maine) Humane Society
maintains a home for lost and straying ani-
mals, so supervised and conducted as to
make it the pride and satisfaction of the
whole wide community which it serves.
Sometimes as many as one hundred calls a
day are received at this well-known refuge,
in relation to the lost and recovered waifs
of the city and its environs. It is regarded
as a clearing-house in the alleviation of
animal misery and the substitution of ani-
mal happiness. Kindness and a sympathe-
tic understanding of the plight of its dumb
and helpless inmates are the secret of its
successful operation. Fortunate is that
community that possesses such a humane
institution.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 62
an» Earth at merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

merican Humane Education Society w111 send

to 213;? person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty

members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and

the name and post-oﬁice address of the pres1dent who

has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and thirty-five new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
February. Of these 109 were 1n Georgla,
108 in Massachusetts, 81 in Texas, 55 in
Virginia, 48 in New Hampshlre, 39 1n
Florida, 35 in Louisiana, 34 1n South Car-
olina, six each in Illinois and Tennessee,
ﬁve each in Lebanon and Pennsylvania,
and one each in Indiana, Minnesota, MIS-
souri and Transjordan.

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent American Soc1ety,

208,186.

Monkey’s Loyalty to Master

S. B. BANERJEA

' ' ' ' 7 hed
Editor’s Note :—Th1s sensatlonal story is \ ouc
for by the author, the former editor of The Calcutta

University Magazine.
N Indian gypsy had trained two
monkeys, whose feats ranged from
love-making, courtship, and marriage to
dances. They supported him and his wife.

The other day, when the gypsy was re—
turning home after exhibiting his pet
animals’ feats in a distant Bengal village,
he was waylaid and killed by two men, who
robbed him of all money on his person. In
fear of detection, they dragged the corpse
to a lonely place and buried it there.

The monkeys had tried their best to save
their master, but had been kept at bay by
the murderers’ knives. The monkeys got up
on a tree and witnessed the tragedy. At the
same time they carefully looked at the mur—
derers’ faces. After the latter had departed,
the animals got down, secured a bamboo, and
marked the spot where their master had
been buried. They then hastened to their
mistress and began to utter mournful cries.
She was then dragged to the spot where the
corpse was buried. She ran to inform the
police and had the body exhumed.

Before the police, the monkeys described
by gestures, postures, facial expressions,
etc., imitating human acts, how their master
had been killed by two men armed with
knives. They even pointed out three of their
ﬁngers to show that he had been robbed of
three rupees!

The monkeys had followed the murderers
to their huts. The police followed them
there. When the creatures saw the murder-
ers, they set upon them and tore their
clothes, etc. The police were satisﬁed and
arrested the men, who corresponded to the
description given by the monkeys. They con-
fessed their guilt.

Here is an authentic case of animal loy-
alty to man, which gives much food for
thought.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

To a Baby Chick

RENA M. MANNING

Animated wisp of fluﬂ
Daring all the world

To behold a miracle
An egg—shell has unfurled!

Exquisite as any blossom,
Wings like fairy petals,

Stepping on two golden stems
Through a world of nettles.

Yellow stamen for a beak,
Shining seeds for eyes,

Seeking apprehensive bugs
Through the leaves’ disguise.

Little snuggler, in my hand
Peep your lullaby,“

Slumber like a folded ﬂower,
Softer than a sigh.

But no blossom ever owned
Any shining part

Like your elﬁn pendulum:
Trembling baby heart!

Little Strangers

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

WONDER if any reader has ever seen

babies like those pictured here. There
are very few, if any, in all our big country.

These little fellows live on a farm near
Wilmington, Delaware, but their home land
is a long, long way oﬁ. Their father and
mother were brought from there when
they were about as old as these little
strangers.

You notice that, they are very fat and
that their fur is very thick and deep. Per-
haps this will help you to guess from what
part of the world such animals come.

If you lived in a hot country you would
want a very thin coat, but if you lived in
a cold land you would want a good warm
one. Well, these babies’ thick fur coats are
suited to a cold land, faraway Greenland,
which is the land where animals like these
live. The winters there last six months and
more, and during that long time there is
hardly any sunshine.

If you look closely at the picture you
will see little horns sprouting out. They
will grow quite long, but won’t look so
long because they Will be deeply curved.
And they will be very sharp, too. This is a
ﬁne thing for up there in Greenland the
wolves are very bad and there are wild
dogs, too. When they get hungry they at-
tack other animals.

If these little fellows were at home with
their parents in Greenland and the hungry
wolves should come, the wise older beasts
would make a circle with others of the
herd, or group which live together. Such
groups number from four to twenty. They
would stand with heads to the outside of
the circle and their babies would be in the
middle of it. With their sharp horns they
would keep the wolves away, and if one
came too close it would likely be killed.

In summer there are many grasses and
good-tasting plants of various kinds for
these big animals—they get about as big
as our buffaloes—to eat. As summer

Apr. 1935

 

TAME MUSK-OX BABIES

comes to an end these grasses dry on their
stalks and then their taste gets better.
When the big snows cover the land and re-
main all winter long, with their hoofs and
their sharp horns the animal's dig down
through the snow and ice until they ﬁnd
these good things to eat. But when bad
blizzards come—the worst in all the world,
travelers-tell us—which last as long as two
weeks sometimes, then these animals must
seek shelter and cannot dig out in the open
for their grassy foods. '

Guess what they do then. Why, they
just wait and wait and don’t eat. That’s
why they grow so fat. Their fat will keep
them from getting hungry for a long time.

But I forgot that I haven’t yet told you
the name of these ﬁne little fellows in the
picture. They are musk-ox babies and are
as tame as your pet dog. The photograph
is used through the courtesy of Mr. R. R.
Carpenter, Wilmington, Delaware, owner
of the animals.

Prize Contest in Windsor

A unique humane education speaking
contest took place February 3rd, at Trinity
Church, Windsor, Conn., Rev. D. H. Dor-
chester, pastor. Three pupils in the, sixth
grade, using memorized poems taken from
books, competed for one prize, four pupils
in the seventh grade competed for one
prize, with original essays, and six pupils
in the eighth grade competed for two prizes
with original essays. The decision of the
judges was based on: voice, 25; poise, 25;
material, 25; and general effectiveness, 25.
The speaking was interspersed with singing
and violin solos.

Portland Pupils to Write

One thousand pupils in the Portland,
Maine, Grammar schools are to celebrate
the Be Kind to Animals Anniversary this
year by writing original stories on the
subject, Kindness Brings Happiness. Some
of these stories are to be included in Junior
Red Cross portfolios and sent to children
in foreign countries, others are to be dis-
tributed in rural schools in the United
States.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
     
    

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
 

7
g .
m
‘2

  
     

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR FEBRUARY, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 493
Number of addresses made, 329
Number of persons in audiences, 60,727

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Societies
are absolutely safe and yield a return
according to one’s age. They make their ap-
peal ordinarily to people over 40 years of
age. Send the coupon for a free folder which
gives full details. Fill it in and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.
Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name

........
..........
ooooooooooooooo

Age ...................................
Address

..............

OUR DUMB

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for January, 1935—31 Days

 

Daily average large animals 44.7
Forage for same $ 46.58
Daily average dogs 9.7
Forage for some 10.01
Put to sleep 14 19.46
Transportation 7.70
Wages, grooms, etc. 96.48
Resident Secretary’s salary 133.07
Superintendent’s salary 83.17
Veterinary’s salary 29.94
Sundries 42.80
$469.21
Entries: 11 horses, 15 mules, 43 donkeys.
Exits: 6 horses, 16 mules, 33 donkeys.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Monthly report .on
the 70 native fondouks and the Souk _el Khemisu‘.
Kilometers traveled, 168; cases investigated, 412 ;. ani-
mals seen, 5,460; animals treated, 1,307; anlmals
transferred, 42.

Selected Items from the Day-book of Dr.
Mellersh, Secretary General of
the Fez Fondouk.

Friday, 11th.

While going to the Fondouk this morning
through the Ron Djeloud Gardens, near the
lake, I saw a mule, some distance away,
carrying a load of straw. It was overload-
ed and very lame, and was evidently an old
mule that could hardly get along without
even carrying a load. I had the straw
removed and placed on the side of the
road. I telephoned to the Fondouk, when
Delon sent me a stableman to take it to the
Fondouk.

When our veterinary surgeon, Mr. Grim-
pret, saw the animal he said that the
kindest thing to do was to have it painless-
ly put to sleep.

Monday, 14th.

Did a number of errands in early A. M.
and then made inspection of the Mellah
district, and collected a few sticks with
nails used as prods.

Wednesday, 1 6th.

Visited Jewish quarter this morning (the
Mellah) and found most of the animals in
better condition than in the Medina. Held
up only one man with needle.

Delon saw some bad cases which might
have been taken to the Fondouk, but could
not do so as we are up to the number of
forty—ﬁve animals. Until about the end of
April we should not be obliged to make our
daily numbers any less than 70, but of
course the expense is too great.

Sunday, 20th.

On the way to the Fondouk this morning,
just after passing Bab el Hadjhed, I met a
man with a lame donkey and I took it to
the Fondouk. (N0. 154)

Thursday, 24th.

I brought in a donkey today from the
Talaa, it was much overloaded—carrying
tiles. I saw it fall on its knees, and on
inspection found them bleeding. After re-
moving half the load I found the animal
was unable to move, so I took it to the
Fondouk. The proprietor came in and
thanked me as he did not wish the boy to
overload the donkey.

We have had this week some animals
sent by the police, who also asked us to
destroy a mule, and again a donkey at
Bab Ftouh, which Delon attended to.

Mrs. Mellersh, while out shopping, found

ANIMALS

Apr. 1935

a donkey very lame and weak, being beat-
en on the head by an Arab. She ordered
him to take it to the Fondouk, and when
he refused she appealed to the policeman
at the Gate.

The policeman told my wife that he
knew me as connected with the Fondouk,
and ordered the Arab to obey, and take the
animal to us, or he would take him in
charge.

The Need of the Fondouk

With the new addition our Fondouk now
could be caring for from 80 to 100
animals. The hard times have compelled
us to limit the number to around 40. A
sadly depreciated dollar and the reduced
income. of our friends have forced us to
keep within our means. If any reader of
these words can possibly help us just now
in bringing relief to the suffering mules,
horses and donkeys of Fez, Heaven, we are
sure, will in some way recognize the kind-
ness which these speechless creatures can
never repay in words.

Please Pass on Your Copy

From Mrs. J. Clifford Jones, vice-presi-
dent of the Women’s Pennsylvania S. P.
C. A., Philadelphia, we have received a re-
quest to ask our subscribers to be kind
enough to give their copies: of Our Dumb
Animals (after reading same) to their 10-
cal S. P. C. A. for public schools and settle-
ment house centers.

“The members of our executive commit-
tee are bringing their copies to the oﬁ‘ice
and we are distributing them through our
Band of Mercy teachers, and in this way
not only your magazine is becoming better
known but the Wonderful work that is being
done is brought to the children’s attention.
Therefore through this medium not only
kindness to animals is taught, but also love
and courtesy to their companions and older
folks.”

Sportsmen Call It Fun
MINA M. TITUS

In icy waters of the marsh
With vain attempts to rise,
A wild goose flutters helplessly
And utters piercing cries.

He feels the darting sting of pain
From broken wing that bleeds

And useless drags—a swollen weight
To catch in grass and reeds.

The anguish in that wild, gray breast
Looks out from pleading eyes

As faint far-distant “honks” come back
Through empty, darkening skies.

Whence, heading South that dim, black V,
Some other at its head,

Wings safely on through unmapped space
Where he but now had led.

A pain-racked bunch. of feathers gray
He’s left to starve and freeze—-

A bleeding, swollen, anguished mass,
Some hunter’s whim to please.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 42

The Taunton Branch

This active and efﬁcient group of women
under the enthusiastic leadership of Mrs.
Woodward, the president, reports:

Homes found for small animals, 85

Small animals returned to their homes, 53

Small animals humanely put to sleep, 458

Prosecutions

Everywhere, here in the United States
and in nearly every other land, prosecu-
tions for cruelty are decreasing in number.
This is as it should be. After a century of
the: work of Societies for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals spreading over so-
called civilized countries, the activities of
these societies would look largely like fail-
ure if humane legislation secured and edu-
cational work done had not resulted in
such better treatment of animals as to les-
sen greatly the number of cases to be taken
to court. The decrease in the number of
horses has also very materially cut down
the number of prosecutions.

Legislation

Years ago our Society began to call
attention to the evil of what is known as
the setting up of horses’ tails. This last
year, in co-operation with all the humane
forces of the State, a law was secured pro-
hibiting the exhibition at any horse show in
the Commonwealth of any horse whose tail
had been set up or docked after Septem-
ber 1, 1934, when the law went into effect.
Inasmuch as this cruel and senseless prac-
tice is chieﬂy conﬁned to horses of the
show ring, and, as such legislation is bound
to spread from state to state, it will have
ultimately to be abandoned altogether.

Our Bill to prevent the keeping conﬁned
any wild animal at roadside gas stations,
lunch and other wayside places of amuse-
ment, we lost. This we have tried for sev-
eral years to secure but without success,
in spite of the fact that the treatment of
wild animals at many of these places is a
reproach to the State. We have again
introduced the Bill into the 1935 Legisla—
ture.

The Society has backed, both ﬁnancially
and morally, particularly in conjunction
With the Animal Rescue League, during
the year, the Humane Trapping Council in
its efforts to keep in force the law obtained
four years ago prohibiting the use of the
steel trap. By the misleading and muddled

OUR ' DUMB ANIM‘ALS

wording of the ballot we lost the effect of
our law in such sections of the State as
may vote to go back to the cruelties of the
torturing trap. We have. no reason to
think public opinion has changed since
our law was won by an overwhelming ma-
jority. The referendum was so worded that
thousands voted against the law when they
thought they were voting for it. The battle
is not ended. It will be renewed as soon as
conditions make it possible.

The “International Appeal”

A very important feature of the year’s
work was the preparation and distribution
of the illustrated pamphlet bearing this
title. The appalling loss of the world’s sea
birds because of the pollution of coastal
waters with the thick and deadly residue
from ships burning oil is more and more
claiming the interest of all active organ—
izations concerned with the preservation of
wild life and its protection from suffering
and death. More than 8,000 of these pam—
phlets were sent out, the recipients includ-
ing every humane society in this and other
lands whose address could be. found, hun-
dreds of newspapers, senators, representa-
tives, and private individuals. Many letters
have been received from citizens and so-
cieties in this and foreign lands acknowl—
edging the receipt of the pamphlet and
expressing deep concern in the subject.
The matter has already been brought to
the attention of the League of Nations and
is being taken up anew by certain of the
Federal authorities at Washington. The
goal sought is such interest awakened that
the Maritime Powers of the world will be
led to summon another conference similar
to the one held in 1924 and take united
action to stop this evil that is destroying
annually the life of millions of our sea
birds, which, lighting in the oily waters,
and, unable to ﬂy, die in the sea or are
drifted ashore to perish. The ﬁshing indus-
try, also, in several lands is being seriously
threatened by this discharge of oil into the
sea.

The Women’s Auxiliary

Beginning its work fourteen years ago
this Auxiliary has proved a most effective
servant of our Society and its Hospital.
Through its various activities it has secured
sufﬁcient funds to add to the equipment of
the Hospital many needed, and often ex‘

Mar. 1935

pensive, devices essential to latest and best
treatment of animals. Its present president,
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, has also been
instrumental in the formation of two other
such Auxiliaries, one at Springﬁeld and
one at Winchester, both working for the
welfare of the Society. Our Auxiliary has
also brought our Society’s work prominently
before the. various Women’s Clubs of the
State and thereby won for us a host of new
friends.

Dog and Horse Racing

Apparently Massachusetts is to join other
states of the Union in licensed race-tracks
where people, probably the majority of
them far from able to do it, can gamble
away their money. These tracks, especially
those for the dog races, will mean much
additional work for our ofﬁcers in guarding
against the violations of the anti-cruelty
laws. We promise the public vigilant and
thorough inspection of these tracks.

Miscellaneous Services

Among many minor activities of the year
were the usual Hor'ses’ Christmas, always
generously provided for by lovers of ani-
mals who are glad to send their contribu-
tions; the requests received and answered
for our moving picture ﬁlms illustrating
many features of our work; the many ad-
dresses made by ofﬁcers of the Society
before clubs, churches and various other
gatherings; and the vast deal of publicity
secured through the press of the State.

Financial Report

Current expenses for the year, including
depreciation, $279,328.43. Current receipts,
$261,604.50. Deﬁcit, $17,723.93.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

THIS VICTIM OF AN AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT SEEMS TO GIVE DEFINITE APPRECIATION OF

HIS TREATMENT AT ANGELL HOSPITAL

. htTIlE View at left, shows him in splinters for multiple fracture of the right thigh and a fracture of the
rig e 0W' The VleW at “3111:, shows him as he appeared when discharged from the Hospital.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

u mMam Registered L

1 ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTYONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense.

Yet wanting sensibility, the man

Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm. _
—COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 1‘0‘
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180

Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

‘voL 68

June,l935

PQo.6

 

Mussolini, in speaking of the Italian
people, said recently, “He is no Italian who
maltreats an anima .” We know what he
.meant even if the words are not strictly
true.

Congratulations to the Pennsylvania S.
P. C. A. on the completion of the ﬁfth year
of its monthly publication, Animaldom.
This is the smallest, and the snappiest,
periodical in the humane ﬁeld that comes
to our desk.

“What we are trying to create is a sen—
sible and generous love for animals,” says
Signor Guiseppe, President of the Italian
Society for the Protection of Animals. “A
people that loves neither animals nor plants
cannot have either art, poetry, or proper
human relationships in this world.”

How many of our readers, we wonder,
ever attempted to write down his debt to
the animal world, taking into consideration
food, clothing, service rendered by all
beasts of burden in country, town and city,
in peace and war, joy in the beauty of
birds and their songs, and companionship
with many kinds of animal pets.

At the 39th annual convention of the
National Congress of Parents and Teachers,
held at Miami, Florida, April 29 to May 3,
the American Humane Education Society
had a larger exhibit than usual and all the
literature offered for distribution was tak-
en by delegates early in the session. A
feature of the exhibit was the large num-
ber of humane scrap-books made by pupils
in Florida in a state contest. Due to the
enforced absence of Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols
of Tacoma, national chairman of humane
education, Miss Marie French of St. Joseph,
Missouri, represented the Society and con-
ducted the special conference on humane
education, attended by 150 persons. A
resolution, relating to the education of
children as to the dangers of ﬁre—arms was
drafted and presented to the resolutions
committee.

The League of Nations and
Oil Pollution

HE report in our magazine of what
T was being done at Geneva with regard
to the international question of oil pollu-
tion was dated November 19, 1934. Now
comes the latest report, a Questionnaire to
the various Maritime Powers.

The memorandum adopted by the com-
mittee of experts and submitted to the
Council explains what would be the object
of an international Convention and the ad-
vantages that would be derived therefrom.

The Council, on January 11th, 1935
(Eighty-fourth Session), adopted the fol-
lowing resolution:

“The Council,

“Authorizes the Communications and
Transit Organization to make all necessary
preparatory studies with a View to facili-
tating the future conclusion of an inter-
national Convention in regard to the pollu-
tion of the sea by oil.”

With a View to giving effect to the above
resolution and according to the request of
the chairman of the Advisory and Tech-
nical Committee for Communications and
Transit, the secretary-general of the Lea-
gue of Nations has the honor to transmit
to the Government of
the enclosed questionnaire. In order to
facilitate the further preparatory studies
of the Organization for Communications
and Transit, it is desirable that the reply to
the questionnaire, as well as any other
remarks on this subject that the Govern-
ment of may
wish to make, should reach the Secretariat
by May 3lst, 1935, at the latest.

Geneva, January 23rd, 1935

 

 

This is “Be Kind to Animals Week,” and
as such carries a warning not only to those
who subject animals to the grosser forms
of abuse and cruelty, but to those who
give no thought to the animals’ point of
View and cause them unhappiness or suf-
fering without meaning to do so.

—“C. G.” in New Bedford Standard

Perilous “Sport ”.3

ATHER should it be termed deliber-

ate, inhuman, cold-blooded cruelty.
The six-hour battle between ﬁshermen and
a mother whale and her eight-ton baby in
Florida waters was nothing else than “mur-
der most foul.” The details of this vicious
affair, as supplied to the newspapers by
dispatch of the Associated Press, are too
harrowing to recite. We go no further
than to quote brieﬂy from an open letter
of Mr. Edward R. Tolfree to the New York
Times. With Mr. Tolfree’s expressed feel-
ings we are in full sympathy and accord.
He writes: “This is one of the cruelest
stories that it has ever been my misfortune
to read. . . I wish your paper would depre-
cate this kind of story and instruct your
editorial department to comment on them
and your headline writers to head them in
a way that will be exceedingly unpleasant
to the participants. I cannot imagine any
beast as cruel and vicious as these humans
were down in Fort Lauderdale . . .When
people are. allowed to get away with this
and almost praised for it as the dispatch
does by using the word “sport,” it is little
wonder that so much cruelty occurs . . .
I sincerely hope the Times with its great
inﬂuence will adopt an attitude of censor-
ing or ridiculing cruelty.”

Whether or not there is constituted au-
thority to take criminal action against such
high-sea cruelty, its perpetrators deserve
the condemnation of all Humane Societies.

The birds of England have lost a good
friend in the death of F. E. Lemon. He
was, with his energetic wife, the main-
spring of the Royal Society for the Pro-
tection of Birds, a very clear-headed man
and an indefatigable» worker, who will be
missed much in many other spheres besides
that of the birds.

The public has little use for alleged hu-
man beings who mistreat or neglect ani-
mals, for general sentiment seems to go to
those who cannot speak for themselves!

———Wake-ﬁ-e1d Item

 




 

 

 

 

Page 36

To a Caged Bengal Tiger

MYRTLE G. BURGER

Who has brought you here, my brother,
To this narrow cage

Where your splendid strength is wasted
In a thwarted rage?

Back and forth you pace, unceasing,
Of your freedom shorn,

Cramped within this hated prison,
You, the jungle-born!

You, who dealt swift death to strangers
Who might your lair surprise

Now may never ﬁnd a shelter
From curious human eyes.

Ah, my poor, unhappy brother,
Trapped and wretched there,

Long your scornful eyes will haunt me,
Burning in despair!

‘ ‘ Half- Penny”

JUDY VAN DER VEER

HEN the colt was six months old he
Wand his mother were starving. They
were taken to the zoo in the city to be fed
to the lions. We heard about it in time to
save the colt. His mother had been slaugh-
tered and he was running around in a cor-
ral ﬁlled with miserable horses, pitifully
nickering for the kin-d old mare. We had
him trucked home and put in a box-stall.
He was the most forlorn baby! His shaggy
sorrel coat seemed inadequate to cover his
bones. He did have a beautifully long tail
and mane for so young a colt, and he had
a straight white blaze on his face. But
he had a Roman nose and! his frightened
eyes showed a great deal of white. Every
one who saw him said he wasn’t worth a
cent, so we named: him “Half-Penny” and
called him “Penny.”

Penny stayed in the box-stall till we
could get a halter on him and teach him to
lead, a difﬁcult lesson for such a wild,
nervous colt. He trusted no one. After he
was halter broken we turned him out in
the corral, and one day when he saw my
big horses going out to pasture he grace-
fully leaped the fence and went along.

Until he was nearly three years old he
lived in the big pasture as untamed as any
wild horse on the plains. He was homely
and awkward. And then over night one
spring he grew up! Watching him run
across the pasture I noticed how sleek his

I

 

“HALF-PENNY,” A ONE-MAN HORSE

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

red coat was. how beautifully his thick
mane blew in the wind. He had a broad
chest, a well formed arched neck, and legs
very trim and straight. I had a strong
desire to ride him! But I was recovering
from an accident and didn’t dare.

I know a cowboy, Jim, who shares my
views about gentling rather than breaking
a colt, and he agreed to help me. It would
take too long to tell the whole story. We
nearly gave up! We had to be inﬁnitely
patient and kind, but as soon as we won
Penny’s conﬁdence he learned quickly. I
rode him the third time he was ridden; in a
few weeks I was herding cattle on him.

Because I had too many cows and horses,
and couldn’t sell any cattle because of the
drouth, I decided to sell Penny. It nearly
broke my heart, but I couldn’t sell the older
horses who had, served me long and. well.
But when a buyer came to look at him the
colt moved away shyly and hid. behind me,
peering nervously over my should-er. I put
my arms around his neck and said he wasn’t
for sale. And Penny has arranged matters
so I couldn’t sell him if I wanted. For he
has turned out to be a one man horse. He
promptly throws any stranger who tries
to ride him, and his bad manners make me
rejoice! Because I saved him from a hor-
rible fate I see-m duty bound to keep him
until he dies of old age—many years hence,
I hope.

Slaughtering Season

Deer, dove, quail, duck, etc., seasons
have just closed and many have been, mur-
dered, writes Clifford Dambacher in The
Nature-ist. The innocents are killed, and
the killer’s soul is blemished. You can’t
kill advanced life, such as these, without
having it on your hands! It affects your
life!

Protection of Sub-Human Life:

(a) Destroy no life wantonly . . . Do
not chase and seek to kill . . . Watch them
quietly instead, and so enjoy great pleasure
in learning of their ways much that you
can not learn from books.

(b) To understand the lives of other
animals . . . is to sympathize with their
struggles and difﬁculties; and the idea of
being cruel to them, should you entertain
it for a moment, would betray to your own
mind your unﬁtness to regard yourself as a
civilized being. It would make you con-
temptible in your own sight.

(c) When the true knowledge of Nature
is universal, there will be no cruelty.

(d) “Years ago . . . I used a gun for
sport,” wrote E. Kay Robinson. “Now,
though, I do not condemn the sportsman
whose mind permits him to enjoy the sport
of killing, because he is not yet enlightened
by the truth, I can not shed blood, except
of necessity and with regret.”

(e) Sir Edwin Arnold . . . gave us in
poetic phrase the maxim, as I hold it will
be, of the religion of the future in its rela-
tion toward animal life.

“Kill not, for pity’s sake: and lest ye slay
The meanest thing upon its upward way.”
Join the Jack London Club with its more

than 630,000 members, and help stop the
cruelty of trained animal acts.

 

Mar. 1935

 

Bontebok, Transvaal

The bon-tebok, a South African antelope,
is now extinct in the wild state, and pre-
served only in privately owned herds, we
are told by W. Percival Westell in “The
Book of the Animal Kingdom.” It is close-
ly related to the blessbok, though larger.
Both species are recognized by the rich
purple-red of the coat, and the white mark-
ing, or blaze, as it is called, on the face.
Though wary creatures and difﬁcult to ap-
proach, these beasts must have presented
a ﬁne sight in days gone by. One writer
stated: “On my right and left the plain ex-
hibited one purple mass of graceful bless—
boks, which extended without a break as
far as my eye could strain. The depth of
their vast regions covered a breadth of
about six hundred yards.”

“Heaven’s Rage”

Through the courtesy of the author, Miss
Helen Trevelyan, we have received one
hundred copies of the booklet with the
above title. Any money we may receive
from their sale is to be devoted to our
work.

The booklet sells in England for one shill-
ing, and, we will mail a copy to any address
upon receipt of 25 cents. It is a telling in-
dictment against the training of animals
for exhibition and is a powerful supple-
ment to Jack London’s “Michael Brother
of Jerry,” the book that was responsible
for the launching of the Jack London Club.

The author knows her subject from be-
hind the scenes. Order your copy of “Heav-
en’s Rage” early from The Jack London
Club, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

    

 

 

 

   

   

July,1935 OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ax“ 1 ’.:g;.‘:‘--."av,-. .:~ 5 .{L

a 74/} . ¢ Niger/'6’")
:3 El! ‘7" _ 94y. ‘ 2‘
,— 3' _ “/1,“ C "

" “" A?! if“ I , . 7,, . .

w (71...? t ____ E— —\%—y//— V4 1." ii [er2 7/)?“ . , ,
_ g . 3.44% 3% \wmwmﬂﬁ . MW .. . t‘

 

Dog, Fawn and Girl are Great Pals

BERNARD L. KOBEL

 

OT long ago a doe died at the back of the ranch, so Miss

Eloise Amor-etti Peck adopted the two-day—old fawn left
an orphan by the mother’s death. The little fawn has thrived
on the care of Miss Peck and likes to stay in the house and
sleep on the sofa. The animal weaned herself, but before
weaning her high mark was a gallon and a half of milk daily.
Now her food chieﬂy is composed of wild hay that grows
about the ranch, but she greatly enjoys dried fruit, bread,
raisins, candy, beans, macaroni, potatoes, and in fact eats
about anything that is not wet. Much to their distress, the
young doe recently ate a ﬁve dollar bill before Miss Peck
could get it away from her.

The deer and a large Irish wolfhound are great friends.
Several times a week the Pecks drive the seven miles to Du
Bois, Wyoming, where they do their trading and get their
mail service, and the deer and dog usually sit in the back
seat. But they do not go to town every day and the deer,
whom they call “Bambi,” waits until she sees that there is
no hope for a ride, then she “goes to town” herself. She goes
into the stores and looks around and then goes to the school
and if the doors are open she goes from room to room, much
to the delight of the boys and girls. After she has visited
around she goes back home. At times she is accompanied by
the dog, other times she goes it alone.

Bambi makes a very nice pet and is very affectionate and
although she is not necessarily easily frightened, she is ever
alert and ready to take ﬂight if she senses an enemy.

Hidden Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

IRDS are usually very clever at hiding when they want
to, and one is hidden in each of the following sentences.
See if you can ﬁnd them all:

1. We set out to seek the lost riches of an old gold miner.

2. Never a venture was so much looked forward to.

3. The cold was bitter near the snow line.

4-. When Jim found the cave our cheering roused many
echoes.

 

E ¢\

 

5. Jim is a hero now, though we found no gold.

Home again we donned bathing suits and dived into the
sea gleefully.

7. We watched ﬁshermen pull in nets with ﬁsh in.

8. Then Jim and I both rushed home for supper.
See next month’s Children’s Page for correct answers:

Answers to “Hidden Animals” puzzle last month: Goat,
camel, rabbit, kitten, buffalo, tapir, pony, marten, unicorn.

The Little Lady Who Lived in a Shoe

CONRAD O. PETERSON

HERE was a ﬂutter of wings, and something ﬂew swiftly
past me, out through the woods'hed door! A tiny wren!
Wondering where she came from, I soon found out!

A pair of old shoes were hanging on the wall, and inside
of one of them I found a tiny warm nest. Mrs. Wren’s
home! In it were three tiny eggs.

Mrs. Wren was ﬂying about frantically, outside, so I
hurried through my work and left her to her home life.

I was an interested visitor, slyly peeking into the shoe
now and then as time advanced. The baby wrens soon grew
up and all departed at the close of summer.

The following spring I noticed that the shoes were gone,
so I found another pair and hung them in the same place.
Sure enough Mrs. Wren again appeared, and kept her sum-
mer home. .

Nesting time is here again, and Mrs. Wren’s home is wait-
ing for her! I hope she comes. I am placing other old shoes,
in sheltered nooks, near my home. Perhaps other birds would
like to live in a shoe too.

 

CHINC‘HILLlA—“PRINCE SS De-ATACAMA”

The true chinchilla inhabits the high Andean altitudes of
Peru and Chile. Its dense, soft, blue-gray fur is regarded as
one of nature’s most beautiful productions. So much prized
is its pelage that the little animals are steadily decreasing.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PagelO
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MARCH, 1935

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

The Safe Roads Association

for Horses

OME years ago in this state the above
Association was in existence and Mrs.
R. B. Walker of Norwood was its president.
The automobile has so curtailed its activi-
ties that it has decided to give up its work.
There remained in its treasury $7.40 which
Mrs. Walker has turned over to our Society
to be used for some phase of our service
to horses. She naturally would like all
who may have been connected with the As-
sociation and contributed to know how the
balance left in the treasury has been used.

Contributed

One of our good friends, Miss Alice
Thorp, sends us the following clippings well
worth reading:

A Friendly Swallow

For many weeks, each evening a swallow
flies into my bedroom, and spends the night
on the top of the old-fashioned bell pull
near my bed. r1:he lighting of the gas and
preparations for retirement leave it undis-
turbed and unamazed. In the early morn-
ing at 5 A. M., sometimes as late as 6
(do birds sometimes oversleep?), it dives
through the open window and away, only
to return at night. Should the window
be closed until bedtime through bad weath-

 

BORN ON THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. REST FARM,

METHUEN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

er, when opened the bird is at hand,
and ﬂies up to its perch. Occasionally the
bird comes back for a moment during the
morning.

The Rev. Eldon 0. Butler, Rector of
Spoff'orth, Harrogate.

Our Dogs
They ask us no questions, they tell us no
lies,
And when they address us look straight in
our eyes;

Content with a little they never despair,

But in all our troubles they willingly share;

They ask us so little, they give us so much,

They always let sympathy dwell in our
touch.

(Copyright) V. TRACY

Activities of Auxiliaries

HE Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa-

chusetts S. P. C. A. acted as hostess at
an all-day conference of the Sixth District
of the Massachusetts Federation of Women’s
Clubs at Hotel Touraine, Boston, January
22. Miss Mary D. Clare, director, pre-
sided. There were addresses of welcome
by Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president
of the Auxiliary, and Dr. Francis H. Row-
ley, president of the Society, and greetings
by prominent Federation ofﬁcers. Many
subjects were discussed, the principal
speakers being Mrs. T. Gordon Burckes,
Miss Grace Parker, Mrs. Clyde H. Swan,
Mrs. Charles E. P. Thompson, Dr. Louise
M. Leverone, Mrs. W. O. B. Little, Mrs.
Charles R. Hawkins, Mrs. Burtis J. Whitte-
more, Mrs. Bernard S. Sabean, Mrs. Joseph
E. Davis-on: and Mrs. Thomas J. Walker.
Mrs. Thomas Coughlan conducted a legisla-
tion round table. Music was. by Clifford
Kemp, pianist, and Edmond Boucher, bari-
tone.

Many delightful gatherings are held by
the Winchester Branch of the Auxiliary.
On January 10 members and guests met
at the home of Mrs. G. Russell Mann to
listen to addresses by President Rowley of
the Society and Mrs. Clarke, president of
the parent Auxiliary. Several new mem-

bers were enrolled at this meeting.

The Springﬁeld Branch entertain-ed more
than 300 guests: at the M. S. P. C. A.
Hospital on its annual Hospitality Day in
January.

Mar. 1935

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY F OR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868
See page 45 for complete list of ofﬁcers
MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY AND
BRANCHES

See page 43 for complete list of prosecuting officers

Miles traveled by humane oﬁicers . 13,755

Cases investigated ............... 422
Animals examined ............... 3,91 1
Animals placed in homes ......... 106
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 51
Number of prosecutions .......... 5
Number of convictions ........... 5
Horses taken from work .......... 10
Horses humanely put to sleep ...... 29

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,113

Stock-yards and abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 49,448
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep . . . . ............... 40

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Kate H. Muller of
Watertown and Mary W. Gilbert of Boston.

February 12, 1935.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 643 Cases 2,044
Dogs 496 Dogs 1,655
Cats 142 Cats 361
Horses 3 Birds 22
Bird 1 Horses 4
Monkey 1 Fox 1

Rat 1

Operations 976
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ..................... 126,436
Dispensary Cases .............. 297,909

Total ....................... 424,345

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ........... 106
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 364
Operations ....................... 169

 

ENJOYING RICH PAS’TURAGE AT REST FARM OF

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A., METHUEN

. '.-'--

 




 

 

Page 176

At the Humane Convention

ETERAN humanitarians who have at—

tended many meetings of the Ameri-
can Humane Association pronounced the
gathering held at Washington, D. C., from
September 30 to October 3 last, as unsur-
passed in interest, attendance and enthusi-
asm. Delegates were present from many
of the mid-western and eastern states as
well as from England, Canada, Oregon,
California, Minnesota, Missouri, Texas,
Georgia and South Carolina.

The first two days were devoted to chil-
dren’s work, the outstanding speakers be
ing Judge Fay L. Bentley of the Juvenile
Court, Washington, and former Governor
A. O. Eberhart of Minnesota. Animal
topics were discussed beginning with the
banquet Tuesday evening, when the audi—
ence was thrilled with the account of her
twenty-five years’ work in the Japan Hu-—
mane Society by Mrs. Frances Hawkes
Cameron Burnett and the outline of the
work of the Royal S. P. C. A. by Captain
Fergus MacCunn, chief secretary, London.
At a later session Mr. C. Rowland Johns,
secretary of the National Canine Defence
League, London, and author of many books
on dogs, gave expert advice on “How to
Keep Dogs.” Mrs. Johns, writer and au—
thority on English social problems, had pre~
Viously spoken on “Child Welfare Work in
England.”

Some of the other animal subjects pre-
sented were “The Cost of the Prize Ribbon,”
by J. Macnab Wilson of the Toronto Hu-
mane Society; “Federal Influence in the
Humane Treatment of Livestock,” by Chief
J. R. Mohler of the Bureau of Animal In—
dustry, excerpts from whose address appear
elsewhere in this issue; “Children’s Pet
Chums Clubs,” by Matthew McCurrie, of
the San Francisco S. P. C. A.; and “Re-
newal of the Pledge,” by Seymour Carroll,
field worker of the American Humane Ed—
ucation Society in South Carolina. Several
practical topics were discussed informally
at the A B C session, held Wednesday even—
ing under the chairmanship of Mrs. Charles
M. Kindel, Jr., of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
The Convention closed with a pleasing pres-
entation of Peter Rabbit marionette show
by Miss B. Maude Phillips and Miss Nor~
ma Neilsen.

On Wednesday afternoon the delegates
were treated to a bus ride and visits to
Arlington Cemetery, Alexandria and Mt.
Vernon. On returning to the city they
were entertained at tea by Captain and
Mrs. Burnett at their attractive home on
New Hampshire Avenue.

OUR DUMB ANIZlIALS

President Sydney H. Coleman and the
other officers were re-elected for the en—
suing year. Two rooms across the corri—
dor from the auditorium of the Mayflower
Hotel were devoted to exhibits of traps,
various humane devices, and literature. The
American Humane Education Society dis--
played posters, pennants, books, etc., and
distributed a large quantity of free litera-
ture as did the American Humane Associa-
tion, the San Francisco S. P. C. A. and
other societies.

Cruel Children

A N G E L O P A T R I

(Copyright, 1935, by Bell Syndicate. Inc., and reprint—
ed by special permission.)

HY is my little son cruel? He hurts

his pets, he pushes children down.
When he sees a child hurt, he laughs. This
in spite of all I can do to teach him gentle-
ness. He is going on three and big for his
age. He ought to know better. Don’t you
think so?”

I am not so sure. Cruel is a word that
belongs to grown people. To people who
have grown sensitive to life’s suffering
through experience; a healthy child is not
sensitive usually. He has never been ill.
enough to know pain. He has never been
hurt. The idea of pain and suffering is
beyond his experience and comprehension.
He is rough with his pets not because he
likes to hurt them, but to see their drama-
tic responses.

A little boy like this pulls the cat’s tail,
squeezes his pup, teases any animal he
meets just to see them jump about, to hear
them call out and guard himself against
their attack. Such a little boy actually en-
joys a battle with a scratching, spitting cat.
Of course, when he is hurt he howls mur-
der but that is precisely what teaches him
about pain. A few such experiences and
he begins to understand why his mother
says he is naughty to bother the animals.

These children are at the stage where
understanding of such qualities as kind—
ness, gentleness, affection is dim. Living
a few years under careful instruction, and
suffering a few first experiences with the
angry pets he has hurt, will teach him a
little of the meaning of these words and the
germ of kindness starts to sprout.

It takes years for that growth to come
to full power and influence in the child’s
character. It is necessary that we teach
him by word and story and picture and ex-
ample and experience that kindness to an—
imals, to people, is not only the duty of an
intelligent human being, but the character—-

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ...... . ......................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property). ’

 

 

Nov. 1935

istic of a fully developed one. Words alone
will not do that but persistent teaching will
tell in the end.

Some children take longer to learn kind-
ness and consideration for weaker creatures
than others do. Usually by the time a child
is nine years of age he has ceased to think
that pulling the cat’s tail is funny, or that
baiting a crippled child, hounding an aged
and infirm person is at all entertaining. If
his cruelty continues past that time, I
would ask the psychologist at the hospital
to look him over and see what ails him.

One other point has to be considered be-
fore taking the cruel child to the hospital.
How about the people about him? Is he
constantly slapped, shaken, scolded, punish-
ed for every little thing? Is he bullied by
those stronger than himself so that he
longs to retaliate? It is possible to set the
child’s mind toward cruelty by such treat-
ment. Treat him with common kindness,
teach him to be considerate, and he usually
drops this stage of his growth promptly.

Chairmen for Annual Fair

The following appointments have been
made as chairmen of the annual Fair of
the Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., to be held at Hotel Ven-
dome, Boston, Wednesday, December ll,
from 10 A. M. to 5 P. M.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, general
chairman; Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, luncheon;
Mrs. Edward Brown, bridge; Mrs. Charles
Rowley, candy table; Mrs. Arthur W.
Hurlburt, miscellaneous table; and Mrs.
Agnes P. Fisher, white elephant table.

There will be two seeresses under the di-
rection of Mrs. Frank Towne. A fashion
show will be put on in charge of Mrs.
George Ramlose. A special musical pro—
gram will be an added feature.

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month bv
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood.
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world. .
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en—
title the sender to membership in either of our two

Societies.
RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 0")
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 .00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 .00
Children’s $0.7 5 .

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 116
The Flamingo Hunt

PAUL DA COSTA

Crouched in the swamp with my gun all
set,

Half in the sun and half in the wet,

I waited, and at length they came, .

Like a growing cloud, like a spreading
flame.

“Hide in the scrub; keep still as death;

They have eyes so sharp they would see
your breath!”

On, on they came as arrows fly,

And a red hole burned in the clear blue
sky.

“They’re near enough now; here’s your
chance at last;

Quick, man, shoot; they will soon have.
passed!

They’re overhead now, and ﬂying higher,-

Shoot, man, shoot!” But I could not ﬁre,

For my heart was caught in that blaze of
birds,

And the sounds of their wings were like
holy words.

With my gun all set, with my feet in the
mire,

I stood and stared, but I did not ﬁre !

Protest Dog Racing in
California

Forty—three ministers in Long Beach, C a'1—
fornia, have sent to the Governor a stirring
resolution demanding that he veto the grey-
hound racing bill that would legalize dog
track gambling in California.

This is the most recent protest, and is
from Governor Frank F. Merriam’s home
town. Business men are now feeling that it
will not be “good for business,” since the
Santa Anita Horse Racing season has closed.
All that appeared to do was to take money
away from the regular channels of trade,
make even poorer the Californians who
lived near enough to get “the fever.” For,
as usual, it is the “little fellow” who suﬂers
the losses.

California is looking at the possible tax
receipts in an effort to have a balanced bud-
get—not at the inhumane treatment of the
racing dogs, nor at the possible effects on
business. Even when raced merely for
“sport” the dogs show the effects of rigorous
training. How much more this rigor and
discipline will be their lot when gamblers
and money-maddened race attendants look
to them for “winnings.”

We should all help save the dogs—if not
the people—from the harm that is so sure to
be done.

CARLETON A. SCHIENERT

The Speed of the Machine

We mean the speed of the machine in
slaughtering our food animals. In some of
our largest abattoirs swine are killed at the
rate of 570 an hour. That means, forgetting
fractions, nine every minute, one every six
seconds, in a day of eight hours’ work, 4,560.
Of course this does not happen every day.
Across the water the process is so slow that
even Where it is most rapidly Cone the
speed, compared with that in the Uriel
States. is like that of the ox cart to the
automobile.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An Escaped Lion

STRANGE and thrilling incident which

took place in Melbourne, Australia, not
long ago, is related by Ellen Velvin F.Z.S.,
in From Jungle to Zoo. The story was given
to her, she states, by one whose word is
absolutely reliable.

It seems that a lion, a full-grown male,
was one of a group performing at that time
in a large music hall. One afternoon, after
the performance, in some way his cage was
left open, and the lion very quietly walked
out of the stage door and down the street.
At ﬁrst no one seemed to notice him, but
after a while he met a lady who lookel at
him for a moment and then, realizing that
it was actually a live lion, promptly fainted
away. The lion stopped, sniffed at her con-
temptuously, and then, evidently not consid—
ering her interesting, passed on.

By this time he had been seen, and people
ﬂew from him in all directions, but the lion
kept on his way quietly, and curiously
enough walked right up one of the princi-
pal streets in Melbourne, and actually
turned into the ofﬁces of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Of
course, after the ﬁrst moment of paralyzed
astonishment, every door in the building
was immediately locked against him, and
fortunately someone had the presence of
mind to shut the outer door as well, so he
was conﬁned to the vestibules and stairs.

After walking around and making a quiet
tour of inspection, the lion began to get
restless and wanted to get out, and spent
his time in rushing up and down the stairs,
roaring at the top of his powerful voice.
Meanwhile, the immense crowd outside
which had quickly gathered shouted loud
and futile advice to those imprisoned inside,
whose feelings can better be imagined than
described. Finally, his trainer arrived just
when everyone was becoming desperate,
and, backing the cage which he had brought
with him to the door, invited the lion, with
kind words and a piece of meat, to enter it.
And the lion walked placidly into the cage,
ate his meat, and then, settling himself down
comfortably, went sound asleep.

Make known your disapproval of per-
forming animals by joining the Jack Lon-
don Club. There is one way to help in stop-
ping the cruelty in the training of ani-
mals ;—stop aiding and abetting animal per-
fonnances with your money and presence.

 

 

 

IN DURANCE VILE

Aug. 1935‘
Phillips Brooks and the Zoo

This greathearted soul whose sympathy
with all life was among his notable char-
acteristics, after visiting a zoo once wrote:

“The beasts in a zoological garden are
always trying to get out; we see their pa—
thetic inability to be convinced that it is
hopeless. You come back after years, and
there is the same bear walking up and down
just as you left him, trying the same bars,
and never giving up the hope that some-
where he may ﬁnd a gap. It is the dim
memory of free life. Nay, see how even the
beasts born in captivity, who have never
known freedom by experience, they too are
at the same endless, undiscourageable effort
to escape.”

Commercial Cruelty
JOSEPH R. SCHADEL

VII" HE conﬁnement of caged animals in the

zoo is not the only form of cruelty
which has been devised to appeal to the mor-
bid element of the public. Violations of and
disregard for the inherent rights of dumb
creatures are particularly evident during
the summer season when various carnivals
and traveling shows invade the American
cities and towns and when ocean beach
resorts open up for business.

In an amusement park at a Paciﬁc Coast
resort I once observed that one of the
schemes for proﬁt was in the form of a mon-
key speedway. Nervous and frightened
little simians were strapped into small cars
which operated on a circular track. Each
car was numbered and the one stopping
nearest the red line decided that the player
who had placed his coin on the lucky number
was the recipient of a cheap plaster doll or
some similar inexpensive bauble. Although
a certain element of the crowd of spectators
was highly amused at the bewilderment re-
ﬂected in the worried countenances of the
monkeys when the little cars stopped run-
ning, I knew that the poor animals must
have acquired a very low opinion of their
human brethren who are supposed to be en-
dowed with a more superior sense of intel-
ligence.

At a small ”traveling carnival recently
there was another inane attraction offered
for the small sum of a dime. In a concession
were a few forlorn ducks in small inclosures.
The idea was to throw a small wooden ring
over the head of the harassed duck
and the prize, if anybody was
lucky enough to perform such a
practically impossible feat, was the
hapless duck itself.

Playing chance games for can-
ary birds, turkeys and gold ﬁsh
has always appeared to me as a
form of commercial cruelty which
“gets by” these days as few pleas—
ure seekers stop to consider the
unnatural circumstances that are
forced upon these living things
merely for the purpose of acquir-
ing proﬁt.

 

O O
0

American Humane Association
Convention will be held in Wash—
ington, D. C., September 30—Oc-
tober 3.

 

 

 




 

ﬁlar.1935

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS FOR
1935

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency James M. Curley, Governor
of Massachusetts

His Honor Frederick W. Mansﬁeld, Mayor
of Boston

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Adams, Edward S., Fall River

Appleton, Francis Henry, Boston

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.

Beard-wood, Mrs. James, Dor-c'hester

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Burns, Bishop Charles Wesley, Boston

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Williamstown

Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Converse, Mrs. Costello 0., Boston

Cousens, John A., Pres. Tufts College

Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Cummins, Thomas K., Milton

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Endicott, William, Boston

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Forbes, J. Murray, Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City

Gallagher, Rev. Louis J., Pres. Boston Col-
lege

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kent, Daniel, Worcester

Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston

McIntire, Hon. Charles J., Cambridge

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College

Parker, Hon. Herbert, Lancaster

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Pendleton, Ellen F., Pres. Wellesley College

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Stearns, Charles H., Brookline

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Webster, H. S., Brookline

Woolley, Mary E., Pres. _Mt. Holyoke Col-
lege

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON
Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ex-officio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

STAN‘WOOD K. BOLTON
HON. CHANNING COX
WALTER M. KENDALL
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First of Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President of
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
William Dana Orcutt John R. Macomber
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan W. J. McDonald
Miss Dorothy Forbes Walter M. Kendall
Winthrop Packard Stanwood K. Bolton
Charles G. Bancroft Hon. Channing H. Cox
John R. Forgie Frank M. Hotchkin
William E. Putnam Philip Stockton
Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.
Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham
Mrs. Margaret P. Behrend, Boston
W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England
Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, Ill.
Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld
Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.
Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland
Charles N. Morgan, Boston

Mrs. Walter B. Pope, Boston

Mrs. Jennie B. Powers, Keene, N. H.
M. Franco Riccabone, Turin, Italy

Active Life Members

Abercrombie, William H. Codrington, Mrs. Ethel M.
Adams, Mrs. Nancy M. Converse, Mrs. Costello C.
Allen, Mrs. Linda W. Corliss, Miss Clara K.
Alstrom, Mrs. DOI'OthY D. Couch, Franklin Lindley
Ames, John S. Craigin, Mrs. Louise
Anderson, Johan M. Crane, Mrs. Francis V.
Andrews, Miss Frances Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.
Virginia Crocker, Mrs. Emmons
Appleton, Miss Maude E. Crocker, Emmons
Aronson, Harry Crocker, Miss Katherine
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D. Crompton & Knowles
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C. Loom Works
Baker, Mrs. Charles M. Crossman, Howard A.
Baldwin, Mrs. Anita Crossman, Mrs. Howard A.
Balincourt, Comtesse Crowninshield, B. B.
Lilian de Cummings, Miss Florence
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H.
Bandry, George, M.D. Cummins, Miss Anne M.
Barnard, Henry F. Cummins, Miss Elizabeth
Barnard, Miss Mary Alice I.
Bartholomew, J. C. Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-
Bartlett, Miss Bess B. ence C.
Bartley, Miss Hattie C. Curran, Mrs. Maurice
Bates, Ruth B. Curtis, Miss Amy
Beals, Mabel E. Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich
Beardwood, James Curtis, Miss Clara
Beardwood, Mrs. James Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic

Behrend, Mrs. Margaret Haines
P. Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.
Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent Dane, E. B.

Bemis, Frank B. Dane, Mrs. E. B.

Bolles, Mrs. Mary K. Davis, Mrs. Kate K.

Boston Plate & Window Davol, Miss Florence W.
Glass Co. Day, A. L.

Bray, Miss Ella W. Day, Cordelia P.

Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick

Burke, Mrs. Florence E.

Burr, Mrs. Herman M.

Burr, I. Tucker

Cabot, Mrs. Susan

Chase, Miss Alice P.

Cheever, Mrs. Grace J.

Churchill, W. W. Dudley, Miss Sarah A.

Clark, Miss Elizabeth Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.

Cochran, Mrs. Edwin Paul Emerson, Charles H.

“Mem-
orial Life Membership”

DeGogorza, Mme. Emma
Eames

DeWolf, Charles E.

Douglas, Elizabeth

Dresser, Miss Celina L.

Drooker, Mrs. Minnie

Endicott, Miss Katherine
Endicott, William
Ernst, Mrs. Harold C.
Evans, Owen N.
Ewing, Miss Amanda W.
Farley, Dr. Wm. C.
Fay, Miss Sarah B.
Fearing, Mrs. George R.
Fish, Miss Margaret A.
Fisher, H.
Fiske, Miss Gertrude
Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.
Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.
Ford, Willis A.
Foss, Mrs'. James 0.
Foster, G. Herbert
Fottler, Mrs. Jacob
Fowler, G. W.
Fowler, H. P.
Frothingham, Mrs. Louis
A.
Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M.
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S.
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr.
Gifford, Josiah H.
Godbeer, George H.
Goddard, Miss M. L.
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F.
Gray, Miss Ellen
Gray, Roland
Greenough, Mrs. Henry V.
Grinne], Mrs. Susan B.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R.
Grozier, Mrs. E. A.
Hammond, Samuel
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. B.
Hathaway, Mrs. C. P.
Hemenway, Augustus

Page 45

Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N.
Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Munsell, Alex. E. 0.
Murray, Mrs. T. Morris
Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris
Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate
Paine, Richard C.
Paine, Mrs. Richard C.
Parker, Miss Eleanor S.
Parker, William A.
Paul, Frank
Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Peirce, J. Gadget
Pfaﬁ', Mrs. Charles
Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Phillips, Mrs. Charles
E. H.
Pike, Mrs. Frank B.
Pope, Mrs. Walter B.
Porter, Miss Frances R.
Powers, Thomas R.
Powers, Mrs. Thomas R.
Pratt, Mrs. Edmund T.
Pratt, L. Tyler
Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Quincy, Mrs. H. P.
Rea, Charles S.
Rich, Miss Alice
Richardson, Mrs. Charles
F.

Riley, Charles E.
Riley, Miss Mabel Louise
Roberts, Paul B.

Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus Robertson, Mrs. M. W.

Hemenway, Mrs. Myles
Henderson, Mrs. H. P.
Hickey, Mrs. J. G.
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore
Higginson, Francis L.
Higginson, Mrs. Francis
L.
Hill, Miss Ella A.
Hill, Haven G.
Hitchcock, John
Holmes, Mrs. Margaret
A. Ramsay
Hooper, Mrs. James R.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, F. M.
Hotchkin, William C.
Houston, Ada Bell
Howard, Frank A.
Howes, Mrs. Ernest
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Hunt, Miss Belle
Huntington, Mrs. Amy
Low
Hutchinson, Mrs. Mabel
Ingersoll, W. Fitch
Innes, Charles H.
Ivers, Miss Ella F.
Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt
Jacobs, Mrs. F. W.
James, Ellerton
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F.
Kidder, Nathaniel T.
King, Miss Caroline W.
Kinzle, Mrs. Japsey
Lockett
Kittredge, Mrs. John
Knowlton, Mrs. Wallace
M.
Krook, Mrs. Amanda J.
Lahey, Mrs. Frank H.
Langshaw, Walter H.
Lawrence, John S.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza
Leonard, Mrs. Charles H.
Loring, Miss Helen
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Lyman, Miss Mabel
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.
MacNevin, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mason, A. P., M.D.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.

Robinson, Forrest

Robinson, William A., Jr.

Rockwell, Mrs. C. P.

Rogers, Bradlee

Rountree, Mrs. H. H.

Rowe, E. J.

Rowe, Mrs. E. J.

Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.

Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.

Schwarz, Richard

Sears, Miss Eleanora Ran-
dolph

Sedgwick, Mrs. Lydia C.

Selfridge, Mrs. G. S.

Shapleigh, Amelia

Shaw, Samuel

Shepard, Harvey N.

Sias, Mrs. Alice E.

VSilsbee, Miss Alice M.

Silsbee, Mrs. George S.
Simonds, Otis

Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.
Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.
Sloan, Mrs. E. S.

Smith, Mrs. Ida A.
Snow, Miss Louise

Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.

Spring, John C.

Stearns, Charles H.

Stewart, Miss Gertrude M.

Storrow, Mrs. James J.
Jr.

Symmes, Mrs. Henry W.

Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps

Thayer, Mrs. E. R.

Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.

Thompson, Miss Mary
Helen

Thorn, Mrs. Mary

Thurber, Mrs. C. H.

Tilton, Joseph B.

Tolfree, Edw. R.

Tower, Miss Florence E.

Travelli, Mrs. Charles I.

Twombly, John Fogg

Underwood, Miss Mary R.

Underwood, Miss Sophia
A.

Upham, Miss E. Annie

Valentine, Mrs. Grace E.

Walker, John B.

Ward, Miss M. DeC.

Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.

Webster, Ruth E.
West, Miss Edith E.
Whitman, Hendrick H.

Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.

Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Wilkinson, Edw. S.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 38

Two Dog Friends
WALTER SCOTT

My window overlooks the lawn
And there I saw today,

Two friendly dogs quite busily
Engaged in morning play.

One of the dogs was very black,
The other black and white;

The color line, it mattered not,
They were a pleasant sight.

The bigger dog had longer legs,
The other very short;

They cared not whether big or small
For both enjoyed their sport.

They ran and leaped and wrestled long
And then stood still awhile;

Each wagged his tail which I think meant,
Let’s rest and try a smile.

At last both friends stood side by side
For now their play was done,

They leaped ahead and trotted off
To take their morning run.

Oh, friendly dogs, I drink your health
And wish you pleasant weather;
May men and nations learn like you

How to live together.

Animal Reasoning

MYRON A. PATCH

We have heard people scoff at the idea of
animals reasoning. Let them explain this
one.

We had a pet cat at our gasoline ﬁlling
station. We taught him to open the screen
door when he wanted to go outside, by
pushing it open with his paws, and dodging
through before it closed.

But one day he did not get through quick
en<l)ugh, and the closing door caught his
tai .

The next time he wanted to go through
the door, after this had happened, he
walked up to the door, sat down and seemed
to be thinking the matter over. Then he
deliberately arose, turned around and
backed into the door, going out tail ﬁrst.
Something he never had done before. And
from then on, that was the way be always
went out. Who says he did not reason?

The Cat and the Dinner Bell

It is a custom in large boarding-houses
to announce the dinner hour by the sound
of a bell. A cat belonging to one of these
houses always hastened to the dining-room
on hearing the sound of this bell, to get its
accustomed meal.

It so happened one day that her mistress
was obliged to punish tabby for some mis~
deed. She was locked up in a clothes closet
when the dinner bell sounded. An hour or
so later, after having been emancipated
from her conﬁnement, the cat hastened to
the dining-room but found that nothing
was left for her. The disappointed cat
knowmgly pulled the bell cord, endeavoring
to summon the family to a second dinner
In which she no doubt intended to partici-
pate. WILLIAM W. BUECHEL

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

IMCM‘. 1935

Canine Pensioners
E. C. F O R R E S T

Dumb Animals were given a picture

of the hard life of the Alaskan sled
dogs. There is yet another side to the pic-
ture of “A Dog’s Life In Alaska” which in
all fairness to dog owners in Alaska, should,
I believe, be presented also.

Let any. group gather in the far North
about the roaring heater in a village trad-
ing post, or in some cabin for a social
hour, and the conversation inevitably drifts,
sooner or later, to the one topic of unfail-
ing interest in the north — dogs. Out here
in the States the latest movie, a new type
of car or aeroplane, a modern dance step,
all receive their share of attention. But in
Alaska it is always dogs that set tongues to
wagging and light weather-beaten faces
with a glow of interest.

Dancing is a popular form of amusement
during the long frozen winters when -mi-
ners, ﬁshermen, and prospectors gather in
enforced idleness at the river settlements
waiting the breaking up of the spring ice,
and open water again, to go about their
business of gaining a livelihood. At the fre-
quent dances, midnight is always the signal
for the serving of a hearty supper. Then,
with the drinking of innumerable cups of
hot black coffee, tongues are loosened and
difﬁdence is forgotten. All grow loquaci—
ous. Each old-timer leans forward in his
place, eyes bright, ready to seize an oppor-
tunity to plunge into the conversation. And
the subject under discussion is always dogs.
One. after another, old sourdoughs take up
the tale of dogs that they have known.
They tell of hair-breadth escapes from
breaking ice on lake. and river and. Arctic
sea; of thrilling rescues. from blinding bliz-
zards. And dogs. are always the rescuers.

Wise, strong-hearted leaders, dogs with
an uncanny trail sense—of these they tell.
There is not a man in the gathering who
does not owe his life to the grit and endur-
ance and sagacity of some lead-dog; and in
the possession of nearly every speaker, is
some veteran of the trail, pensioned to a
life of ease.

It gives them away, these dour, crusty-

E ; OME time ago the readers of Our

appearing old sourdoughs, when one ﬁnds
some half-blind, decrepit sled dog, crippled
from countless ﬁghts and freezes, hobbling
about the cabin after his master and receiv-
ing now and then a low-spoken word of
recognition or roughly—tender pat. I shan’t
forget my ﬁrst experience of this kind of
insight into character.

A woman friend and I were en route
from the Kuskokwim River to the Yukon,
traveling alone with our nine sled dogs. An
unexpected thaw had caught us, and we had
had a particularly bad day on the trail.
For hours we had been wallowing through
slush ice and saturated snow behind our ex-
hausted dog team. Chilled and soaking, we
hailed Shorty Waymire’s cabin just at
night-fall as a haven of refuge. There we
could be sure of warmth and food and
shelter.

Eskimo boys unharnessed and cared for
our footsore team while, in the inner room
of Shorty’s double cabin, beside a glowing
heater, we stripped of soggy sealskin boots,
and” wet fur garments, and got into dry
clothing. Then, famished, ready to devour
without question whatever was set before
us, we issued into the other room from
which came the tantalizing fragrance of
boiling coffee.

“There’s the coffee. Help yourselves to
whatever other grub you want,” said Shorty
curtly, indicating a, well-stocked cupboard.
“I ain’t never cooked for women yet, and
I’m not starting now.”

Our spirits sank. Bones and muscles
ached. We wanted only to eat our ﬁll, then
creep into our sleeping-bags and fall asleep.
All along the trail our sourdough hosts had
put forth their best culinary efforts in our
behalf. We had heard that Shorty was
crabby — but here was an unheard of phe-
nomenon, an. inhospitable Alaskan!

And then, moving dejectedly towards the
stove, I almost stepped upon a big red sled
dog sprinkled with gray. He growled low
in his throat, and Shorty said sharply,
“Look out! Don’t step on Murphy.”

Questions brought forth Murphy’s story.
The old dog was stiff with rheumatism,

 

“MURPHY ” (IN THE LEAD) BEFORE HE BECAME A PENSIONER

 




 

 

Apr. 1935

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 59

Chicago School Children Burn Warl‘ike Toys

F this event, Mrs. W. F.
Krahl, our Humane Ed-

ucation representative in the
Parent-Teacher Association
Work in Illinois, says:

“The value of this cru-
sade in the lives of these
children cannot be estimat-
ed. Has not the time come
to stop encouraging children
to play at murder? Most
alarming is the complacency
with which many parents
and teachers view the in-
creasing use of toy firearms.
It is making mock gangsters
of the nation’s children. It
is putting the stamp of ap-
proval on this sort of thing.
Says the Christian Science
Monitor: ‘As a nation, we
become indignant at muni-
tions manufacturers and
would halt the shipment of
armaments in other parts of
the world. Let us also be-
come indignant at the ship-
ment of toy armaments to
the children of the nation.
Let our arms embargoes be-
gin at home.’ ”

(The photograph is used by
special permission of the
Chicago Daily News).

 

Wk“

W E are glad to be living in
these days when the world
needs. growing minds to meet
changing times. Hard diays, our
parents say. And so does everybody
else. When we ask what the cause, they
give us various reasons for the universal
breakdown. Some say the collapse of the
money market, whatever that means, some
tell us it was high ﬁnance, while others
claim that it’s the machine age running too
high. But the wisest heads we know de-
clare with earnest conviction that it was
the World War. That, they say, caused this
depression and nothing else. It was that
horrible slaughter that bled every nation of
its man-power and wealth. War unsettled
all standards. It deluged the world in
crime. It produced a world as mad as the
mad hatter.

This opinion sounds reasonable to us,
but, of course, we wouldn’t take any man’s
say-so. Not us! We belong to the young
generation. And we believe little that we
can not prove. On general principles, we
refuse to be hoodwinked. Consequently,
We have been thinking, too. When cheap
patriotism shouts about the glory of war,
we, remembering the recent investigation
reports on the methods of the millionaire
munition makers, ask, “Glory for whom?”

For the fellows who died in the trenches?
For those. who got gassed? For those who
lost their legs and arms? For those» who
are in war hospitals for the rest of their

THE 2,000 CHILDREN OF THE RYE

     

RSON ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, CHICAGO, ON THEIR

WAY TO THE BIG BONFIRE WHERE VOLUNTARILY THEY BURNED
THEIR TOY GUNS AND PISTOLS

Youth Speaks—~21 Manifesto

HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

lives? For the parents who lost their sons?
For the cities that were bombed? For the
peaceful towns that were devastated? For
the children who were orphaned? For the
people everywhere who will be paying the
war debts for the next hundred years and
more?

Great glory, isn’t it?

And what did the nations get out of it?
Anything to pay for what they went
through? Well, up to date, they have got
nothing but death, distrust, bankruptcy,
and a universal hate that will bring, unless
we get busy and do something, another
world war. Sensible, isn’t it? Sounds in-
sane to us.

To be sure, they .say, these old ’uns, who
think they know everything, that war can’t
be stopped. Now, we should like to ask,
“Why can’t it?” The nations have outlawed
dueling, witch-hanging and slave-holding.
Why not war?

Some say they are working for peace.
But with building battleships, with in-
creasing aircraft, with experimenting on
deadlier gasses, it looks like it, doesn’t it?
About as common-sense a performance as
to give every. youngster a revolver and
smilingly instruct him not to shoot it off.

But one thing they haven’t fully
calculated on and that is — who
is going to ﬁght in these wars?
The college fellows. by recent ballot
say they are not going to. And the
mothers say they are through raising boys
to rot in. trenches.

Well, we may be young, but we know
that nations can stop war if they wish to.
That governments can ﬁnd another way of
settling national disputes besides slaughter-
ing millions of young men and maiming
for life millions more. We believe that
what men strive for, they obtain.

Intelligence is what we need. Not
bunkum! Not political haranguing! Not
talking peace and preparing for war. We
wish and are determined to have a new
code for cannon fodder, and that’s us!

And we give the world warning this day
that:

1. Because war destroys life,

2. Because it never ceases to demand
payment,

3. Because it wrecks civilization,

4. Because it breeds crime and disease,

5. Because it promotes hate,

6. Because it never settles anything,
we, the youth of America, pledge ourselves
to think peace, talk peace, and work for
peace. We are out to annihilate war.

He that followeth after righteousness
and mercy, ﬁndeth life, righteousness and
honor. Proverbs 21; 21

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

July, 1935

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for April, 1935——30 Days

Daily average large animals 34

Forage for same $68.79
Daily average dogs 5.4

Forage for same 5.30
Put to sleep 15 8.72
Transportation 6.4.5.
Wages, grooms, etc. 80.32
Resident Secretary’s Salary 131.67
Superintendent’s salary 82.29
Veterinary’s salary 29.62
Sundries 65.60

$478.76
Exchange at 15.19 Francs

Entries: 2 horses, 11 mules, 37 donkeys.
Exits: 4 horses, 9 mules, 30 donkeys.

Superintendent’s Notes: Kilometers traveled, 129;
cases investigated, 307; animals seen, 5,333; animals
treated, 1,068; animals transferred, 29.

Secretary General’s Notes: This month the police
have hospitalized to the Fondouk 4 animals wounded,
owned by Spanish conveyors (already reported).

Inspections: Because of the drought
which has lasted all this month (with ex—
ception of the three last days), traffic in
the Medina has been very little except at
the Souk el Khe-mis where the country-
people from the Bled bring their animals
in order to sell them. Therefore, there
were but few animals in the Fondouks.

During my inspections we have burned
14 bad pack-saddles.

This month we have inspected many
times all the pack-animals at the Gates of
Boujeloud (Place Baghdadi), Bab Segma,
Bab Guissa, Bab Jiaf (straw market) and
the many donkeys of the potters’ quarter.

I have met with lame animals but could
not bring them to the Fondouk as then
we exceed the daily average. You know
that to cure a lame animal a period of rest
of from two to three months is absolutely
indispensable.

Until conditions improve we cannot af-
ford to ﬁll the Fondouk with lame donkeys
which require so long a time to be cured,
as that would prevent us from accepting
seriously wounded animals when we ﬁnd
them, and where the suffering is greater.

The only thing required for lame don-
keys is a period of rest, it would be a
splendid thing if some day a generous
American offered money for a meadow
near the Fondouk where we could keen
these lame animals for two or three months
without expense.

Delon collected 8 needles, 2 knives and
3 cactus goads on his rounds yesterday.

In course of my rounds this morning
near Bab Jiaf I saw a donkey heavily laden
with four heavy cases of wine in bottles.
I was unable to take it to the Fondouk,
having too many animals already in hospi-
tal, so I pointed out this deplorable case
to the French policeman—on point duty——
he took the Arab boy driver in charge and
is prosecuting the owner. The donkey was
completely lame and in poor condition.

As there has been no rain at all for
several months, there will be no harvest
to speak of and it is to be feared that we
shall have to buy our barley at a very
high price.

It will Without any doubt be the same
for the straw.

The natives consider their harvest al-
ready as lost. They are daily praying for
rain and the Sultan has ordered prayers in
which they are singing: “O God, leave the
life to Thy animals and bestow nourish-
ment to Thy worshippers.”

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wild Life Sanctuary

LEONA AMES HILL

Far from the clipped ﬁelds and. the deep
brown furrows
Of farm land's, far from sleepy blue grass

meadows,

Among these pines, lost in these dappled
shadows,

Dwell the gray rabbits in their secret
burrows.

Here may the grouse take ﬂight with
whirring wings,

The golden buck run with the timid doe

All through the colored autumn, through the

snow

In the bright cold, and not fear Death that
sings

Down the clear air, swift, merciless. The
steel

Of Death is here forbidden, the strong-
jawed trap,

The blue gun-barrel, and the intricate reel:

Fish swim in silver safety where the lap

Of emerald water sounds, and the brown
bear

Nibbles wild fruit, unharmed by gun or
snare.

A Way to Save Corn Crop

Editor Our Dumb Animals:

In the June issue of Our Dumb Animals
an admirable plea is made by a correspond-
ent, and a very convincing editorial note,
in behalf of the crow.

In Anson county, North Carolina, Mr.
David Hiatt dwelt on Rocky river in the
early seventies and down to his big river—
bottom corn-ﬁeld rode before sunrise on
horseback carrying a bushel of shelled
corn every morning and scattered it on the
ground under the trees where the crows
roosted. In return for his thoughtful kind-
ness the crows allowed his young corn just
peeping through to get a thrifty start
growing. Toward the last of the fort-
night or more required he had to more
than double the supply of food to meet the
increased attendance of visiting birds. The
plan worked, however, excellently well and
his neighbors on both sides of the river
for some miles around voluntarily and
gratefully shared the expense of Mr. Hiatt
in his wise scheme. Later in the season
his black visitors performed an immense
service by destroying innumerable in-
sect pests in the farmer’s ﬁeld.

“Give the devil his due,” is a widely rec--
ognized maxim, and Mr. Hiatt’s spirit and
practice of that rule, together with the
higher recognition of real service done and
to be done is certainly to be commended.

It is to be deplored that the State De-
partment of Conservation in Illinois in
attempting to exterminate the “black little
rascals” have not tried out Mr. Hiatt’s
“more excellent way.” Their goal, at great
expense and the grossly cruel method of
employing dynamite bombs, leaving many
to suffer with wounds and destroying
hordes of other harmless birds, is to be re-
gretted.

W. A. BETTS

To love with the heart of a dog one must
see with the eyes of a God.

CONFUCIUS

Page 109

International Good Will

Extracts from a radio address over Station KDKA

by Sister Fides Shepperson, Ph.D., Professo f H' t

As a practical gesture towards the light
we, lovers of peace, do, on this Interna—
tional Good Will Dray, make formal and
solemn protest to the rulers of nations
against the military training of youth. You
are wronging the rising gene-ration. You
are taking something ﬁne out of the heart
of the world. You can not train a man to
murder—no matter how that murder may
be camouﬂaged—and still keep him at
heart a gentleman. You can not make the
same mind see human life as negligible in
time of war and as sacred in time of peace.
Our crime waves today, our Bruno Haupt-
manns, known and unknown, are the logi-
cal results of war training and of war. . . .

I repeat that we, lovers of culture and
peace, do specially protest against this mili-
tary training, rather in stark realism, this
murder training of youth. . . .

In conclusion I claim that religion is the
only bed rock basis of a. permanent peace
that shall stand adamant amidst the hurri—
cane of national differences. . . .

It is only in the recognition of the com-
mon Fatherhood of God that mankind will
ever agree to recognize the
brotherhood of man.

Only in full knowledge of the laws that
govern the minds of men; and on Religion
.—W1tl’1 its faith that looks through death,
its hope that brightens life, its all—world
embracing charity, will mankind ever erect
a permanent ediﬁce of peace, understand-
ing, and International Good Will.

common

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

THE HAWKS OF NORTH AMERICA, Dr.
John B. May.

The idea. has too long persisted that the
hawks are 1njurious birds and only deserv-
ing to be destroyed on sight. They have
been classed as thieves and marauders that
prey upon the farmers’ poultry and the
young of many useful birds. This deep-
seated and persistent belief is wholly un—
founded. So timely and authoritative a
volume as Dr. May has produced should go
far in changing public opinion regarding
the. hawks and removing much of the
prejudice against them.

Clas51ﬁcation of these birds which in-
cludes some thirty odd species, known as
the “D1urnal Birds of Prey;” the means of
1dent1fy1ngOthem in the ﬁeld, and a thor-
ough expos1tion of their food habits make
up the content of this valuable treatise.
There are thirty-seven remarkable color
plates which illustrate every species occur-
ring in North America, executed by Major
Allan Brooks, noted bird portrait painter.

o“Of the thirty-eight species of diurnal

birds of prey, treated in this volume, says.
Dr. May, “the great majority are proved
by our studies to be more beneﬁcial than
harmful in their relations to man.”

This book will rank high in ornithologi-
cal literature with both professional and
amateur nature students; it is a challenge
to sportsmen, laymen and legislators for a
better understanding of the place and
function of hawks in nature.

1.44.pp. $1.25 postpaid. The National As—
soc1at10n of Audubon Societies, 1775

Broadway, New York City.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(hd.1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

_. z . _
' :9”: r, .‘ /’
Wm

.. ‘ > U

'4'

 
   
   

M

  

 

 
 

 

 

Ways w ~
, ,~ W /\ ”C: * ﬁmt’: #ﬁ%.§lfla0ym
.— .=__ r “3.

   

Angelo Patri Says That—

HILDREN are far kinder to stray dogs and cats than
they used to be before they were members of the Junior
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Many of

them now realize they should take the stray cat to the nearest ~

station of the society, or keep it and telephone for help. It is
only the unknowing child who beats a cat or a dog or stones
a bird. The child who knows must teach the one who does not.
It is wrong to make any creature suffer and when we find
one in distress it is our duty to get help for it.

The Tortoise in the Garden

PERHAPS you have one in your garden and you would

like to know a little more about tortoises. There are two
kinds, the land and the water tortoise, and some people who
know no better, have been persuaded into buying a water tor—
toise, putting him in the dry garden and then being surprised
that the poor creature died, says a writer in The Little Ani-
mals’ Friend, London.'

A lady whom I know had one of these friends in her garden.
She called him the Sage in Armour, but he is, you know, really
a reptile, with a head like that of a snake, and scaly legs, “but
see his wonderful coat of mail,” she says, “look into his wise,
black eyes, and notice his calm, quiet ways and you will know
why I have given him such a Splendid name although he is only
a little tortoise.”

Your tortoise will love to walk about your garden and have
a taste of the nice flowers, but his favorite meal is among the
small green weeds on the grass, which is a good thing from
the gardener’s view.

You should tell your friends that land tortoises do not eat
beetles and slugs. They are vegetarians and require cabbage
and lettuce—sometimes they like clover and dandelion heads
and ripe bananas and pears.

If you want to keep a tortoise at all, have two of them, to
be company for each other. -

Make them a little house (with a lid that opens) to shelter
in from the heat and to go to sleep in during winter; fill it
with straw.

They should have a pan of water to bathe in every day and
a flower-pot saucer always filled with water to drink.

You should feed them well during the summer so that after
their long fast, when they hide themselves, they will wake up
again not too starving and weak.

Tortoises are not stupid. They learn to know and care for
people who notice them, and if angry or frightened they draw
back into their shells and hiss.

One tortoise lover tells us that he once lived where one was
kept and he used to pick it up, when it would put out its head
and neck to be stroked, often opening its mouth and letting
him rub its tongue.

No doubt these creatures—like many others we know really
so little about—are very interesting and worth studying, but
I do not recommend you at all to go out of your way to adopt
them as part of your “happy family.”

Answers to “Scrambled Birds” puzzle last month: Pigeon,
Eaglet, Linnet, Starling, Ostrich, Grouse, Penguin, Grosbeak,
Magpie, Cardinal, Partridge, Pelican, Pheasant, Meadowlark,
Albatross.

’71 ’1' . If} ‘
Rig/{1% ”$1"
“is «‘29, \r
/ e- ‘ ~ ..
Ely}? ," 7 \-
x‘ﬂ‘am/ ‘(
,' g‘i Nué 'r‘"
1‘19 ‘. I l L .
/“" '

 

. ‘W
M. w’ Mir/4' //

CLOSE COMPANIONS

   

 

Forest Friends
ALFRED I. TOOKE‘

.1 f you steal into the forest, and your tread is very light,
And you find a little open spot and sit awhile, you might
See forest folk come popping out along some hidden trail:
A chipmunk, or a rabbit, or a half-a—dozen quail.

A porcupine may waddle unconcerned before your eyes.
A timid hare may see you, and be off in great surprise.
A hawk may come a—swooping when he sees you from afar,
And hover right above you while he wonders what you are.

And if you’re very lucky, you may see some deer pass by;

And when the dusk starts falling, you may hear the hoot owls
cry.

You may see beaver working, or you might surprise a lynx

As he pads along a pathway to a river where he drinks.

But you mustn’t make a movement or the slightest little sound,

For the forest folk are timid. If they know you are around,

They will watch YOU from the tree—tops, or beyond the waving
grass,

And it’s they who will be silent as they wait until YOU pass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Apr. 1935

 

 

 

Anya”. “,
z -_ , .« -

I _t>‘// mg ﬁéﬁ

 

  

 

 

 

 

      

:r'. _
Zia/l / ,, @ﬂdyﬂ r/Ma ,

The Dog of Pompeii
MARGARET SOUTHARD

There was, my dear, in ages past a land across the sea,

A honeyed land, a sunny land, this ancient Italy,

And near a mountain fair and wide—or so the stories say—
There lived a little boy like you who nestles here today.

This little boy like you, my dear, would love to shout and play.

He had a dog like Rover here who guarded him each day,

And from his collar hung a plaque and carved on it in gold,

“Three times he saved his master’s life!”—a tale too briefly
told.

A happy people, happy land, no sorrow, want, nor care;

And none there were who heard the fate that trembled in the air

Till one bright day, when all was still and sunlight flecked the
road,

The hilltOp shock and high above the ﬁre-stream overflowed!

The sky was black and thick and hot and rumblings shook the
land;

The village folk, unknowing yet, rushed out on every hand;

A dreadful roaring rose on high, all light was gone from day,

And disappeared forever then the city of Pompeii!

I say forever; ages passed before it came to light.

They cleared the mud away and there, the first sad trace in
sight,

The little boy beside his dog, locked in unending sleep.

“Three times he saved his master’s life!”—-the last he could
not keep.

Making Friends with Chipmunks
P. A. FRALEIGH

THE chipmunk is one of our wild animals which responds
readily to kindness. People who live near woods in locali-
ties inhabited by chipmunks, or who spend their vacations in
such places, may ﬁnd much pleasure in teaching the little ani-
mals not to fear them, and to take food from their hands.

Offering the kind of food which they may store for winter
will greatly beneﬁt the chipmunks. Among such foods are all
sorts of nuts, prune pits, cherry stones, and especially sun-
ﬂower seeds. A little time and patience are all that is needed
to change a wild chipmunk into a most satisfactory pet.

They live in holes in the ground, in which they store their
winter’s supplies. They are active from the ﬁrst warm days
of spring until late fall, and because- tshey have permanent
homes, they remain in one place for several years. Thus there
is no need to conﬁne the little fellows in any way if you wish
to make pets of them, for if they live near you, and you are
kind, they will not move away, but are more certain to stay
because you make it easy for them to get food.

When a chipmunk once learns that you are his friend, he will
come when you call, eat from your hands, search your pockets,
and be at home about your camp or house, inside or out. The
animals are gentle creatures, shy of course, as all wild things
are, and so pert and frisky in their brown coats with dark
stripes, that it is a joy to watch them.

The writer camped each summer for a number of years in a
spot where chipmunks were quite abundant. Three or four

 
  

>2”me ardymW%/NMM%%WM 3 / I i W/ b

:i.

 

“ONE LEARNED TO COME WHEN CALLED”

became very tame, and one in particular learned to come when
called, and actually seemed to remember her human friends.

It is well to offer very small amounts of perishable foods
such as bread, jelly, cake and chocolate. The animal will store
these foods, but such stores will spoil. It is better to provide
Only as much of these things as the creatures will eat upon
the spot, and to furnish plenty of non-perishable foods to ﬁll
the storehouse for winter.

The animals hibernate during the coldest weather, and per—
haps eat a little of their food supply then. Their stores become
more valuable to them early in the spring when there is
very little food to be found outside their homes.

We know of no wild animal which can be more easily tamed,
while leaving it free in its natural haunts, than can this little
striped chipmunk.

The Largest Animal in the World

IVY J. NEFF

N inhabitant of the sea, but not a ﬁsh, the whale is the

largest animal in the world today. It is a mammal and

its two paddles contain all the bones, joints, and most of the

muscles of the human arm. It can remain under water for

some time but cannot breathe there, and “blows off” when it
reaches the surface.

One species or another inhabits every ocean. The different
species vary greatly in length, some being but ten to twelve
feet long, while at least one species, the Southern ﬁnback,
reaches a length of over one hundred feet with an estimated
weight of seventy tons! The huge bowhead, or right whale,
is a circumpolar species. In summer it is found about the
Arctic ice pack but with the coming of winter it migrates to
more southerly waters.

For many centuries this huge mammal has formed the
basis for the whaling industry and so the world owes a huge
debt to the great bowhead and his relatives, for their contribu-
tion to the “midnight oil.” For centuries the whale has been
hunted, probably as long as any animal on earth, so it is not
unexpected if the whale is becoming increasingly rare.

 

 




 

 

Mar. 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

II

Page 43

The American Humane Education Society

HE report printed above tells of the

rapidly lessening number of court
prosecutions for cruelty to animals in
Massachusetts, the. home state of the
American Humane Education Society. How
much of the credit for this condition, and
for similar conditions in other parts of
the country, may be due to the forty-six
years’ activities of the American Humane
Education Society, we do not venture to
estimate. But we do feel certain that no-
body can read the following report of a
single year’s work, expressed inadequately
in such statistics and statements as we have
tried to condense into reasonable com-
pass, and not realize that here is a tremen-
dous inﬂuence being exerted daily in nearly
every corner of the country in behalf of
better treatment of animals. But that, as
we cannot too often repeat, is the lesser
half of the story.

Field Workers’ Activities

What of the: inﬂuence in building char-
acter in the hundreds: of thousands of
impressionable youths reached by our school
lecturers, our poster contests, our printed
word—all directed to humaane education, or,
better, perhaps, heart education?

Nearly three quarters of a million people
of all ages were reached in audiences ad-
dressed by the fourteen ﬁeld workers of
the American Humane Education Society
during 1934. Of course the great majority
or these were children in the public schools,
but there were many adult audiences, in-
cluding Women’s Clubs, church gatherings,
teachers’ conferences, and meetings of
various organizations.

In New England

Miss Mlaryott visited schools in nine of
the larger cities and towns of Massachu—
setts where she spoke before 39,605 per--
sons. and organized 1,006 Bands of Mercy.
Miss Gilbert went to 110 towns, mostly in
New Hampshire with a few in Vermont,
where her audiences aggregated 41,332
persons. She organized 1,038 Bands of
Mercy. Her talks numbered 635 in 333
different schools, and she distributed nearly
10,000 pieces of literature.

Virginia and Carolina
In addition to the regular school visits
and talks, resulting in the organization of
381 Bands of Mercy in Richmond, Virginia,
and surrounding counties, Miss Finley

 

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston '
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas. MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres. ;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. H SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. O. MUNSON. v.M.D.
. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oaoswm

 

 

 

 

SOME PROSECUTIONS MADE BY
OFFICERS OF MASS. S. P. C. A.
DURING THE YEAR

A dozen cases of failure to provide prop-
er feed, drink and shelter for farm animals
resulted principally in ﬁnes ranging from
$5 to $50. One defendant was sentenced
to jail for three months, two others for two
months each.

The promoter of a cocking-main was con-
victed and ﬁned $50. Thirty-six of those
present were each ﬁned $10. Seventy-four
birds were conﬁscated. Another promoter
paid a ﬁne of $50.

Six defendants were found guilty of sell-
ing horses unﬁt for work. Small ﬁnes were
imposed and the price refunded.

A farmer who allowed his cows to go
unmilked for thirty-Six hours was arraigned
on the charge of cruelty; he was found
guilty and ﬁned $25.

For cruelly abandoning two dogs. and two
cats a defendant, who pleaded not guilty,
was found guilty and ﬁned $10.

Three hit-and-run drivers of automobiles
were prosecuted for cruelly injuring dogs.
Two offenders were ﬁned $20 each; the
case of the third was placed on ﬁle. Five
other drivers for similar offenses paid ﬁnes
aggregating $120.

For inﬂicting tortures upon a horse which
was lame and galled and whose body was
lacerated and punctured by a sharp instru-
ment and in a septic condition, a defendant
was ﬁned $200.

The prosecuting ofﬁcers of the Society
are advised and instructed that it is al-
ways better, when possible, to convert men
from cruelty than to convict them in courts,
and that the test of a Society’s usefulness
is not the number of its prosecutions, but
the number of acts, of cruelty it is able to
prevent.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

sponsored very successful prize poster,
story, letter, poem and animal book con-
tests, and held humane education exhibits
at the State Teachers’ Convention and that
of the Parent—Teacher Association. In Vir-
ginia rural districts Mr. Lemon held many
exhibits, with distribution of literature,
and found his way to 279 places where
his audiences were about equally divided
between children and adults. He reported
252 Bands of Mercy. He is one of three
workers securing splendid results among
the colored population of the South. An-
other is Mr. Carroll, with headquarters in
South Carolina, who traveled more than
20,000 miles and reached more than 160,-
000 persons in that and adjacent states.
He was responsible for 552 Bands of Mercy.
He secures much favorable publicity,
especially in the colored press of the South.

Georgia and Tennessee

Two outstanding events mark the work of
Mrs. Weathersib-ee in Georgia—the giving of
a humane education breakfast to 500 guests
with distinguished speakers at the Georgia
Congress of Parents and Teachers, and
securing the co-operation of the FERA in
putting humane education in the recreation
program of Atlanta playgrounds. She also
visited 119 towns, organized 918 Bands of
Mercy, and engaged in unusual activities
during Be Kind to Animals Week. Mr.
Burton traveled 24,000 miles through cities,
towns and the Southern Mountains of Ten-
nessee, reaching many thousand children
and adults. He gave 203 school talks and
68 adult addresses. He inﬂuenced 7,700
persons to take the Jack London pledge.

Texas and Florida

Mr. Barnwell’s work is among the
Negroes of Texas, nearly 100,000 of whom
he reached in some way during the year.
They were in 114 different places, requir-
ing nearly 15,000 miles of travel. He re-
ported 712 Bands of Mercy, and distributed
more than 10,000 pieces of literature. A
new ﬁeld worker, Rev. R. E. Griffith, was
engaged early in 1934 to work in Florida.
In eight months he organized 285 Bands
of Mercy, having visited 62 places. His
travels take him to humane societies, li-
braries, and various institutions, in all of
which he stresses humane education and
helps with local plans for the cause.

In Metropolitan Cities

Mr. Wentzel, with headquarters at Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, visited 76 places, gave
more than a hundred school talks and 55
adult addresses, reaching a total of 33,750
persons. He distributed nearly 50,000
pieces of literature at vacation Bible
schools, Parent-Teacher meetings, county
fairs, and other religious and educational
gatherings, at all of which he spoke on
humane education. Mrs. Toomim succeed-
ed in putting on one of the most colorful
and successful programs for Be. Kind to
Animals Week that Chicago, Illinois, has
ever seen. Her work is chieﬂy in the schools

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

o

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

 

 

 

 

 

 

WITH ANTLERS IN THE VELVET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

FWMCE

IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 92

 

A Horse of the Tropics

TOM ROONEY

HE Panamanian horse is perhaps the

most diminutive beast of burden with
hoofs. Smaller than the little burro, weigh-
ing sometimes less than three hundred
pounds, he is nevertheless sturdy and un-
tiring. Loads far exceeding twice his weight
mean nothing to him, and he carries them
all day over rough roads, mountain passes,
and through dense jungles. Bananas,
oranges, cocoanuts, and rice are trans-
ported to an enormous extent by this Lilli-

putian horse, who knows not the musical

rattle of oats in a metal box. He subsists
on fruit and grass and the wild berries
about him.

Even in Colon, Panama City, and other
sizeable places may be seen hundreds of
these mite horses, their tiny hoofs tripping
over the cobbles with the grace of a dancer.
Men and women, somewhat smaller than
the average Americans, ride them horseback
for distances of ﬁve to ten miles. The San
Blas Indians, aboriginal inhabitants of the
coast of Panama and the bordering islands
in the Caribbean Sea, have adopted this
Tom Thumb of a horse for the most strenu-
ous toil. The women hang calabashes, huge
pails hollowed from logs with crude in-
struments, over the beasts’ backs and so
transport water for drinking and washing.
All day the horses labor in the equatorial
heat, never balking. They love their mas-
ters with an undying intensity and display
an uncanny intelligence. Their average life
is ﬁfteen years.

It was during the building of the Panama
Canal that the Panamanian horse did heroic
work. With fever rampant and men fall-
ing sick every day, he was used for trips
to the hospital. Many American workers
recall these faithful beasts of burden, a
memory that grips the heart. The accom-
panying picture was taken near Port Bello.
The senor is almost as heavy as his mount.

There are more than 200 parrots in the
awary at Sing Sing, says 0. O. McIntyre.
They were borne there literally on the
Wings of fear. When an epidemic of the
so-called parrot fever broke out in the
country, Warden Lawes offered refuge.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

To a Black Colt

ELMA DEAN

You were the loveliest thing in my world
And the shyest, too .

And I hungered for space and silences
Even as you.

I followed you over the misty ﬁelds,
A worshipful child;

But I never quite touched your velvet nose:
You were so wild.

Your cloudy mane and magniﬁcent tail——
Your satin coat

Would tighten my breath in a kind of knot
Against my throat

I never knew what vicious hands
Put out your ﬁre;
But I found you hopeless and hitched to a
thing
Marked “Cab for Hire.”

Remembering you in the after years
Tortures my heart . . .

And always at hoof beats down the wind . . .
I tremble . . . and start . .

Kind Father Fishes

R. H.

THE ancient and honorable Fish family
can trace their ancestry much farther
back than the Mayﬂower, or William the
Conqueror, or even Adam himself. Fishes
are much the oldest of the vertebrates, and
they show a greater variety of physical
traits and of habits than any of the younger
families. One of the most curious respects
in which certain groups of the ﬁshes devi-
ate from the general type, and from ani-
mals in general, is in what might be called
the maternal instinct among the males.
Fish in general show no great degree of
interest in their offspring. Complete neglect
of their young, callous infanticide, even
gluttonous cannibalism, are horrid indict-
ments to which most ﬁsh parents must
plead guilty. But there are some shining
exceptions, especially among the father‘s.
The bright-colored little Chromides which
are frequent in the fresh water about the
eastern end of the Mediterranean are rep-
resented in the Lake of Tiberias, which in
Bible times was the Sea of Galilee, by a
species expressively called Paterfamilias.
The male ﬁlls his mouth with the little
green eggs, sometimes as many as two hun-
dred of them at once. As they thrive and
develop in that congenial environment, the
father’s cheeks puﬂ" out and his jaws are
pried open, so that he passes the last days
of the period of incubation with his mouth
gaping wide. But he bears it all patiently
for the sake of the coming generation.
There are several species of ﬁsh in which
the male keeps jealous watch over the eggs.
It is said that some of them have been
known to snap at sticks thrust in the direc-
tion of their precious children-to-be. But
the domestic instinct is even stronger with
the young male Gobius. He locates himself
under a shell even before he has found his
mate. When she passes, he invites her in.
When the eggs are laid, he glues them to the

June, 1935

top of his house. The mother goes her
care-free way, but the father keeps the
home ﬁres burning till his brood is able to
shift for itself. A goby has been known,
when a practical joker has overturned hLS
shell cottage, to ﬂip it back into place loy-
ally and skilfully with his tail. .

The male stickleback builds a nest whlch
is very much like the nests of some birds.
Like the gobies, he cares for the family
in which his mate, the mother, shows no
passing interest, defends them against the
kidnappers with which the Fish family, like
some distinguished families, has often to
contend, keeps the water in the nest fresh
by ﬂapping it in and out with his ﬁns, and
when the little ones are inclined to slip
away too early for their good, he brings
them back patiently in his mouth.

As with the human race, again, so with
the ancient Fish family, it often turns out
that the bravest are the tenderest. The tiny
Betta of the shallow waters about Indo-
China are such furious ﬁghters that they
have been known to leap from one aqua-
rium tank into a neighboring one to engage
an enemy in a battle to the death, and the
Siamese organize Betta-ﬁghts as the Fili-
pinos and Mexicans stage cock-ﬁghts. Mr.
Betta has a peculiar trick of blowing his
mate’s eggs to the surface of the water
where he keeps them very well in a sort of
bed of bubbly foam which he has produced
by blowing a mucilaginous substance out
of his mouth. When a baby falls out of its
cradle he carefully blows it back to its
place. But when the little ﬁshes are once
on their own, then they would do well to
keep out of range of the paternal mouth
which was once so solicitous in their pro-
tection.

The male of the fantastic tiny Hippo-
campus is constructed a little like a fe-
male kangaroo. His mate deposits her eggs
in a pouch which he carries on his abdomen,
and they remain there till they emerge as
little ﬁsh.

Such instances of paternal solicitude are
rare in any family, at least in the sub-
human communities, but there is 'a touching
example of it among the toads. The eggs
of the Alytes or “obstetrical toads” come
into the world in strings held together by
a sort of sticky cord. The. male takes
charge of these chaplets of eggs and carries
them wrapped about his hind legs; and
since forlhealth and happiness they must
be kept moist, he sits down in the water
occasionally to keep them so.

From all of which it appears that it is
not always the woman who pays.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already one or two cases have
come to our attention and are being re-
lieved in this way.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
and specify that the amount contributed
is for the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 

 

 

,. a!”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 88

Our DumbAnimals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to _which all communications

should be addressed.
Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Dr. Sutton of Atlanta

Fortunate indeed is the city that has at
the head of its schools a man of the high
ideals and willingness to express them that
characterize Dr. Willis A. Sutton who,
since 1921, has been superintendent of
public schools of Atlanta, Ga. Splendid co-
operation has been given by Dr. Sutton to
Mrs. Weathersbee, ﬁeld worker of the
American Humane Education Society in
that city. In a newspaper weekly letter to
boys and girls, which calls attention to Be
Kind to Animals Week and especially to
Humane Day in Schools, Dr. Sutton writes:

I wish you to understand that humane
education means. a reverence for life.

One 'of the greatest philosophers of all
times has found in this idea the basis of his
philosophy—“if we are reverent in the
presence of life we shall come to be kind,
sympathetic and understanding towards all
of God’s creatures.”

Nothing has the same inﬂuence in help-
ing to build our characters as our regard
for plant and animal life, our appreciation
and understanding of it, because we can-
not be thoughtful and kind to animals and
to people without having a spark of the
divine kindled within us, because God is
the Author of all life.

I do hope that you will all observe Hu-
mane Week in the schools and in your
homes, and that in all you do, you will have
a real, genuine appreciation, love and rev-
erence for life and for God as the Author
of all life.

A Live Band of Mercy

The Newburgh, N. Y., News says of the
Free Academy Band of Mercy of that city:

The Band of Mercy is an enthusiastic
group of youths and girls who are on the
alert for cases of cruelty and who give out
information to the public for better treat-
ment of house pets and for protection of
wild creatures. The work of this organ-
ization has become specially necessary be-
cause of the passing of the local branch
of the S. P. C. A.

It is a pleasure publicly to commend
NFA Band of Mercy in connection with
observance of “Kindness to Animals” week.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Ducks and Geese in Danger

HAT the ducks and geese of North
America are decreasing at an alarm-
ing rate before the guns of the ever-in-
creasing army of hunters, creates a situ-
ation of which both Canada and the United
States should take immediate cognizance.
As reliable an authority on the subject as
we know is Jack Miner, who maintains the
most successful migratory bird sanctuary
on the continent, at Kingsville, Ontario.
His warning of the diminishing ducks and
geese and his program to “bring them
back” deserve the widest publicity in. both
countries.

Jack Miner is not opposed to a limited
amount of shooting. He is opposed to al-
lowing ten per cent of the population to ex-
terminate what belongs to the whole of it.
Moreover, he says, “I am personally op-
posed to a closed season, to let the birds
multiply to be slaughtered by the present
system. The average shooter pays at least
twenty-ﬁve dollars for a gun and ﬁve d01-
lars for ammunition. Surely he should be
willing to pay ﬁve dollars for something to
shoot at, this ﬁve dollars to be divided be-
tween Federal and State or Province. If he
is not willing to pay the ﬁve dollars, let
him go without a license and he will be ﬁve
dollars in. Now we can reclaim all the
duck feeding, breeding and resting grounds
America ever had, but unless the use of live
decoys, baited ﬁelds, rented blinds and all
such unfair advantage-s and commercialized
methods are abolished, the ever-increasing
thousands of shooters, with equally in-
creased advantageous shooting equipment,
will force our ducks and geese to go along
with the sand-hill crane.

He calls attention to the fact that since
spring shooting has rightly been abolished,
Canadian hunters do not have an average
of over three weeks’ shooting at northern-
bred. ducks as these birds begin to concen-
trate on southern shooting grounds by No-
vember 1 and remain there for nearly four
months. As a result of this he offers a
“golden rule” suggestion:

“Let all North America be allowed four
weeks open season, instead of three and a
half months, with the privilege of dividing
this four weeks into two two-week periods
only, and all open seasons to be closed on
or before December 15. And let the sea-
son’s total bag limit be six ducks and two
geese. It is a small bag limit, but it is
every bird we can afford at present.”

He strongly urges everyone to support
President Roosevelt, Chief Darling and
Secretary Wallace in their stand against
magazine guns being allowed over three
shots and would restrict them to two which
should long ago have been the limit.

The proposed regulations are eminently
fair, and such advice must be heeded if we
shall avoid the international disgrace of re-
ducing these noble species of wild fowl to
the vanishing point.

Wanton cruelty is rare these days, the
humane spirit having increased greatly dur-
ing the last generation. And with proﬁt to
individuals and communities. Humane edu-
cation, kindling the inherent compassion
1n nearly every breast, has been respon-
s1ble. —Brockton Enterprise

June, 1935

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
By His Excellency
JAMES M. CURLEY
GOVERNOR
A PROCLAMATION
1935

In the year 1868, with the nation slowly
emerging from the hatreds of Civil War,
there appeared in Massachusetts, ever to
the forefront in all humane endeavors, one
more bit of evidence of the civilized atti-
tude of this Queen among the Common-
wealths. For in that year George Thorndike
Angell, .son of the old Bay State, launched
his magazine “Our Dumb Animals” now a
wholesome inﬂuence for good in every cor—
ner of Christendom.

What schoolboy or girl since does not
recall that verse from Cowper which has
constantly appeared at the editorial mast—
head.

“I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and
ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.”
Now, because the week beginning April
8, 1935, is to be characterized by a general
observance throughout the United States
as Be Kind to Animals Week, prefaced by
the observance on Sunday, April 7th, as
Humane Sunday, I, James M. Curley,
do hereby set apart the week of April 8
to April 13, 1935, as
BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

and ask the citizenry, young and old, to
remember in these days of world-wide un-
rest, that “beasts of their kind their fel-
lows spare—bears live in amity with bear.”
There is a lesson to be learned from our
agreeable friends of the animal world, for
they ask no questions nor do they criticize
one another.

GIVEN at the Executive Chamber, in
Boston, this sixth day of April, in
the year of our Lord, one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-ﬁve, and of
the Independence of the United States
of America the one hundred and ﬁfty-
ninth.

By His Excellency the Governor,
JAMES M. CURLEY

FREDERICK W. COOK
Secretary of the Commonwealth

GOD SAVE THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS

Thomas A. Edison’s fondness for birds
was made evident by the care he gave to
a crippled bird which he found one day in
late autumn. This unfortunate bird, be-
cause of its maimed condition, was unable
to join the caravans of its own kind that
were at the time ﬂying southward. Edison
gave it such attention and care that after
some time it showed decided improvement
and apparent readiness for ﬂight. How—
ever, the kindly scientist was-still doubtful
about the bird’s ability to meet the demands
of a long air journey, so he placed his little
friend in a box, labeled it for a destination
in South America, and delivered it to the
express company with instructions to re-
lease it at the end of the journey.

-——Stepping Stones

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Let’s Go Climbing

CHARLES J. BELDEN

HE blood of the Bighorn mountain
sheep has entered the domestic
ﬂocks of the country. The animal

shown here is a cross between a mountain
sheep ram and a domestic ewe. It has both
hair and wool on its body and has the
jumping tendencies of its male parent.

About a year and a half ago a band of
range sheep belonging to the Pitchfork
Ranch in Wyoming was grazing under the
shadow of the Rocky Mountains, when a
giant ram specimen from a ﬂock of wild
mountain sheep came down from the high
peaks and mingled with the domestic ewes.
For years, the stories current among sheep
herders of the West in connection with the
crossing of the Bighorn mountain sheep
with ewes of domestic ﬂocks have been
passed off largely as fanciful tales of a
lonely shepherd’s imagination. Rarely if
ever has a speciﬁc case been produced. A
few years ago a sheepman of Colorado sent
ﬁve newly-born lambs representing a cross
between a Rocky Mountain Bighorn and
his domestic sheep to the Colorado Museum
of Natural History. These had died within
a few hours of birth. Other similar cases
have been reported, but in every instance
the hybrid lambs did not have sufﬁcient vi-
tality to survive more than a few days at
most.

At the time that the Bighorn ram
strayed into his ﬂock, the herder told his
camp-tender about it and predicted that at
least one lamb would make its appearance
during the next few months. As soon as
the herder had seen the intruder he had
chased him back to his own kind far up on
the snow-capped peaks. On the 10th of
April this odd-looking lamb made its ap-
pearance and was promptly taken into the
home ranch, for early April is no time for a

 

OVER THE TOP
This hybrid, sired by the Bighorn, can easily hop over
a seven-foot corral fence.

young lamb to be out on the storm-swept
ranges of Wyoming. The balance of the
ewes were not to have their lambs till a
month later.

For the ﬁrst few weeks of its life the
lamb was weak and sickly and two months
passed before it began to look strong and
thrifty. It had the characteristic brown
spots of the mountain sheep lamb and its
coat seemed to be part hair and part wool.
The coat of the Bighorn sheep is of course
dark colored hair not unlike a deer. The
actions of this strange youngster have
never been those of a domestic lamb and
the characteristics of its male parent have
predominated. The lamb prefers to mix
with a small herd of goats on the ranch
and frequently jumps up on a pile of logs
or on the roofs of the low ranch buildings.
With apparently no effort at all it can hop
over a six- or seven-foot corral fence. An-
other curious fact about this creature is
that its tail is only about one-third the
length of the tail of a domestic lamb.

It is well known that the Bighorn sheep
is the hardiest of any animal, grazing as it
does the year round on the roof of the
continent. It is not beyond possibility that
this cross might be the start of a new breed
of domestic sheep that will stand the rig-
ors of Wyoming or Montana. winters even
better than the Merino or Rambouillet ewes.

Show me the enforced laws of a state for
the prevention of cruelty to animals and I,
in turn, will give you a correct estimate of
the reﬁnement, enlightenment, integrity,
and equity of that commonwealth’s people.
The lack of humane education is the prin-
cipal cause of crime.

HON. L. T. DASHIELL

Page 93
Wild Things

JOSEPHINE MCINTIRE

I took a pleasant ride today;
Adown a country lane

There ﬂashed a golden pheasant by
In quest of ripened grain;

A ﬂock of wild geese swung above
A lake of azure blue;

I watched with eager, wistful eyes
As they streamed out of 'view;

I heard a rustle in the brush—
In wonder-muted fright

A rabbit scamper-ed through the grass
And scurried out of sight;

Wild things above, around me, stirred;
In kindness born anew

My heart goes out to all wild things,
For it’s a wild thing, too!

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

CREATURES GREAT AND SMALL, H.
Rossiter Snyder.

 

This volume, bound in blue cloth, con-
tains 73 pages of animal and bird pictures,
one to a page, attractively printed in photo-
gravure, with but four pages of explana-
tory text. The author is noted for a. book
on money-making photography and for his
child portraiture and syndicated animal
photographs. In “Creatures” the picture’s
the thing; the text is at the end of the
book. Every lover of animals, whether
young or old, will be charmed with this
compilation. The cover jacket has an allur-
ing picture. of a child and a kid, and even
the title page has an illustration of a fawn’s
head and neck. The spirit of the work is
shown in the legend which greets the reader
on the front ﬂap of the jacket, “Don’t Stop
for the blurb, look at the pictures!”

$2. Loring & Mussey, New York; or, R.
Snyder Co., Guilford, Conn.

 

HALF WILD AND HALF DOMESTIC
Hybrid ram lamb, four months old, which stands much
higher than its mother.

 

 




 

 

O- T. AN GE

 

 

u U. S,Trade Mark, Registered
LL m 1868.AND FOR Fomy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

—COW’PER

I
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE
AND Mancv 1’0“
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 68
Who Should Declare War?

The people who will have to do the fight-
ing and pay the bills and suffer the heart—
break and sorrow. A Resolution was intro-
duced into the last Congress to the effect
that except in case of invasion of the Un—
ited States a referendum be taken before
any declaration of war can be voted by
Congress. Some day shall we not hope such
a resolution may be enacted into law?

Over one billion dollars were voted by
Congress this year for national defense.
For support of Army and Navy alone,
$800,000,000. In spite of the opposition
aroused against such vast expenditures, the
majority carried the day and the President
signed the bills. And every mother’s son
of us will help raise the money by our
taxes. And this means the millions who
think they are not taxed but who by indi—
rect taxation pay a tax on almost every—
thing they buy from a yeast cake to a
second—hand automobile.

An Associated Press dispatch from Addis
Ababa, dated October 4, says that despite
the tremendous worries and responsibilities
arising from present Italo—Ethiopian hos-
tilities, Emperor Haile Selassie found time
today to approve plans for the establish-
ment of an Ethiopian Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

The society is sponsored by Mrs. Everett
Colson, wife of the Emperor’s American ad-
viser. The Emperor provided the necessary
funds from his personal purse. Mrs. Col-
son plans to open a veterinary hospital im-
mediately.

Be as humane as you can; cause as little
suffering as you can; no doubt it is not
easy, all at once, to eradicate a habit which
has taken hold of our sensual nature, but,
at least, let us deprive it of its worst fea-
tures. . . When we take our recreation,
those who help in the fun ought to share
in it, and be amused as well. PLUTARCH.

November, 1935
The Mass. S. P. C. A. and

Geneva

. LL the delegates at the League of Na—
tions as well as their Counsellors,
Private Secretaries and members of the
Press representing each country present,
through the generous co-operation of the
Royal S. P. C. A., of London, Captain Fer-
gus MacCunn, Chief Secretary, have receiv—
ed a copy of “An International Appeal,” is—
sued by us, against the pollution of the
coastal waters by oil from oil-burning ships.
Our readers may recall this appeal on behalf
of the millions of sea birds annually de-
stroyed by this fatal oil. At Captain Mac-
Cunn’s request, we were glad to send him
the copies necessary for this distribution.
All told, some 13,000 copies have gone out
into our own and other countries.

The following paragraphs we reproduce
from the letter sent. by the Royal S. P.
C. A. to the League of Nations.

“This is a growing evil and birds of the
world (which form an essential part of the
economy of nature and without whose
presence the human race itself could not
go on), are being alarmingly destroyed by
this additional menace, which has come
upon wild bird life. This oil menace af-
fects this most precious heritage of wild
bird life.

“A special Joint Committee, consisting of
Members of both the House of Lords and
House of Commons, has been formed
through the efforts of Sir Cooper Rawson,
M. P., a member of our Council. At their
meeting held on the third of July, 1935, at
the British House of Commons, it was de-
cided that an appeal should be sent to you.”

Delegates to the recent Humane Conven-
tion at Washington who had the privilege
of meeting and listening to Captain Fergus
MacCunn, chief secretary of the Royal S.
P. C. A., London, found him to be a worthy
successor to Captain Fairholme whose wel-
come visits to previous meetings here are
well remembered. . ' '

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

No. 11

Watchman, What of the
Night P

BY the time these words are read the
world will probably know what the
signs of promise are—whether another un—
speakable war like the last has begun or
the danger of a wide—spread European con-
flict passed. Can there be a really civilized
man who wants war? Can anyone but a
ruthless seeker after personal or national
aggrandizement want it? Can there be an
American citizen who will not pray that his
own nation will do everything in its power
to maintain a wise neutrality? Shall the
greed for gain, for financial profit on the
part of a few force us into the maelstrom
of another Armageddon?

What must one think of a message sent
the President of the United States like
this:

New York, October 8 (,A.P.)——The New
York conference on port development has
sent to President Roosevelt a protest
against his neutrality proclamation.

The message from the group, headed by
Walter J. L. Banham, said: “Your discre-
tionary act in banning all trade with Italy
and Ethiopia is considered a serious blow
to commerce of this country and port and
is premature and ill-advised and not fur-
thering our neutral position at present
time. Urge you to rescind same.”

How infinitely better a few billions of
trade lost to the country’s traders than the
many, many billions of war cost to say
nothing of the human wreckage, the blood
shed, the desolation and misery it would in
volve! Fifty million names signed to a
world-wide plea for peace, we are told, are
being sought. Is there one of us who will
not further to the best of his ability every
movement for peace that may be made, and
back up his government in maintaining
such a neutrality as will keep us out of an-
other horror like that that fell upon man—
kind during those fateful years 1914—1918?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

J une, 1935

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

 

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.

HOWARD F.» WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS—
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS, EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURRUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. M. F. PETERSON, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers . 13,098
Cases investigated ............... 331
Animals examined ............... 7,048
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 118
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 59
Number of prosecutions ........ . 3
Number of convictions ........... 3
Horses taken from work .......... 28
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 14

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,498
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 46,503
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 51

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the will of Miss Edith
Babcock of Milton.

May 14, 1935.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D, Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
R. EVANS, v.M.D.
L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

Gamma;
FOquw

in?

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 747 Cases 2,440
Dogs 587 Dogs 2,033
Cats 150 Cats 375
Horses 5 Birds 25
Birds 3 Rabbits 4
Goat 1 Horses 2
Sheep 1 Rat 1

Operations 1,016

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ...................... 128,535
Dispensary Cases ................ 304,527

Total ......................... 433,062

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 107
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 429
Operations .......................... 1 7 2

Young Men Hold Dance

A “Hooﬁng” party was given for the
beneﬁt of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. at
Hotel Somerset, Boston, May 3. The dance
was in charge of the young men’s com-
mittee, consisting of Messrs. James Brooks,
chairman, William P. Coues, Jr., chairman
of the dance, Follen Cabot, George M.
Cushing, Jr., Ronald Findlay, J. Lindsay
Ware, William Davis, Jr., Robert W. Stew-
art, Walton Allen, and Thomas A. Gibson.
The patronesses were Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, president of the Women’s Auxili-
ary, Mrs. Homer Loring, Mrs. Louise J.
Garter, Mrs. William J. McDonald, Mrs.
Charles T. Harding, Miss Ethelyn Lord,
Mrs. George Colton Moore, Mrs. Howard E.
Murphy, Mrs. Edwin P. Rich, Mrs. Arthur
W. Hurlburt, Mrs. Ernest Dudley Chase,
Mrs. F. L. Morrill, Mrs. George Ramlose,
Mrs. Charles F. Rowley, Miss Emily Wain-
wright Browne, Mrs. Charles G. Bancroft,
Mrs. William Hugh Nason, Miss Bessie D.
Davis, Mrs. Richard Delaney, Miss Blanche
A. Bardin, Mrs. Edward K. Bennett, Miss
Emily H. Everett, Mrs. Francis W. Capper,
Miss Fanny Gray, Mrs. Edward C. Brown
and Miss Dorothy Gray.

C

One hundred and three pupils of the
Senior High school, Chelsea, Mass, joined
the Jack London Club in April, under the
direction of one of the teachers, Miss Pearl
A. Maynard.

Page 89

Hosiaitality Day at 180
Longwood Avenue Headquarters of

M. S. P. C. A. Scene of Festivities

' UESDAY, April 23, was a gala occasion
for the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. for on that after-
noon the annual Hospitality Day was held at
the Society’s rooms, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston. It marked the ﬁfteenth anniver-
sary of the organization. Under the direc-
tion of Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, presi-
dent of the Auxiliary, assisted by Mrs.
Arthur W. Hurlburt, vice-president, and
Mrs. A. J. Furbush, treasurer, the activities
took place on the second ﬂoor of the admin-
istration building. Many members and their
guests were escorted through the Hospital
proper to see the practical workings of the
institution, with its six veterinarians and
numerous aS‘sistants in attendance.

There was a concert, followed by tea and
other refreshments, the latter in charge of
Mrs. Herbert Prescott, Mrs. George A.
Ramlose and_Mrs. F. Hilliard Young. Mrs.
Erland F. Fish and Mrs. William Pierce
Coues poured. Mrs. Harry T. Cole was in
charge of the food table, assisted by Mrs.
W. W. Haswell, Mrs. J. J. Corbett, Mrs.
Benjamin J. Blakney, Mrs. S. S. Sutcliife,
and Mrs. Avard H. Nichols.

The hostesses were Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt,
Mrs. John A. Dykeman, Mrs. Edward K.
Bennett, Mrs. Edward C. Brown, Miss
Wealthia Strauss and Miss Fredonia
Strauss.

Dr. Schroeder at Springfield

Dr. E. F. Schroeder of the staff of the
Angell Animal Hospital, Boston, was the
guest speaker at the April meeting of the
Springﬁeld branch of the Women’s Auxili-
ary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. He
illustrated his informing talk with pictures
taken by himself of patients cared for in
the Hospital. There was a large attend-
ance, the meeting having been arranged
by Mrs. Donald C. Kibbie, president, who
welcomed the guests. Mrs. M. F. Peterson
was in charge of the social committee for
the hour which followed the exercises. Tea
was poured by Mrs. Victor A. Hansen,
assisted by Mrs. Harold G. Duekworth, Mrs.
E. S. Decker, Jr., Mrs. Walter W. Peacock,
Mrs. Morton B. Miner, Mrs. Robert Haley
and Mrs. Donald McAllister.

On May 9 the annual meeting of the
Auxiliary was held. On Saturday, June 8,
the annual “S. P. C. A. June Day” will take
place on the estate of Mr. and Mrs. Charles
N. Denault, 734 Longmeadow Street.

Winchester Auxiliary

The April meeting of the Winchester
Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
was held at the home of Mrs. Alfred
Hildreth, 371 Highland Avenue, when one
new member was enrolled and pledges
were received for the shelter fund. Mrs.
Richard Taylor, president, had charge of the
tea table. At the meeting on May 9, held
in the Congregational church, the Auxiliary
listened to an address on the work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. by Mr. A. A.
Pollard, treasurer of the Society.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

C RUE LTY TO ANIMALS

AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 

MAY |935
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 60
Birds Beyond Price

ALAN DEVOE

RE you one of those people who con—

sider bird—lovers silly sentimental-
ists? Have you perhaps listened without
much serious attention to those state-

ments, which we all hear from time to
time, about the economic value of our
native birds? Suppose you are a farmer,
and suppose that you have—in greater or
less degree—been inclined to pooh-pooh
birds as merely pretty incidentals in the
summer scene. Here are a few facts for
you.

Imagine that you have been given a

”quart—measure, and that you have been

ordered to ﬁll it to the brim with harmful
insects from your plants and trees.
Perhaps this sounds like a large order.
It is. It is a colossal order, a practically
impossible task, for the number of average
insects necessary to ﬁll a quart-measure
is approximately 3,750. You have pro—
bably often seen chickadees on your farm
—those tiny black-capped birds that are
even smaller than a sparrow. What about
them? Just this: one solitary Chickadee is
capable of destroying more than four
thousand insect and worm eggs between
sunrise and sunset of a single day. Does
this sound like a fantastic exaggeration?
It is, on the contrary, a conservative
estimate.

If, like most of us, you are afflicted
now and then with plagues of tent-cater-
pillars, you have probably spent laborious
hours burning the nests with ﬂares and
you know what a task it is. Consider then
the cuckoo, and look upon him with a
grateful eye. How many tent-caterpillars
do you suppose constitute a daily ration for
a cuckoo? Five? Twelve? Twenty? The
answer is three hundred.

Mere numbers are not always as impres-
sive as ﬁgures of another kind, ﬁgures of
size and bulk. Let us work it out then in
another way, by assuming in the ﬁrst
place that your farm is a small one———say
ten acres. It has been computed by state
ornithologists and other technical experts
that during the summer your average
bird-population is six insect-eating birds
per acre. That means that on your farm
you customarily entertain, from spring
until autumn, not less than sixty feathered
residents. Every one of these sixty is
consuming easily one hundred insect pests
every twenty—four hours. Exaggerated?
Ask the United States Department of
Agriculture or any ornithologis-t. Now
we begin to get a hint of ﬁgures that look
almost astronomical in their enormousness.
Six thousand insects a day comes to 180,
000 per month. Your bird visitors are
with you for about ﬁve months, and so,
with a ﬁnal spurt of arithmetic, we see
that the seasonal consumption of harmful
insects by the birds on your ten-acre farm
approximates something like 900,000!
The hugeness of this total will perhaps be
made more vivid if you reckon it as eight
bushel-baskets. Each one of them ﬁlled
to the brim with the corpses of your insect
foes.

The city of New York has never been
noted for sentimentality, and its govern-

* nil“

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

'ment has never been wont to squander
money for a mere whim. As I write these
lines the hard-headed government of the
hardest-boiled city in the east is spending
slightly more than $300 a week for bird—
relief. Bird-relief? Yes; every single week
during these winter months the city of
New York is passing out half a ton of
sunﬂower seeds, white wheat, oats and
cracked corn to its hungry and snow-ham-
pered birds. In Bryant Park alone—one
block wide and two blocks long—three
thousand birds are on the municipal dole.
New York does not think it is being
extravagant.

Bird-baths and bird-houses for the sum-
mer, or suet-containers and crumb-trays
for the winter—these things cost but a
few dollars. The birds they attract are
beyond price.

Homing Pigeons
BESS J. CRARY

HE carrier pigeon gets its name, “hom-

er,” from its love of home. When
released it ﬂies at once, as fast as it can,
and in spite of all handicaps, to the loft
which to it is home and where it knows it
will be fed and comforted. A pigeon never
carries a message ex-

 

Apr. 1935

geon, the earlier carrier pigeon possessing
little speed or endurance. It takes several
generations of careful breeding, scientiﬁc
diet, and hard and constant training in
flying, to produce a bird able to fly 500
miles a day.

The homing pigeon, both in war and in
peace, is the court of last resort. When
even the radio fails, put a homer on the
job and it will deliver safe and with in-
credible quickness, the S.O.S. message that
brings succor. Homers will ﬂy with their
communication, tied to their leg in a tiny
aluminum case, and deliver it while a radio
is being made ready for service. They can
be dispatched from an aeroplane or balloon
while this is in ﬂight and will continue on
their way. They can be released from an
aeroplane that is stationary on land or
water, whereas the radio apparatus with
which airships are equipped in many cases
functions only when the machine is moving.
In a storm, when a radio is often rendered
useless by the static electricity, pigeons
invariably carry their messages safely
through.

Among the various important uses to
which pigeons are put in time of peace are:
By aviators and balloonists to send back
word when they are forced to land and

 

cept from the point at
which it is set free to
its home loft.

The birds are be-
lieved to guide them-
selves back through the
faculty of “orienta-
tion,” that is, of sens-
ing direction and the
p o in t s of compass.
Memory and sight also
aid. Orientation is very
little understood. All
animals have it to a
greater or less extent.
The best explanation of
the very high degree of
the instinct possessed
by pigeons seems to be
that the seat of their
sense of direction lies in the semi-circular
canals of the inner ear, which through their
great sensitiveness perhaps enable the bird
to receive magnetic and atmospheric im-
pressions. It has been discovered that an
injury to the canals destroys the pigeon’s
sense of direction.

The faculty of orientation in pigeons is
not entirely innate, but is greatly develop-
ed by training. This consists in taking the
birds away from the loft, after some pre—
liminary opportunity has been given for
exploration of the country surrounding the
home cote, and tossing them up singly to
ﬁnd their way back. The distance at which
they are set free is continually and grad-
ually increased. The pigeons are always
fed immediately upon their return to the
loft, which gives them an incentive to come
back at once. The practice ﬂights develop
not only the observation and judgment of
the birds, but also their muscles. The
present homing pigeon, with its ability to
ﬂy a mile a minute or even more for a
short distance and to cover 500 to 600
miles in a single day, has been developed
from the European wild rock or bizet pi-

 

 

THE HOMING PIGEON IN FLIGHT

need assistance, and when there is no tele-
graph nor telephone station near; by police
headquarters to communicate with men on
lonely posts; by the motor transport corps
when truck trains are sent on long trips;
by mining companies to ﬂy between their
city offices and their mines in deserts or
mountains.

Humane Sunday, April 7, and Be Kind
to Animals Week, April 8-13, with Humane
Day in Schools, April 12, are being cele-
brated this month throughout the country.
See June issue for reports.

The Damsel Fly

SOLVEIG PAULSON

I saw a lovely damsel-fly

With shining wings go flying by;

I thought its wings were bits of sky
So blue they shimmered, low and high.

In golden sunshine, wings so blue
Can lift the heart right out of you
And make it lilt and flutter, too,
As gracefully as damsels do.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET NO. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
breeds and ages.

FOR DOGS

  
   
    
 
 

1' TRACHLORETHYLENE c.1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

eﬂ‘ectively remove
Large Roundworms and Hookworms

Dependable, safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!

For Free Booklet write to Desk N—58—E
m'mal Industry Dept,

A
PARKE, DAVIS 8: 00., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

    

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

Quickly Relieved and
Healing Promotedbg

' utieura

, SOAP~OINTMENT

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers for 1934
Beautifully bound in cloth and stamped in gold
Ideal gift for humane friends and forinstitutions of
all kinds. 192 Pages—150 Illustrations

Postpaid to any part of the world for One Dollar

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
18’) Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

it'lnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sal-e at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postp-aid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. 60

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
.5 ‘6 (‘

Surplus Cats .......................... 0
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150 - '
pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother ‘of J errry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. . . 1.00 “ "
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “
Humane Education
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
each, 10 cts.

cation, 32 pp. ......................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 ch.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, Sets.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3 00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts., each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts.ea.ch;six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for 1935 ............ $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. J eﬂferson, 4 pp. .50
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . .
A Talk with the Teacher ..............
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-
dress ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
“Why A Humane Sunday?”, Dr. Rowley 1.00 “ “

The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... . 0
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

3‘ (G

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

BEST HUMANE FILMS!
ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

)Iade by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for
Horses, hiethuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Blade for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Two reels, 30 minutes.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 91;
(like Itanh nf myrtg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
HEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage. 1 d
' ' ° ism
The Amerlcan Humane Educatlon Soc1ety W1 .
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gﬂt badge RH'the prendent
See inside front cover for prices of Hterature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and forty-six new Bands of
Mercy were reported during April. Of
these 222 were in Illinois, 117 in New
Hampshire, 52 in Massachusetts, 48 in
Georgia, 30 in Virginia, 26 in Florida, 22
in Pennsylvania, 18 in the Philippine Is-
lands, three each in New York and Rhode
Island, two in Lebanon, and one each in
Transjordan, Vermont and Wisconsin.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 209,614.

Feeding the Birds

LOUISE MARSTON STURTEVANT

I never knew that birds could be so hungry,
They flutter near my windows all day long.
Such appetites

These feathery mites,

Filling the air with song.

Bread crumbs, grain and suet
Swiftly disappear,

But I’d gladly give them all I have,
Just to see them near.

Chickadees and juncoes,

Tree sparrows, and the jay—

W e really do not want him,

But he can’t be kept away.

A sick old crow with drooping wings
Sought shelter near our door,
Downy little woodpeckers

Greedily asked for more.

Soft and furry squirrels,

Geese and mallard duck,

No matter how the storms rage,

They surely are in luck.

So each day through the season

I feed this great array,

And those who come a’calling

Are never turned away.

Try Whistling

I ﬁnd that by whistling softly in a mono-
tone, I can approach much closer to the
small animals in the woods. I got close
enough to pet a wild rabbit in this way, and
a small gopher practically sat beside me as
I whistled. I tried it on a squirrel and it
wasn’t long before it ceased its chattering
and eyed me closely as I stood close to its
perch. I got within a few feet of a wood-
chuck in the same way.

Try it sometime. On hearing the soft
tones the animals seem to lose much of
their fear. But don’t frighten them in any
way, because they will remember it the
next time you pass. And they don’t forget!

CONRAD O. PETERSON

Be kind to animals every day in the year.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1935

 

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK WAS CEL-EBRATED IN CUBA IN MEMORY OF
MRS. JEANNETTE RYDER. THESE PUPILS IN MATANZAS GAVE OUT

CORN, BIRD-SEED, LETT

 

Air-mail Pigeons
JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HROUGH the centuries pigeons have

been the symbols of ﬂight and the mes-
sengers of thought. It is ﬁtting, therefore,
that pigeons should be remembered as
having actually handled the; world’s ﬁrst
regular air—mail service many years before
man learned to stretch his wings.

A company known as the Great Barrier
Pigeongram Service established a regular
service by carrier pigeons between Auck—
land, New Zealand, and Great Barrier
Island, 65 miles to the northwest, in
November, 1897. By government sanction
special stamps were printed twelve months
later for this pigeon mail.

In September, 1899, the service was ex—
tended to include Marotiri and Hen and
Chicken Islands. In the same year a rival
company—the Great Barrier Pigeongram
Agency—commenced operations. Both of
these services continued to function until
the opening of a Government cable in the
latter part of 1908.

Letters intended for delivery by this ser-
vice were written on sheets of thin tissue
paper, and folded so that they might be
sealed with the stamp itself. They were
cancelled with either of the following in-
scriptions: “Original—Barrier—Pigeon—
Service” or “The Original—Great—Barrier
—Pigeongram—Service.” Approximately
35,000 postage stamps of various designs
were .printed to frank this unique mail.

This, of course, was‘not the ﬁrst time
that pigeons were used to carry messages,
or even to transport mail. But these birds
of the South Seas were the pioneers in
establishing a regular air-mail service. All

honor to these feathered “postmen” f the
Antipodes!

UCE AND WATERCRESS

Biggest Bird-house
L. E. EUBANKS

ERHAPS the largest of all bird-houses
P is to be found in the town of Campinas,
about forty miles from Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Here is a structure in which more than
100,000 swallows nest each season.

The house was not originally built for
feathered occupants. Some years ago the
people of Campinas found that their mar—
ket hall was becoming inadequate, business
had outgrown the hall’s accommodations.
So it was decided to pull down the old hall
and build a new one. Then some thought-
ful citizen pointed out that the hall had
been much used by swallows for nesting.

Campinas is the center of an important
agricultural area where sugar, coffee and
other crops are grown. Many of the plant—
ers realized that swallows were good
friends, eating large numbers of insects.
These planters were not slow to join the
people who had ﬁrst thought of the birds’
welfare; and a strong protest went up
against the destruction of the old hall. The
ﬁnal decision was to leave the old building
and erect a new one in a quite different
locality.

Enormous numbers of swallows now
build their nests and rear their young in
the old market-place. And when the birds
are absent during the period of migration
the entire building is carefully cleaned so
that it may be ready for the next nesting
season. Experience has now taught the
planters that time and labor spent in caring
for the birds are very well invested indeed.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by us.

 




 

Afar. 1935

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 41

Sixty-seventh Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1934'

I

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

F the- making of many books, there

is no end, wrote one of old who
speaks of himself as The Preacher. His
sermons are still read in spite of the fact
that his favorite text was “Vanity of
vanities, all is' vanity.” Had he lived today,
he might also have said “of the writing of
annual reports there is no end.” After
telling month by month what our two So-
cieties have been doing (in our monthly
magazine), it still seems necessary to tell
the story over again in fewer words if there
is to be an annual report for future
reference.

The Unchanging Service

This is the work carried out day after
day, year in and year out, by our agents
who cover the state, six with headquarters
here in Boston, one in Worcester, one in
Springﬁeld, one in Pittsﬁeld, one in Methu-
en, one in Lynn, one in New Bedford, one
on the Cape; one special local agent under
pay at Haverhill, one in Fitchburg, one in
Athol, one in Beverly, and one in Peabody,
who receive and humanely put to sleep
unwanted small animals. During the year
past 5,729 complaints were investigated;
animals examined in these investigations,
65,507; animals inspected at stock-yards
and abattoirs, 577,393; horses. taken. from
work, 240; horses humanely put to sleep,
607; other animals injured, diseased, un-
wanted, humanely put to sleep, 18,163; in-
jured animals at stock-yards humanely put
to sleep, 374; horses watered, 18,587 times;
prosecutions, 90; convictions, 82; miles
traveled by agents, 173,545; horse ambu-
lance trips, 87; small ambulance trips,
6,? 00.

The Hospital

The Angell Hospital for Animals has
maintained its rank, we have every reason
to believe, during the year. With its staff
of six full-time veterinarians and a score of
competent assistants it continues to render
the service to animals and to those who
own and love them which we scarcely need
to remark, much less to dwell upon. The
year’s records, however, seem to indicate
that its sphere of usefulness is ever ex-
panding, when weﬁnd that animals from
far places are being brought to us for the
treatment that we are able to give them.

This is the record for the year:

Entered in Hospital ............. 9,237
Entered in Dispensary ........... 28,616
Operations .................... 1 1,358

The above ﬁgures include the reports
from the several centers throughout the
State which we now present separately:

SUMMARY
THE WORK OF THE SOCIETY’S
AGENTS
During 1934
Miles traveled ............... 173,545
Complaints investigated ....... 5,729
Animals examined in investiga-
tions ..................... 65,507
Horses taken from work ...... 240
Horses humanely put to sleep . . 607
Other animals humanely put to
sleep ..................... 18,163
Animals inspected at stock-yards
and abattoirs .............. 577,393

Injured or sick animals at stock-
yards and abattoirs humanely
put to sleep ............... 374

Horses watered on Boston Streets 18,587

Prosecutions ................ 90

Convictions ................. 82
Ambulance Trips

Horse ambulances ........... 87

Small animal ambulances ...... 6,700

(2,600 in Boston)

THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

Including Springﬁeld Branch
During 1934

Small animals treated ........ 9,099
Large animals ............... 60
Birds ........... : ........... 78
Cases entered in Hospital ...... 9,237
Dispensary Cases

Small animals treated . . . . . . . . . 28,091
Large animals ........... . . . 27
Birds ....................... 498
Total treated in Dispensary . 28,616
Operations .................. 1 1 ,358
Total animals and birds treated

last year ................. 37,853

Summary

Cases in Hospital since opened

March 1, 1915 ............. 125,793
Cases in Dispensary since March

1, 1915 ................... 295,865

Total .................... 421,658

Springﬁeld (Including Branch Hospital)
Cases Investigated ........... 645

Animals Inspected ........... 11,904
Horses taken from work, being

unﬁt for service ........... 25
Horses humanely destroyed . . . . 32
Cases prosecuted and convicted 33
Small animals humanely de-

stroyed ................... 4,080
Homes found for small animals 507
Animals restored to owners 180

Ambulance calls, small animals. .
Miles traveled in investigations
Dispensary cases .............
Hospital cases . . . . . . .

Operations ..................

1,535
17,563
3,838
1,299
1,982

Methuen Rest Farm and Shelter

Small animals called for or re-
ceived ....................
Ambulance calls . . .
Complaints investigated .......
Animals inspected ............
Horses taken from work ......
Horses humanely put to sleep . .
Cows humanely put to sleep . . .
Average number horses at Farm
per month ................
Miles traveled ...............

Cape Cod District

Cases investigated ...........
Animals inspected ...........
Horses put to sleep ..........
Prosecutions
Convictions
Small animals put to sleep . . . .
Homes found for small animals
Animals returned to owners .. .
Ambulance calls for small ani-

mals
Miles traveled in investigations .

Public talks .................

Berkshire County, (9 Mon

Complaints investigated .......
Animals inspected ............
Small animals humanely put to
sleep .....................
Horses humanely put to sleep . .
Prosecutions .................
Convictions
Animals placed in homes ......
Animals returned to owners .
Mileage
Ambulance calls .............

Worcester County

Complaints investigated .......
Animals inspected . . . . . . .

Horses taken from work ......
Horses humanely put to sleep . .
Other animals put to sleep . . . .
Prosecutions
Convictions
Mileage .....................

Bristol County

Complaints investigated .......
Animals inspected ............
Horses taken from work .......
Horses humanely put to sleep . .
Other animals put to sleep . .

Ambulance calls .............
Prosecutions .................
Convictions
Miles traveled ...............

2,415
1,135
128
10,706
27

162

4

29%
15,187

751
1,444
1

4

4

855
32

52

608
22,501
17

ths)

158
4,767

1,358

520
2,703
37

16

37

231

1 1

9
21,687

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6!;

Strange Pets of a Lightship
Crew
ETHEL ROMIG FULLER

UNIQUE humane story was told me
A recently by Capt. Jacob Neilsen, mas-
ter of the lightship, Columbia, the ﬂoating
beacon of Astoria harbor, stationed oﬁ the
dangerous shifting bar where the Columbia
river pours into the Paciﬁc.

“Life on a lightship during calm weath-
er is deadly monotonous,” the veteran skip-
per related. “A crew of 13 active men
conﬁned to the restricted limits of a light-
ship—a no more lonely position can be
imagined—is hard put to it to ﬁll its time.
Indeed every year, one or more of my men
actually break down under the strain. So
any leasat happening out of the: uncommon
is a diversion.

“One day this past fall, I happened to
observe four sea ducks—hell-divers, they
are called hereabouts: Big black birds as
large as gulls with stout curved beaks—
ﬂoating, in what appeared to be a helpless
condition, off the port side of the ship. I
called the attention of some of the crew
to the strange behavior of the divers, and
their interest and curiosity were aroused
at once.

“You see,” the Captain elucidated, “a
hell-diver is an extremely active bird. It
ﬂies, normally, low and swiftly just over
the tops of the breakers in the wake of a
school of small ﬁsh, where it dives continu-
ally and tirelessly, headlong, hour after
hour.

“There was something tragically wrong
with these four birds. They simply drifted
with the tide, making no effort whatever to
ﬂy or dive. Soon all hands were gathered
at the port rail with a net rigged at the
end of a long pole. One by one the screech-
ing, protesting birds were lifted on board.
They peeked at the hands which reached
for them in mercy till their sharp beaks
drew blood.

“It was easy to see what had befallen
the big fellows—their glossy plumage was
clogged with sticky, tarry bilge thrown out
from some oil burning freighter. Probably
they had come up to the surface of the bay

- under the foul stuff. At any rate, it had

rendered them utterly helpless, as they
neither could clean it off and replenish their
feathers with the natural oil which protects
them from the cold water and wind; nor
could they ﬂy an inch. So they were slow-
ly but surely freezing and starving to death
—a fate befalling thousands of sea fowl
these days in our harbors.

TO OUR FRIENDS

I
I

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Socie is “Th
. e
I Massachusetts Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is ttli1e second

incorporated (March, 1868.) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
‘ and Atrimtb 1t hastno connelction With any other similar Society. ’
y eques especia y intended for the beneﬁt of the An 11 M ' lAn' '

, ge emoria imal Hospital
g should nevertheless be made to The Massachusett S ° '

l to Animals “for the ’use of the Hospital,” a S ociety for the Prevention 0f Cruelty

[ property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Socie for the Prevention f '
to The American Humane Education Sotdiety), the sum of o Cruelty to Animals (01'

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

s the Hospital is not incorporated but is the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“The crew thoroughly cleaned the strug—
gling quartet with kerosene. Then the cap-
tives were put in the ﬁddle to dry off and
get warm.

“The next problem was food—what
should they feed them? Hell-divers live
on ﬁsh. Fortunately for the ducks, we had
a box of fresh smelt aboard. Naturally
they weren’t alive, but they would do in a
case of emergency like this. Giving up the
smelt was an act of genuine sacriﬁce on
the part of the crew, for the ﬁsh were
delicacies used to vary the routine bill—of-
fare. However to a man, they voted to
feed them to their new pets.

“How gratefully those starving divers
gulped down the smelt! For several days,
while getting back their strength, they
made no effort to leave the light. We gave
them the run of the deck. They «became as
tame as chickens. As they grew stronger,
they began to make short forays, away
from the ship, their expeditions: increas-
ing in length till they were gone all day.
But for two weeks toward dark, we could‘
sight them returning to roost in the rig-
ging, where they stayed till morning.

“One evening, after a 60—mile gale, they
failed to come back. No doubt they had
lost their bearings in the storm. The crew
mourned a long time. for their pets.

“Don’t let any one,” the Captain con—
cluded, “tell you sailors are a hard-boiled
lot. Under their rough exteriors beat the
softest hearts in the world.”

 

PETS OF L. J. PESCH, PUBLISHER
OF “THE NEW PESHTIGO (WIS-
CONSIN) TIMES”

 

 

 

Apr. 1935

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY~

 

THE MERRY HUNT AND OTHER
POEMS, Stanton A. Coblentz.

It is especially because of the title poem
that this book receives notice. here. In it
Mr. Coblentz very realistically makes the
“merry hunter” atone “For a life of blood
and shame.” The. other poems, excepting
“Grasshopper,” “Humming-birds,” and “In-
sects,” relate to a variety of subjects not
particularly connected with animal life.
There are songs of the sea. and the woods,
poems of modern life and the city, lyrics
of personal emotion, etc., many having
been originally published in numerous
prominent periodicals.

96 pp. $2. Bruce Humphries, Inc.
Boston.

THE WONDERLAND OF NATURE,
Harper Cory.

This is a series of four books, averaging
about 135 pages each, forming a progres-
sive course in general science, the weather,
animal, bird and plant life. The English
author acknowledges his indebtedness to his
American Red Indian friends for much of
his knowledge of nature. The type is large,
there are many interesting illustrations,
some in color, and exercises are provided
suitable for town and country schools alike.
Teachers of grammar grades will do well
to send for a set of these books, bound in
linen, with attractive animal design on the
covers. They are sold for about 40 cents
each. We refer all interested to the pub-
lishers, The. Grant Educational Co., Ltd.,
3 Eagle Street, Southampton Row, W. C. 1,
London, England.

 

In a conspicuous feature editorial
in the “Sun,” Lawrence, Mass., on

March 3, 1935, it is stated:

 

All animals, under the Massachu-
setts laws, must be fed and fed prop-
erly, and the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals have a reputation of being

 

on their toes at all times, in looking

after the welfare of all animals.

Thank you, Mr. “Sun” Editor.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by—
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,,
Massachussetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av~
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of‘
the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two-
Societies.

 

 

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life; $100 00 Active Annual $10 00:
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00!
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT‘
g. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,.
as on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. ‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.7

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.

Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Mrs.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR APRIL, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 462
Number of addresses made, 386
Number of persons in audiences, 88,020

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Societies
are absolutely safe and yield a return
according to one’s age. They make their ap-
peal ordinarily to people over 40 years of
age. Send the coupon for a free folder which
gives full details. Fill it in and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name

.....................
........

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

American Fondouk, Fez
Report for March, 1935—31 Days

 

Daily average large animals 41.1
Forage for same $ 54.29
Daily average dogs 6.9
Forage for same 7.10
Put to sleep 18 10.23
Transportation 8.53
Wages, grooms, etc. 87.67
Resident secretary’s salary 133.33
Superintendent’s salary 83.33
Veterinary’s salary 30.00
Sundries 49.77
$464.25

Exchange at 15 Francs

Entries: 11 horses, 7 mules, 46 donkeys.
Exits: 6 horses, 11 mules, 39 donkeys.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Report on native
fondouks: Kilometers traveled, 168; cases investigated,
413; animals seen, 6,181; animals treated, 1,304; ani-
mals transferred, 37.

SECRETARY GENERAL’S NOTES: About four
hours per day inspecting the streets, and work covered
in weekly notes to the Executive Committee.

Notes from Dr. Mellersh’s Daybook

Friday, 15th: Tomorrow is the com-
mencement of the Mahomedan Feast.

All the donkeys, and other beasts of bur-
den, will be taking a “rest cure.” There
will be no work for them to do until Sat-
urday next week, when the Feast of Aid e1
Kebir will be concluded, and the poor ani-
mals will be again working on the roads
and in the ﬁelds.

The staff of Arabs will be given a holiday
tomorrow after doing “stables,” and treat-
ing sick animals. Hassan will remain on
guard during the day, to attend to orders,
and look after the animals, and there will
also be the usual night watchman.

Saturday, 16th: Thirty thousand sheep
were slaughtered today in Fes for the
Festival.

Monday, 18th: Had a large mule come
in today to be examined by the veterinary
surgeon. It seems very ill. Dr. Grimpret
diagnosed it and gave the necessary in-
structions.

Had some French visitors this morning,
whom I took round the Fondouk. They
were surprised to ﬁnd such a good animal
hospital in Fes. They were delighted with
the kind treatment of the patients, and the
cleanliness and order here. One of them,
Mr. Jacques Diette, is the son of the pro—
prietor of the Hotel Beaulieu-Richemond at
Beaulieu s/m, Alpes Maritimes.

Tuesday, 19th: Arrived at the Fondouk
this morning and found it very busy. Sev-
eral animals had been brought in by Arabs
to have them examined by the veterinary
surgeon and treated, some for minor opera-
tions, and others more serious.

The ﬂower beds now are looking well as
the iris and geraniums are now in ﬂower.

Thursday, 21st: I paid a visit of inspec-
tion in the Mellah and Bou J eloud district
but found nothing interesting to report.

In the visitors’ book, 5th April, 1935, ap-
pears this comment:

“Heart breaking—a glorious charity,
nevertheless a blessing most certainly rests
on those who founded it, and will at all
times rest on those who contribute to its
upkeep.

‘Inasmuch as you have done it unto the
least of these, ye have done it unto Me’
applies to all God’s suffering creatures.”

(Signed) EDWARD MORGAN
London, England

June, 1935
Who Are the Happiest?

HO are the happiest people on

earth? This question was asked by
an English newspaper, and prizes were
offered for the best answers. There were
four prize-winning answers:

“A craftsman or artist whistling over a
job well done.”

“A little child building sand castles.”

“A mother, after a busy day, bathing her
babyf’

“A doctor who has ﬁnished a difficult
and dangerous operation and saved a hu-
man life.”

No millionaires among these, one notices.
No kings or emperors. Riches and rank,
no matter how the world strives for them,
do not make happy lives. A sand castle
does that far better than a palace. It would
be a sad day on earth if only the great
could be happy. But happiness is for every-
body, not for a few.

——Sunshine Magazine

Be Kind

“Aim to be kind,” said Horace Mann,
“generous, magnanimous. If there is a
boy in school who has a club-foot, don’t
let him know you ever saw it. If there is
a poor boy with ragged clothes, don’t talk
about rags in his hearing. If there is a
lame boy, assign him some part of the
game which does not require running. If
there is a hungry one, give him part of
your dinner. If there is a dull one, help
him to learn his lesson. If there is a
bright one be not envious of him; for if one
boy is proud of his talents and another
boy is envious of them, there are two great
wrongs, and no more talent than before.
If a larger or stronger boy has injured
you and is sorry for it, forgive him, and
request the teacher not to punish him. It
is much better to have a kind heart than
a great ﬁst.”

To a Fire-bird

EDNA ADL-AIDE FLING

’Tis payment sufficient just to see

A ﬁre-bird in a. cherry tree

Guarding cherries ’til they grow red,
Enough to beckon his wee head.

Believing and knowing that they were free,
He ate of the cherries rejoicingly,

Giving thanks to his Maker, the God of all,
But, alas, by man he was doomed to fall.

God made the bird and He made the tree,
And then He gave them to you and to me.
0, God, give us more cherry trees

To share with creatures such as these.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

Page 184

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL. Assistant

 

DECEMBER, 1935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to 'consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty—
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

Dehorning Calves

E are told that a premium is being

paid for dehorned calves. By this is
meant calves the growth of whose horns has
been stopped before the horn has really
broken through the skin. This can easily be
done with scarcely any pain to the calf. We
know this from our own personal experi—
ence. It saves later on the practice of
cutting off the horns, accomplished usually
with much bleeding and suffering. Horns
often cause trouble between cattle and seri—
ous injuries. A simple paste is manu-
factured by the Globe Laboratories of Fort
Worth, Kansas. We are not paid for this
notice, but make it in the interest of the.
calves themselves. Indeed, a pencil of caus—
tic potash rubbed on the spot, slightly
wetted, where the horn is coming, till the

skin begins to look a little red, will answer
as well.

Shoes and Snakes

If the women who indulge in footwear
made from snake and lizard skins knew the
horrible manner in which these skins are
secured in such countries as South India
and the Sunda Islands (Sumatra, Jora,
etc.), we must believe they would end the
traffic. We dare not describe the process
by which snakes and lizards are robbed of
their skins. It is too pitiful and distress—
ing to print in a paper read by so many
sensitive people.

LET THE PUBLI
PURCHASING SNAKE OIIREFﬁélANRDFStIQIl‘P/i

ARTICLES, AND MAKE KNOWN THEIR

REASON FOR so DOING
POSSIBLE. A5 WIDELY As

An earnest appeal is made to all Govern-
ment oﬂic1als, missionaries and social work-
ers in the districts concerned, to do their

utmost towards the abolition of snake tor-
ture.

Mark Twain wrote: “I am quite sure
that I have no race prejudices, and I think
I have no color prejudices nor cast pre-
Judices, nor creed prejudices. Indeed, I
know it. I can stand any society. All that
I care to know is that man is a human

being—that is enough for me; he can’t be
any more.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Correction

N interesting article in the November

Reader’s Digest tells the story of hu—
mane work in this country. In one para—
graph Mr. Robinson, the author, says:

“In 1866 Henry Bergh introduced our
first law for protection of animal life into
the New York Legislature.”

The following, however, far antedates the
law of 1866:

Massachusetts the Leader in Humane Legis-
lation

To have enacted in 1641 legislation in
defense of animals puts Massachusetts to
the front in this respect. Under the title
“Liberties of the Brute Creature,” the Col-
ony of Massachusetts Bay in the above year
enacted the following:

“§91. No man shall exercise any Tir-
ranny or Crueltie towards any brute Crea-
tures which are usuallie kept for man’s
use.

“§92. If any man shall have occasion to
leade or drive Cattel from place to place
that is far off so that they be weary or
hungry or fall sick or lambe, it shall be
lawful to rest or refresh them for a com-
petent time in any open place that is not
Corne, meadow or enclosed for some pecu-
liar use.”

This bit of ancient history was brought
to light by Mr. Charles C. Bell, of Andover,
Mass., as the result of an interesting ar-
ticle in the Boston Transcript on the work
of our American Humane Education Socie-
ty.

Greatly Needed at Fondouk

Many generous gifts have gone to the
American Fondouk at Fez from our read—
ers. The call comes to us now for a small
lorry or ambulance. One partitioned into
three divisions and with racks for cat boxes
overhead and with space in the rear large
enough to carry a small donkey and all
the dogs necessary could be purchased for
$670. The treasury of the Fondouk does
not warrant our purchasing it at present,
urgent as is the need. Who can, or, if able
to, is willing to start a fund for this?
Gifts may be sent here to our ofﬁce, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, or M. E. Lyon,
2 Wall Street, New York City.

A Good Word for the Horse

The Boston Traveler, out of the kindly
heart of its editor, gave its readers the
following last month in display type:

Those of us who drive automobiles should
never cut in front of a moving horse.

The horse’s big job is getting his load
started. Once inertia is overcome, the horse
(on level ground) has merely to keep a bit
of a strain on the pull.

When we force a horse to stop, we throw
the weight of the load against him. This
is tough on the horse.
that load into motion again. All this effort
in addition to the fright we probably give
him.

It is easy for us to stop and start our
cars.

Let’s do it.

Then he has to get

Dee. 1935
Let Us Prey

HEN Mark Twain wrote this “War

Prayer” thirty years ago, he said, “I t
can be published after I am dead, for only
dead men can tell the truth in this world
and I have told the whole truth in that
prayer.” Here it is:

O Lord our God, help us to tear their sol—
diers to bloody shreds with our shells; help
us to cover their smiling fields with the pale
forms of their patriot dead; help us to lay
waste their humble homes with a hurricane
of fire; help us to wring the hearts of their
unoffending widows with unavailing grief;
help us to turn them out roofless with their
little children to wander unfriended through
wastes of their desolated land in rags and
hunger and thirst, Sport of the sun’s flames
of summer and the icy winds of winter,
broken in spirit, worn with travail, implor—
ing Thee for the refuge of the grave and
denied it—for our sakes, who adore Thee,
Lord, blast their hopes, blight their lives,
protract their bitter pilgrimage, make
heavy their steps, water their way with
their tears, stain the white snow with the
blood of their wounded feet! We ask of One
who is the spirit of love and who is the
ever-faithful refuge and friend of all that
are sore beset, and seek His aid with hum—
ble and contrite hearts. Grant our prayer,
0 Lord, and Thine shall be the praise and
honor and glory, now and ever. Amen.

—N. Y. World—Telegram

A Word from North Carolina

HE Rev. R. E. Griffith, our Humane

Education representative in Florida,
sends us a clipping from The Sun News of
DeLand, Florida.

I feel sure that many of the readers of
The Sun News who have children in our
schools will be interested in the following
report of my work in the schools of Hen-
dersonville, N. C., during the month of
September.

North Carolina does not have a compul-
sory Humane Education law such as Flor—
ida has, yet as a representative of the
American Humane Education Society, I
found a most cordial welcome in the schools
of Hendersonville and every town that I
visited. The teachers whom I met are fully
alive to the importance of Humane Educa-
tion. One Principal said Humane Educa—
tion should be compulsory in this state.”

Forty Junior Humane Societies were or—
ganized with a membership of 1,408 stu-
dents.

The mayor of Hendersonville was most
cordial and gave me permission to use my
loud-speaker in the city. I went up to Ash—
ville, 20 miles north of Hendersonville, and
was readily granted the same courtesy. It
is the custom to charge a rather heavy fee
for the use of a loud-speaker in Ashville
but I was exempted from that fee. I left
North Carolina with a most cordial invi-
tation to return and continue my work in
the schools next year.

Make a contribution to the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. to help provide free Christmas
dinners for the work-horses.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagel36
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood _Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

SEPTEMBER, 1935

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
SIX lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Freezing Monkeys

F newspaper reports are true, a doctor,
experimenter, research worker—call him
what you may— has been freezing monkeys,
(Heaven knows what other animals) and,
after having pronounced them dead, bring-

_ ing them to life again. At least one of the

three came back to life, the other two did
not survive. According to the newspaper
(always very untrustworthy as to the
facts), this man wanted to prove his theory
that certain malignant organisms and dead
tissues can be killed by freezing. Well,
must he freeze to death live monkeys to do
this?

We admit two things. First, newspaper
reports are of doubtful value as to facts;
second, we are not, from the research point
of v1ew, competent to judge how absolutely
necessary it was to freeze to death three
monkeys to find out if certain malignant or-
ganisms and dead tissues can be killed by
freezing. But this newspaper report, which
has outraged the feelings of thousands of
humane people, looks very much like anoth-
er effort of a research laboratory to satisfy
an unwarranted curiosity that would pry
Into life’s last secret whether any good was
to come from it or not.

The whole profession to which this man
belongs would save itself much bitter criti-
c1sm, just or unjust, if it would keep report—
ers out of the laboratory and the story of
Its deeds from the general public.

Are We Civilized?

There lie before us as we write reports
from North Carolina of such inhuman
treatment of two Negro boys as seems in-
credible. These two short-term colored boys
were Imprisoned nine days in a cell where
the cold was so bitter that their feet were
frozen and had to be amputated. They ap-
peared in court with no witnesses to speak
for them but the silent footless legs. And
the jury? Found the men responsible for
the. treatment which resulted in such suf-
fering and loss, “Not guilty.” One was a
county physician and with him three guards
who all pleaded not guilty. There are mil-
lions of choice people in our South country
who Indignantly condemn these cruelties.
Alas that they still are permitted!

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An International Humane

Journal

HE Scottish S. P. C. A., now in corre—

spondence with 305 other similar socie—
ties, at the International Congress held
in Brussels this August, through its dele-
gates, presented to the Congress a carefully
prepared proposal for the “Institution of an
International Journal.” Such a Journal with
an editorial committee, a legal committee
and a technical committee would establish
a kind of clearing house for the considera—
tion of all questions in which societies for
the prevention of cruelty to animals are in—
terested. It would unify humane work
against many an evil from which animals
suffer and keep before the world the story
of what is being done to make the lot of
millions of life’s lowlier children a better
one, and, not least of all, further the great
cause of humane education in every land.

An Animal Census

The Imperial Economic Committee tells
us that the cattle population of the world
is approximately 600,000,000; of hogs about
300,000,000; of sheep about 750,000,000.
Meat consumption in the United States and
Great Britain is estimated at 150 pounds
annually per person, in Germany 110
pounds, France 90 pounds.

“No Roost”

Did you ever hear of it? It is something
like sticky fly paper designed to keep pig—
eons from roosting on window-sills and
roofs. The following letter is the reply of
our Chief Officer to an inquiry regarding
our experience with it.

July 17, 1985
Mr. N. J. Walker
Albany, New York
My dear Mr. Walker:

We have had only one case of the use of
“No Roost,” but that was enough to prej-
udice us against it.

The owner of a near-by building bought
some of this tanglefoot—like substance and
ordered his janitor to spread it on several
window-sills.

Shortly after a tenant of that building
called us complaining that a pigeon was
caught and was struggling to free itself.
Our agents found the bird squatted in the
sticky material, unable to rise and weak
and apparently ill. Its feathers were mat-
ted—a sorry mess. Our veterinarians were
unable to save it.

Both janitor and owner were ordered to
remove the substance, but they delayed a
day or two until another pigeon. was caught
and found by us in the same position and
condition as the previous one. It may be,
of course, that exhaustion, rather than ir—
ritation of or absorption by the skin, caused
death—our doctors cannot be sure, but it is
our prosecuting officers’ Opinion that once
a pigeon happens to settle down or squat
upon this sticky preparation it means the
creature’s suffering and probably slow
death and that the person responsible is
cruel within the meaning of the law.

Sincerely yours
L. WILLARD WALKER
Chief Officer

Sept. 1935

An Attractive Book

0 all our readers know that the Uni-
D versity of London has an Animal Wel-
fare Society? Has any university of any oth-
er land such an organization? We have nev—
er heard of it. What is more, this London
University Society is vigorously alive and
has just published its Third Animal Year
Book, containing 181 pages. Here are some
of the subjects that make up the volume:
Whales and Animal Welfare. At the pres-
ent rate of slaughter, something like 30,000
whales a year, the extermination of the
whale is feared by those who have given the .
widest study to the matter. This raises a
question, we are told in the article, of in-
tense biological and ethical interest. Then
follow in the Year Book pages upon Oil
Pollution of Coastal Waters, Perfumes——
many animals being used in this industry—
Humane Education, Animals Abroad—sev-
enteen countries being considered—Some
Recent Books Reviewed, Is Electric Anaes-
thesia Genuine? and an Appendix stating
the aims of the Society to be “the diminish-
ing, by methods appropriate to its special
character as a University organization, the
sum total of pain and fear inflicted by man
upon animals.” Some of the articles are at—
tractively illustrated.

The Air Rifle

Complaints come to us of the use of the
air rifle in many of our cities and towns by
boys destroying birds. It should be under-
stood that in nearly all the cities and towns
of Massachusetts there is an ordinance pro—
hibiting the use of the air rifle except on
one’s own immediate premises. Lovers of
birds who see this law violated should at
once call the attention of the police to it.
Even on one’s own premises no song or
insect—eating bird may be killed.

Relief for Work-horses

At the four watering stations for horses
in Boston made available by the Massachu—
setts S. P. C. A., thirsty animals were given
water over 6,600 times between July 1 and
August 8. At these welcome oases during
the hottest days one can readily discern the
amount of animal distress and suffering
that is relieved.

Foreign Literature

We have a quantity of literature trans-
lated into Spanish and Portuguese which we
shall be glad to send to any reader who
will carefully distribute it among people
speaking these languages. Apply to Secre-
tary, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 46

Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Winkley, H. W.

Wood, Cornelius A.
Wood, Miss Rosalind
Wood, Mrs. William M.

Woodman, Miss Mary
Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, Mrs. B. L.
Young, Percy L.

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.

Younglove, William K.

Associate Life Members

Arnold. Miss Abbie T.
Babcock, Miss Edith
Beekman, John V., Jr.

Beekman, Mrs. John V., Jr.

Bessom, Florence C.
Bliss, Philip W.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W.
Burdett, Mrs. Paul
Burnham, Henry D.
Caldwell, Miss L. W.
Carpenter, Edwin Z.
Coburn, Mrs. C. W.
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle
Edmunds, Miss Helen C.
Fowler, Josiah M.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P.
Goddard, Benjamin
Grimes, E. E.
Holland, Miss Florence
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R.
Hooper, Edward W.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee
Hyslop, Samuel
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex-
ander
Jones, Miss Helen L.
King, Mrs. H. P.
Kingsbury, W. S.
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund
Minot, C. H.
Newcombe, Miss Adelaide
W.
Osborne, Lyman P.

Underwood & Underwood

Phillips, Mrs. Elizabeth D.

Pillsbury, Parker W.

Pitman, Mrs. Theodore B.

Pratt, Mrs. Clara E.
Pratt, R. M.

Putnam, Mrs. Harriett
Richards, E. Ira
Richardson, Mrs. Guy

Rogers, Miss Catherine L.

Safford, Mrs. Nath’l M.
Schweppe, Mrs. H. M.
Seeberg, Elizabeth
Shattuck, Miss G. A.
Short, Mrs. Eliza B.
Simmons, Miss F. W.
Singleton, George F. S.
Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.
Soule, Miss Sarah M.
Stearns, Miss Ellen
Stearns, Miss Priscilla
Stone, Miss Esther A.
Thayer, Charles E.
Thayer, E. K.

Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
Thayer, Miss Marjorie
Thayer, Miss Nancy
Thorndike, Albert

Van Horn, Dora

Van Horn, Elsa
Walker, Mrs. William B.
Webster, H. S.
Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.
Williams, Mrs. Edward R.

 

Angelo Patri on Cats

.It seems these days as if some people
shu‘k responsibilities. Cats and dogs, but
especially cats, are thrown out of auto-
mobiles along the country roads to shift for
themselves or die. All children must rally
to the rescue. Cats are cats and dogs are
dogs and both need the help of their human
friends the children.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1935

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency James M. Curley, Governor
of Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa

Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.

Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Cheshire, Conn.

Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.

Campbell, Patrick T., Boston

Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.

Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.

Fay, Miss Sarah B., Boston

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., West Lawn, Pa.

Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Harris, Mrs. Amy E., Pasadena, Calif.

Landes, Bernard 8., Colorado Springs, Colo.

Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey

McSkimmon, Miss Mary, Brookline

Olney, Miss Elizabeth W., Providence, RI.

Preston, Mrs. H. Clay, Binghamton, N. Y.

Rutherford, Frank B., Philadelphia, Pa.

Smith, Payson, Boston

Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, Memphis, Tenn.

Weeks, Edwin R., Kansas City., Mo.

Wentzel, Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
Miss Sarah J. Eddy Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan
William Dana Orcutt Stanwood K. Bolton
Mrs. Geoffrey G. Whitney John R. Macomber
William E. Putnam John R. Forgie
Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall Mrs. Margaret Deland
Charles G. Bancroft Frank M. Hotchkin
Walter M. Kendall Philip Stockton

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First of Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President of
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. S. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Mar. 1935

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia

Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.

Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, .Aurora, Ill.

Miss Louise de- St. Hubert Guyol, New Or-
leans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. L-angwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Active Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Baber, Miss Zonia. Marsh, A. M.

Ballard, Dellworth Mitchell, Miss Mary
Barnard, Harry Ransom, John E.
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Rogers, Albert R.
Burhans, Mrs. Lela G. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Smith, Oliver

Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fay, Miss Sarah B. Traver, Mrs. L.

Fisher, H. Tucker, Nathan, M.D.
Glenn, Miss Carrie Upham, Miss E. Annie
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E. Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Kidder, Nathaniel T. Williams, Miss Nellie C.
Kilgore, John D. Woodward, Miss Mabel M.
Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H.

Associate Life Members

Babcock, Miss Edith Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.
Barnwell, Almon Angell Meyer, Miss Heloise
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
Curtis, Atherton W.

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. Parker, Miss E. S.
Furlong, Rollo L. Stone, Miss Esther A.
Gray, Miss Ellen Todd, Mrs. Albert
Larkin, John D. Weeks, Edwin R.

For Retired Workers

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation.

We will welcome your gift. Please make
checks payable to Treasurer, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, marked for Trust
Fund.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

The Fox

MARJORIE HUNT PETTIT

Hark! The hounds are baying.
A truly fearful sound—

Slcimming up the hillside
With noses to the ground.

How my poor heart hammers!
How my poor legs quiver!
I might yet elude them,
On beyond the river.

But no! I feel the chill,

The piercing touch of death.
My race is run; and I

Must part with life and breath.

Then write my epitaph,

That all who ride may read:
“He died to further sport,

And not to fill a need.”

A Clever Little Coon

MRS. HUGO GERSTEN

T about the same time that we got
A “Bruno,” a puppy, someone presented
us with a baby coon so young that it had
never known its mother, but its own mother
could never have made a more spoiled baby
of this little chap than did we. As soon as he
was old enough to know his way around, he
went indoors or out as he pleased; he dined
and slept with us; he even shared my after-
noon bridge parties; he shared our good
times and our bad; or he could leave any
time that he saw fit.

The little coon, or “Bum,” as we called
him, delighted in curling up in bed with us.
but the furry little creature would get too
warm, whereupon he would quite arrogantly
remove the blankets with his teeth, then
settle down contentedly while we were freez—
mg.

Having no mother to guide him he had
not learned the trick of washing things as
thoroughly as wild coons will before eating
them, but there were certain articles in his
diet which he washed almost beyond recog-
nition. He would take strawberries, one at
a time from his dish at the table, to the
sink, and scour them, then dip them in
sugar many times over, if not halted, de-
vouring them most solemnly.

When Bum got to eating eggs, I prepared
a choice egg for him doped with pepper and
mustard. He cried as though his little
heart was broken, but he ate no more eggs.

One night, hearing a great commotion a—
mong the chickens, I went out and found
Bum tickling the chickens on their roosts
by reaching up under them. I chastised
him too severely, and his feelings hurt, he
ran away.

We supposed that Bum had gone to the
woods and joined his own kind, and that
we had seen the last of our little pet, but
one very cold night we were awakened by
a scratching on the window. A tiny piquant
face appeared, and we shouted with joy for
there was Bum. We hastened to let him in,
and he was tickled to pieces to be back.
He romped and played with us, then went
downstairs to get a little lunch, to judge

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

from the sound. Then there was a great
crash of glass, and another and another.

I rushed down. Bum had gotten into my
fruit cupboard, and had opened up several
jars of jam and jelly, tasting of each, until.
he came to a jar of strained honey. which
was very thick. He had his nose stuck in
it, and was knocking other jars right and
left with his strong little elbows, struggling
to get free.

Bum stayed with us all through the re-
maining fall, and through the winter, be—
coming more and more attached to Bruno,
who, in turn, thought the coon his pet, and
jealously guarded it from the neighbors’
dogs, as well as protesting violently against
the lickings which Bum received sometimes
for his pranks.

We had workmen to dinner one day, and
my cousin, who was visiting, made some eX-
cellent pumpkin pies for dinner, but when
we went to serve them, we found them va-
cant as to filling, which Bum had dipped
out and devoured.

But when spring came Bum became very
restless, and finally one day he disappeared,
this time never to return. We watched and
called, and searched the woods all around
us for our little pet. Bruno mourned for
his frisky pal, and hunted the country far
and near.

Several years went by. We had almost
forgotten Bum, when a neighbor asked my
husband to go to what we called the “big
woods,” coon hunting. They took old Bruno
with them.

The men shook a coon from a tree. Sud~
denly the dog backed off. The coon acted
strangely, not fighting as coons usually do
when cornered. Bruno only sniffed at it
and wagged his tail, much to the astonish~
ment of the men hunting with my husband.
My husband stepped up, and there was old
Bum, grown to an enormous size. They
tried to make up with him, and although he
was not much afraid, and showed recogni—
tion, he was no longer our pet. He had
made his choice, and had chosen the great
forest.

But the strangest part of all this true
story, it seems to me, is that Bruno from
that night to this has absolutely refused to
go coon hunting.

What Will Rogers Said

Just two years ago we published in this
paper, under the heading, “What Will Ro-,
gers Says,” the following paragraph:

Here is a queer streak in me. . . I am no
hunting man nor fishing either. I just
don’t want to be shooting at any animal,
and even a fish I havn’t got the heart to
pull the hook out of him.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and {ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass.

 

Oct. 1935

Quail on Toast

GRACE WALKER

AN you imagine hurrying into your

breakfast and finding the menu to be
quail on toast? Not a hot savory dish for
the epicure, but a buttery pile of hot toast
topped by a saucy top—knotted and very
much alive quail, scolding you for your
tardiness. This is what Mr. Fraiberg of

 

THE PUPPY AND THE QUAIL ARE
THE BEST OF FRIENDS

9835 Benedict Canyon has to suffer every
morning that he is late for his breakfast.
Some months ago Mr. and Mrs. Fraiberg
were driving home through the canyon. It
was dusk. Mrs. Fraiberg saw two tiny ob-
jects in the road and asked her husband to
stop and investigate. Two motherless baby
quail! Her gentle hands carried them to
the safety of her home. Exhaustion and
fright had sapped their strength until they
were scarcely able to stand. They did not
know how to eat. Mr. Fraiberg solved that
problem by using a toothpick. and feeding
them crumb by crumb, tiny bits of hard
boiled egg and bird seed. An old felt hat
warmed by a glowing light globe played
double for mother quail. Little sister dld
not survive even this tender care, but broth-
er lived and thrived. He now runs the
household. A stout—hearted merry fellow,
this one, with a keen sense of humor. A
cocky bird and companionable, he dotes on
company, and if by chance Mrs. Fraiberg
neglects to include him in a party he makes
such a protest that he invariably gets his
way. He follows Mrs. Fraiberg from room
to room gossipping cheerfully. He has a
grand time living and is something of an
egotist. He resents being left out of things
and finds the evening paper a great nui-
sance as the interest is diverted. As soon
as Mr. Fraiberg is comfortably hidden be-
hind the sheets, Mr. Quail plans his attack.
He starts from the highest point in the
room and flies directly into the paper. The
Slippery sheets send him sprawling to the
floor but he does not mind. He is highly
amused and chuckles as surely as ever a
bird did. He gathers himself together after

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 44

of that city, where she is in great demand
as a speaker. She organized nearly 2,000
Bands of Mercy, reaching more than 75,000
children. She also spoke at Chicago Settle-
ment schools and daily vacation Bible
schools.

Co-operation with Parents and Teachers

Mrs. Nichols, chairman of the Humane
Education committee of the Parent-Teacher
Association, with headquarters in Tacoma,
Washington, held an exhibit and gave an
address at the National Congress, at Ni-
agara Falls, N. Y., spoke at a council meet-
ing in Boise, Idaho, and engaged in many
activities relating to Parent-Teacher work.

Press Bureaus East and West

Mrs. Clarke, in charge of the press bur-
eau at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, dis-
tributed 14,702 leaﬂets, sent out 1,127
letters, attended 201 club meetings, gave
21 addresses on humane education, and
visited numerous other gatherings. As presi-
dent of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., she conducted
the very successful Hospitality Day at head-
quarters, the “Daisy Day” at Cape Cod,
a garden party at Gloucester, and the
annual Fair at the Copley Plaza hotel,
Boston. Mrs. Park, in charge of our West-
ern Humane Press Bureau, with head-
quarters in Palo Alto, California, sent out
regular press slips each month to news-
papers west of the Rocky Mountains, spoke
at the California Teachers’ Association and
before several other gatherings and, while
on a world tour, left humane literature to
humane societies in each of 18 ports of

call, in addition to interviewing editors and
librarians.

Foreign Contacts
Calls for literature continue to come to
us from all parts of the world, the records
showing distribution of various quantities
in 1934 to Africa, British West Indies,
Bulgaria, Canada, Central America, China,

India, Japan, Norway, Philippine Islands,
Syria, and Turkey.

Jack London Club

Our appeal for lessening the cruelty in
connection with training animals for stage
and screen performances, goes forth month-
ly in Our Dumb Animals, with the result
that 43,191 new members of the Jack Lon-
don Club were added during the year, the
total membership now being 630,342.

Band of Mercy Growing

In 1934 we received reports of 8,277
new Bands of Mercy, which came from
many of the states of the Union, while 25
were organized in Syria, 21 in Lebanon,
two in Spanish Honduras, and one each in
Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. The total

number of Bands formed since starting in
1882, is 207,146.

Be Kind to Animals Week

The twentieth observance of National
Be Kind to Animals Week was doubtless
the most extensive yet held. Governor Ely
of Massachusetts issued the usual Procla-
mation, as did the Governors of several
other states. Our Dumb Animals con-
ducted a cartoon contest, offering prizes

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

of $50 and $25 for the best work published
in newspapers, which brought entries from
artists in several states. We circulated
1,500 national Be Kind to Animals posters;
published 2,500 copies of a 4-page leaﬂet,
“Hints for Humane Sunday,” and 3,000
“N ow Remember Animals” cards; and con-
tributed 8,000 copies of “Humane Exercises
for Use in Schools,” 1934 edition, to the
public schools of Massachusetts in connec-
tion with the annual Humane Day. The
Boston Sunday Herald conducted a prize
essay contest in co-operation with the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., in which 2,000
boys and girls under sixteen years of age
participated, many of the essays being pub-
lished. The annual school poster contest
resulted in 5,425 entries, representing 398
schools in 138 cities and towns of Massa-
chusetts. There were 688 ﬁrst prize medals
awarded, 711 second prize medals, and
1,069 honorable] mentions. The best pos-
ters were on display in the Boston Public
Library during Be Kind to Animals Week
and the week following.

Moving Picture Films

During 1934 there were 38 rentals of
the “Bell of Atri,” several of these being
for more than one showing. Copies of the
ﬁlm were sold to Japan and to Detroit,
Michigan, the last-named being the sixth
order for the ﬁlm from the educational de-
partment of that city. The new ﬁlm of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., “On Behalf of
Animals,” was rented 42 times and one
copy was sold to Rochester, N. Y. Many
of these “rentals” were practically free, as
only transportation was charged.

New Literature

Nearly 3,000 copies of the 1935 Humane
Calendar were issued, about half of which
were with colored pictures. In addition to
the 25,000 copies of various pamphlets and
cards published for Be Kind to Animals
Week, the Society brought out several new
leaﬂets, chief of which was “An Interna-
tional Appeal,” 8,400 copies being pub-
lished and circulated. During the year new
editions were needed for “The Shame of
It” (15,000) and for “The Great Cruelty”
(10,000). Other leaﬂets, regularly circu-

lated, were reprinted in varying quantities.
Bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals were
and about 100 copies

placed on sale,

M ar. 1935

given to hotels, clubs, and various insti-
tutions.

Free Service

In addition to free loans of its ﬁlms and
lantern slides, the Society gave away
140,864 leaﬂets, 17,314 pamphlets, 224
books, 5,166 cards, 3,190 posters, 48 pen-
nants and nearly 10,000 buttons and
badges.

Receipts and Expenses

Receipts, $19,901.12. Payments, $27,-
646.90. This deﬁcit between receipts and
payments will be taken care of by the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

All things considered, in view of the loss
of income suffered by a large part of our
members and contributors owing to the seri-
ous times through which we have been
passing, the Societies realize they have much
to be grateful for in not being obliged to
curtail their activities or dismiss any of
their employees. during the last three or
four years, and to be able to enter the new
year with such relatively small deﬁcits. To
all who have made it possible to show so
good a record they desire here to express
their most grateful appreciation.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani-

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

.........
........................
..................................

 

SUPERINTENDENT FEEDING PETS BESIDE BARN AT REST
HOME FOR HORSES OF MASS. S. P. C. A. AT METHUEN

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE WRITE FOR

BOOKLET NO. 652
on thepractical removal
of worms in Dogs of all
_ breeds and ages.

FOR DOGS

   
     
 
   

:'. i}; i {E , iif»: ,, ’
TRAOHLORETHYLENE O. 'I'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove

Large Roundworms and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy- to- -give worm treatment.
Helps keep your dog thrifty!
For Free Booklet write to Desk \ -58- II
An 721'» me] Industry Dept
PARKE, DAVIS 81 (30., Detroit, Mich

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers for 1934
Beautifully bound in cloth and stamped in gold
Ideal gift for humane friends and for institutions of
all kinds. 192 Pages—150 Illustrations

Postpaid to any part of the world for One Dollar

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Hot ,Tired, Aching

Burning Feet. '
Comforted by

uticura
DIN'EM EN'I'

 

 

@

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Qanbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1935, bound volume $1.00
Earlier bound volumes ................ .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................. 1.00

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 50 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 ‘ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 ”
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 ‘
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “
The Care of Mules ................... .50 ‘ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card . $1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 " “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 ‘ “
The Story of Barry . .................. .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ each, 2 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50

The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100

Surplus Cats .......................... 50

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 ‘
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 ‘ :‘

Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. ............... 1.00

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .,paper 7cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? 30
Foreword from “Michaeerrother of Jerry” .30

.......

Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. . . 1. 00 " "
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, N0. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “
Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

pp. . . . . ............ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Humane Education

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. . ..... 15 cents each, seven for $1 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp ................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades . ..................... each, 10 cts
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight .. ............... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals’ placards ..... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley . ........ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Fr1ends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.

nimals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32p p.p .................. cloth, 35 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2. 00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—-Club, play, 3 cts. each; 3ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.’

play ........ . 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class- -room

each, 10 cts.

project, 8 pp. ....................... .00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each, 75 “ ‘

Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson, 4 pp. .50 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It . . ‘
Outlines of Study in Humane Education. 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . .. .50 “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “
The Coming Education ................ .03 “

5O ‘0 ‘6

A Festival of Tender Mercies ..........
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

‘6 ‘5

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy’ Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3. 00 per 100
Baoynd of Mercy Membership Card ...... 50
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

FILMS THAT ILLUSTRATE KINDNESS TO ANIMALS
THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angel] Animal
Hospital of the lVIassachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,

Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required.

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for

TWO reels, 15 minutes each.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Sept. 1935

If it is morning, he will see each animal in
turn led to the clinic where its wounds are
washed and dressed.

The city of Fez itself has been told of
the Fondouk by means of one of the mediae—
val customs that persist in this mediaeval
city. Five years ago a town crier went
through the narrow streets and called out
to the owners of beasts to whom the writ-
ten word meant nothing:

“In the Batha quarter is a Fondouk.
Bring your sick and injured animals there
and by Allah, it will not cost you the lit—
tlest guirish.”

It does not interest the “Fassi” or the
Djebali,—the people of the hills,—to know
where the money comes from that cures
their animals. They cannot read the me—
morial tablet on the gate that says:

American Fondouk in Fez
erected in 1929 A. D.
by
AMY BEND BISHOP
In memory of her Mother
A great lover of animals.

They do not know that each year gener-
ous Americans are asked to give money to
heal the beasts they injure thoughtlessly
and cruelly. I say thoughtlessly as well as
cruelly, for I do not believe the Arabs often
inflict pain deliberately. They are stoical
about their own suffering. With them it is
a question of less sensitive nerves as well
as of ignorance. When their animals are
half starved they are often half starved
themselves. With their famines and their
own diseases they and their children are
often in need of as much help as their ani-
mals.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for June, 1935

 

Daily average large animals 29
Forage for same $ 63.66
Daily average dogs 7.6
Forage for same 7.47
Put to sleep 7 3.12
Transportation 2.7 6
Wages, grooms, etc. 71.71
Resident secretary’s salary 131.58
Superintendent’s salary 82.24
Veterinary’s salary 29.61
Sundries 26.23
$418.38

Entries 53. Horses 7, -mu1es 11, donkeys 35.
Exits 42. Horses 10, mules 5, donkeys 27.
Out patient cases, 79.

Superintendent’s Notes: Kilometers traveled, 112;

cases investigated, 292; animals seen, 4,203; animals
treated, 909; animals sent to A. F., 35; pack-saddles
(Infected) destroyed, 10.

Our readers interested in the work in
Fez will be pleased to know that the Metro—
politan Drinking Fountain and Cattle
Trough Association of London has just con--
tributed £40 for the erection, through our
American Fondouk Maintenance Committee,
of a Fountain at Fez to bear the title, “Gift
of the Metropolitan Drinking Fountain and
Cattle Trough Association.” This will add
another of the much needed places for the
hard-worked and so generally thirsty beasts
of burden of that great city.

Plan now to attend the annual Fair of
the Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A” to be held at Hotel
Vendome, Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Wednesday, December 11, 1935.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 139

Concerning Cats

well — k n o w n
English daily
paper has recently
featured a corre-
spondence on the
rival merits of
dogs and cats.

Many p e 0 pl e
were, I dare to
guess, surprised, if
not indignant, to
find pussy so fre-
quently ' given
pride of place. And
not always by wo-
men.

For, heterodox as it may seem, Tom and
Tabby are no longer the exclusive joy of the
old maid: they have quite a large following
among the sterner sex.

Of course there were always masculine
cat—fanciers. We can go back to the cele-
brated Bishop whose dignified Persians had
their own places at his dinner table, and
were waited upon with due ceremony by
obsequious men servants. But he was by
way of exception.

Now it is not unusual to hear in doggy
conversations that “gentlemen prefer cats,”
even though one may feel that there is
something a little wrong about it.

At a social gathering some time ago I
was talking to an elderly man whom I
found in many respects “difficult.” We did
not see eye to eye. I respected his views,
but could not subscribe to them, and did
not want to hurt his feelings. Conversa-
sation was, in consequence, rather heavy-
going.

Suddenly we lighted on the subject of
cats, and forthwith We were rattling away
nineteen to the dozen.

He had a cat superior to anything that
was ever thought of. So had I. We were
rivals, but animated and happy ones! It
was as though a couple of youthful parents
were comparing notes as to the respective
merits of their first—horns!

And what of the English judge who, the
other day, trying a case in which Grimalkin
was (so to speak) in the dock, observed
pensively “I’m very fond of cats,” and ac-
quitted it?

Just before the Great War I was tremen—
dously impressed by an account I read in
a reputable magazine about the “Talking
Horse of Elberfeld.” ,

This animal trained by its owner from
colthood in the use of the alphabet was
alleged to have written a note (i.e., nosed
into position a selection of lettered squares)
beginning “My dear Mistress” and embody-
ing a message “Give my love to Daisy.”

I have recalled this amazing incident be—
cause Daisy was the household cat.

I suspect that the Talking Horse wished
to stand well with Daisy.

There is something mystic and, by the
same token, alluring in the make-up of the
cat.

Have you ever noticed how it gives you
the impression of waiting for something——
some tremendous and unique event, which
dwarfs all our pigmy preoccupations and
snubs our fussiness?

It is as though it said, “Some day I shall

    

CHRIS. SEWELL
(England)

 

THE FIRESIDE SPHINX

wake up completely, and look you straight
in the face, because it will have happened.
I shall have come into my own, and be
able to explain my reserve. I shall then
be permitted to tell you why I cajole and
ingratiate myself, when I need your serv—
ices, and turn my back, when I don’t.
Meanwhile, don’t worry, I’m going to sleep
again.”

I even find it easy to understand how the
ancient Egyptians, with their fears and
superstitions, came to propitiate this animal
and even to deify it. That implied secret
which it seems to guard today must have
struck the early dwellers by the Nile with
positive awe.

After all, there is an undoubted similar-
ity between the Sphinx sunning itself in
the Lybian sands, and an outsized Tabby
keeping her own counsel before a cozy fire.

One feels that the Riddle of one may
quite easily be the Riddle of the other!

Carrier Pigeons as Reporters
ALFRED I. TOOKE

ARRIER pigeons have not yet been
ousted entirely by telephones in Japan.
Japanese newspaper reporters frequently
take such pigeons along when reporting
news from places where it would be diffi-
cult to secure a telephone, and since tele—
phones are comparatively scarce in Japan,
the pigeons still have plenty to do. They
help to report everything from major dis—
asters to important games and contests.
The birds are highly prized and are given
every attention. A speedy bird, by getting

home a few minutes ahead of that of a rival
newspaper, can often give its owners a
“scoop” on some very important news item.
They have one great advantage over mes—
senger boys in that they do not stop to look
at every fight, or fire, or parade that they
pass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

A..._44”“

 

 




 

T-—————'————

Sept. 1935

Our Border Line

Three thousand miles of border line!——nor
fort nor armed host

On all this frontier neighbor—ground from
east to western coast;

A spectacle to conjure with—a thought to
stir the blood!

A living proof to all the world of faith in
brotherhood.

Three thousand miles of border line—nor
has a century

Seen aught along this common course but
peace and harmony.

O nations bound in brotherhood! 0 faith in
fellow-man! ,

What better way on earth to dwell than this
God—given plan?

Three thousand miles of border linel—One
hundred years of peace!

In allhth?e page of history what parallel to
t is.

God speed that surely dawning day—that
coming hour divine——

When all the nations of the earth shall
boast such border line!

——The New York Times

 

A Humane Road Sign

CARLETON A. SCHEINERT

A few miles east of Pasadena, California,
where U. S. Highway 66 runs, motorists
coming from either direction are cautioned
to use care by signs which read, “Peacocks
Crossing Road.” And one can have the un—
usual experience of seeing cars stopped
while a peacock, tail spread, goes slowly
across the highway!

The highway cut what is known as the
Baldwin ranch, the home of these peacocks.
But the birds refused to be restricted, in-
sisting on passing from one part of the
ranch to the other, now across the highway.
So large, white enameled signs were put
up, mounted on posts. The black letters on
them stand out clearly, and motorists are
watchful as they heed the warning.

Which speaks well for the humane feel-
ings of all concerned!

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 133

ThePlight of the Pelican

BRUCE JENNINGS

on the shallow beach at Antelope Is-

land, in the midst of Great Salt Lake,
we realized that something was wrong. For
the first time in my several spring-time
visits to the Island, a flock of great white
birds, their immense spreading wings tip—
ped with black, their S—shaped curve of
neck outstretched in flight, did not rise at
our approach. For the first time in the
memory of the oldest inhabitant, the huge
flock of pelicans which had, perhaps for
centuries, nested and raised their young on
Antelope Island had not returned.

A month went by, and still Antelope Is-
land was deserted. The beautiful white
birds, so graceful in flight, had disappeared,
and we began to realize that what was prob-
ably the largest rookery in the United
States, sheltering some ten thousand inhab—
itants, had been abandoned. Some time la-
ter the flock was reported nesting on Gun-
nison Island, more remote, more inaccessible
to man, far out toward the western shore
of the Great Salt Lake.

I, who have studied the habits of birds
all my life, if only as an amateur, knew
the explanation for this change of nesting—
ground. The pelicans had been too frequent-
ly disturbed by casual visitors to Antelope
Island. Frightened from their nests at fre-
quent intervals, the sun and the sea gulls,
the other inhabitants of the island, had to—
gether combined to destroy too many of
their eggs, and they had sought another
haven where they might raise their young
in peace and security.

The story of the wild life of America
is all too often a sad story, and this is es—
pecially true of the white pelican. In years
gone by a very common bird in the United
States and Canada, breeding in some sev~

ll ONG before our motor boat grounded

_enty—five scattered rookeries, the pelican

now numbers perhaps thirty thousand and
appears to be on the way to extinction.
Many of the rookeries were wiped out by
the encroachments of mankind upon their
native habitats. Many of the swamps near
which they formerly nested have been
drained. Their nesting—sites have been in
most instances destroyed.

The western progress of what we are
pleased to call “civilization” played havoc
with the pelicans. Part of this was neces-
sary in the process of making the country
habitable for human beings, but this has
never served to excuse the wanton destruc-
tion of the birds themselves. They are still
relentlessly persecuted by sportsmen be-
cause of their fish—eating habits. Only some
half dozen rookeries remain. Some of these
are adequately protected; others, like the
one on Great Salt Lake, are not. To be
adequately protected, rookeries should be
prohibited to the idly curious, for the birds
must not be disturbed during the nesting
season.

Those who are familiar with the habits
of the pelican know that its diet is such.
slow-moving fish as the chub, the carp, and
the sucker, fish usually classified as worth—
less by the angler. Seldom if ever do they
prey on those fish which are valued by
sportsmen. Despite this fact of common

 

MUST THE PELICAN FOLLOW THE
PASSENGER PIGEON TO
EXTINCTION?

observation, however, the pelican has been
made the Victim of endless persecution by
those who imagine that their sport is inter-
fered with. It has been a cruel and need—
less destruction of an unusual and pictur-
esque species by individuals who seem to
look upon other living things as their nat-
ural prey.

Some years ago the passenger pigeon was
a relatively common bird. But the passenger
pigeon was unprotected by game laws for
so long that the species became extinct. Now
that it is too late to remedy the situation,
the passing of this bird has become a source
of deep regret to the lovers of wild life.

Much the same fate is quite likely to be-
come the lot of the pelican, which is each
year becoming more and more rare. One
is reminded of the statement made by one
of America’s foremost ornithologists. “The
time to protect a species,” he said, “is while
the species is still common. The way to
prevent the extinction of a species is never
to let it become rare.”

The pelican has already become rare and
is no longer seen in many of its former
haunts. Not many years ago thousands of
them summered in the swamps below our
ranch. Today those swamps are drained
and under cultivation. The pelicans have
been forced to seek another nesting-ground.
This is but a minor incident in the story
of the tribulations which the pelican has
suffered, yet it illustrates the fate which
may be in store for this species unless some
remedial action is taken. Every year their
struggle for existence is intensified, and
their numbers are more and more concen-
trated in a few isolated and partially pro-
tected rookeries.

Should this process be permitted to con-
tinue unchecked, it would eventually result
in the extinction of the species. Halfway
measures have already more than proved
inadequate in the attempt to protect and
conserve America’s wild life. Perhaps
there are many who can regard the possible
extinction of a species without regret, but.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Page 180
The Dancing Poodle

MAJORIE HUNT PETTIT

He’s just a little poodle dog
With ruffled pantaloons,

And people laugh to see him prance
To loudly jangled tunes.

But in his mournful eyes of brown
I read another tale—

Of all the weary dogs that dance
Along the sawdust trail.

And while the people laugh and stare,
He’s still a faithful fellow;

He dances, though his heart may break——
This canine Punchinello.

The Jack London Club
of France

HE Jack London Club started in the
ofﬁces of our two Societies. It has
Spread into many countries. An interesting
article in a French magazine published by
the French Humane Education Society and
the S. P. C. A. of Colmar tells of the wide
expanse of the Club in France until it
covers many ﬁelds of humane activity.
For example, here are a few of the
evils it is combating, cock-fights, blinding
of chaffinches, using dogs as draft animals,
the Jewish method of slaughtering, the
trapping of animals, and bull-fighting. An
international meeting of Jack London Clubs
was held in Paris a few years ago, yet we
never knew of it until afterwards. Child
of ours as the Jack London Club may be,
we rejoice in its growth and service to all
animals, though it may never know who
was its father or mother.

If you would know about the Jack London
Club, founded in 1918, write to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, for the following leaflets:

“What is the Jack London Club? ”
‘Michael, Brother of Jer-

“Foreword from
rYo, ’7
“Lives of Performing Animals” (illustrated)
Samples free. Prices in quantities, 30 cents

per 100 copies, postage free.

ENJOYING HIS CHRISTMAS DINNER

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Toad and Two French-
men

ROY TEMPLE HOUSE

ICTOR HUGO was a great lover of

animals. One of his best-known poems
tells impressively of a childhood experience
of his which taught him kindness to our
humble brothers. It is called “The Toad,”
and narrates the fate of one of the harm--
less but repulsive reptiles which small boys
seem irresistibly drawn to maltreat.

This poem is known to all French school
boys, much better no doubt than Cole~
ridge’s albatross story or Cowper’s “I
would not enter on my list of friends . .
the man who needlessly sets foot upon
a worm” which is the motto of Our Dumb
Animals, and is known to the young—-
English and American. It has no doubt set
many a youngster to thinking. I have just
come across one evidence that it sank so
deeply into one little Frenchman’s heart
that it made a difference in his life.

Victor Hugo’s poem “The Toad” was writ—

ten in the middle of the nineteenth century,
and the old poet died in Paris in 1885.
When he went to his reward, the little
Parisian, Albert Guerard, was already five
years old, and no doubt already knew some—
thing of the marvelous old writer who had
got hold of people’s imaginations as few
writers of any age have done. At any
rate, it was probably not many years later
that the boy learned the pathetic poem
about the toad. Young Master Guerard
turned out to have scholarly and literary
capacity himself. He received part of his
education in England, and in the course of
time he came to the United States as a
language teacher. He is now Professor of
Comparative Literature in Stanford Uni—
versity, and he is the author of several
useful books, in English and in French,
on historial and literary subjects. Pro—
fessor Guerard is not a writer for the
masses, like Victor Hugo. He is too cau—
tious and well-balanced ever to give way
to excitement and prejudice as the exuber—
ant creator of Jean Valjean and Quasimodo
often did. But he is one of our sanest,
most independent and most provocative
thinkers. The other day I received a copy
of his new book, “Literature and Society.”
It is a quiet book. Professor Guerard is
an extremely modest man, and he would
never have prattled about himself as Hugo
constantly did. But in this book there is
a sentence of autobiography which seemed
to me a noble tribute to both Guerard and
Victor Hugo. Says Professor Guerard in
his chapter “Inﬂuence of Literature on
Life”:
“I HAVE BEEN DETERRED FROM
TORMENTING EVEN THE MOST RE—
PULSIVE ANIMALS BY VICTOR HU—
GO’S POEM, ‘THE TOAD.’ ”

Books are not mere rows of idle words.
They bear fruit in actions.

The Annual Fair, Women’s Auxiliary,
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., will be held at
Hotel Vendome, Boston, Wednesday, Dec.
11, 1935.

Dec. 1935

 

Then and Now

Then there

Were buffalo;

Now men go out and shoot

At one scared little deer and call
It sport.

JEANETTE NOURLAND in Denver Post

Elephants and Aircraft

L. E. EUBANKS

HE acting game warden of Uganda.

(East Central Africa) has reported

that under existing conditions Uganda can

accommodate more than half its elephants
in uninhabited and uninhabitable areas.

The passing of aircraft over these empty
lands may, however, create so much disturb-
ance that the elephants will look for peace
and quiet elsewhere. It happens that both
land and water machines Visiting Uganda.
from the north pass over the main elephant
reserves, and signs are not wanting that
the animals there are already ill at ease.

Until three or four years ago there was
an annual mustering of majestic old bulls
on the East Nile opposite Pachwach, but it
has ceased now; and this is not to be ac-
counted for by the amount of hunting which
has taken place there. This year the wan—a
derings of the main herd indicate unrest
has spread inland.

With the increasing use of the air route
the elephants may become accustomed to
the noise and ignore it, but as the trained
elephants in the Belgian Congo cannot ap—
parently accustom themselves to the noise
of motor cars, it seems improbable that
they will.

If the worst happens, and the huge herds-
try to leave the uninhabited areas of Ugan-
da, it seems that a drastic reduction in
their numbers will be inevitable.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

 

 




 

Page 188

A Winter-loving Bird

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

BIRD I have always wanted to see in

his homeland is the willow grouse, a
species of ptarmigan. He is found in Amer—
ica from Newfoundland north and north
west quite beyond the Arctic circle.

In winter these birds flock as far south
as the northern spruce lands of Canada.
But their breeding grounds are so far
north that only the Eskimo, the northern
Indians and exceptional game-hunters be-
come familiar with their habits. Only in
the short mid-summer period, when their
young are being hatched, are these birds
away from snow—covered ground. They
seem to dote on winter. Their feathers ex—
tend to the tips of their toes, and these they
can spread out so as to make very satisfac—
tory snowshoes of their feet. They can go
over newly-fallen snow as lightly as the In-
dians of the northland themselves.

The winter suits of these birds are soft
and fluffy and densely thick. So warm in-
deed they are that the willow grouse pre-
fers to sleep under the snow rather than
anywhere else. When the wintry air gets
too sharp by day, or when his bedtime
comes, he dives down into the snow, then
works his way far under and is as snug
there as the familiar bug in a rug.

The baby birds soon learn to dust them-
selves in snow banks just as birds we know
frequently take dust baths in our dirt roads,
the quail and ruffed grouse, for example.

The willow grouse has become as noctur-
nal in his habits as his worst foe, the snowy
owl, although none of his ptarmigan rela-
tives we are acquainted with, such as prai—
rie chickens, wild turkeys and pheasants,
are about at night. This is very strange
since the eyes of the willow grouse are not
like those of the other nocturnal birds.
Scientists explain this on the ground of the
unusual conditions of light and darkness
that prevail in the Arctic regions. In July
the days are so long that these birds must
sleep while the sun is still high, and in De.-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

cember and January, when the sun is blot-
ted out for days at a. time, they could not
possibly wait until it shows itself again for
their breakfasts.

Birds That Helped Win
Wars

EWEN K. PATTERSON

HE great part that carrier pigeons

have played in warfare constitutes

one of the most impressive chapters in his—

tory. In many cases, these feathered mes—

sengers actually helped to win wars and

thus were partly responsible in altering the
destinies of nations.

One of the earliest and most striking
cases in which these birds helped to win a
war occurred over 362 years ago. In 1573--
74 the city of Leyden, the capital of South
Holland (Europe), was besieged by the
Spanish Army which gradually brought the
defenders of the city and its inhabitants to
a state of starvation. Matters became so

serious in the city, that the defenders, be-

lieving that assistance would never come,
decided to surrender to the Spaniards. But
no sooner had this decision been reached
than a carrier pigeon was seen to arrive
and flutter about the city. The bird was
shot by one of the soldiers really for food,
but on picking up the dead bird he discov-
ered. that a message was tied to one of its
legs. This message intimated that the
Prince of Orange was coming to the aid of
the city with a strong army. As a result
of this message the besieged city held out
until the arrival of the Prince whose army
quickly routed the Spaniards. The pigeon
that had delivered the fateful message was
not forgotten; its body was recovered and
stuffed, and, to this day, carefully preserv—
ed in a glass case, it occupies a prominent
place in the City Hall at Leyden.

At the famous Battle of Waterloo carrier
pigeons also rendered valuable service as
messengers. In the South African War,
which lasted from 1899 to 1902, the suc—

 

 

\VILLOW PTARMIGAN IN WINTER PLUMAGE

 

Dec. 1935

cessful operations of the British troops
were also due in no small measure to the
pigeon service. A similar service was a-
dopted by both Japan and Russia in their
war which took place in the early part of
this century, and the feathered couriers
proved of inestimable value to both belliger—
ents.

But it was during the Great War of 1914-
1918 that the pigeons really distinguished
themselves, and there are many thousands
of soldiers who survived that war who owe
their lives to these birds. At the outbreak
of the war, pigeons were not really thought
of, as telephones were chiefly used for
sending messages. Later, however, owing
to the intense fire during battles it was
found impracticable to depend upon tele-
phonic communication as the wires were so
often cut by bullets, and the danger in re-
pairing them was so great. This led to pi—
geons being used for communication pur—
poses, and the birds proved of inestimable
value.

At one time there were over 5,000 pigeons
engaged in message work for the Allied
troops, and just how successful the birds
were in this work may be gained from the
fact that all told ninety per cent of them
reached their destinations with their mes—
sages. The remainder of the birds were
shot down by the enemy. Often, however,
a bird survived after being shot, and al—
though suffering fluttered feebly to its des-
tination with its valuable message. A
striking case in point occurred at the ter-
rible battle of the Marne in 1915. A pigeon
carrying a message was struck by a Ger—
man bullet which tore away most of its
right leg. Despite its suffering the bird
arrived at its destination. But no sooner
had it delivered its message than it dropped
dead. The message the bird carried en-
abled the Allied troops to effectively re—
pulse a German attack.

Another bird hero of the Great War was
one concerned with a disaster in the North
Sea. A British seaplane while engaged in
submarine patrol work crashed in the North
Sea, and the six men on board were cast
adrift on a fragile raft. To summon as—
sistance they sent out a pigeon they had
on board. This bird, with a message tied
to its leg, arrived at Portsmouth Naval
Station and immediately dropped dead from
exhaustion. As a result of the message it
delivered, the six airmen were rescued just
in time.

The exploits of the pigeons during the
Great War would fill a huge volume; the
birds took part in many stirring dramas
of warfare both on land and sea, and assist-
ed in no small way in the victory achieved
by the Allied troops.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu~
cation. We will welcome your contribution
to this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the gift is for this Trust Fund.

--',.._-';:‘¥ 41"1'

 

 

g1




 

 

 

 

June, 1935

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 85

Many Governors Proclairn Be Kind to Animals Week

Enthusiastic Celebrations from Coast to Coast—Massachusetts S. P. C. A. ~‘
Holds Largest School Prize Poster Contest in Its History

 

A FEW OF THE MASS. S. P. C. A. PRIZE POSTERS DISP’LAYED IN BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY

HE twenty-ﬁrst annual Be Kind to

Animals Week celebrations, beginning

with Humane Sunday on April 7,
1935, were carried out with such enthusi-
asm and varied activities as to make this
week the high-water mark of the year in
humane activities. Proclamations, officially
calling attention to the Week, were issued
by Governor Curley of Massachusetts, as
published on another page of this issue, by
Governor Horner of Illinois, as appeared
in our May number, by Governor Johnston
of South Carolina, by Governor Merriam
of California, and by Governor Allred
of Texas, while Governor Earle of Pennsyl-
vania issued a statement commending the
observation.

In Massachusetts the outstanding fea-
ture was the successful prize poster con-
test conducted by the S. P. C. A. for the
best" designs illustrating animal protection

made by children in public and parochial
schools. Pupils in 442 schools, representing
153 different towns and cities, entered the
contest, it being estimated that probably
75,000 posters were made. From those
submitted the teachers made careful selec-
tions and forwarded 6,096 of the best ones
to the Society. There were awarded 578
ﬁrst medals, with blue ribbon; 707 second
medals, with red ribbon, and 1,067 hon-
orable mentions, each carrying a year’s sub-
scription to Our Dumb Animals. This was
the largest number of posters ever received
by the Society in the seventeen years that
it has been conducting these contests.
Many of the best posters were exhibited in
the Boston Public Library for two weeks.
The press throughout the state gave very
liberal space to accounts of the prize win—
ning pupils. Humane Day in Schools, Fri-
day, April 12, was generally observed, the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. having distribu-
ted for this purpose 11,000 copies of a
special pamphlet of Humane Exercises.
Talks were given in schools by the Society’s
representative, Miss Ella A. Maryott.
There was a marked celebration in Fitch-
burg, due largely to the untiring efforts of
Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, a teacher in the
public schools. Two big mass meetings
were held on Thursday, one in the after-
noon when prizes were awarded to pupils
in the lower grades for writing the best
essays on kindness to animals, and one in
the evening when prizes were presented to
pupils in the higher grades for similar
essays and an address was given by Guy
Richardson, secretary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. At the evening exercises Super-
intendent of Schools James M. McNamara
presided, and several members of the school
board of Fitchburg were in attendance. A

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 

 

 

 

Page 131;

to those who would share the fortunes and
misfortunes of life’s adventure with the
other inhabitants of the earth, different
though they may be, it is unthinkable that
the pelican should become another victim
of indifference and belated regret.

The Birds’ Bath

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

the health of birds as of man. While
warm weather prevails they need more
water to drink as well as in which to bathe,
and the lowering or, in many instances, to-
tal drying up of small streams render an
artificial supply of water a humane neces—
sity. More, it supplies an excellent oppor«
tunity to study and enjoy the birds close at
hand, not only those of your own garden
but others of the entire community; for
it is astonishing how quickly the word of
your hospitality is passed on; and water is
actually more necessary to life than food.

Choose preferably an open spot if there
are cats in the neighborhood, for the
birds are partly off guard through their
diversion and with wet plumage are less
active on the wing. True, birds like to
take a dip and then fly to a near—by bush
to dress their plumage. But if Tabby is to
be reckoned with, it is safer to place a
screen of wire netting in front of any shrub
opposite the bath.

A wash basin secured to a piece of pipe
as standard will suffice, but a concrete
basin and pedestal are made at small cost
and are more satisfactory. One part of ce—
ment, two of sand, and three of gravel is a
standard combination, mixed with water
enough to make a stiff mortar. A rough in-
ner surface is necessary to prevent the
birds slipping and may be secured by cover-
ing the trowel with carpet before smoothing.
Or a layer of sand may be ﬁlled in the bot—
tom of the basin. Small birds are timid
about venturing into water deeper than 1 to
21/2 inches and it should be more shal-
low at the edges. Unless running water is at
hand, clean out and refill once a week. A
tray of choice food near may hasten the
birds’ acquaintance with your bathing facil-
ities.

FREQUENT bathing is as essential to

  

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Sept. 1935

The Golden Eagle at Close Range

NORMAN CLYDE

regions of the West the golden eagle

is still occasionally seen. Whether
quietly soaring in the sky, sweeping along
cliffs in graceful curves, or darting down—
ward with the speed and accuracy of an ar-
row, this bold and powerful bird is in per—
fect keeping with the setting of wild and
rugged mountains in which it usually
dwells.

In the Sierra Nevada of California, es-
pecially along its lofty crest and the pre-
cipitous gorge-furrowed escarpment of its
eastern face in places upwards of 10,000
feet in height, it is not infrequently seen
at any season of the year. For hours at a
time it can sometimes be observed circling
about the. lofty peaks and darting back and
forth along the fronts of sheer cliffs. When
weary of such aerial gymnastics, it may
alight on the. summit of a high peak, es—
pecially of one terminating in a sharp pin-
nacle. Upon surmounting one of these,
perhaps the ﬁrst time for human foot, the
mountaineer may ﬁnd it a favorite perch-
ing place. of the golden eagle, and such it
may have been for countless centuries.

The golden eagle preys on a considerable
variety of animal-life, the jack-rabbit and
the marmot ground-hog being among its
favorite quarries. In the high Sierra it
probably lays a heavy toll on the Sierra
hare, a large species usually heavier than
a jack-rabbit, generally found at elevations
above 8,000 feet, even in mid-winter. In
snow regions at least it has the bad habit
of preying on the young of the. mountain
sheep and goats. As a rule it swoops down
upon its prey from a considerable height.
Once, however, I saw a pair of them re-
peatedly darting from an elevation of only
a few rods at a jack-rabbit which was mak—
ing desperate efforts to reach a patch of
brush, efforts which, however, proved in
vain.

Its habit of alighting in the topmost pin-
nacles of lofty peaks has been the occasion
of several interesting experiences to the
writer. Once while seated reclining against

THROUGHOUT the wilder mountainous

WILD DUCKS IN LAKE MERRITT PARK, OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA

 

the cairn on the summit of Mt. Humphreys
in the southern Sierra Nevada, an elevation
of 13,972 feet above sea level, I suddenly
heard a rushing sound. Upon turning my
head, I saw an eagle swooping down direct-
ly toward the cairn, but discovering me, he
swerved slightly so as to sweep past almost
within arm’s length. After darting down-
ward for a few hundred feet it rose abrupt-
ly and after gaining considerable elevation,
began to soar about in the. sky as if nothing
had occurred.

A few miles north of Mt. Humphreys, on
the top of Mt. Winchell, 13,749 feet above
sea—level, I had a similar experience. While
reclining in a coign just below the cairn I
heard the same sort of sound coming fnom
beyond the monument. As I looked around
I saw an eagle poise in the air for a frac-
tion of a second about twenty-ﬁve feet
away, and then whirl abruptly to one side
and sweep down along the precipitous front
of the mountain.

Predator though he may be, we: should
not like to see this bold and picturesque
bird disappear from the. Sierra Nevada and
other mountain ranges of the West. With
the prevalence of long range riﬂes and of
high voltage transmission lines which, on
account of his wide spread of wing not in-
frequently bring him to grief when he
chances to alight upon them, he is not likely
to become sufﬁciently numerous to do any
great damage, unless it be in localities
Where'it is desired to give special protec-
tion to some form of life, such as moun-
tain sheep or goats.

A Deer Heaven

ALFRED L. TOOKE

N a great park at Nara, an ancient town
that used to be the capital of Japan,
you cannot go far before a deer, or perhaps
several of them, will come nosing up to you.
They have no fears that anyone will harm
them, and wander about unmolested, for it
is a very serious offense to kill or injure
one.

It is said that when Buddha preached his
first sermon in that great park, the deer
came and listened, and Buddha decreed that
henceforth they should never suffer harm
at any man’s hand. ‘

Now, those, deer create employment for
many people who have gone into the busi-
ness of making and selling rice cakes, of
which the deer are very fond. If the deer
see you go up to a seller of rice cakes, they
will come swooping down upon you and you
will be a close prisoner until the last ves-
tige of the last rice cake has been handed
over.

Fifty thousand or more earthworms,
scientists tell us, are in each acre of fertile
ground, toiling ceaselessly to improve con-
ditions. Just how important earthworms
are can be appreciated when it is known
that without them all the fertile acres
which now produce food would become hard
and sterile. Rain water would not be ab4
sorbed, floods would be common, and plant,
life would degenerate.

 




 

 

 

 

Aug. 1935
You Helped the Dumb

Just in a dream I stood at Heaven’s gate,

St. Peter met me with his book of fate—

A pond’rous volume bound in glist’ning
gold,

With letters large that stood out clear and
bold;

He thought awhile, then shook his hoary
head——

“The records show but few good deeds,” he
said,

“And not enough to merit Heaven, I fear;

To me your prospects, friend, look rather
drear!’

He traced the scanty items with his thumb,

When, lo! He stopped and said—“You
helped the dumb—

You took a stray cat in, two dogs you fed,

And to the birds you gave some crusts 0]
bread.

Ah, Yes! You did your best to aid the weak,

God’s little folk, the ones that could not
speak;

So enter thou, and join the angel band,

There is a place for you at God’s right
hand.”

WILLA HOEY, in “A Book of Verses.”

“Amos” is Dead

Saturday morning a little cocker spaniel
perished beneath the crushing wheels of
someone’s automobile. I wonder if the driv-
er is aware that he killed an Athol institu-
tion. A good proportion of the population
will soon know if they don’t already. House-
wives, shopkeepers, and the men that loiter
in the doorways along Main street will soon
be asking each other for news of their four-
footed comrade. The dog was Amos, prop-
erty of Edward Carroll of Drury avenue,
and the devoted friend of everyone who ack-
nowledged the feverish wagging of his
stubby tail.

I’m sure that all who knew’him will note
the passing of Amos with lumps in their
throats. I wish that we might buy him a
satin—lined cofﬁn—that we might erect a
marble monument over him; but that is
impossible.

Happy hunting, Amos!

BERNARD ROTH in Athol Transcript.

A “Job” for Beavers
LESTER BANKS

The assistant supervisor of Snoqualmie
National Forest, Washington, Mr. C. J.
Conover, has planned for the trapping of
beavers in the lowlands of Washington this
summer, and will “transplant” them in the
Snoqualmie National Forest, where they will
work at their natural task—building dams
in streams. They will be caught in wire
nets to prevent injury.

“Beavers are the hardest-working wild
animals we have,” Mr. Conover said, “and
when they get to the forests they will start
building dams to prevent ﬂoods. Dams in
streams will prevent sudden ﬂow-off of
water and will make lakes in which ﬁsh may
live throughout the dry summer months.”

According to Mr. Conover, beavers have
virtually disappeared from the Snoqualmie
Forest because of trappers. He estimated
that two hundred animals will be “trans-
planted” during this summer.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 117

A Farewell for Wild Horses

BRUCE JENNINGS

last band of wild horses. Even then they

were a great novelty—already becoming
a part of Western tradition, the fabled and
gallant creatures of an earlier and more
primitive age, destined to disappear so com-
pletely within the next two decades that the
visitor who would now catch sight of them
must travel into the most lonely and desolate
regions of the West.

How well I remember this last brave little
band! I was only a boy at the time, still in
my teens, and I could sympathize to the full
with their wild, freedom—loving natures.
They passed over an open area to the west
of our ranch, perhaps thirty in number, led
by a beautiful buckskin stallion; and we rode
out for a nearer view of them.

It was the spring of the year, and they
had come in off the winter range lean and

H T IS almost twenty years since 1 saw my

natural enemy the cougar, their only chal-
lenge the unfenced miles, they were an in-
tegral part of the picturesque vitality of the
old West.

Today almost unknown, relegated to the
most arid and out-of-the-way regions of the
West, a bare handful in numbers, the wild
horse somehow manages to survive. Un-
protected by law of any sort, the easy victim
of anyone with a riﬂe and without a heart,
the wild horse is one of the major victims in
the gory business of “civilizing” the West.

The ﬁrst settlers were the bitter enemies
of the wild horse. Their own domesticated
animals, reminded perhaps of an earlier
freedom, sometimes ran away to join the
roving bands. Accordingly, the muzzle-
loading riﬂes took their toll until barbed
wire fences could be built. In the years
since then barbed wire has spread its

 

WILD HORSES LOVED AND ADMIRED BY THOSE WHO KNEW THEM

hard and shining in the bright sunlight. A
few long-legged colts tagged at the heels of
their mothers. The stallions pranced high,
heads in air, nostrils distended, alive in
every muscle and ﬁbre. The band watched
us for a few moments, half suspicion, half
curiosity, then moved off through the sage
in a cloud of dust. So easily did they move,
so beautifully and surely, that we sat on our
horses, lost in admiration. Here is the per—
fect subject for the sculptor; the wild stal-
lion, ears pointed, questioning, neck and tail
arched, fore leg raised, every muscle tensed,
ideally suggestive of everything wild, beau-
tiful and untamable in God’s creatures, in
the instant before he springs into action.
Yet already the wild horse belongs to the
past!

My uncle, a roamer by heart, who trav-
eled the West before that last golden spike
was driven to link it with the East with
bands of steel, saw wild horses by the thou-
sands. Free and untroubled, their only

strangle hold upon the desirable range until
the few surviving wild horses have been
forced into regions of the West which have
been properly described as “desert.” Here
they are occasionally raided by cattlemen
seeking saddle-horses at little expense or
shot down by “sportsmen.”

But the settler was not so responsible for
the virtual extermination of the wild horse
as were the meat packers. High beef prices
during and immediately following the World
War resulted in the systematic slaughter of
tens of thousands of wild horses. The horses
were trapped, killed, packed, and shipped to
foreign markets. Cowboys familiar with
the ranges did the work, proﬁteers reaped
their fat rewards, and the wild horse became
the victim, like so many other species of
American wild life, of the commercial in-
stinct and public indifference.

The extermination of the buffalo was no
more vicious and unprincipled than the ex-
termination of the wild horse. Anyone who

 

 

 




Sept. 1935

Draft Horses

M. E. BAKER

Dumb toilers of the street,

0n ill—shod feet,

Thin loops of steel

Hold their great frames.

0n the pavement’s ice

They slip and reel,

And fall prone;

There they lie,

Staring, with heaving sides,
Then, with might and main,
They struggle and strain,

Half way—whole way—down again!
They make no moan,

But their eyes ask, why?

Why must we go

Where we cannot stand?

Their sad, patient eyes demand.

With Good Intentions

LUISE GRANDIN

BOUT half past eight this morning a
team of horses hitched to a milk wag--
on were standing by the curb of one of our
city streets. The driver was not in sight.
The horses had their noses buried in feed
bags, apparently having finished their meal
some few minutes since. In this sweltering
July weather these empty feed bags are a
source of misery to horses and it was there—
fore with the best of motives that a smart—
ly dressed, pretty young lady who was pass-
ing attempted to remove the bags from the
horses’ heads. The first one came off read-
ily and she hung it on the hame, but when
she tried to take the bag off the other
horse’s neck he grew frightened and threw
up his head. Perhaps he was not used to
ladies, or perhaps the young woman’s cos-
tume (white hat, dress with white back-
ground having purple flowers on it, and
large white handbag) frightened him. She,
however, not realizing the horse’s terror,
continued with rapid motions her effort to
remove the bag while the horse reared his
head higher and higher until she had to
stand on tip-toe to reach the strap of the
bag.

Finally she succeeded in getting it off
and with another quick motion was about to
hang it on the hame when the horse began
to plunge and back. Had it not been for the
other horse, who calmly stood still, the wag-
on might have been upset.

This incident, which we witnessed from
nearby in our car, serves to remind us that
kind-hearted people who are moved to try
to help the horses in the street—many of
them truly sad cases in need of help—
ought to exercise judgment about approach—
ing animals with whom they are not fa-
miliar, as sometimes real harm can be done,
not to mention the adverse criticism of by-
standers. It is well to remember that a
horse should be spoken to before touching
him, that quick motions should always be
avoided, and that large white objects are
sometimes a source of terror to the horse,
whose eyes see things not as the human eye
does, but five times larger.

Please remember the Massachusetts 5.

P. C. A. in your will.

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Last of His Linc

SERGEANT HERBERT E. SMITH

N keeping with the present-day trend

toward mechanization, all animal-drawn
transportation of the United States Army
was recently ordered inactive and motors
and tractors replaced the horses and mules.

The order brought particular sadness to
the men of the Service Company, 28th U.
S. Infantry, at Fort Niagara, N. Y. For
the order meant all its horses and mules
were to be sold.

And the men of Service Company hated
the idea of seeing the mule, “Frisky,” auc‘
tioned off, perhaps to an unappreciative,

 

SERGT. BARNETT AND “FRISKY”

inhuman peddler who might work the mule
long hours, under meagre fare, hitched to
a junk wagon.

No animal in the Fort Niagara stables
had so endeared himself to the soldiers——
yes, and to the ladies and children of the
Army post, too—as had this famous old
mule.

Frisky is a veteran. He is more than
forty years old, was born in an Army cor-
ral in Texas and served in action in the
Spanish-American War in Cuba, in Mexico
with Pershing in 1916, and in France with
the A. E. F. in 1918.

He knows tricks and traits that have en—
deared him to service folk. For one thing.
Frisky knew all the bugle calls. When “Re-
call” sounded at 4:30 each afternoon, end-
ing the day’s work on the post, the mule
would head for the stables, drawing his
work-cart along. No matter if it was load-
ed, Frisky knew “Recall” marked the end
of the working day, and that was all there
was to it.

At Mess Call the sage animal would bray
for his oats and hay—and get his “chow’
with the soldiers. When “First Call” ush-
ered in another day Frisky would whinny
and bray until he was released from his
corral.

Among his many tricks was an uncanny
facility for unloosening knots. He often
untied himself from the picket line; then,
big-hearted as he was, he would untie all
other mules and horses tethered along the
same rope line. Finally he had to be pen—
ned up in a separate box-stall, to thwart

Page 141

his mischievious bent for untying knots.

When a cart which he was drawing seem-
ed, in his opinion, to be overloaded, Frisky
would refuse to budge until the load had
been lightened.

The parade ground at Fort Niagara,
where the infantry troops drilled, was of
soft turf, packed with special grass. Other
mules and horses, scampering loose from
the corral or picket—line, would often pull
up there to nibble at the sweet grass.
Frisky knew that the parade ground was
forbidden territory. He never stepped hoof
on it.

Frisky has a memory like an elephant.
He never forgets an injury, real or fancied.
Not that any of the garrison would ever be
cruel to him, but sometimes recruits would
thoughtlessly tease him. Woe to those re-
cruits, later on! Frisky with his remark-
able memory would nip them unplayfully
on their shoulders, or would throw a mighty
big scare into them by launching out at
them with his steel—shod hoofs.

So the order to get rid of Frisky caused
heart aches at Fort Niagara. The men did
not want to give him up. Yet orders are
orders and soldiers must obey orders in
peace time no less than in war.

Captain B. E. McKeever of the Quarter-
master Corps was the officer designated
to sell the mule. Like every other man,
woman and child at Fort Niagara, he
couldn’t bear the thought of seeing Frisky
sold to strangers. He studied the order
minutely and then, exultant, discovered the
way out. The order said Frisky was to be
sold, true enough; but it did not expressly
state that the animal must of necessity be
sold to civilian agencies.

The quartermaster—captain bought the
mule himself, at the public auction. He had
money enough. For he had made public
his discovery and the Fort Niagara soldiers,
rallying to Frisky’s rescue, had raised a
voluntary fund out of their own meagre
pay.

Frisky was saved to the garrison, and
placed in honorable retirement in a sweet
clover—laden pasture down at the far end
of the fort. Now he can disport himself
at ease for the rest of his days. No more
work for Frisky. There’s but one fly in.
the ointment. What with the lack of exer-
cise, the clover and blue grass diet, and the
innumerable lumps of sugar being fed him
by his soldier friends, the veteran is in a
fair way of losing what was once a slim,
boyish figure. He may have to go on a
reducing diet!

There are still a good many horses earn—
ing their oats in Boston. Some idea of the.
number may be imagined from watching
the great number of equines that are
brought to a halt on any hot week day in
Post Office square where they are watered
through the courtesy of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

—Boston Post

Big Bug Famlly
There are said to be 1,110 different kinds
of animals and insects in the world, with
thousands of varieties of each, including
120,000 types of spiders, 50,000 types of
butterflies and 40,000 types of flies.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY T0
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel] Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustee-s of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBE’R, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF’I‘, Vice-President, United Shbe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine We-athersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell. Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia .

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JULY, 1935

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 74
Number of addressespmade, 81

Number of persons in audiences, 12,028

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details. Fill it in
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me

the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name ..................................

Age

.....
.............................

.....
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

OUR 'DUMB ANIMALS

Watch the Child’s Reading

LESTER BARNCLIFF

ODAY it is generally understood

that much of this country’s crime
is caused by the wrong kind of reading.
Most thoughtful parents try to guard their
young children against crime stories, de-
tective thrillers, and other lurid trash
known to have: played a part in the mak-
ing of “baby bandits.”

Such books do their harm by dulling
the young person’s sense of justice and
teaching .him cruelty and disregard for
all living creatures but himself.

But many books. and magazines not
commonly classed as thrillers have much
the same ultimate effect. Recently a
mother was surprised to ﬁnd in one of
her child’s books an entire chapter on how
pet animals were abandoned, “gotten rid
of,” etc. Wisely, she fed that volume to
the kitchen range, before the child had
read it.

In another household, the fourteen-year
old boy enjoyed reading hunting stories.
The parents had not barred the sporting
magazines from the library table, but one
evening the mother looked over her son’s
shoulder and discovered that he. was read-
ing all about how to make a success of
trapping, its proﬁts, fascination, thrills,
etc. Censorship in that home since then
has been thorough, not partial. I think
sporting magazines are “poor stuff” for
even adults; and they may be devastating
to boys in their teens.

It has been shown many times that
reading which teaches kindness to dumb
animals encourages kindness in general;
so it must be equally true that such read-
ing matter as makes cruelty to the lower
creatures seem unimportant or “smart”
contributes to foundation for crime.

Animals are so interesting to: young
people that your children are quite cer-
tain to want to read about them. And
these stories and articles are highly help-
ful in character formation, if wisely chosen.
They are one of those inevitable modiﬁers
of child life that may be either very help-
ful or very harmful.

One way or another, your child is going
to learn a lot about animals and man’s
treatment of them; and much experience
has proved that the child’s investigation
should be guided by parental selection of
the reading matter. '

Any city library contains many books
on animals, books and magazines that will
encourage the attitude which you wish
your child to develop. And the library
attendants are there to help any person
find what is wanted. Unless you are def-
initely familiar with the books you de—
sire, it'is better to depend on the libra-
rian’s suggestions, after you explain just
what kind of reading you want.

If you live in the country or in a town
too small for comprehensive library serv—
ice, write a postal card to any of the
large publishing houses in your nearest
city. All you have to do is state what
line of reading you are interested in and
ask for catalogs. No, that isn’t all;
examine for yourself any book intended
for the child before he even sees it.

Sept. 1935

Visiting the Fondouk at Fez

UR many readers who have contributed

to the American Fondouk at Fez, Mo-
rocco, will read with pleasure the story told.
in the magazine Aperitif, published at
Santa Barbara, Calif., by Eleanor Hoff-
mann, of her visit to the Fondouk.

The editor of the Aperitif has kindly
given us the privilege to take from the
story such passages as our space permits:

The Stars and Stripes fly over two
buildings in French Morocco,—one is the
American consulate at Casablanca, the oth-
er is a building that houses donkeys and
mules in the old imperial capital of Fez.
The American citizen can appeal to the
Stars and Stripes in “Casa” for justice and
the Moroccan burro can also appeal to the
same flag when he has been pricked and
goaded to the point of death. In other
words Fez, Morocco, has the only foreign
branch of the American Fondouk Mainte-
nance Committee,—the American Fondouk.

I find it most entertaining to go out with
the Fondouk staff and hunt donkeys. You
drive slowly with Mr. X. along the roads
that lead out of Fez while Muhammed, the
Arab interpreter, keeps watch from the
rumble seat behind. Suddenly you sight a
drove of donkeys trotting down from the
hills under paniers of charcoal or quarried
stone. A little barefooted. Berber boy is
poking their flanks. We stop the car and
examine his stick. At the end we find ex-
actly what we expected, a nail, for in each
little black rump is a raw wound. We con-
fiscate the stick. Muhammed asks the child
who it is that owns these donkeys and finds
that it is perhaps the proprietor, of the
quarry. Perhaps five out of fifteen sticks
are confiscated. The boy who cannot read
is given a business—like receipt for each ani—
mal and Muhammed drives the invalids
back to the Fondouk.

The next day the owner, who cannot read
either, comes in puzzled anger to the Fon-
douk to find out what it is all about. The
Fondouk explains that whenever its staff
finds animals with skin broken by prodding,
with badly fitting pack saddles, over-loaded
or starved, it will confiscate these animals
and keep them free of charge until they are
cured.

There is a cupboard in the Fondouk of—
fice that reminds me of the torture cham—
bers of Nuremberg. In it is a collection of
all the instruments used to prod donkeys.
Arabs cannot always afford nails to fasten
into the ends of sticks, but along every
roadside grow century plants with their
spine-tipped leaves. In spring a poisonous
sap makes the wounds inflicted by these
spines doubly infectious. The Arab also
uses a curved needle about a foot long for
mending his saddles. Pricking with these
needles doubles the pace of any pack ani—
mal. There are over six thousand of these
confiscated needles in the cupboard.

When a gray—bearded Ali or Ahmet first
comes down out of the hills to bring the
curses of Allah upon these impudent Roum—
is and their Fondouk, he enters the gate
and looks about and cannot help stroking
his heard in amazement. He sees the mules
and horses. Before him stretches the ce—
ment foot bath where the beasts can stand
in the shade and cool their feverish feet.

 

 




 

Jan. 1935

squid. He has an ink sac in his body. If
threatened with attack he clouds the water
with this inky substance and easily escapes.
Our navy used the same strategy by pro-
ducing huge smoke screens from the fun-
nels of its ships; the enemy is confused so
that escape or subtle attack is possible.

The stickleback is a unique ﬁsh. He
might be labeled the bird of the sea. He
does not sing, but he builds a nest of grass
and leaves and sticks. The nest would not
stay put if it were not secure-1y anchored;
so the stickleback qualiﬁes as a construc-
tion engineer by weighting it down with
stones.

Though it lives in the ocean and acts like
a ﬁsh, the dugong belongs to the order of
aquatic mammals. Growing to a length of
ten or twelve feet and having the habit
of swimming with its head raised well above
the surface, it is suppose-d. by some scien—
tists to be the original of the fabled mer-
maid which the ancients described as a
woman with the body of a ﬁsh.

The shark is rated as the fastest swim-
mer among ﬁsh, for this tiger of the sea
can maintain a twenty—mile speed. “He out-
strips the swiftest ships,” Goldsmith re-
corded in his “Natural History” written
when ships were slow-going, “plays round
them, darts out before them, returns, seems
to gaze at the passengers, and all this while
he does not exhibit the smallest effort to
proceed.”

A Great Purpose for Pets
L. E. EUBANKS

HOUGHTFUL John Galsworthy has

said, “Children can hardly be taught
how to deal with the unsatisfactory grown-
up to their own species; but if taught, as
they easily can be, to treat birds and ani-
mals well, they will develop naturally a
kindlier and more judicious attitude in all
practical affairs of life.”

I have seen the truth of that statement
proved a number of times. Naturally, the
average child is more of a receiver than he
is a giver. The child is cared for, but often
he has nothing to care for, nothing to de-
velop in him the qualities of management,
responsibility and kindness.

Toys won’t do it—or but to a slight de-
gree. Even companionship with children of
his own age may not be eﬂ’ective; it may,
indeed, bring out the qualities of careless-
ness, selﬁshness and cruelty.

Providing a pet, to be strictly the child’s
own, is the surest way of all to make a little
boy or girl thoughtful of other living crea-
tures, unselﬁsh and kind. While the adult
is always immeasurably superior, and the
boy or girl chum self-assertive and inde-
pendent, the puppy, kitten or bird is, even
to the very young child’s discernment, in-
ferior and dependent.

Of course, a pet will not do everything
for a child that might be accomplished
through his association with a human play-
mate, but the pet will bring out some desir-
able qualities not so naturally and readily
fostered by playing with another child.

One of the most signiﬁcant things I ever
heard a child say was that his puppy some-
times tried his patience as severely as he
(the boy) tried his mother’s. No one can
deny that the right kind of reﬂection was

OUR DUMB

 

THE LUNCH-TIME LOOK

going on in that young head.

I am sure that pets are justiﬁed as an
educational inﬂuence for children, were
there no other reasons for their existence—
and there are many. I consider it very
nearly as important to provide a pet as to
let the youngster play with his own kind.
He does not have to look out for the human
companions, and maybe they “look down” on
him; but the pet is dependent, its whole
life is bound up in its little master; and
that master is going to feel “big,” important
and responsible when he deals with his pet.

A certain farmer of the old school used
to say that he raised hogs and children
together for the beneﬁt of both. When a
litter of pigs arrived, each child was given
a pig as his or her particular charge—and
a baby pig is a surprisingly interesting pet.
I know that the system worked well on the
children, one of them became just about the
world’s most unselﬁsh person; I know be-
cause I married her thirty years ago!

Musical Mice

MRS. LELIA MUNSELL

There has been some excitement, recently,
in different cities over singing mice. Super-
stitious people have thought that it “meant
something,” that it was an evil portent.
Musical mice are not rare. There is a small
“Old World” mouse that chirps and often
really sings.

In “Notes and Queries,” printed in Lon-
don in 1857 we ﬁnd the statement of a man
who heard an unusual sound in a closet.
“On searching” he says, “I discovered it to
be a mouse in a china closet which, undis-
turbed by my approach, continued his twit-
tering precisely like a swallow.”

An article in the Popular Science Monthly,
in the spring of 1871, tells of a Philip J.
Ryall, of Florida, who heard a chirping
sound in the night. He saw a small mouse
emerge from the hearth and take a position
in the middle of the room where it sat on
its hind legs and sang a low, soft, warbling
song.

It is also recorded that pets were made
of these mice, and that they were placed in
cages beside canaries. The result was some
very pleasant duets. However, such caged
mice usually died of melancholy.

ANIMALS

Page 13

ToaPuppy
HAROLD FALLER

Who is the friend who can impart
A love that never seems to fail?

The dog! He loves with all his heart
And puts his soul into his tail!

Animals in Bible Times
JASPER B. SINCLAIR

N the far off Bible times many animals
were respected and held in much higher
esteem than they are today.

The domestic ass, for instance, was the
honored animal for carrying ofﬁcial digni-
taries—kings, prophets and judges. The
camel was the sign of wealth, its ﬂesh being
forbidden as food, although its milk was
drunk and its hair used for weaving into
cloth.

The humble cat was then not merely a
house pet. It was carefully fed and pro-
tected at all times, and held in highest
reverence by the natives of both Palestine
and Egypt.

Deer were reverenced as symbols of
grace and swiftness, causing their name to
be used as a favored term of endearment.
by young and old alike. The lion was then
as now the symbol of strength and courage;
the king of beasts as it has always been
down through the ages.

Among some of the tribes of Palestine
the ram was highly esteemed, representing
the omnipotence of the Deity, despite the-
fact that Abraham offered this animal as-
a sacriﬁce in place of his Son. The herding
of sheep is one of the earliest known in-
dustries. Among the Hebrews sheep repre-
sented God’s pastoral care for man, and“
were thus highly respected. Even today the
ewe lamb is the pet animal of the peasants
of Jerusalem. Like the lion, the unicorn was.
also the symbol of strength and courage,
the term being used ﬁguratively as descrip-
tive of great princes and Chieftains.

Even the predatory animals, such as the
wolf, jackal, leopard, hyena, were respected.
for their evil ways in the animal kingdom.
Rather than make them the objects of the.
hunt or the chase as in the present day,
the natives of old Palestine permitted such.
as these to inhabit their own haunts un--
molested.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Sept. 1935

To a Squirrel in the Square
KATHERINE KELLY WOODLEY

Complacent little fellow in your overcoat of
brown,

Were you happy when transplanted from
the country into town?

Do you prefer your present life of indolence
and ease

To gamboling in care—free play among the
forest trees?

Although you have a compact house and
scores of food—stuff, too,

I often watch, and wonder if these things
appeal to you.

Have you a mind and heart, my dear? 0.
do you sometimes grieve

For some place of remembered charm that
you were loath to leave?

It really seems a dreadful crime, a cruel
thing to bear—-

Enclosing active squirrels in a dusty city
square!

Road-Builder

MORRIS SALKIND

VERY time that the garden slug takes

a walk it builds itself a road to walk

on. The path that has been taken during

the night is marked out in streaks of white.

Where the slug can not build a road it can

not travel. It must have a road that it
has made by itself.

A slime is secreted in the body of the
animal. This slime smooths a way for it.
When it is on a surface that it can not
coat over, it is helpless. It will flounder
about and struggle vainly. There is only
one thing that the slug does under such
conditions. It secrets more slime. More
and more of this material does the slug give
off until it is exhausted. If it can not
get away, it will work there until it dies.

Experiments were made with these ani-
mals to determine how they found their
food. A piece of potato was placed on the
floor. _ The slug moved towards it in a
straight line. The potato was moved to a
different part of the room. The slug im—
mediately turned around and again headed
in a bee—line for the potato. The potato
was then placed on top of a table. The
slug headed for the leg of the table and
climbed to the top. It did not stop until it
had reached the food.

This proved conclusively that the slug
had a very delicate sense of smell that it
used to guide it. The experiments that
seemed so worthless were put to great use.
During the war, the government wanted to
learn how to detect poisons in the air. The
answer was hidden in the slug. It was put
into a chamber that contained one part of
the deadly mustard gas to 12,000,000 parts
of air. The slug began to move his eyes.
The gas was increased to one part in eight
million. At this point, the slug began to
give off a great deal of slime. The amount
of mustard gas was doubled; the slug rolled
around violently. This was the danger point
for human beings. Using the slug as an in—
dicator, many lives were thus saved.

Annual meeting of American Humane
Association, Washington, D. C., Sept, 30—
Oct. 3, 1935.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 135

A Problem in Ethics

WALTER A. DYER

 

HOW SHALL WE TREAT INSECTS?

ply, and the spiders, who prey upon
them, begin spinning their marvelous,
wheel—shaped webs about the barn, the
milking shed, and the woodshed. These
wonderful little mechanics fascinate me and
arouse endless speculation in my mind.
The other day I took the time to watch
the spiders at their weaving. There seemed
to be a certain routine and technique about
the operation; having once obtained the

“N August the houseflies begin to multi—

.necessary moorings, they always went

about the intricate task in precisely the
same way. The process was mechanical,
almost automatic. Apparently it was an
excellent example of that blind intelligence
in animals known as inherited instinct.
But as I watched, one web was partially
destroyed by a flying beetle that escaped.
The spider seemed first to survey and
study the damage, and then began his re—
pairs in the most methodical manner. Was
this also instinct, or was it some mental
process more complex? In building a new
web the problem is always virtually the
same; in repairing a broken web it is never
twice the same. Something like selection
and judgment seems to be called for. Does
this prove a power of reasoning, of con—
structive thought, on the part of insects?
If you will watch the bees and wasps and
ants, the same question may occur to you.
Before I could formulate any answer to
this question in my own mind, my thoughts
began to stray off in another direction.
What should be mankind’s relation to the
insects, who so obviously possess certain
faculties in common with us and, one might
assume, certain rights? I not only admire
the spider for his skill, but I praise him for
destroying flies which, from the human
point of View, are noxious. Hasn’t the fly
as much right as the spider to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness? But I pro—
tect the spider because he kills flies; I swat
the fly whenever I can. I even kill a spider
when he strays into what I consider to be
the wrong place. We protect the honey

bee and destroy the yellow-j acket. In other
words, man has assumed for himself the

authority of judge, jury, and executioner,

when it comes to insects.

As {a matter of fact, we have declared
war against the insects in self-defense.
JUSt 110W, in my neck of the woods, the
gypsy moth has been doing great damage
over wide areas of forest, and local com—
munities are co-operating with State and
Federal agents to control this pest. Last
spring the tent caterpillar played havoc in
our orchards. We poison the insects that
eat the products of our orchards and gar-x
dens, because we want them for ourselves.
It is pure selfishness, and yet we do not
doubt for a moment that we are justified.
In fact, we have been warned that if we do
not wage relentless warfare against the in-
sect world, it may, in the end, destroy us.

The same puzzle is presented by condi—
tions of life among higher animals. We de—
cide, purely from a selfish point of view,
which animals we shall befriend. which we
shall destroy. I know people who are fond
of dogs but who never miss a chance to
kill a snake and who go gunning for wood-
chucks, red squirrels, and skunks. There
are bird lovers who shoot crows. And there
is the perplexing problem of the cat, the
rat, and the bird. Because we detest rats
and mice we praise the cat for killing them;
then we turn about and want to shoot cats
for preying on song birds, though there can
be no difference in feline ethics. There
are even cat lovers who want to shoot dogs.

You can carry out this inconsistency .ad
infinitum. We do not submit the question
to a higher tribunal but decide for ourselves
what we shall kill and what we shall pro—
tect, though the same Creator made them
all. Has this question ever troubled you?

Shall we, then, spare all life, however
lowly, however much of a menace it may
be to our own lives and comfort, and let
one rule govern all? I think no one WhOdS
not a hyper—sentimentalist or a Buddhist
would go that far. Most of us eat .meat
and wear shoes that come from animals
that have been ruthlessly slain to serve
human needs. What, then, is the answer?

So far as I have been able to settle the
matter in my own mind, my conclusion is
this: No civilized person will kill or harm
any animal, high or low, without some rea—
son that seems upon mature reflection to
be justifiable. Never kill in anger or re-
sentment. Never kill for sport. Never kill,
as some kill snakes, because of an unrea-
soning instinct. Never kill to satisfy some
curiosity, scientific or otherwise. To kill
for food or clothing, or in self-defense, is,
on the other hand, only following a uni—
versal law which governs the life of the
natural world and for which man is not
responsible. I think the poet COWper had
the right angle on it, when he wrote:

I would not enter on my list of friends

(Though graced with polished manners and
fine sense,

Yet wanting sensibility) the man

Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

The whole point, it seems to me, lies in
the adverb, “needlessly.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan.1935

,.
i
‘3, \\
.
\
l‘.
.\"
\.
.—
\
5- 153 s.
. 3

Wall?

‘ till"

it

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machlnery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
. Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. 5. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas. MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers . 14,371
Cases investigated ............... 468
Animals examined ............... 4,843
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 75
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 58
Number of prosecutions ........ . 8
Number of convictions ........... 6
Horses taken from work. ........ 13
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 63

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,379
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 59,702
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 37

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills of Anna E. Lanning
of Boston, Violet A. Raison of Landover,
Maryland, and Caryl Peabody Lovejoy of
Carlisle.

December 11, 1934.

Please remember the Massachusetts S.

P. C. A. in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
F. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
H SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

QEPF‘JPUE

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 856 Cases 2,589
Dogs 653 Dogs 2,107
Cats 193 Cats 441
Birds 8 Birds 31
Horse 1 Rats 4
Rat 1 Horses 3

Goats 2

Operations 1,032 Alligator 1

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 125,065
Dispensary Cases ................ 293,484
Total ......................... 418,549

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 121
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 369
Operations ......................... 197

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in November

For cruelly abandoning two dogs and two
cats a defendant, who pleaded not guilty,
was found guilty and ﬁned $10.

Two defendants were arraigned for
cruelly driving a horse. They pleaded not
guilty. Both were convicted of the offense
and were sentenced to thirty days at the
House Of Correction. The sentence was sus-
pended until May 15, 1.935, upon payment
by each of $10 as costs. -

A hit-and-run driver of an automobile,
who injured a dog, was prosecuted for
cruelty to the animal. He was found guilty
and ﬁned $20.

For inﬂicting injury upon a dog by the
use of turpentine, a defendant pleaded
guilty but the court dismissed the case upon
payment of costs of $7.50.

Two defendants (chicken thieves) were
apprehended, and arraigned on the charge
of inﬂicting unnecessary cruelty and suffer-
ing upon forty-two fowls. The fowls were
being carried in burlap bags and eight Of
them were suffocated. Both offenders were
found guilty and were sentenced to the
House of Correction for forty days.

In Holland a hunter must pay $20 for
license and prove he has bettered game con—
ditions through the year: raised birds and
released them, fed them during the winter
or in some other way encouraged increase
of wild life. Failing in this, no amount of
money will buy him permission to use his
gun. —Animaldom

 

Page 9

The Defeat of the Humane
Trapping Law

. T was due largely to the confused and

muddled wording on the ballot. The
adoption of the so—called Local Option Trap-
ping Act in the recent state election, which
spelled the doom of the humane trapping
law which had been on the statutes since
1930, was brought about, in the ﬁrst in-
stance, by what some have been led to be-
lieve was a very clever bit Of deceptive cun-
ning, on the part of certain members of the
Legislature and, in the second instance, by
the unprecedented confusion which accom-
panied the presentation Of the question on
the ballot.

The Local Option. Trapping Act was
passed as an “emergency” measure and was
thus put into immediate effect, although no
emergency existed. It repealed the humane
trapping law but re—enacted it subject to
the action of towns and cities as one of the
sections of the new law. It provided that
any town or city might suspend this section
by voting to do so at any municipal election
and thus restore the steel trap within its
own boundaries. It also repealed another
hostile act passed in 1933 to which a refer—
endum petition had been attached. By these
devices, the framers of the law ﬁgured that
they had devised a water-tight case of,
“Heads I win, tails you lose.” If the new
law were to win out at the polls, then every
trapping town could vote the steel trap
back; if it were to lose out, then its re-
incorporated humane trapping section
would also be killed because it was a part
Of the new law. That was the kind of the
legislative practice foisted upon the voters,
and just before the election it was exploited
with deadly effect.

Because of a serious defect in the appli-
cation in the Initiative and the Referendum,
every such question on the ballot must be
preceded by a full and adequate legal de-
scription; and this description, together
with the law itself, must also be printed on
the Official circular of information mailed
to every voter prior to the election. Nobody,
short Of a Philadelphia lawyer, could under-
stand this particular law, and the descrip-
tion which preceded it made matters ten
times worse. The more the voters read it
the less they understood it, with the result
that many thousands having in mind the
preservation of the humane trapping law
voted “Yes” when they should have voted
“NO.” TO further complicate the situation,
just before the election a certain “wet” or-
ganization published a big advertisement
urging everybody to vote “Yes” on Questions
NO. 1 and No. 2, notwithstanding that the
liquor questions involved were given no
such designations on the ballot. The trap-
ping referendum was labelled “QUESTION
NO. 1” in black type, so thousands voted
“Yes” thinking they were voting on the
liquor law. Finally, when Frederic W.
Cook, Secretary of the Commonwealth, in a
radio talk, said that, according to some legal
opinions, if the “No” vote were to prevail
the trapping laws would be back where they
were before any humane legislation was en-
acted, additional thousands Of humanely in—
clined voters marked their ballots in the

(Continued on page 16)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

Webster’s First Plea

NIXON WATERMAN

When Webster, matchless
young,

Ere all the land had heard his golden
tongue

Or he had dreamed of “doctor” or “degree,”

That youth of promise made his maiden
plea.

orator, was

A woodchuck which his brother ’Zekiel
caught

Before the bar of justice had been brought,

Trembling in limb and filled with awful
fright,

Charged with the crime of foraging by
night.

The family garden, wherein it had fared

And where the sly marauder had been
snared,

Gave proof that plunged the culprit in dis—
grace,

Yet Daniel sought to plead his sorry case.

The court convened, the counsels’ honored
sire

Was called to occupy the bench as trier,

And ne’er did judge more earnestly attend

On pleas designed to punish or befriend.

Ezekiel, whose case seemed plain and strong,

Quite fully placed the prisoner in the wrong

And seemed to show, beyond all question,
why

The self—convicted forager should die.

Then Daniel, as the counsel for defense,

Sought first to shake the plaintiff’s evi-
dence;

If wrong were done, ’twas nature’s pressing
need

That drove the hungry creature to the deed.

“Shall we, a life which God saw fit to give,

Blot out because that life has sought to
live?

Will Providence unnumbered blessings send

To him who will not one poor life befriend?”

The words of Daniel touched his father’s
heart,

And from his eyes they saw
the tear-drops start

As he announced in measured
tones and slow

His verdict: “ ’Zekiel, let
that woodchuck go!”

Read Jack London’s “Mi- ..

chael Brother of Jerry,” mail—
ed, post free, to any address
upon receipt of price, 75
cents. THE JACK LONDON
CLUB is built on it. The
present membership is 645,-
782, all pledged to do every-
thing possible to stop the
cruelty attendant upon trick
animal stage performances.
Will you join it? No dues.
180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Animal Casualties

A Survey of Killed and Injured on the
Highways

HE Massachusetts Society for the Pre—

vention of Cruelty to Animals will
start a survey to ascertain as far as possi—
ble the number and species of animals killed
or maimed each year by careless automo-
bile drivers. This survey is part of a na-
tional movement inaugurated by the Amer—
ican Humane Association.

This is the first time such a survey has
been attempted on a national basis. For
many years humane societies have been ap-
pealing to motorists in an effort to cut
down animal casualties, but no national re-
ports have been available.

Estimated casualties, based on meagre
reports, and therefore more or less a guess,
it is believed run possibly into millions a
year.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals is going to
make every effort to cut down these animal
mishaps, which for the most part are due
to careless driving and indifference because
the casualties involve only animals. But an
animal is just as susceptible to pain as a
human, and courts in many cities have ruled
that animals have the same privileges as
pedestrians on the highway.

Robbins B. Stoeckel, Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles of Connecticut, says: “The
number of people who love dogs and who
understand them and to whom the compan-
ionship of the dog is an incalculable
comfort is increasing. Aside from law, or
its adaptations, or of morals and their ap~
plication, it seems possible to bring to any
person who is willing to think a little, the
right attitude to assume in connection with
super-care for dogs.

“A dog or a cat which is struck is us-
ually the victim of its own mistake. These
accidents are much like those which happen
to pedestrians. There is in each usually
a distraction of attention. There are also
some dogs which persist in the belief that
the rear tire of a car is an enemy and
ought to be bitten. Such action sooner or

later brings retribution.
“By far the greatest sufferers in high-

 

“THE SLY MARAUDER”

Sept. 1935

way accidents are the ‘little people’ of the
woods and fields, the rabbits, chipmunks,
squirrels, turtles, frogs, woodchucks and
skunks, and some of the birds.”

For the purpose of this survey our So-
ciety asks everyone with any consideration
for animals to aid in the local survey by
reporting any injury to an animal by a
motorist. The individual’s report to the so~
ciety should be based on the number and
kind of animals killed or injured.

The Association is confident it will have
the support of considerate motorists, many
of whom are owners of animals, and also
points out that if the roads are made safer
for animals they will be safer for motorists
and for the public generally.

Progress in Portugal

ROM our foreign representative, Mrs.

Marie C. E. Houghton of Funchal, Ma-
deira, we learn of the success of the Portu-
guese Humane Societies, which includes
that in Madeira, headed by the Lisbon S. P.
C. A., in preventing the more barbarous
form of the bull-fight, in which the bull is
killed, as in Spain, from being introduced
into Portugal.

“As reported by me last year, all our ef—
forts were in vain and the law introducing
this more barbarous form of this so—called
sport, instead of the Portuguese milder
form in which the bull is not killed, came
into force. But, fortunately, this met with
no public success, and after the first five
or six bull-fights, no repetitions of that
more cruel form of the sport have taken
place. There is no doubt the work of the
Humane Societies is responsible for this
piece of enlightenment. The Lisbon S. P.
C. A., at whose door the principal credit
for this has to be laid, energetically affirms
that if any further attempt should be made
to introduce them again, it will fight them
tooth and nail, and have no doubt of re-
newed success.

“In their office in Lisbon, I discovered
a fact which, even if it does not bear much
fruit at present, still can be considered of
very great importance. In the official or-
gan for primary education, entitled “Escola
Portugesa,” of 29th. November, 1934, spec-
ial orders are issued regarding humane
education, on the advice of the S. P. C. A.
Although we do not set too great hopes up-
on this order being effectively carried out,
yet a while, still the mere fact that it is
issued is an epoch-making event. Humane
education is also the goal of our Society
here in Madeira, but there are some great
difficulties to be overcome. It requires a
regular income for the purpose, and com-
petent teachers. These latter would have
to be trained and taught what and how to
teach. A very good method for this teach-
ing has been thought out, and all the ma-
terial is prepared.

“There has been the usual routine work
during the year, and animals of many dif-
ferent kinds were attended to. Wild birds
which are caught and brought in for sale,
and caged under most cruel conditions, are
occupying our attention at the moment. A
very difficult problem to solve. Personally
I should like to see a tax placed on bird
cages, and not more than two birds allowed
in one cage.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massac

u U. S.Trade Mark. Registered I \

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense.
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a. worm.
—COWPER

    
   
  

GLORY 1'0
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

 
 

AND Mencv 1"0‘
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 
     
 

husetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Office at

Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 187
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section

9
1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 68

h4ay,1935

No. 5

 

Hit and run drivers who injure or kill
animals fare badly with the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles, and in the courts of Massa-
chusetts. A license is generally lost.

The Associated Press has reported that
Secretary of War, George H. Dern, is
chairman of a committee of seven to draft
a program of Federal action to eliminate
the pollution of streams and coastal waters
by oil and other drainage.

If you live in or about Boston and want
to board your cat or dog, or have a. puppy
properly trained for the house, while we do
not recommend any special place, we shall
be glad to tell you where to go to examine
such places for yourself.

President Roosevelt’s budget message,
says Peace Action, asks for an increase. of
$180,001,000 for the War and Navy De—
partment. For the “Peace” Department for
1936, $14,000,000; for preparedness $792,-
000,000, and $107,000,000.

We warn all our readers against buying
dogs at so-called roadside kennels unless
such kennels can show the endorsement of
a recognized humane organization. Repeate
edly, dogs so purchased are brought to us
diseased or worthless. The money paid is
not refunded.

The work of the American Fondouk
Committee at Fez was never more needed,
never more asked for by native animal
owners, never more effectively and eco-
nomically managed than now. Yet never dld
it need funds more than at this hour. The
drastic reduction in incomes suffered byits
many friends and the large lost buying
power of the American dollar have com-
pelled curtailments that could not be
avoided. We could be caring for 100 suf-
fering, large animals whose pitiful misery
cries to Heaven for relief and can only
open our doors to some 40 or 50. Can
anyone help us open the door even a little

wider?

Dog Racing in England

E can scarcely believe the statement
W of John Macadam of the Sunday
Dispatch of December 16, 1934, that he saw
50 hares torn to death. English anti-cruel-
ty laws are quite as strict as ours, if not
stricter, and how what Macadam says he
saw any one would have dared permit, we
cannot understand. This is what he writes:

I went the other day to Bognor, re-
nowned for the beauty of its sands and the
bracing quality of its air. And the-re I saw
the most calculate-d, callous gala of brutal-
ity that can ever have masqueraded in the
name of sport. * * *

In the ﬁrst place, the course is 300 yards
long. The hare gets 100 yards start—and
the dogs are up with it before it can do
another 50. In the 150 yards that remain
it has as much chance of living as a snow-
ﬂake in a bakehouse.

In an hour or two, I watched somewhere
around ﬁfty hares slaughtered to make this
English holiday. I had to force myself to
do it, for everything I have ever learned
and every instinct that I hope makes me
an ordinary civilized human being rebelled
at the lewd exhibition. * * *

And the bunch of bucolic sadists who sat
around and laughed and ate sandwiches
and drank their bottled beer call this sport.

There is money in it, of course. The win-
ner of the principal race on the day I was
there stood to win a £200 stake, besides
bets on the winning dog. But if that is a
justiﬁcation for coursing, then it is the only
one.

If dog racing in England can lead to such
an atrocity, why might it not here?

The National Congress of Parents and
Teachers Association, with a membership
of 1,500,000, afﬁliated with which is our
American Humane Education Society, holds
its Annual Meeting in Miami, April 29 to
May 3. Our representative, Mrs. J. R.
Nichols, a member. of the National Board
of the Association, will be in attendance.
We deeply appreciate our relationship with
this great organization.

“ Is it Good-bye to America’s
Waterfowl? ”

HIS is a part of a startling pamphlet

by America’s distinguished naturalist,

Dr. William T. Hornaday. It was reprinted

in The Critic, reproduced by the Emergency

Conservation Committee. We preface the

paragraphs of Dr. Hornaday’s article with
the following letter from him:

Stamford, Conn., March 29, 1935
Dear Dr. Rowley:

The Wildfowl situation has become so
desperate, that even the gun and ammuni—
tion maker-s are thoroughly scared about it;
and at last they consented in advance to a
reduction in the shooting capacity of their
repeating shotguns, from ﬁve and six shots
at one blast, down to three. This is the
best index I knew of the scared condition of
the enemies of Wildfowl!

Many people who once were ﬁghting us
on the baiting and live decoy issues have
now gone clear beyond that, and are not
only advocating, — but demanding, — the
passage of the Berlin Bill, (H. R. 3993), to
stop all waterfowl shooting this year.

Day before yesterday the American For-
estry Association, at its meeting in Wash-
ington, came out strongly in support of “no
shooting in 1935.”

“Cry aloud, and spare not!”

Yours very truly,
W. T. HORNADAY

The article follows:

It is time that some Americans besides
sportsmen should be spoken to about the
fate that is hair-hung and breeze-shaken
over the once glorious millions of North
American ducks and geese. The remnants
of those myriad ﬂocks are swiftly ﬂoating
down The Rapids, to the ﬁnal plunge over
the American Fall. As matters stand for

them today, extermination is “nigh, even
at the door.”

For just thirty years, dating from the ap-
pearance of those millions of ﬁne automatic
and “pump” shot—guns, at amazingly low
prices, the game-bird hunters of the United
States have been engaged in a wild orgy of

 




 

Sept. 1935

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, Unit-ed Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) LongWOod 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁce-rs
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A.. 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston ~—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary— MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary ——MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers. . 15,690

Cases investigated ............... 508
Animals examined ............... 6,248
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 34
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 26
Number of prosecutions ........ . 5
Number Of convictions ........... 5
Horses taken from work .......... 31
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 15

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,705
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 67,375
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 2

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills Of Maria A. Barlow
of Ware, Fred A. Pond of Framingham,
and Helen C. Butterfield Of Wakefield.

August 13, 1935.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v. M. D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
.BLAKELY,VMD.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Veterinarians |

OHQEWF
rownms

 

 

 

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
Including Springﬁeld Branch
Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 810 Cases 2.571

Dogs 592 Dogs 2,123
Cats 192 Cats 384
Birds 15 Birds 54
Horses 7 Turtles 3
Rabbits 3 Horses 2
Goat 1 Rats 2
Goat 1
Squirrel 1
Monkey 1
Operations 87 8
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ........................ 130,827
Dispensary Cases ................ 311,925
Total ........................ 442,752
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 118
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 367
Operations .......................... 1241-

Mrs. Marion T. Rankin

After a long illness, Mrs. Marion Thatch~
er Rankin, president of the Brockton,
(Mass.,) Humane Society since 1920, died
at the Brockton Hospital, July 22 last. Be-
sides her interest in humane work Mrs.
Rankin was prominent as an elocutionist, as
coach and participant in amateur theatri-
cals, and as a worker 1n the New Jerusalem
church. Her loss to the Humane Society
is told in the following tribute issued by
the organization of which she was so long
the head:

“Life’s book is closed, her work is done.
Our beloved president, Marion Thatcher
Rankin, has been called to the great beyond.
Mrs. Rankin has been at the head Of the
Brockton Humane Society for the past 15
years and her death leaves a vacancy which
will be hard to fill.

“A woman of sterling character and bril-
liant understanding, an efficient leader
who gave the best in her to carry on the
work she so loved. For months she suffered,
but her brave, courageous way made it imv
possible to believe death was near, and it
is indeed hard to realize she has been taken
from our circle, where she was so needed.

“We must pick up the work where she
left Off and try to carry on as she would
have done. Her untiring labors were not
in vain for she accomplished much.

“May our footsteps follow in the path
she trod.”

Page 137
The Loud Speaker

NE Of our field representatives in Hu—
mane Education work, the Rev. R. E.
Griffith, of De Land, Florida, has attached
to his automobile a loud Speaker. He writes
from Hendersonville, N. C.:

“Soon after arriving here I had an inter-
view with the Mayor who received me cor—
dially. He gave me permission to use the
loud speaker anywhere in the city. Hen—
dersonville has a population of between five
and six thousand. At this season there are,
according to reports, about four thousand
tourists in or near the city.

“One thing here is Of particular interest
in our work. A farmers’ market is main-
tained and is open on Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Saturdays. The building is perhaps a
hundred feet long. There are booths on
two Sides and one end. Here the farmers
come from. both the mountain and valley
farms. The display of produce is remark—
able. I am sure that many of the types of
people that one sees would interest you.
Just across the narrow street from the
market there is a vacant lot where I park
my car and use the loud speaker. Some
Of the mountain folk seem to find my outfit
as interesting as I find them. The work of
our Society is new 'to them and some of
them express amazement at the scope of
the humane movement, or some words Of
appreciation. I have used the loud speaker
frequently in the business section of the
city.

“I have probably reached 2,000 people—-
perhaps more. Several teachers have ex—
pressed the wish that I do some work here
in the schools which Open early in Septem-
ber. I have been pleased with this as I un—
derstand North Carolina has no compulsory
humane education law. I have left literature
with the police and put out posters. I have
been to Brevard, twenty miles from here,
talked with the people and been requested
to speak in the schools when they Open.”

Pure-bred Salukis

The picture on the front cover Of this is—
sue shows a fine litter of Salukis, born Au—
gust 3, 1934, and owned by Edward K. Al-
drich, Jr., at the Diamond Hill Kennels,
Cumberland, R. I. Their leashes are held
by the Misses Edith and Hazel Brown.

The Saluki is an Arab breed which has
been little changed from its original type. It
is the dog for which the native Arab has
borne a never—ending love from time im—
memorial.

MASS. S. P. C. A. IN THE COURTS

Some Prosecutions in July

For cruelly abandoning a cat an Offender
was found guilty and fined $5.. . .

Leaving a dog without prOVISIOn for Its
feed while owner was away, owner was con-
victed and case was filed. .

Another defendant, who threw a .pair of
sheep-Shears at a dog and injured him, was
convicted and case was put on file.

The owner of a horse that was afflicted
with an infectious disease refused to allow
the animal to be killed. The court granted
a warrant for the seizure of the horse,
whereupon it was declared of no value and
was ordered destroyed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 140

“Ghost” Dogs of Kerguelen
EDWIN K. PATTERSON

0 other island in the world has such

a queer dog population as little—known
and rarely—visited Kerguelen Island, the
largest of the sub-Antarctic islands, in the
Southern Indian Ocean. Uninhabited by
man, and visited only occasionally by Ant-
arctic whaling and sealing vessels, Kergue—
len is known among seamen as the “Island
of Ghosts.” The “ghosts” are large white
dogs with long hair; dogs which never make
a sound as they glide about the island, and
which vanish when pursued! They are not
“ghost” dogs of course, nor are they very
ordinary dogs, for they are most remark-
able animals, indeed.

About sixty years ago when a German
Antarctic Expedition landed on the island
with some North American sledge dogs,
some of the animals escaped and were never
recaptured. It was thought that they
would die, but, instead, they have bred and
multiplied until at the present time there
are thousands of dogs all over Kerguelen.
The animals have long, white flowing hair,
and when seen they hastily creep under
cover, and will not approach. But when-
ever men land on the island the dogs, prob-
ably as a result of some inherited instinct,
silently follow the visitors at a distance,
watching, ever watching the men with their
large round eyes. This, coupled with the
remarkable fact that the dogs are entirely
dumb dogs, never making a sound (having,
as a result of their isolation, forgotten how
to bark), has given rise to the legend
that Kerguelen Island is inhabited by
“ghost” dogs.

Kerguelen Island is also overrun with
miserable-looking rabbits, all descendants of
a number liberated there many years ago
as a means of livelihood for shipwrecked
mariners. But what the dogs and rabbits
live on is problematical because of the scan-
ty vegetation of the island. There are no
other animals, except rats, on the island,
which is also known as the “Island of
Desolation.” It is so sterile and storm-
swept that there is not another place under
the same parallel of latitude in either hem—
isphere which contains such little variety
of vegetation. There are only four plants
found on Kerguelen; these are a kind of
wild-tea plant, a moss-like growth, a wild
cabbage, and huge lichens which paint the
faces of the mountain cliffs up to about
1,500 feet, beyond which limit all is naked
and grim.

It is believed that the Kerguelen dogs
and rabbits exist chiefly on this vegeta—
tion, and on the rats and the few sea-birds
that nest on the island. The rats origi~
nally landed from a Norwegian vessel, which
called at the island fifty years ago and
established a whaling station. The station
had to be abandoned, however, because it
was impossible to get workmen to stay on
the island for any length of time, owing to
the isolation and the severity of the climate.

Begin now to prepare for Humane Sun-
day and Be Kind to Animals Week next
year. The dates selected are: Humane
Sunday, April 19; Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 20‘25, 1936.

OUR DUillB ANIMALS

 

 

DOgs in Cars
L. E. EUBANKS

number of disagreeable things may
A happen to a dog that rides much in
an automobile, unless his master gives the
animal some consideration. Inflammation
of the eyes is not uncommon, caused by the
dog’s hanging his head out the window,
where the wind beats into his face. Tying
the dog has been suggested, but that makes
him nervous; a better plan, unless the weath-
er is very warm, is to open the window
enough for air but too little for the head’s
protrusion.

Dogs have been strangled by falling out
the window when tied in a car. If you are
determined to tie your dog, though, use a
cord from each side, so that he cannot get
out either window (assuming that they are
both open.)

Leaving the dog in the car with all win-
dows closed often causes suffering. The
inside of a car sometimes gets exceedingly
hot, especially when the sun gets to leather
cushions! When you leave the dog so im—
prisoned, try to park the car where it will
remain in shade until your return.

A long absence may be dangerous in an-
other way, too. Your pet grows restless,
the passing traffic aggravates his nervous—
ness, and he starts to bark. A friend of
mine was severely reprimanded on this ac-
count by a policeman. The barking became
a nuisance.

On the highway, a motorist can usually
find drinking water at will. But the dog
cannot always drink at the same place, un-
less his master provides for it. Keep a ves—
sel in the car for this purpose; it means a
lot to the animal’s comfort.

Don’t let a dog ride in the front seat
with you. No matter how well trained he
is, there is always the possibility of a sud—
den movement by him causing you to fum—
ble at the Wheel, with serious results.

 

JUST BACK FROM VACATION

Sept. 1935

 

 

"A

 

Soibelman

 

A Lesson in Kindness

“Be fruitful and multiply (your love)
and replenish the earth (with it).”

As I waited for a bus, across the street
from City Hall, Malden, a few days ago,
when the mercury registered officially 92°
and locally 95°, my eye caught sight of a
small, light—brown, short-haired dog, sit—
ting or squatting in front of a bubble drink—
ing fountain. Occasionally he would rise
and lick the moist concrete where water
had spilled over and then resume the at-
titude that said plainly enough, “Please,
someone, won’t you give me a drink?”

While looking and thinking of the
thoughtlessness on the part of the builders
of the fountain who failed to provide a
lower trough for dogs, a man stopped and
looked and apparently spoke to the little
dog. Then, turning on the water with
one hand, he held the other cup-shaped un—
til it filled and, stooping, offered it to the
thirsty animal who was waiting expectant—
ly. In just a few licks the water was
drained from the kindly hand and the proc—
ess repeated again and again, until it seem—
ed that there was no end to the befriended
dog’s thirst.

Finally the man stOpped and looked down
upon the recipient of his kindness and
seemed to hold further conversation with
him, but the same appealing attitude was
the answer.

Just then a lady joined the pair and
smiled and evidently offered a suggestion,
as she turned on the water while the man
held both hands together. At last, success
and satisfaction! After several of the im—
provised “cupfuls” had been “handed down”
to him, the little animal hopped off the'
curb and went about his affairs, content
that he had found a friend who understood
his language and helped him to satisfy his
desires. To me it was a strong lesson in
kindness and also in resourcefulness.

HENRY A. LOVEJOY

 




 

 

~.[

-_ .5 ~ ,. \
: [.0 ‘ ‘ ’
~ l ,l‘ l

,/ /
. '1»:
, ’.- a’
.‘I,
. '\ -
., \n“.
'r. '1. "‘ f’ 1’
'E’m l//// ,, .
L;- X‘.
‘3 \ ‘ 41' .
x
‘ 2 ‘2‘
v : 7/ ' .
1
I.

. x,
'1!

 

umb  

U, S.Trade Mark, Registered

1 ANGELL XN 1868.AND FOR FORTY~ ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

-———COW‘PER

AND Mencv 70*
EVERY anma
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oc

under the Act of March 3, 1879
tober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 68

What is Mussolini’s war against Ethiopia
but one of conquest? We had supposed most
civilized nations had got beyond that sort
of thing. 3' '

The American Humane Association is
much encouraged by the progress made to-
ward the invention of what may be called
a humane trap. It believes the goal is in
sight. The Association has long been work—
ing for this end.

Another state, Connecticut, has joined
Massachusetts and New York in forbidding
the setting up of horses’ tails and the ex-
hibiting of any horse with a tail set up
after its law went into effect. Other states
are bound to follow until this cruel and fool-
ish practice is stopped throughout the land.

Whether or not oil separators in oil burn-
ing ships are the solution of the problem
which has to do with saving the sea birds
of the coastal waters of the world from the
fatal effects of oil discharged from ships,
England has at least equipped more ships
with these devices than any other Maritime
Power.

Approximately 12,000,000 persons, nearly
one—half the British electorate, have voted
their confidence in the League of Nations
and their support of an international agree-
ment for reduction of armaments. In an-
nouncing the ballot, June 27, Lord Cecil
said, “This ballot is not an end in itself. It
must be made the starting point for further
exertion.” ’ .

Many, many years ago, it was Garfield,
if we remember correctly, who, on a visit
to Africa, was asked to address a large
gathering of colored peOple. He said in his
address, “We are told in the Bible that Eth-
iopia shall reach out her hands unto God.
It seems to me,” he continued, “as if God
was reaching out his hand to Ethiopia.”
Well, Providence has not always been on the
side of the heaviest battalions.

.but they are the exception.

September, 1935
' Let’s Think a Moment

C RIME and cruelty day after day are
blazoned before us in our daily papers.
Repeatedly we hear the words, “It seems as
if morally the nation is steadily sinking
back into lawlessness and disregard of all
that we once held dear. Think of the rob—
beries, the kidnappings, the homicides, the
divorces!” Well, think of them. But think
also of this truth—that for every deed of
cruelty to man or beast there are a million
acts of kindness every day flowing out of
gentle, unselfish hearts. For every murder,
a million human hands ministering to the
sick, the needy. For every divorce, a thous-
and homes where love and sacrifice keep
their dear lights burning. For every beast
or bird ill-treated, overloaded, beaten, starv—
ed, a great multitude of the world’s wild
life free and, according to their nature hap-
py, and who shall number the cattle, the
horses, the dogs, the family pets the world
over who have love and care bestowed upon
them, and the hundreds of societies in this
and other lands working for the welfare of
all animal life?

Is it not true that the crime and the
cruelty, the lawlessness, the indifference to
the rights of others with which the press
and the radio, gathering them from the ends
of the earth every hour, and crying them in—
to our ears, are the exceptions? Among 125,-
000,000 people there will be the evil doers
Once, when
there was no telegraph and no telephone,
no radio and no wireless, we heard but little
of what was happening except at our own
doors. Must we not remember that slavery
has nearly ended the world over, that forms
of punishment and torture from which hosts
of innocent as well as guilty suffered have
been banished from civilized lands, that, pit-
iful as is the lot of thousands of horses,
mules and other lowly creatures in back—
ward lands, the work for animals has
changed the whole attitude of modern civil-
ization toward them save with the exception
of the relatively few races who seem with-
out mercy?

God’s still in his heaven. If all who seek
a larger day will hope for it, work for it,

No. 9

it will come, it is coming because “toward
this far off divine event the whole creation
moves,” let the faithless and the hopeless
say what they will. This is a vastly better
world for man and beast than it was a
thousand years ago, and, in spite of cloud
and shadow, it is still moving out of dark-
ness into light.

Pet Shows

HESE shows seem to be multiplying in
number. What do we think of them?
While not desiring to criticize other humane
organizations that have conducted pet
shows, especially where every care has been
taken to prevent any suffering on the part
of the animals, on general principles we be-
lieve it can be said that animals taken from
their home surroundings, kept under re-
straint, brought into contact more or less
closely with other animals, strangers to
them, must suffer considerably from excite—
ment and nervous strain. Personally, we
should not want to give any unqualified en~
dorsement of these pet shows. The writer
of these words saw at a pet show many an~
imals frightened, exposed to the hot sun,
often restrained by chain or leash or rope,
worried sometimes by strangers who came

along and irritated them, and so evidently

unhappy that one could wish them safe
home again. :

Undoubtedly cats suffer far more than
dogs from being taken away from home and
exposed to strangers. At least that has
been the experience that has come to us
from visiting these exhibits.

Where, however, the time of the animal
from its home is limited to a few hours and
it is always accompanied by its owner who
keeps it in charge, and where the accommo—
dations are ample, no doubt an interest in
animals is awakened and encouraged which
results in animal welfare.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wordsworth, the Friend of Animals

ARTHUR HEDLEY

VERY lover of God’s dumb creation

who delights to see both animals and

birds enjoying their full freedom in
their natural surroundings, will ﬁnd in
William Wordsworth, the famous English
poet of the nineteenth century, a kindred
mind and spirit. He loved to study nature
in its native simplicity, and to watch the
behavior of animals when unconscious of
any human observer. He could not bear
to see dumb creatures living in captivity;
they were meant to be free and to imprison
them in a cage was to rob them of their
birth-right.

In the home of the Wordsworths, birds
were encouraged to come within the house
to enjoy the friendship and hospitality of
the household. Robin redbreasts would
hop the dinner table, partaking of the
crumbs. When Dorothy, the devoted sis-
ter of the poet, was conﬁned to her room
during a long illness, she had a favorite
robin that took up its abode in her room.
At night it perched upon a nail from which
a picture hung.

In an exquisite poem the poet reveals the
beautiful understanding and sympathy
which existed between the robin and the
invalid. We see the bird coming in and out
of the room at pleasure, and when the
windows and doors are made fast:

“To keep at bay the howling blast,
He needs not fear the season’s rage,
For the whole house is Robin’s cage.”

Wordsworth found great pleasure in
walking amid pastoral scenes to see the
cattle quietly grazing or to watch the

“Lambs, that through the mountain went
Frisking, bleating merriment.”

In the following letter to a friend he re-
veals his inner emotions when watching
animals wandering at will in their natural
surroundings: “At the end of Gowbarrow
Park a large troop of deer were moving
slowly or standing still among the fern.
I was grieved When our companions
startled them with a whistle, disturbing a
beautiful image of grave simplicity and
thoughtful enjoyment, for I could have
fancied that even they with me were par-
taking a sensation of the solemnity of the
closing day. I think I have more pleasure
in looking at deer than any other animals,
perhaps chieﬂy from their living in a more
natural state.”

How simply and beautifully he describes
the playfulness of dumb animals! When his
daughter Dorothy was an infant, she was
much amused at a little kitten which would
leap up to catch the falling leaves from an
elder bush which hung over the wall of
their cottage at Grasmere. In an inspired
moment the poet wrote a pretty poem de-
scribing this scene. He pictures not only
the delight of the child but also the skill
and joy of the kitten:

“That way look, my infant l0!

What a pretty baby show.

See the kitten on the wall,
Sporting with the leaves that fall.
Withercd leaves—one—two—three
From the lofty elder tree!

“Now she works with three or four
Like an Indian conjurer;
Quick as he at feats of art
Far beyond in joys of heart
Were her antics played in the eye
Of a thousand standing by,
Clapping hands with shout and stare
What would little Tabby care
For the plaudits of the crowd?
Over happy to be proud
Over wealthy in the treasure
Of her own exceeding pleasure.”

No man had a more tender sympathy for
animals, especially for those that suffered.
It hurt his sensitive spirit to see horses
straining, stretching, struggling with bur-
dens beyond their strength. His sister Dor—
othy, his inseparable companion, expressed
in her diary their oneness of thought and
sympathy for suffering animals. Seeing
some horses struggling under the weight
of a great load of timber she wrote:

“We felt compassion for the poor horses
that were under the governage of oppres-
sion and ill-judging drivers.”

Wordsworth experienced that deep sor-
row of heart, which so many have known,
when death robs the home of a favorite
domestic pet.

He was deeply attached to a dog which
belonged to Mr. Hutchinson, his brother-in—
law, and at its death he penned one of the
most beautiful memorial poems in the Eng-
lish language. In touching language he ex-
presses the thoughts and feelings of the
bereaved household. We see the faithful
dog in its declining days, feeble and deaf,
too weak to stand against the slightest
breeze and “ready for the gentlest stroke
of death.” When death comes, all are
moved to tears as they realize the great-
ness of their loss. God had endowed their
pet with a love and sympathy “that was
most intense.”

July, 1935

“A chain of heart, a feeling of the mind,
A tender sympathy, which did thee bind
Not only to us Men, but to thy kind.

“Hence, if we wept, it was not done in

shame!

Our tears from passion and from reason
came

And therefore, shalt thou be an honored
name.”

William Wordsworth, like his famous lit-
erary contemporary and intimate friend, Sir
Walter Scott, did much by his life and
works to win for dumb animals that same
affection and freedom which man himself
enjoys.

A Dog and Master

Editorial in Boston Post

Few stories exceed in sentiment that of
the late Alfred I. du Font and his dog
“Yip.” They became friends one day when
the. wealthy man was sauntering about a
golf course and Yip approached. It might
seem that the man would have s'hooed the
dog away, for he was unkempt—and a
mongrel.

Instead, he stopped, patted the» dog,
brushed his eyes, and took him to his mag-
niﬁcent home. They were pals from then
on. Last month Mr. du Pont died at his
estate in Florida. His body has been
brought back to Wilmington, Del., and
now, less than a month later, Yip, broken-
hearted, has passed on. The extraordinary
friend-ship between dog and master is being
recognized, for Yip, too, is being brought
back from Florida to ﬁnd a. grave at the
feet of his master. It is a true life story
that surpasses many of the kind recounted
in ﬁction.

Register your disapproval of the cruelty
behind trained animal performances by re-
fusing to be a patron and an eye—witness

of them. You can help in stopping the
cruelties on stage and screen.

 

THIS WOOD CARVING, ENTITLED “SANCTUARY,” WAS DESIGNED AND

EXECUTED BY ESTHER JACKSON, BOSTON. THE ANIMALS AND BIRDS

THAT APPEAR IN THE PANEL ARE AMONG THE MANY NEEDING FURTHER
PROTECTION

 

 




 

 

 

May, 1935
The White Mare’s Colt

JUDY VAN DER VEER

The white mare’s colt is truly like a shadow,
Dark as cloud, and with a white tipped
nose;
Down the hill and through the quiet meadow,
He follows everywhere his mother goes.

She speaks to him with deep and throa-ty

sounds,
Lest he dare venture far from her white
side;
He sees the world with big, astonished
eyes,

The meadow is so very great and wide!

He is her shadow, and she loves him well,
(As though she thought he had not come
to stay . . .)
With ﬁerce swift lunges and with angry
heels
She drives the other horses all away.

She has forgotten her tall yearling colt,
Only this son is perfect in her sight;
There is no reason to remember now
The long darkness of an anguished night.

A Beautiful Friendship

LOUISE MILLINGER

OYALTY, devotion, friendship and

love,—these are traits of character
usually attributed to humans. I once knew
of a dog who possessed them all,—and
more.

His name was “Shep” and he was a
shaggy, brown and white fellow of the
breed indicated by his name. He lived on
a ranch on the edge of a small town near
the Kansas-Colorado state line.

“Buck,” an old buckskin, who had been
a faithful family horse for many years be-
fore he was pensioned to a life of ease,
was the other member of this remarkable
friendship. Each morning Buck went out

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

to the pasture, and all day he grazed there.
In the evening he came plodding slowly
home. Old and feeble, but contented and
happy!

Buck and Shep had lived in the same
family all their lives, but it was not until
the old horse became blind that their beau-
tiful friendship began.

It was then that Shep took it upon him—
self to be the protector and guardian of the
old horse. Walking close beside him, he
took him to the pasture in the morning and
brought him safely home at night. Day
after day, month after month, for more
than a year, wherever the old horse went
the dog led him. Shep and Buck! Inzsegpar-
able pals!

And then a strange thing happened. Old
Shep began to train “Jerry,” one of the
younger dogs on the place, to accompany
them to the pasture every day. Care-fully
and painstakingly, he worked until there
were three pals instead of two. How he
trained Jerry no one ever knew. It must
have taken a great deal of wisdom and
patience for an old dog to teach a younger
one to watch over an old horse. Yet Shep
did just that.

One day Buck and Jerry went out to
the pasture alone. Shep had gone off some—
where to die, as old dogs often do. But
he had done his work well, for Jerry carried
on in his place until the end of old Buck’s
days.

Did Shep know he was going to die, and
was that his reason for training Jerry to
do his work? Did his great love and loy-
alty, and the sterling quality of his friend-
ship prompt him to do this? In my heart,
I ﬁrmly believe that “Yes” is the answer
to both questions.

0 O
“ O

Ranger Allyn Hanks of Jackson, Wyom-
ing, has probably the largest pet animal in
the country, a bull moose calf, now pretty
well grown, which follows him wherever he
goes. Ranger Hanks rescued the calf

wl.en frail from the Snake River and suc-
cessfully raised it.

 

FINE TYPE OF MORGAN HORSE

Page ’69

“Comanche” of the Cavalry

The Endurance ofa Horse
CORNELIA BENNINGHOFF

' N studying the records of the Seventh

Cavalry under General Custer the life
of “Comanche” continues to evoke our
wonderment.

He was purchased for the use of the
Seventh, known as the Indian Fighters, the
hardest riding and hardest ﬁghting men in
the army and where an animal to exist at
all would need to embody everlasting en-
durance and vitality. It is said Custer once
pushed his men 78 miles in 24 hours.

The regular government price, $140, was
paid for him at the St. Louis horse market.
He was not tall, barely measuring the ﬁf-
teen hands two inches required by regula-
tions. The letters U. S. were burned on
his left shoulder aged he was then sent to
Fort Wallace, 600 miles away, the most
miserable of all the many posts scattered
throughout the length of Kansas.

Cavalrymen had besought the quarter—
master, “For Heaven’s sake send us more
horses!” For with an audacity almost
heroic the Cheyennes charged to the skirts
of the posts, stampeding every hoof of live
stock; afterward returning to ridicule the
useless cavalr‘ymen.

The horse was designated on the roster
as a buckskin. His mane and tail were
glossy black and the hair from hoof to knee
was also black. His only spot of white was
a dot of a few hairs in the center of a broad
forehead. His legs were delicately formed
with hoofs small and well shaped. He
looked patrician and he had that gentleness
and courageous spirit so often found in
patricians of the human race. Truly the
buckskin had something not found in the
ordinary cavalry horse.

The buckskin was assigned to Troop I.
and known only by his hoof number. A
mounted trooper was a heavy load for a
horse to carry; a carbine, hundred rounds
of ammunition, a pistol and a sabre; a
blanket and a shelter tent and overcoat
were rolled at the back of the saddle; on
one side hung a frying pan, canteen and
hardtack in a sack. Sometimes a lariat and
iron picket pin were added!

On long summer marches there was the
anguish about water. A muster roll reports
“— little water, clouds of grasshoppers, ——
many horses barefooted, their hoofsworn
to the quick and encased in moccasms of
buffalo hide.” The plains were full of cac-
tus, unexpected cuts and the deep ruts of
buffalo trails to water.

In the winter the horses had no protec-
tion from the icy winds./ Often the guard
at night to prevent them from freezing was
obliged to keep them moving. .-

The Seventh Cavalry served the entire
western frontier of Kansas and Troop I
was always in the ﬁeld. Not a crop was
harvested, not a railroad spike driven, not
a pound of mail reached Denver except un-
der riﬂe barrier. In a battle on the
Cimarron river the buckskin was severely
wounded by a Comanche Indian and he was
ever after called Comanche. By this time
his willingness and fortitude had attracted
the attention of Captain Keogh, who

bought him from the government for his.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118

has ever seen these beautiful creatures liv-
ing their natural existence must be ﬁlled
with a deep sense of shame, indignation, and
regret when he contemplates their present
status.

For his centuries of life free and unfet-
tered, bred into the wild horse many desir-
able qualities and virtually made of him a
superior breed. Hardy, sure-footed, sen-
sitive, brave, and intelligent—these are the
virtues of the wild horse. And his devotion
and loyalty to his master, when he has once
been caught and tamed is almost legendary.
I have heard many campﬁre stories of a
wild horse’s remaining by the body of a
rider who has been accidentally killed or
seriously injured, ﬁghting off the coyotes,
sometimes for days at a time, until help
would arrive.

This is the character of the wild horse,
native of America’s plains and mountains,
known only to a few, but by those few loved
and admired. The noble survivor of a once
numerous generation, he will perhaps be—
come in story the symbol of an America be-
fore the day of the machine—an America,
young and wild and eager, and loving of
freedom.

For us who have known the wild horse in
his natural habitat, there is something sad
in the thought that we shall perhaps no
longer see him racing through the sage or
hear his hoof beats in the foothills of a
summer night or listen to him whistling to
his mate in the dawn. This is of the stuff of
which life in the West is made, rich and
beautiful, and if we who once knew him are
to know him no more, we are at least
granted the privilege of writing for the
wild horse this his obituary.

MASS. S. P. C. A. IN THE COURTS

Some Prosecutions in June

For cruelly beating a horse, a defendant
was convicted and ﬁned $25., also given a
three-months’ suspended sentence to the
House of Correction.

Working a horse when unﬁt because of
lameness and after he had been warned not
to do so, an offender was found guilty and
ﬁned $10.

For trapping cats and selling them to a
medical school, a trapper was given a three-
months’ suspended sentence to the House of
Correction.

Selling a horse that was unﬁt for labor,
defendant was found guilty and put on pro-
bation for four months.

For failure to provide food, drink and pro-
tection from the weather for sixty dogs, a
defendant was ﬁned $50.

When the complete history of organized
animal protection in this country shall be
written, not the least important chapter will
be that devoted to the Be Kind to Animals
movement.

Remember the great need of all animals
for plenty of water in hot weather.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1935

 

“JERRY” AND “NIGGER,” WEARY AND WORN, ABOUT TO.
START ON VACATION AT MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. REST
FARM AT METHUEN

 

Three Poor Down-and-Outers

(Retold from the French of André Demaison)
R . T . H O U S E

can traveler and lover of ani-

mals, are crammed with curious
information about animal life in the Dark
Continent. His attitude with regard to
our dumb "friends, moreover, is always
one of profound sympathy as well as
of amused interest. Though his studies
are usually cast in ﬁctional form, they have
the ring of truth. They seem to make no
sacriﬁce of accuracy to dramatic effect.
André Demaison is no “nature—faker,” but
an honest observer, and he is an earnest
champion of the rights of the so-called lower
animals.

One of the most touching incidents which
he has set down deals with the experiences
of a horse and a bull from the Tchad country
and a panther from the coast region of
French Kamerun. The French manager of
a tree-nursery in the coastal lowlands had
conceived the idea that it would be conven-
ient and proﬁtable to maintain a herd of
cattle on his plantation for milk, butter,
cheese, meat and leather. So his agent
had bought, up in the highlands, and driven
to the ocean, a bull and several dozen cows
and oxen. The trip had been very hard
on the animals. Some had died en route,
and all had been so severely bitten by poi-
sonous insects that nothing was left of them
but feeble and dejected skeletons. In their
new surroundings they failed to recuper-
ate; and eventually all of them died or were
disposed of but the bull, who, with the horse
which had carried their guardian from the
plateau to the coast and which was as
thoroughly dilapidated as his bovine fellow—
traveler, stood all day long in the impro-
vised stables, dully waiting for the mana-
ger to decide what to do with the two well-
nigh useless creatures.

Then one morning one of the natives on
the plantation discovered the tracks of an

T HE books of André Demaison, Afri—

enormous panther. The dreaded beast had
been prowling around the stables. Every-
one wondered that the two animals inside
had given no sign of fright during the
night. But the poor creatures had grown
completely indifferent to everything that
went on around them, and everybody agreed
that their senses were so dulled by their
physical condition that they had not even
realized that their deadly enemy was within
a few feet of them. But in any case, the
visit of a panther was an event of im-
portance, and the plantation buzzed with
excitement.

The white manager was something of a
sportsman, and he claimed for himself the
privilege of battle with the formidable
enemy. He installed a cot on his veranda
facing the stables, propped the stable door
open at night to encourage the marauder,
and slept with one eye open.

The moon was nearly full at the time.
Only a night or two later, the manager
awoke with the feeling that something un-
canny was happening. The open space be-
tween the thicket and the stable was ﬂood-
ed with moonlight. The panther had ar—
rived. But he lay peacefully just outside
the stable door, quietly licking his paws.
Not a sound came from within.

The Frenchman had the self-restraint not
to touch his gun. There was a mystery
about the thing, and it could be solved only
by watchful waiting. So he lay motionless,
with his eyes on the animal, ready to ﬁre if
it made a threatening motion. But nothing
happened, till a child began to whimper in
the negro quarters. At this alarming sound,
the great beast gathered himself up noise-
lessly and glided out of sight.

The manager ran out to the stables. The
two poor wrecks stood quietly with their
heads toward the door—they were usually

(Continued on page 128)

—_ A

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,,_‘.,-__... _“ A .. -

 

Page 86

unique feature was the organization on
the platform of a Band of Mercy of twenty
members.

In Maine

The Bangor Humane Society used the
radio effectively, with talks by prominent
citizens. Under the direction of Miss Gladys
Taggett, humane education secretary, four
children gave tributes to different animals
on one station, and on another a playlet
with a cast of nine boys and girls. Thirty-
one medals were distributed in the schools
for the best posters and stories on kindness
to animals.

In Rhode Island

Under the auspices of the Rhode Island
Humane Education Society 10,000 national
Be Kind to Animals posters were placed in
public schools, libraries, municipal build-
ings, etc. Ten radio talks were given by
various city officials and other prominent
persons. Many of the merchants in Provi-
dence dressed their windows appropriately
for the occasion. Several of the schools
showed the ﬁlm, “The Bell of Atri,” which
was very enthusiastically received. The
Providence Journal carried a cartoon,
“Their Week,” showing pictures of dogs
and cats, by M. R. Halladay. Awards were
given by the Society to several men who
saved animals from peril during the winter.

In New York

The Humane Society of New York
handed 153 patrolmen, attached to the
police emergency squad division, certiﬁ-
cates of appreciation for rescuing animals
from dangerous situations. The awards
were made through Commissioner Val-
entine.

In New Jersey

Features of the celebration sponsored
by the Hudson County District S. P. C. A.,
Jersey City, included the distribution of
literature and posters to schools, libraries
and various institutions; special programs
by Boy Scout troups and the presentation
of plays and sketches in schools; and elab-
orate window displays in large offices.

In Pennsylvania

The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., Philadel-
phia, displayed a large painting, “Noah
Assembling the Animals,” in its window
during the Week. At the 67th annual
meeting of this Society, just preceding the
anniversary, 37 medals were given to men,
women and boys for rescuing animals from
danger. In a school essay contest on “Why
Animals Fear Men,” 700 manuscripts were
received and twenty book prizes awarded.

The Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
arranged a full week’s program of activi-
ties, among which was an essay contest
open to the 300,650 Band of Mercy mem-
bers, the subject being, “Why I Like Ani-
mals and How to Treat Them;” radio talks
on every station in Philadelphia; a special
exhibition of prize animals; and a huge
mass meeting of children on Saturday in
the Philadelphia Metropolitan Opera House,
at which the ﬁlm, “Sequoia,” was shown.
On Humane Sunday many appropriate ser-

mons were preached in all parts of Penn-
sylvania.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Western Pennsylvania Humane So-
city in Pittsburgh, presented a radio
sermon by its secretary, Mr. W. F. H.
Wentzel, on Humane Sunday; conducted
radio features over ﬁve stations during the
week, including the awarding of two dog
collars for heroic deeds; exhibited hun-
dreds of humane posters, made by school
children, in a large department store; and
secured official commendation of the Week
from the mayor of Pittsburgh.

In Illinois

The trafﬁc division of the Chicago police
department initiated the Week at the trafﬁc
stables, 262 East Illinois Street, with a
carrot and apple luncheon for the horses.
Fifty police horses, with mounted men,
participated in the demonstration, ofﬁcers
of the Illinois Humane Society and Mrs.
Jennie R. Toomim, representative of the
American Humane Education Society, be-
ing present. Mrs. Toomim gave several
broadcasts, and every day during the Week
one station carried an announcement of Be
Kind to Animals activities. In the schools
3,000 copies of the special Humane Exer-
cises published by the American Humane
Education Society were used in presenting
appropriate programs. In one school, Mrs.
Toomim addressed 2,200 children.

In Iowa

The Sioux City Humane Society made a
liberal distribution of the Morgan Dennis
special Be Kind to Animals poster for 1935,
and, through the Women’s Club, awarded
cash prizes for the best stories written by
school children on the subject of the
poster.

In Virginia

A Be Kind to Animals composition and
poster contest, open to pupils in public
schools of Henrico County and private

KIND TREATMENT BRINGS RESULTS

 

J une, 1 935

schools of Richmond, featured the celebra—
tion here, under the combined auspices of
the American Humane Education Society,
represented by Miss Blanche Finley, and
the Richmond S. P. C. A. National humane
posters were placed in schools, offices and
elsewhere.

In South Carolina

Led by Governor Johnson, Be Kind to
Animals Week was endorsed also by State
Superintendent of Education Hope, Super-
visor of Schools, C. A. Johnson, President
Bing of the State Teachers’ Association,
Mayor Owens of Columbia, and many other
prominent citizens. Lieut. Lawrence A.
Oxley of Washington, special assistant to
the Secretary of Labor, visited Columbia
for ﬁve addresses on humane education,
Sunday and Monday. Four radio programs
were given over station WIS. The press
gave able support. A ﬁne column editorial,
“Light of the World,” appeared in The
State, Columbia, on Humane Sunday. A
half-page illustrated “spread” for the Week
and Humane Sunday, in the. Palmetto
Leader, April 7, was paid for by business
men of Columbia. Seymour Carroll, repre—
senting the American Humane Education
Society, gave humane addresses at several
educational institutions and was respon—
sible for a vast amount of newspaper pub-
licity, including the Negro press through-
out the country. Under auspices of the
local S. P. C. A., Greenville, radio talks
were given by prominent citizens each day
on station WFBC, and the library, schools
and ministers co-operated in the celebra—
tion.

In Georgia

In Atlanta Superintendent of Schools
Willis A. Sutton issued a statement asking
each school to “do its best to have appro-
priate observation of these days and the
development of humane education
ideas,” and calling attention to the
Humane Exercises published by the
American Humane Education Society.
Cash prizes were offered through
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, ﬁeld
worker of the Society, for the best
posters both in white and colored
schools. Fifteen minutes daily was
given to humane talks by each of the
three radio stations in Atlanta, and
all other stations in the state partici-
pated in the celebration. Elaborate
school programs were carried out in
Augusta, where Mrs. Weathersbee
spoke at the request of the super—
intendent of schools. It was reported
to be the widest celebration of the
Week ever held in Georgia. Humane
Sunday was especially prominent
with the majority of the ministers
either preaching special sermons or
making some announcement of the
objects of the Week.

In Florida

Mayor A. C. Hatch of DeLand is-
sued a Proclamation for Be Kind to
Animals Week. Rev. R. E. Griffith,
ﬁeld representative of the American
Humane Education Society, gave a
broadcast on Sunday at Deland,
also one from WFFJ in Daytona.

(Continued on page .96)

 

 




 

: -.~

 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 1935

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Cash Prizes Given in Story Contest

Awards of $10, $5, and $3, Respectively. for Best Manuscripts on
“The Most Remarkable Story of Animal Intelligence”

were received in the contest for cash

prizes conducted by Our Dumb Ani-
mals in connection with the recent be Kind
to Animals anniversary. They came from
all parts of Canada and the United States
and related all sorts of heroic and intelli—
gent acts on the part of a great variety of
animals, both wild and domestic. Natur-
ally, stories of dogs predominated, with
those of cats in second place. However, the
prizes were awarded as follows: First, $10
cash, to A. J. Cavanaugh, Galena, Kansas,
for “How Raccoon Foils Hunters”; second,
$5 cash, to F. H. Sidney, Still River, Massa-
chusetts, for “Dog That Learned Morse
Code”; and third, $3 cash, to E. E. Eigen,
77 Vincent Street, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin,
for “Midnight Express” (burro). The
winning stories follow.

M ORE than two hundred manuscripts

How Raccoon Foils Hunters
First Prize, $10, Cash
A. J . c A v A N A U G H, Galena, Kansas

“The Most Remarkable Story of Animal
Intelligence” is that of a raccoon. Only
three of us actually know the secret. For
three years “Rackie” has outwitted the de--
termined efforts of men and hounds to kill
him. His “hide-out” is on my land.

When the “pack” ﬁnds his trail he heads
for a certain slim sycamore that stands
some 25 feet from a large oak. And right
there the dogs lose Rackie. Men follow
the dogs closely several times a week—-
often wait an hour or more, but to no avail.

One day I watched through a glass from
an upstairs window. Rackie climbed the
sycamore, at that time bare of foliage, to
almost its extreme tip, when it bent down
with him. Touching a long limb of the
oak, he allowed the sycamore to ﬂip back
into place, ran along the oak limb to the
trunk and—disappeared into an opening
that could. not be seen from the ground.
After the usual performance of dogs and
men, Rackie stuck his head out, waited for
some ﬁfteen minutes, then started on his
way.

Did he scramble down the oak tree? Not
by any chance does he ever do that—he
leaves no scent at that tree for the dogs.
Instead he walks out on another, lower
branch that touches a hickory by my rail
fence, climbs down to the fence, walks the
top rails for some 100 feet or more, then
leaps off onto a brush pile and goes on
about his business.

Dog That Learned Morse
Code

Second Prize, $5, Cash
F. H. SIDNEY, Still River, Mass.

Back in 1896 I owned a little, bushy
haired Russian terrier named “Tony.” I
happened to be working as night operator
at a small railroad station in New Hamp-
shire. For something to do to pass the time

away I decided to try and teach Tony how
to read Morse code from the wire by
sound.

Whenever my signal or call was sounded
on the wire UX. . .— . —— . . I would say
“Speak, Tony,” and the little dog would
bark. In about a month the dog could
distinguish UX whenever it was called on
the wire. And would always bark.

This was very handy for me, for if I hap-
pened to be out of the room anywhere, and
out of hearing, the dog’s barking would
bring me into the office to answer my call.

“ Midnight Express”
Third Prize, $3, Cash

E . E . E I G E N, 77 Vincent St,
Fond du Lac, Wis.

A remarkable case of animal intelligence
that has been utilized by man for a. decade
is accredited to a burro, affectionally and
officially known as “Midnight Express.”

Midnight Express is a highly trained
burro that has been a mail carrier for ten
years, operating between Quartzville, Ore-
gon, and Robert’s Station, a distance of
12 miles. This burro carries all mail and
parcel post for the placer miners and their
families without any human guidance or
companionship, regardless of weather con-
ditions and physical conditions encountered
over the'rough mountainous road. Midnight
Express is recorded in the U. S. Post Office
as a true and tried messenger. A rare case
of consistent and continuous animal intelli-
gence that is used with much practical
result by mankind.

Note: I am sure that the post office de-
partment, any one in Quartzville, Oregon,
or any state editor of the larger Oregon
newspapers will readily vouch for the truth
of “Midnight Express.” E. E. E.

Rabies and so-called running or fright ﬁts
are two distinctly different maladies. They
are, however, repeatedly confounded one
with the other. This
misunderstanding o f
their real natures has
led, in many instances,
to much unnecessary
alarm and the restric-
tion of many harmless
house-pets while the
unidentiﬁed, menacing
rabid dog has been al-
lowed to roam freely
about and spread his
infection. All dog own-
ers should be thor-
oughly posted on this
subject. A special leaf-
let, prepared by Dr.
Rudolph H. Schneider,
assistant chief veteri-
narian of the Angell
Animal Hospital, may
be had by addressing
180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

 

Page 91

Excitement

L. E. EUBANKS

UCCESS with pet animals depends very
S much on an appreciation of the fact
that they are like humans in many ways.
Animals are highly susceptible to excite-
ment and we should always bear this in
mind. A certain cat that had been raised
from a kitten in the house leaped upon the
kitchen range, burning its feet severely.

Certainly, as his mistress said afterward,
he knew the stove was hot and dangerous,
had warmed himself near it hundreds of
times. But he was romping around the
room after a string, drawn by his mistress,
leaping over chairs, upon the table, etc.,
and, in a moment of extreme excitement, it
happened.

Excitment often makes dogs ﬁght, when
calmness in the owners, instead of yells and
blows, would get the animals apart peace-
ably. It simply will not do to add to the
tension when an animal’s nerves are keyed
up. If a horse is on the verge of running
away, a loud, rough command or a blow
with the whip usually precipitates the
break. But the experienced handler speaks
in low, kind tones, perhaps reassuring the
animal with a caress.

A puppy, kept on a screened-in porch,
went without food all day because of the
presence of a strange dog in the yard. Every
now and then the intruder would come into
the prisoner’s range of vision, and the
youngster was so anxious to get out and
play with the visitor that he didn’t even
know he was hungry. The next day, under
different conditions, he would have gorged
himself, but his owner was too wise to per—
mit it.

When I was a lad I owned a particularly
excitable dog. I always took him with me
for my strolls into the foothills (near
Boulder, Colo.), and on the day of the trip
he couldn’t eat a thing until our return.
Then he was famished. I learned not to
let him see the outing clothes or any of
the preparations until after he had eaten
his breakfast. If he saw me getting ready,
even if it was an hour before the start, his
joyous excitement was uncontrollable.

To punish a pet for misdemeanors caused
by excitement is absolutely cruel.

 

COLLIE PATIENT AT ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL
Owned by Mrs. Wayland Manning Minot, Cambridge, Mass.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 142
(the {tenth of ﬂﬂerrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON. Secretary
E. A. SMARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE _

Iwill try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the preSI-

dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seventy—five new Bands of Mercy were
reported during July. ' Of these 67 were in
Illinois, six in Virginia, and one each i
Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. ~

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 210,790.

How Tennyson Calmed the
Pony ~‘

LESTER BANKS

HE beloved poet, Tennyson, once ar—

rived at a station carrying a heavy

package of books; and as his own carriage
had not arrived to meet him, he was glad to
accept the offer of a “lift” home.

Going up the steep hills, Tennyson sug-
gested that he, the other man and the books
were too much of a load for the pony to
pull. Accordingly, he and the driver got
out and walked for some distance in front
of the trap—until they noticed that the
books had fallen out.

The owner of the pony asked Tennyson
to stand at the animal’s head while he went
back for the books. These he found a hun—
dred yards or more down the hill, and on
his return he found that the pony had at
first been restless then become quite calm.

Knowing that it disliked strangers, he
wondered how the poet had kept it quiet
and was surprised to learn that Tennyson
had managed the situation by holding his
watch close to the animal’s ear.

The Annual Fair, Women’s Auxiliary,
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., will be held at
Hotel Vendome, Boston, Wednesday, De-
cember 11, 1935.

 

OUR" DU.MB, ANIMALS

Beware: Little‘Woodland
‘ {Creatures
.DbeoTnY L. HUNT

Brightseyed little brown squirrel,
Timid, furry hare,

Chipmunk, grouse, and bobwhite—
'Pray listen, and beware.

Your lives are all in danger.
Death stalks you for his prey,

For men and bays with shot-guns
; Roam the woods today.

lEach‘ little woodland creature,

One harmless as another,
Hiawatha knew and loved you;

Hiawatha called you “Brother.”
But these are not Hiawatha,

W ho’ve marked you for their prey,
These men and boys with shot—guns

Who roam the woods today.

Then hare, leave not your burrow.
Squirrel, seek your hollow tree.
Bobwhite, and grouse, and chipmunk:

Pray heed this word. from me. J
Stay safely in your burrow— -
Your nest, your hide-a—way;
For men and boys with shot—guns
Roam the woods today.

The Tramp

A. M. MOVIUS

A bundle on a stick contained his worldly
goods; his clothes and his general appear-
ance indicated he slept in haystacks, ate
from back door-steps, if successful, and that
bath—tubs and barber shop facilities were
unknown to him.

Tagging at his heels was a dog, whose
make-up matched his master’s. They paused
at a street crossing and when the “go”
signal flashed, the tramp, much to the as—
tonishment and amusement of other pedes-
trians, stooped and picked up the dog as
carefully as if he had been a quality Pe-
kingese, and carried it to safety across the
street, where they continued on their way.

Was "it manners, or what? Some affinity
of heart unknown to any one. The tramp
and his dog.

 

LITTLE BROTHERS TO THE BEAR ENJOYING A FEAST

Sept. 1935

Mother Mouse and Her

Family
A True Story
HELEN; DICKSON

P in the attic beside the chimney he

had found it, so Pierre told the teach-

er, who was always so ready to take an
interest in anything the children brought
in for a nature lesson. This that Pierre

'had found was a nest of young mice.

“The mother mouse she is run away,”
Pierre explained, “so I think she will not
mind if I borrow her babies for a nature
lesson.”

“It will make a very interesting nature
lesson, Pierre,” the teacher said, as he took
the nest and laid it carefully on his desk.
“The class may come and stand here while
I show the nest and tell about the habits
of mice.” .

The class quickly formed a semi-circle
around the desk, crowding and jostling
slightly as each tried to get a better View
of the baby mice. .

“Of course you know that mice are very
harmful,” the teacher went on, “they de-
stroy clothes and furniture, and spoil food.
So after We have examined this nest we
must do away with these young mice that
are harmless now, but would grow up just
as destructive as any others.”

‘ Pierre’s face lost its eager smile. He was
sorry that he had shown the little mice to
his teacher. He slipped out of the group of
children and stole quietly from the class-
room, while the teacher was absorbed in
showing the children how the nest was
made, and telling them about the life of
a mouse. Before the lesson was ended Pierre
was back in his place, raising his hand
and snapping his fingers to attract the
teacher’s attention.

“What is it, Pierre?”

“Please, teacher, I went up to the attic
where I found the nest, and the mother
mouse was sitting where the nest had been,
and there were two big tears on her cheeks.”

For a minute the teacher made no an-

! swer. He appeared to be not a little con-

fused. At last he said, gently, “Well,
Pierre, if the mother mouse is feeling so
sad I think you will just have to take
the nest and put it back Where you found
it],

“Oh, thank you, teacher. The mother
mouse, she will thank you also.”

Then Pierre gathered up the little family
and carried it quickly back to its home in
the attic.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.
Already several cases have come to our at-
tention and are being relieved in this way.
Recently a gift of $5 was received.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas—
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the
Humane Education Trust Fund.

 




