 

 

 

 

NOTICE.

The Secretary respectfully requests subscribers,
Inembers,.and others, to transmit to the Society’s
Ofﬁce, any extracts from newspapers or other pub-
lications which'may come under their observation,
bearing upon the objects of the Society; and also
all BOOKS treating on Natural History, or of any
kind Which may add. to the value of the

LIBRARY OF THE SOCIETY,

thereby greatly aiding the Executive Ofﬁcers in

arriving at correct conclusions upon the various

subjects vvhich fall under their cognizance.

Oﬂice of the Society.
No. 696 ﬁROADWAY,‘

Corner of Fourth Street, New York.

 

 




 

‘smmmv pantzsm g0 uommxodsumm 9119, .10} ﬂames 91p, Kq pem‘o mum,

..

.._.._.

    

._ .U

...... .. .__
37/77.“- -.

«in’ . i

(

  

 
 
 
   
 

.M
r

 

.. ......7 W s...
.. ......wa Rm?

 
 
  

“\i
“I ‘ \

hwwlle\
\ - \-

 

.
_ .
. ..
7 . .... .
r. . ...
. x/f MN) ..x.
. / . I
pt 7. f s
‘ , . . 4
.
.. r . g
1

.1. .... .

.... 77%.“...
I} .. 7
41:37.6. .

 
  
  

.37..

4
r
a,

 

g

. x / £7
L /%$ .J “L Cw.“
XQWW . (.... . V,
21.. a .

R

.>

\Mt
Aﬂm

. M779
. /.rn/~dﬁ

. ...”...ﬁfm.
‘3 J ..l fa.» .

. n
c . .
. . 7
. . A
.
.7 . . \
_
\ .. .
: I _
_ .
.

7/
SW.
1

 

 

\

 
  

    

A}

7.: «a

; WW7...
.. ...é

  
   
 

rt
. . ..
., .
.

   

 




 

A
«f -

 

 

   

ELECTED AT THE

ANNUAL MEETING IN MAY.

39 rssihent.
HENRY BERGH.

ﬁicz-ﬁﬁrzsihmts.

JOHN T. HOFFMAN, JAMES BROWN,

HORACE B. CLAELIN, GEORGE T. TRIMBLE,

HENRY W. BELLOWS, WM. H. ASPINWALL,

BENJAMIN D. HICKS, MOSES TAYLOR,

PETER COOPER, MARSHALL O. ROBERTS.
Qixczntihz diommiitzz.

JOHN D. WOLFE, JAMES STOKES,

FRANK LESLIE, CHARLES A. MARSHALL,

TOWNSEND HARRIS, N. M. BECKWITH,

E. GEORGE SQUIER, NATHAN C. ELY,

ALEX. VAN RENSSELAER, D. LYDIG SUYDAM,

.ALFRED SCHERMERHORN, ELBRIDGE T. GERRY,

,A. H. CAMPBELL, JAMES I. KELSO,

JOHN M. BIXBY.

@nasnnr.
HENRY CLEWS.
(Eomml.
ELBRIDGE T. GERRY.
ﬁuguintmhmt.

A. H. CAMPBELL.

Sending.
N. P. HOSACK.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

yam-avg wemhera. 2"}?

ULYSSES S. GRANT, President of the United States, ex?
(3330250. L
SOHUYLER COLFAX, Vice—President of the United States,
603 Ojim'o. '
JOHN T. HOFFMAN, Governor of the State of New-York,
2

 

em aﬁcdo.

A. S, BEACH, Dent-Governor of the State of New York,
690 oﬁcéo.

 

 

Qﬁx (affirm éﬂrmhm.

 

The Right Hon. the Earl of HARROWBY, President of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, London.

JOHN COLAM, Esq., Secretary for the Royal Society for--
the P. C. A., London.

ANGELO AMEs, Esq., of Albany, N. Y.




CHARTER.

AN ACT to incorporate the AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR
THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
’ Passed April 10, 1866, by the Legislature
of the State of 1Vew York—Vol. I, Chap.
469, Page 1019 of the Revised Statues.

SEC. 1. That John T. Hoffman, Henry Grin-
nell, J. J. Astor, J r., Geo. Bancroft, Shepherd
Knapp, James T. Brady, John A. DiX, Marshall
0. Roberts, James Brown, Horatio Potter, Thos.
H. Taylor, Erastus Brooks, Chas. P. Daly, Moses
Taylor, Geo. T. Trimble, John D. Wolfe, Henry W.
Bellows, Peter Cooper, Francis B. Cutting, Wm.
‘H. Aspinwall, John Van Buren, Hamilton Fish,
Daniel Parish, John J. Cisco, A. Oakey Hall, John
McCloskey, Wm. C. Bryant, Edward G. Steele,
Horace Greeley, Samuel B. Ruggles, James Lenox,
August Belmont, Moses H. Grinnell, Wm. H. Webb,
J as. Gallatin, Harper Brothers, J as. J. Roosevelt,
C. V. S. Roosevelt, Alex. Stuart, D. C. Kingsland,
J as. W. Gerard, Joseph P. Beach, Geo. T. Olyphant,
Oliver S. Strong, Henry Clews, Archibald Russell,

' Benjamin B. Winthrop, John A. Kennedy, Daniel

Carpenter, Geo. W. Dilks, Chas. Addoms, Geo.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

viii.

Griswold, Simeon Draper, Robert L. Stewart, \

Andrew Warner, Alex. T. Stewart, Daniel But-
terﬁeld, A. C. Kingsland, E. A. VVashburn, M. S.
Beach, John D. Jones, Frank Leslie, Wm. Coven-
try H. Waddell, Chas. A. Bristed, Thos. C. Acton,
Wm. McMurray, James Leonard, A. D. Russell,

Henry Bergh, all of the city of New York, and ‘

such other persons as may be associated with them,
in conformity to this act, and their successors, are
hereby constituted and created a body corporate,
by the name of “ The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”

SEC. 2. The ofﬁcers Of the said corporation
shall consist of a president, ten vice-presidents, one
secretary, one treasurer, an executive committee
of ﬁfteen members, and such other ofﬁcers as shall
from time to time seem necessary to this Society.

SEC. 3. The foregoing ofﬁcers shall be chosen
from among the members of the Seciety.

SEC. 4. A library may be created for the use
of the Society.

SEC. 5. The said Society, for ﬁxing the terms ‘

of admission of its members, for the government
of the same, for the election, changing, and alter-
ing the ofﬁcers above named, and for the general
regulation and management of its affairs, shall have
power to form a code of By-Laws, not inconsistent
with the laws of this State or of the United States,
which code, when formed and adopted at a regu-

\

 




 

  

ix.

lar meeting, shall, until modiﬁed or rescinded, be
equally binding as this act, upon the Society, its
officers and members.

SEC. 6. This Society shall not, in its corporate
capacity, hold real estate exceeding in value, at
any one time, the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars.

SEC. 7. The police force of the city of New
York, as well as of all other places where police
organizations exist, shall, as occasion may require,
aid the Society, its members, or agents, in the en-
forcement of all laws which are now, or may here-
after be enacted for the protection of dumb ani-
mals.

SEC. 8. One-half of the ﬁnes collected through
the instrumentality of the Society, or of its agents,
for Violations of such laws, shall accrue to the
beneﬁt of said Society.

SEC. 9. The provisions of this act shall be
general, within the boundaries of the State.

SEC. 10. This act shall take effect immediately.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, ‘..I_M A--§.,LA .:. .

2

necessities, but do not enter 'into their intimate social
and domestic relations. With such, and they once con-
stituted by far the larger portion of the public, it was
necessary to overcome this habitual thoughtlessness
through the instrumentalit of those forces which lie
«concealed in pathos and imagery. But now, happily, I
may venture to declare that this phase of the question is
very nearly overcome—for, thanks to ours, and to kin—
dred Societies in our land, this criminal thoughtlessness
is no longer suffered to exist; and it may also be asserted,
that were it not for those persons who are deliberately
and maliciously cruel, these Societies would no longer
'have a mission to perform. That man is indeed deaf
and blind, who has neither heard of, nor beheld the zeal-
ous and humane operations of this parent Institution,
called into being just ﬁve years ago by your sense of
justice and compassion.

To the former, then, the simple logic of facts, will suf-
ﬁce; while on the latter the rarest eloquence would be
wasted. I purpose, therefore, interrupting to—night the
special and appropriate duties incident to an annual
meeting by a very brief allusion only, to some of the most

important proceedings of the past year; reserving for the.

printed report a more detailed recital.

And I would premise, by giving utterance to the
pleasure that I feel in announcing the fact that the

Society, for the ﬁrst time since its formation, is provided .

with eminent counsel, in the person of the Hon. Elbridge
T. Gerry. Yielding to the pressure of circumstances I have

hitherto assumed the functions appertaining to that

ofﬁce, in addition to my numerous other duties, and no
one is more sensible than I am, of the inefﬁciency with
which they have been performed. I need not say, how-
ever, that I did the best I could.

1.

 

 




:

 

3

Already the wisdom of this acquisition has been mani-
fested in several radical reforms, conceived and executed
by that gentleman, whose ripe experience and learning.
were made available to the State, as a member of the
late Constitutional Convention.

It is probably known to all of you that a generous and:
sympathetic gentleman named Louis Bonard died in
February last, leaving his entire fortune to this Society.
The admission of this will to probate is contested by cer-
tain parties, but with what success remains yet to be
seen. That so considerable an estate should be applied
to the protection of Heaven’s inferior creatures seems to
have inspired them with hopes that this bequest, as rare-
as it is humane, might be diverted from the destination
designed by its testator.

Five new States have enrolled themselves among the-
Defenders of the Brute Creation since last year, namely,
California, Missouri, Virginia, Illinois and Lower Canada,
making seventeen States in all. The Legislature of New
Jersey has just enacted laws similar to our own. VVe'
have twenty-two agencies in the State of New York.

During the past year we have convicted three hundred?
and twelve offenders, and admonished and reprimanded
probably four times as many more. The total number
of convictions since the formation of the Society is one
thousand one hundred and sixtyeight.

Five hundred disabled horses have been removed from
sundry vehicles during the year—twenty-three in one

day.

Our ambulance for the transportation of animals has
carried one hundred and twenty disabled creatures.

Our humane inﬂuence has also made itself heard in

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

Congress, where a Bill was introduced, but failed in its
passage through the Senate, after its adoption by the

lower House.

“It has pleased Heaven to remove from this world”
the notorious “Kit B11rns,”’a conspicuous enemy to the
cause we advocate, and this pleasure, I venture to assert,
is shared by every right-minded person.

Invitations reach me from remote, as well as neighbor-
ing communities, to address them on the humane subject
which we have in charge; but the regular duties of my
position at home forbids my acceptingmany of them.

I have, however, lectured during the past year in
Brooklyn, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Jersey
City, the Farmer’s Club and the Union League Club of
this city. ’

The Press, the Judiciary and the Police continue to
aid us in the performance of our civilizing mission.

After ﬁve years of successful labor, I may be pardoned
the ambition I feel, to see the Society domiciled in quar—
ters more in keeping with the magnitude of its opera-
tions, and the dignity of the reforms it has achieved. I
trust ere another anniversary shall arrive, this desire
will be realized.

And now, in conclusion, there but remains for me to
assure you of the augmenting prosperity of this Society,
in all its relations. Those persons who once regarded it
with levity and disfavor, have learned to esteem it an

indispensable necessity, and wonder that the spirit of ‘

mercy had been so long withheld from these lowly be-
ings, in the organized form of this Institution. May the
blessing of Him, who along with life, has endowed all
His creatures with the sense of suffering as well as enjoy-

 

ﬁx)

 




 

ment, continue to direct and prosper our compassionate
efforts.

The following New Code‘ of By-Laws proposed for
adoption at a special meeting of the Society held at its
Ofﬁce, on the 22d of April, 1871, by Townsend Harris,
Esq., was then read to the meeting by the Secretary.

 

Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry seconded, and the meeting
unanimously adopted the said Code of By-Laws in lieu
of those of 1866, and ordered the same to be printed.

 




 

 

 

CODE OF BY-LAWS. it...”

“The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals,” hereby adopts and de-
clares the following (until otherwise modiﬁed
or rescinded) to form and constitute the Code
of By-Laws authorized by, and referred to in
the ﬁfth section of its original charter and
Act of incorporation; being Chapter four
hundred and sixty—nine of the Session Laws
of the State of New York, enacted by the "f
Legislature thereof, in the year eighteen hun-
dred and sixty-six :

CHAPTER 1.
TITLE.

The title and name of this SoCiety is “The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”

CHAPTER II.

OBJECTS .

The objects of this Society are, to provide effective
means for the prevention of cruelty to Animals through— ,
out the United States ; to enforce all laws which are now
or may hereafter be enacted for the protection of dumb
animals; and to secure by lawful means the arrest, con-
viction and punishment of all persons violating such laws.

 

F ,

 

-, .._. __ _ - 4.. _._w _-,._..__ _.i.______... ___.__,..~.‘




 

x

~

.‘-
i

g I
~\\‘; \

31'

“.

 

 

7

CHAPTER III.
MEMBERS.

3‘ 1. The Society shall consist of Resident, Non-Resi-
u‘dent, Honorary, Corresponding, and EX oﬂicio Members
.and Patronesses.

§ 2. Resident members are those residing in the City
-~0f New York, or its vicinity.

§ 3. N on-Resident members are those residing at- least
twenty-ﬁve miles distant from the city.

§ 4. Honorary members shall be chosen on account of
some conspicuous act of mercy to the brute creation, or
material aid to the purposes of the Society.

§ 5. Corresponding members shall be chosen from
1those who have aided the advancement of the objects of
ithe Society, including members of the press.

§ 6. Ex ofﬁcio members shall be chosen from among
'the most eminent persons associated with foreign and
domestic societies of kindred character and purposes;
and from among distinguished individuals either at home
or abroad.

§ 7. Ladies shall be eligible as members of the Society
Gander the designation of “ Patronesses.”

§ 8. ’Resident, N Oil-Resident, Corresponding, Honor-
:ary and EX oﬂicio members and Patronesses shall be
"elected as follows: all nominations of candidates shall
be openly made in writing at a meeting of the Society,
or the Executive Committee, by a member thereof, and,
together with the name of the member making them,
entered on the minutes. The persons thus nominated,
when elected by the Society or the Executive Committee,
:by a majority vote of the members thereof present and
voting shall, on payment of the annual dues if elected
as Resident or N on-Resident member, or Patroness,
:and Without such payment if elected as a Corresponding,
Honorary or EX ofﬁcio member, become members of the
Society accordingly.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

§ 9. The name of any member of the Society may, by
a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Executive.
Committee, be dropped from the roll of its members.

CHAPTER IV.

ANNUAL DUES.

§1. The annual dues for the Fiscal Year, shall be,
for a Resident member, ten dollars; for a N on-Resident
member, and for a Patroness, ﬁve dollars; in both cases
to be paid immediately on election.

§ 2. Any member of the Society, not in arrears, may
commute for life all dues for membership, by the pay--
ment at one time, if a Resident member, of one hundred
dollars; and, if a Non-Resident member, ﬁfty dollars ;;
and, if a Patroness, ﬁfty dollars.

§ 3. The name of any member of the SOciety, neglect-
ing for two successive years to pay the annual dues, or
at any time Wholly refusing to pay them, may, by the
Executive Committee, be erased from the list of members
of the Society.

g4. The ﬁscal year of the Society shall, for all pur—
poses, commence on the ﬁrst day of May, and end with:
the thirtieth day of April, in each year.

CHAPTER V.

OFFICERS.

§ 1. The ofﬁcers of this Society shall be a President“,
ten Vice-Presidents, a Counsel, a Secretary, a Treasurer,
a Superintendent and an Executive Committee of ﬁfteen
members; and the President, Counsel, Secretary, Treas-
urer, and Superintendent shall be em aﬁcio members of
the Executive Committee.

§ 2. The ofﬁcers of the Society shall be chosen from
among its members, With the exception of the Super-
intendent, who shall be appointed by, and hold ofﬁce
during the pleasure of the President. They shall be:

 

 

 




  

 

 
   
  
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   
    

10

of such notice shall, during the same time, be kept posted
in a conspicuous place in the ofﬁce or rooms of the

. Society.

‘ CHAPTER VIII.
. ORDER OF BUSINESS.
§ 1. At all meetings of the Society, for the transaction
of ordinary business, the order of proceedings shall be as
follows, unless otherwise Specially ordered:
1.
2.

Reading of the minutes.

Reports and communications from ofﬁcers of the
Society.

. Reports from the Executive Committee.

. Reports from other committees.

. Nomination of members.

. Special Orders.

Unﬁnished Business.

.Miscellaneous Business.

CDTQQUII-POQ

§2. All propositions presented for the action of the
Society, at any of its meetings, shall be in writing when
requested by the presiding ofﬁcer, or any member. A
proposition, thus presented, when seconded, and the
question thereon stated from the chair, shall be deemed
to be in the possession of the Society, and open for dis-
cussion; but may be withdrawn by the mover, at any
time befoie amendment or decision.

§ 3. N 0 member shall speak mele than once upon the
same question, until all the other members present desir-
ing to speak Shall have spoken, 1101 more than twice on
any question without leave of the Society; nor more
than ﬁve minutes, unless by consent 'of the meeting.

CHAPTER IX.

QUORUM.

At all meetings of the Society, nineimembers present
Shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business;

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

11

except at the annual meeting, when the members pres-
'ent, without regard to number, shall be empowered to
act.

CHAPTER X.

COMMITTEES.

All Committees authorized by the Society, except the
Executive Committee, shall, unless otherwise specially
ordered, consist of three members each, and be appointed
by the presiding ofﬁcer.

CHAPTER XI.

PRESIDING OFFICER.

At all meetings of the Society, on the arrival of the
appointed hour, and the presence of a quorum, the Presi-
dent, or, in his absence, one of the Vice-Presidents, or,
in the absence of both, a Chairman pro tem, shall im-
mediately take the chair, call the meeting to order and
preside. He shall have only a casting vote. He shall
preserve order, and decide all questions of order, subject
to an appeal to the Society. He shall also, unless other-
wise specially ordered, appoint all Committees author-
ized by the Society, except the Executive Committee;
and, at every annual election, before the opening of the
polls, he shall appoint two Tellers of the election.

CHAPTER XII.
COUNSEL.

§]. The Counsel shall be the Legal adviser of the
Society, its ofﬁcers and Executive Committee, and shall
have the general charge and conduct of all suits and
proceedings instituted by or against it, or them, Or either
of them, or in which the Society may be interested.

§ 2. With the advice and consent of the President, he
may compromise or settle any such suit or proceeding 3
and may also from time to time associate with himself

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

12

and retain such other counsel or attorneys as,:in the
judgment of the President and himself, may be advisable
for. the best interests of the Society. '.

§3. He shall receive for his services such pecuniary
compensation and fees as shall be determined by the
Executive Committee; but he shall have no vote in such
committee on any question relating to, or affecting such
compensation or fees. '

§ 4:. All disbursements made by him in the execution
of his powers and duties as Counsel shall be repaid him
out of the funds of the Society upon his certiﬁcate in
writing that they have been made, specifying the

amounts and grounds thereof.

CHAPTER XIII.
snonnmny.

§ 1. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to conduct
the general correspondence of the Society with individ-
uals and associate and auxiliary bodies. He shall keep
in suitable books to be provided for that purpose, at the
Society’s Rooms, true copies of all letters written by
him on behalf of the Society; and shall preserve, 011
proper ﬁles, at the said Rooms, all letters received by
him on the same account; and at each stated meeting
of the Society or the Executive Committee, shall respect-
ively report the correspondence and read the same, or
such parts thereof as may be required.

§ 2. It shall be the duty of the Secretary also, to give
due notice of the time and place of all meetings of the
Society, and to attend the same. He shall keep fair
and accurate minutes of the proceedings of the Society,
and record the same, when approved, in the Society’s
Journal. He shall give immediate notice to the several
ofﬁcers and committees of the Society, of all votes,
orders, resolves and proceedings of the Society, affect-

 

 

 




 

 

    

13

Eng them or appertaining to their respective duties.
He shall prepare a list of the members of the Society
«entitled to vote, to be handed to the Tellers before the
opening of the polls at each annual election. He shall
ofﬁcially sign and aﬂix the corporate seal of the Society
“to all diplomas, and other instruments or documents
:authorized by the Society or the Executive Committee.
He shall have charge of the Corporate Seal, Charter, By-
Laws, Records, and general archives of the Society, except
so far as they may be expressly placed under the charge
«of others. He shall certify all acts and proceedings of
"the Society, and shall notify the Executive Committee
e-of the death, resignation, or removal of any ofﬁcer or
member of the Society. He shall have charge of the
Rooms of the Society, and shall perform all such other and
:further duties as may, from time to time, be devolved upon
lliiin by the Society or the Executive Committee. He shall
a‘eceive for his services, such salary or. pecuniary com-
pensation as shall be determined by the Executive Com-
i'mittee; but neither in the Society nor the Executive
“Committee shall he have a vote on any question relat-
ing to or affecting his salary or pecuniary compensation.

§ 3. All documents relating to the Society, and under
”the charge of the Secretary, shall be placed in such
depositories in the rooms of the Society as the Executive
«Committee may provide and designate for that purpose.

§4. The Secretary shall also be the Librarian, and
:shall have the charge and arrangement of the books,
maps, and collections belonging to the Society. He
shall cause to be kept in the rooms of the Society a
registry of all donations to the library or collections of
the Society, acknowledge their receipt by letter to the
donors, and report the same, in writing, to the Society,
:at its next meeting.

g5. The Secretary shall be, ex ofﬁcio, a member of
all committees, and act as Secretary thereof.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14

CHAPTER XIV.

TREASURER.

§ 1. The Treasurer shall have charge of, and safely

keep all contracts, certiﬁcates of stock, securities, and
muniments of title belonging to the Society. He shall?i
collect the dues and keep the funds of the Society, and
disburse the same under the direction of the Executive
Committee, and so often as the said funds in the hands»
of the Treasurer shall amount to one hundred dollars,
he shall deposit the same, in the name of the Society, in.
some incorporated bank or trust company, in the City
of New York, to be designated for that purpose by the
Executive Committee; and the said funds, thus deposited,.
shall be drawn out of the said bank or trust company
only on the check of the Treasurer, countersigned by the
Chairman of the Executive Committee, or the President:
of the Society. .

§ 2. The Treasurer shall, previous to the annual meet-—
ing of the Society, prepare and submit to“the Executive»
Committee, for audit, a detailed account of his receipts-
and disbursements on account of the Society during the
past year; and which annual account, duly audited, he»
shall present, With his general report, to the Society, at:
its annual meeting. He shall produce to the Executive
Committee or any Sub-Committee thereof appointed for
that purpose, all original vouchers, papers, books of"
account, and other evidence of receipt and disbursement:
Whenever he may be so required.

CHAPTER xv.

S UPERIN TENDEN T.

§ 1. The Superintendent shall, under the direction of”
the President, have the general supervision and control}
over all the Special Agents mentioned in the next Chap--
ter of these By-Laws.

 

 

 

 

 

r

 

 




 

 

15

g2. He shall receive for his services such salary or
pecuniary compensation as may be determined from
time to time by the Executive Committee; but he shall
have no vote in such Committee'or in the Society on
any question relating to or affecting such salary or com‘
pensation.
CHAPTER XVI.

AGENTS.

§ 1. This Society has no general agents authorized to
bind it, or to incur pecuniary obligations in its behalf,
by their acts or omissions. No such agents shall be at
any time created or appointed by any of its ofﬁcers, nor
by its Executive Committee.

§ 2. The Special Agents of this Society, (except those
hereinafter mentioned in Chapter XVIII of this Code
of By-Laws), shall be appointed and removed at will from
time to time by the President. They shall hold such
position during his pleasure, and shall be subject to and.
governed by such rules and orders as he may prescribe
and issue consistent with these By-Laws.

§ 3. The appointment of every Special Agent shall be
in writing.

§ 4. Special agents shall receive such salary or pecuni--
ary compensation for their services as may be from time-
to time determined by the Executive Committee.

§ 5. Only Special Agents (except the ofﬁcers mentioned
in the ﬁfth Chapter of these By-Laws) may, upon being
designated thereto by the sheriff of any county in the
State, as agents of this Society, make lawful arrests, and
by lawful means, bring before any court or magistrate
thereof having jurisdiction, offenders found violating the»
provisions of laws now existing, or which may hereafter-
be enacted for the protection of dumb animals, and for
the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals, as
in and by said laws provided.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

.‘hL‘PBi‘S‘r

16

§ 6. No Special Agent is authorized to incur any debt
or pecuniary liability on the part of the Society by his acts
or omissions, nor are any acts or omissions on his part con-
trary to, or in excess of, or unauthorized by law to be
deemed as within the scope of his authority as such
Special Agent, or as authorized, sanctioned, or ratiﬁed
by this Society.

CHAPTER XVII.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

_ § 1. The Executive Committee shall haveithe manage-
ment, investment, control and disposition of the affairs,
property and funds of ' the Society ; and shall designate
an incorporated bank or trust company in the City of
New York, where the said funds shall from time to time
as they accrue, be deposited by the Treasurer.

§ 2. It may frame its own By-Laws, not inconsistent
with law or the By-Laws of the Society, and shall keep
complete records of its proceedings.

§ 3. It may from time to time, determine the pecuni-
ary compensation and fees of the Counsel and also the
sala1y or pecuniary compensation of the Secretary,
Superintendent and Special Agents.

§ 4.11: may also appoint or direct the appointment of
the necessa1 y clerks and servants of the Society (other
than those elsewhere provided for in these By-Laws), in
such manner and with such powers, duties, privileges
and compensation as it may from time to time deter-

mine; and may at pleasure revoke such appointments '

and make others in their stead. .

§ 5. It shall make and establish from time to time all
rules, orders and regulations for the government of such
clerks and servants.

§ 6. It shall have power to ﬁll, for the unexpired term,
any vacancy that may occur in any of the ofﬁces of the
Society or in its own body.

 

5:44)
f .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18

and removal of its own members, ofﬁcers, and special.
agents. But no member, ofﬁcer or special agent of such.
association shall be deemed authorized by this Society to
make any arrest, or bring before any court or magistrate
any offender against the laws mentioned in the ﬁrst
Chapter of these By-Laws, unless prior thereto he shall
have been duly designated thereto by the sheriff of the
county in which such arrest or proceeding shall be made
or taken. '

" § 3. No such association, member, ofﬁcer, or special.
agent is, or shall be authorized, to contract or incur any
debt or pecuniary obligation Whatever in behalf of this
Society; nor are any acts or omissions of any such asso-
ciation, member, ofﬁcer, or special agent, contrary to, or
in excess of, or unauthorized by law or the provisions of"
these By-Laws, to be deemed as Within the scope of its,
or his, or their authority, so far as this Society is con—-

cerned ; nor as authorized, sanctioned, or ratified by this. ,

Society. .
CHAPTER XIX.

ALTERATION OF THE BY—LAWS.

N o alteration in the By-Laws of this Society shall be
made unless openly proposed in writing at a meeting of‘
. the Society, entered on the minutes, with the name of the
member proposing the same, and adopted by the Society
at a subsequent meeting, by a vote of two-thirds of the-
members present.

CHAPTER XX.

All By—Laws and portions of By-Laws heretofore formed?
and adopted by this Society are hereby rescinded; and
this Code of By-Laws shall take effect immediately as a»
substitute for and modiﬁcation of all previous By-Laws-

_‘

ﬁr

 




E‘\~_

ﬁr

 

19

NOMINATIONS.

The Report of the Committee on Nominations
was then read.

At a meeting of the Executive Committee held
711th April, a Committee of three was appointed
7to nominate suitable persons to be supported for
«ofﬁce at the next annual election.

The Committee on Nominations for the Annual
Election of Ofﬁcers of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, May, 1871,
respectfully report:

That they have fulﬁlled the duty imposed on them, and beg leave to
n-ecommend the following ticket for the suffrage of members :—

FOR PRESIDENT.
HENRY BERGH.

FOR VICE— PRESI DENTS.

 

John T. Hoﬁman, James Brown,
Horace B. Claﬂin, George T. Trimble,
Henry W. Bellows, William H. Aspinwall,
Benjamin D. Hicks, Moses Taylor, -
Peter Cooper, Marshall 0. Roberts.

' FOR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
John D. Wolfe, ‘ James Stokes,
Frank Leslie, } Charles A. Marshall,
Townsend Harris, 9 N. M. Beckwith,
E, George Squier, Nathan C. Ely,

Alex. Van Rensselaer, i D. Lydig Suydam,

Alfred Schermerhorn, Elbridge T. Gerry,

_A. H. Campbell, James I. Kelso,
John M. Bixby.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘20
F0 R TREASURER.

Henry Clews.
FOR COUNSEL.
Elbridge T. Gerry.

FOR SECRETARY.

N. P. Hosaok.
New York, April 11, 1871.
The gentlemen recommended by the Committee
on Nominations were unanimously elected.

T. W. HARTFIELD, Acting Sec’y.

 

 




 

 

éetrrtary’s grpnrt.

0
0

In accordance with Section 3d, Chapter 6th of the
By-Laws, the Secretary has the pleasure to present to the
Members his Report of the proceedings and progress.
of the Society during the year ending 30th April, 1871..

It is a source of great satisfaction, to be able to assure
the friends of the Brute Creation, that the humane work
of the Society has steadily progressed during the last
twelve months, and that our example has been followed
by ﬁve other States during the past year, making at this
time twenty-three kindred Institutions in full operation,
in the United States and Canada.

After surmounting the passion and prejudice incident
to its formation, the Society has become an acknowledged
public utility, and its labors in the suppression of
cruelty receive the sympathy and approval of all right-
minded people.

In steadily pursuing its mission of mercy to the dumb
slaves of the human race; it has not only ameliorated
their sufferings, but in so doing has greatly improved the.
tone of public morality.

LECTURES.

The Presidentdelivered numerous lectures and ad—
dresses on the subject of Cruelty to Animals during the
year, of which the following were the most important:

1870, April 6th. Before the Pennsylvania Ladies’ So~
ciety, at Philadelphia.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

22

1870, May 6th. At Baltimore, by invitation of the
.Maryland Society.

1870, December 18. At Dr. Power's Church, Elm
Place, Brooklyn.

1870, December 20. At the American Institute
Farmers’ Club. .

1871, February 11. At the Lincoln Hall, Washington,
D. C.

1871, March 15. At the Union League Club, Madi-
zson Avenue.

1871, May 18. At St. John’s Hall, Jersey City.

Among those which the President was compelled to
decline, on account of pressure of business, was an in-
vitation to address the Legislature of Rhode Island.

THE WORK OF THE SOCIETY.

During the year 187 0-7 1,the Society obtained three
hundred and twelve convictions. There were also thirty-
one cases in which the prisoners received reprimands,
and twenty-seven cases were dismissed.

During the same period upwards of ﬁve hundred lame
or otherwise disabled horses or mules, were turned out of
harness and sent home, a great number of them from the
stages.

THE AMBULANCE OF THE SOCIETY.

The services of the truck for the transportation of
animals has been called into requisition on one hundred
and twenty occasions, and many valuable horses have, by
its timely assistance, been saved from perishing.

ANIMALS DESTROYED.

During the past twelve months many hundreds of old
or diseased horses and other animals have been mercifully
destroyed by the ofﬁcers of the Society.

 

 

 




A

RECORD OF CONVICTIONS OBTAINED BY THE SOCIETY IN anon YEAR.

HEX" ""“‘ ‘~“""‘:"1
, 1866—7 186758 l 1868—9 1359—1”

R_ 1:11 4 V I '

 

 

 

 

 

 

.114“ ﬁg, .~ 1" 4 “‘ '
1610—11! Tongs]

\—

l F“

For cruelly beating Horses or other
Animals with Whips, sticks or other i i V
weapons, . . . . . . . . . . . 41 31' ,, 00

For carrying Animals in a cruel or
inhuman manner, . . . . . . . . 74_
xx. . . “f"‘“*“

For dr1v1ng lame, s1ck or disabled
Horses, . .

i

 

 

 

For overloading or overdriving Horses
and Mules, . . . . . . . . . . 3 20 ___121__4
M \—
F or acts of Cruelty to Cattle, Dogs,
Cats, Poultry, &o., . . . . .
KEV

For Dog or Cock Fighting, . . . . __ 4 6

For using Bit Burrs or other instru-
ments of torture,

 

 

 

 

 

For starving or abandoning Horses or f 3 0
otherAnimals,. . . . . . . . . 12 11 27 If 22 1:)

Totals, g. . . - 101 222 264

 

 

 

 

 

I 85”;
269 1312 f 1168 ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘24

The disagreeable duty of destroying the lives of ani-
mals abandoned to die, has been assumed by the Society,
in order to assure a more speedy and humane termination
of their existence. This merciful purpose having been
availed of by cruel and sordid persons, incited by
unscrupulous lawyers, to bring vexatious suits against the
Society, for worthless animals so destroyed, a more rigid
observance of the statute was found necessary, although
manifestly tendering to the prolongation of the creatures"
sufferings; and the following certiﬁcate was issued for-
the guidance of the Society’s agents:

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS}.

NEW’ YORK, 187
I hereby authorize an Qﬂicer 0f the above-
Soeiety, to kill the belonging to me, the same being unﬁt for-

further use.
Signature of Owner.
Residence,
Condition of Animal,
Where Killed,

Date,
Signature of Ofﬁcer,

[Surrender this Certiﬁcate to the Secretary of the Society.]

A well-directed blow, taking effect, slightly above,
and between the eyes, from the instrument sketched
below, occasions instantaneous insensibility and speedy
death.

There is one regretable feature however, attendant on
these public exertions; namely, the demoralizing inﬂu—
ence, which may ensue, but there seems no present means
of evading this possible consequence.

 

 

 




 

 

26

and a complete suspension of the ruffianly “sport,” as
it is termed, has followed.

PIGEON MATCHES.

All action of a repressive character is still suspended
on the part of the Society, in these matches, and no
other steps have been taken than to detail officers of the
Society to attend on such occasions, and see that the
mutilated birds are speedily destroyed.

STREET RAILROADS.

During the past severe winter, the efforts of the
Society have been "strenuously brought to bear on the
several street Railway Companies, with a View to com-
pelling them to provide double teams and better horses,
during the snow storms and frosty weather. On several
occasions the interference of the Ofﬁcers of the Society
caused some little excitement on the part of the passen-
gers; but it is gratifying to add, that the delay occa-
sioned, was, on reﬂection, approved of by the respectable
portion of travellers.

The cruel and shameless practice on the part of rail—
road proprietors, of suffering their cars to be crammed
with human and inhuman beings, and their horses tor-
tured and killed, seems to be utterly beyond the reach
of any correction. Certain magistrates, and men of
political inﬂuence, are holders of the stocks of these
companies, and hence such corporations possess an immu-
nity from punishment, not enjoyed by smaller offenders.
They do not, however, wholly escape the vigilance of the
Society, which continually interposes its legal and
humane authority, in mitigation of this shameful evil.

STAGES.

Owing to the trouble and inconvenience caused by
having their stages stopped, while conveying passengers
up and down town, the proprietors are more careful of
their horses.

 

 

 

 




 

I’VT/A‘f'gA/{éA/KZ/f . .j, : /’/ w/‘l/J'J 7/927 (II/7 VI: ({v
if H ~» y’Z/ V/ﬂfé’M/C/‘y

/
I.

/

I: , I - , ‘ W

 

1/ ‘
' // .
I // >
mug/3',

AND ms VICTIMS.

\ ~»\\\‘\'\\
’ 7

“\\ \vQ

'/
’,/»’,y'/
‘14 ' I I
f’f/I'r'fl
r; ’- , .
”pf/2,

‘3

\\\ \

\.

NC

‘5

xgx
“SPORT

\\ \~

\\_‘

A
>,
*3
.2
O
O
U)
CD
.2
H
":5
Q)
:1
c3
0
;-—4
h
F—
" to
G
”—
.29
3
O
O
u
E
Q.‘
a
E
O
L4
R4
V

5° CALLED

L " ’U/
‘//1’;’,.' a

/

..' 1,59 .‘x- 11%

(14:12:11 ,1
("M /.

v! .
:2
11159 t“

 

 




 

27
INSPECTION OF STABLES.

The Ofﬁcers of the Society have inspected several hun-
dred stables during the past year; comprising the large
stables of the various street railroad companies, and of
large contractors.

SWILL MILK AND COW SHEDS.

Numerous complaints having been made by medical
men and others, about the condition of various cow sta-
bles and the diseased “swill milk cows” therein; several
raids have been made in this city. One of the most im-
portant Was at Harlem. A squad of Oﬁicers of the
Society inspected the stables, and having reported them
in a ﬁlthy condition, the President himself visited them
on the 7th of March last. He ordered the proprietors to
thoroughly cleanse and ventilate the sheds, and make
various alterations for the beneﬁt and comfort of the
cattle. -

The cow stables at Williamsburg and Brooklyn have
also been visited and thoroughly inspected.

An investigation is now pending regarding the condi-
tion, etc., of the Bushwick cattle pens and slaughter
houses by the Brooklyn Board of Health, initiated by a
1etter to the Board of Health of those places, from the
President.

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND BEAST.

The ten fountains belonging to the Society have been
thoroughly repaired.

It having been reported to the President that the eleven
fountains cast after our model and belonging to the De-
partment of Public Works, located in different parts of
this metropolis, were out of order, he called the attention

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23

of the Hon. W. M. Tweed, President of the Department
to the fact; whereupon full permission was given the
Society to have them repaired at the expense of the
Department of Public Works.

HORSE CLIPPING.

The cruel and disastrous practice of clipping horses,
has been on the increase during the past winter; and
the poor animals, thus deprived of their natural covering,
have been seen on many occasions, standing for hours at
the fashionable dry goods stores, shivering in the snow
storm, while the senseless coachmen have been wrapped
up all the while in furs, and covered with the very
blankets designed for the mutilated animals 1 This sub-
ject has received the earnest attention of the President, '
who has on several occasions protested against this
inhuman practice. '

The following letter appeared in the New York
Times, of the 25th December last, on this subject:

AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS.
696 Broadway, N. Y., 24th December, 1871.

To the Editor of the N. Y. Times.

SIR :—The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals most
feelingly and impressively invites the humane consideration of all
persons owning horses to the cruel and disastrous practice of clip-
ping and singeing them.

In the hope that this inhuman custom may receive the condem
nation which it merits, the undersigned respectfully subj oins a few
authorities on the subject:

MAYHEW, in his great work, says, “ clipped or singed horses are
’ thereby rendered susceptible to many terrible disorders. Any
internal organ may be acutely attacked, because the perspiration
has, by exposure of the skin, been thrown back upon the system.”
Scientiﬁc men have long known that the skin and the lungs are

 

 

4r
1

 




\1

 

29

joined in one and the same function ; and yet this senseless custom
is becoming daily more general, and that, too, at the very period of
the year when nature manifests her wisdom by providing the ani-
mal with additional covering, and mankind put on their furs and
over-coats. But the groom protests that “ it is impossible to dry a
thick-coated animal ;” that is, without expending more of that
physical attention for which he is paid than he desires to bestow.

To illustrate the effects produced by a thick, wet covering, and
by a thin, wet envelope, MAYHEW relates the result of a very sim-
ple experiment, which the reader may, without much trouble,
institute for himself: “ Obtain two bottles. Wrap one closely in
several layers of calico; around the other ﬁx only a single, tightly-
‘ﬁtting covering of the same fabric. Saturate the cloths of both
bottles with water; also ﬁll the interior of each with the same
liquid. Renew the moisture to the two coverings as either becomes
dry. After "twelve hours test the temperature of the, contents
poured from either bottle. That from the thickly-covered (which
may remain wet) vessel will be unchanged, or warmer for its con-
ﬁnement; that contained within the thinly-protected inclosure
(which, possibly, shall be quite dry,) will be cold, very cold—so
cold that, in warm climates, water is thus rendered a refreshing
draught. Nay, the hotter the medium to which the bottles have
been exposed, the colder will be the temperature of the thinly-
-coated liquid.

“ Now, the stable is always a heated medium. The animal with
a thick coat is represented by the vessel with a thick encasement,
the contents of which are not chilled by the moisture which satu-
rates its envelope. The clipped steed is represented by the bottle
thinly enfolded, the liquid within which became cold. But it may
be urged the clipped horse is never moist. Then perspiration must
be checked and fever must be present, for during health the pores
of the skin are never inactive. Where the coat is removed super-
ﬁcial perspiration, accompanied with constant evaporation, must
always be taking place. Where the hair is thick, moisture natu-
rally accumulates, because the covering prevents superﬁcial evapo-
ration, and thereby checks the operating cause of internal frigidity.”

YOUATT, another high authority says: “ As to the practice of clip-
ping and shaving the horse, it occasions chilling of the frame, ex-
haustion of vital power, and dangerous reactions of fever.”
MCEACHERN, the distinguished veterinary surgeon of Montreal, Mr.
.PENTON, and Mr. PRENDERGAST, and I may add, every educated

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

3O

practitioner here and wherever the stupid and heartless custom
prevails, condemn it in most unequivocal terms.

A few reﬂections and I am done. Whence emanated this merci-
less practice ? I answer, from the brain of a lazy, indolent groom

or coachman; who, in order to escape the use of the curry-comb

and brush, persuades his master to have all the hair removed from:
his faithful servant’s body ! As a rule, the aversion of these persons
to work is as patent as their violent treatment of the defenseless
creatures placed in their power. Go into almost any stable and'
notice the sudden starting of the horses at the approach of the groom

or coachman ; observe these men when driving through the streets,.

or when the horses are standing quietly near the sidewalks, how
they lash the unoﬁ'ending creatures. Notice the two iron bits in
the horses’ mouths, the chains under their jaws, the check-rein,

drawn so short as almost to deprive the animals of the power of"

locomotion ; and, ﬁnally, the recent infernal machine, called an.
“ burr,” with its thirty or forty nails sticking into the tender ﬂesh
of their victim’s jaws! All, or nearly all, of which, and others, are
the drivers’ invention.

The undersigned has assured himself that in the majority of
cases, the ladies and gentlemen owning these tortured dumb slaves
are wholly ignorant of these facts, or else err from want of reﬂection...
Ladies, will you not, while wrapped in your warm and costly furs,
give a thought to the beautiful and generous creatures which await.
your coming in the bleak and wintry wind, and forbid this stripping
off of nature’s covering, a practice which ministers only to the in-
dolence of your well-paid groom? A horse thus shorn, as MAYHEW
says, is a deformity—the color is unnatural, the coat is dull and
stubborn, looking most unlike that polished surface which is native.—
to the beautiful quadruped.

Respectfully,
HENRY BERGH, President..

GLANDERS AND FARCY.

These contagious and incurable diseases have made
great havoc among the horses belonging to the poorer
classes, owing, to a great extent, to bad stabling, want of"
cleanliness and proper food. Many poor creatures have
also been found in the streets, abandoned by their un»

 

 

 

 

1"

 




 

 

31

feelincr masters after discoverin the le0'al risks the ran.
6 , g a
by havmg them 1n thelr possessmn.

THE BIT-BURR.

This modern instrument of torture consists of two cir-
cular pieces of leather, one side being thickly studded
with long and sharp tacks, and a back piece of cover
stitched to it to give a good resistance to the nails. These
burrs, fastened to the bit, placed on each side of a horse’s
mouth, make the animal step high and give frisky evi-
dences of the preponderance of animal spirits; but the
laceration they effect upon the tenderest part ofthe horse
stamps them as one of the most injru'ious and uncalled-
for contrivances in use. '

;

i, i ‘.
.x-‘jll?
fv._‘
I
. .‘
—————— _ 1‘ "
. ‘1.
:——d__' ' _ .
.z
5;,

I’i'. I“. I
i man. ”HUI/l
15%|“II

l H ll
U l

\u ' .1" ”-7 H
\ "11:,'1-~—- , I‘
.
l l I
l’ In

7

I’ll
/
_ /

,5 /

. l" I’ll‘luilfll'l §x
__ till all I! \S:

%;E "ll if“ [ﬁg ‘ .‘F£§ ,. ..,
" ‘ lilﬁw gr; :j; '

, .,//

    

r2 .7. i ll MM"
' i' ' *jL,\

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

O.
o2

The use of the burr is threefold—it is supposed to
spare the coachman some little trouble, when driving;
it compels the horse to hold his head in one position;
and ﬁnally, when the fellow wishes to “show off,” he
,jerks the reins, the twenty or thirty nails enter the ten-
der ﬂesh of the animal‘s mouth, and it prances in mag—
niﬁcent agony.

In October, 1870, the attention of the President was
{called to these infernal instruments, on the bits of two
ﬁne horses, attached to a carriage which was standing at
“the door of one of the large up-town dry goods stores.
He at once removed them and issued orders to the ofﬁcers
-and agents of the Society to take possession of all others
“found by them on the harness or" all horses, and deposit
them at the ofﬁce of the Society, to be reclaimed by their
owners ; a privilege not availed of however. In the space
of a month, about one hundred and ﬁfty were collected,
“some of them of a very. severe description. No arrests
were made in this city, but the coachman were cautioned
against using them in the future.

The Agent of the Society at Staten Island, however,
arrested a coachman for this offense; and the owner of
the carriage appearing on the day of trial, he was ﬁned
ten dollars by Judge Corbet, who expressed his intention ,
«of imposing a ﬁne in every similar case brought before
him.

Owing to the prompt measures taken by the Society,
it is gratifying to be able to report, that the practice of
using such cruel and unnecessary instruments, is going
out of fashion.

The annexed spirited sketch from Frank Leslie’s Illus-

trated Newspaper, exhibits the use and effect of the
"“ Burr.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

4

.I I?
4 ” _ .
‘ AA ' //
- ,

 

.1...
' ‘.

 

 

 

 

  

‘~:\.‘:;‘:\~ r-T‘ » ‘ I
Ejvﬂngi
xﬁ/f

%

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-*——-~ g .7.

. A/ -
"/v‘”¢;//J f/f /.
['A. _ ' / ‘ ’ 1
or 4:] j/M/ ,////,//

.7 x"// / ' /
/ ' , / /, t /

now

{ z

\\~

   

    

   

‘i

 

 

 

 

 

 

A / ;
\ . , ,, , , - A
. ; . > ‘ > , A- .A I , I , I /
-‘ ‘ '_ . ' I r, A” ,1 I, ,A I A
; A - _ , ., , , / , , ' A . A / / ,
. - - .' ,./ / . , ‘ ///, I
\ . —. _ . . , .
. .. a H p/ , ”I'll/r ;
. » ,I / v
\e . “9- " " ”/x .
. _, 4V / .

A‘, 1/ /A ,/ I”
A. , ,W/ M /.
. « Au/ 1" ’M/ 1
A A w
o r, A «z / / /

,1 // IN. ////.
.; / f ’ / /
, A

/ A
.A , / w
, 1‘ l1
1/ I/ '1
V A xxI“ x r
, It i r
i) k" i
‘ / /" ,'/, I ‘k’ I I '
I. / Af/A 1 I / 1
. n g i 1/, A] t ' , /
.’ f .- I ,I I ,/II ,/ / / I I/ /A
n ' . ' r . . 7' */ , * _ I 1‘" H x 1
. _ A ,.,. . A \ , h _ , A, I ,
. - > _ . .' I! , . .'t. I ‘3 . I II x" , I , 1 /A
.(A ,, I ,I .' ,A , ,~ , _-, V . , , I . I
, ’.' u ,4» , - <1 A/ _ A, / I x
. .’ r . , - ~ I I
e , , '. ' . . :.-";'» ,,~ / I
. \ . x , ; , _ . - , .I m / / /
. I _. _ .‘ .‘ - . r _ .- . - H A . / .\- /
, . - \ / I . - I - . . .
\1“ ‘. - ' . ‘ r ' ’ ., ‘ . . ' . . , / . ’ \ . / ' /
v' I“ . --~-, I o '_ ‘ ," - ; A . ‘_A _ . . _’-"’ A - . ’ /
. .~ " ~ : i ‘ .. / I ’ ' 7’ -. /' "A > -- -7 , ,w \ “ ’
." If , . .‘ .~‘\‘ -I , I - - . A ,- . 1 .' .. _< * ‘-\ \ x / / I
' , A \ I .i . a: o '— - x ‘. ' . , _ » \x i v // /
. . 1,, . x9 . . »".""’,—.-' ) I)” ., . it At , I, /
' - r '. ‘ . ’ I" . ‘ I . ' T ' ’ ’ - ' ‘ " x i /
. . r.-, , . \ A A1 . , - , , -_ - _A. __ / /
" ' '.. " " ’l K ' ’1' .‘ , ' ‘ . /' 1' ' i -. ‘ . ' i " /
' 4 ' ' ' ‘ ‘ r-‘-r:' . ', "" 'i,_ ,, ' . - '» " W
' ' " V C - V , 4.’ , , — no . "
Z ( , I ' . I , , , ,A ’r . . ,' . ,. f» .:'-
I ', I '1 I I’ ‘ \ r, _, ‘ 1 1,1. ‘
.I .' I , < /

I .1 /////

 

 

 

i:'I//

 

/ , , ' ,
/ ' , AA- \ ~ I A ,
1’ , . . ( x I , I . ’, / /
. , ‘ w- .‘ _ »
' '-, ' " I ‘." ”i «. x“ ' , A
I , - o - v, . .\, 4 I ,
.' , I- , I , .- 4 I , _ I . I . I,
4 ,/ . ‘ . r , . . A . , tr, . ,
, , _ _ t 5 . - . / . ,p I .. 4 _ . /
1 , x . ' I ' , n" 1 ’ , r
A,, —' ,. x a / .4. _ I ,u’ g ,n ., . ,.I /
. g . _ , a ,x r' ; V . ~ ,- ,/A_’, / 1 .' : ,‘ ~ 1
.. ,, , v '._ ’ r 7'. » . » *' , . .' z - , ' A .
1.1 1 ‘ . . , I ., , ”A5, . ,; 5 _ - ~_ .7 ,, ‘ 2
L . /'-" " " , . ,7 ' " 4 ., > , -, A \,
A / / ‘ < / l “r ' - - , r; . - ' u 3‘ T_ _
/ :-' -. . , . i, 3-» _ .
,- . I’, // — . _ r I . 1 1 , ", ,. .— , i
« . / r. 7 , =1 - , ~ . ~ ,h‘ . -\
A 1 A I 1 , ~ . 1 _ 4 . I/u . I T
, , / - » ,. ; r ,, _
z , - . V, , - r v , .
I . ,7 , . 1/ (I A _ A .. . . . , A_, A V , , A
I, . -‘ . l', , . , 7' . ‘ r ' ,, « . I : . .-' ,M' ,, . v ‘_ .-" '
,. , .. . , A ._ /A
i . ' . I \A ‘ " , x » A" r , ,4 I,
. ,, . - . - . ,» a. , I , /
. ,I{ ,‘L . .. I: / a . t / /
_ A ”k _ ,.- — <
l

 

 

         

I40»: /
.///,' /\\/‘A; 1/, 'II' /

   

,l r
x
I

' 6’ /A///'/ / L,
/ ' //I{ /\

 

// _
/,-

 

  

I
7,_

/

   

 

a ner form 0f

,1
I
y

“ Bit Burr

use of the

ts, by the
York, Washington

iri

to High Sp

in

Horses tortured

l
!

MAGNIFICENT AGONY

 

etc.

’

 

 

Goad, fashionable in New




 

 

33
LOSS OF ANIMAL LIFE AT FIRES.

Several dreadful ﬁres have occurred in this city and
Brooklyn, at which great numbers of horses and other
animals have been burnt to death. The stables, as a
rule, are built in very unsuitable places, and upon upper
ﬂoors of buildings where the animals are conﬁned, so as
to render almost hopeless all chance of escape, and hun-
dreds are thus annually roasted alive!

In March last, the stables of the Grand Street. and
Newtown Railroad Company in Brooklyn "were burned
down and ﬁfty horses met a horrible death. On another
occasion a large number of sheep were burned at a ﬁre
at a large slaughter house in this city..

THE PRESS.

The thanks» of the Society are again due. to the Press
for the continued support and encouragement which it
has accorded to the cause, and the exertions of its
Ofﬁcers.

To Mr. Frank Leslie, special commendation is due for
the liberality which he has manifested in his admirable
illustration of the results which the labors of the Society
have achieved.

THE IUDIOIARY.

It is very gratifying to bear testimony to the ability,
justice and humanity which have generally characterized
the decisions of all magistrates before whom the com-
plaints of the Society have been preferred. Except in
a few cases, their decisions have evinced a high- sense of
humanity, and a generous appreciation of the efforts of
the Society, in protecting our dumb, defenceless animals.

THE METROPOLITAN POLICE FORCE.

The acknowledgments of the Society are also due to
the Commissioners, Superintendent, Captains, and ~the

 

 

 




 

 

 

34

force generally, for the aid and support so cordially ren—
dered in carrying out its purposes.

The decease of the late Superintendent Jourdan, who
was ever ready to help forward the good work to the
utmost limit of his power, is deeply deplored by the

- entire Society.

In July last that gentleman issued a general order
from headquarters, to the several captains of police, re-
questing them to instruct the men under their charge to

render every possible aid to the agents and ofﬁcers of the
Society on all occasions.

N. P. HOSACK,
Secretar 21

 

 




 

 

 

”?

airport of tip: @xrmtihc gnutntitm.

 

 

0‘.

At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on the
11th April, 1871, it was

Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed on the part of
this Committee, to prepare and submit a Report of the Executive
Committee to the annual meeting in May next.

Whereupon, Messrs. C. H. Marshall, N. M. Beckwith

:and E. G. Squier were appointed such Committee.

REPORT.

As the Report of the Secretary gives the members a
full summary of the work of the Society during the past
twelve months, the Committee deem it only necessary

‘ brieﬂy to allude to a few matters which they have con-

sidered at their usual monthly meetings, and which mat-
ters are not referred to in the Secretary’s Report.

They have deemed it proper to recognize the valuable
services of Dr. Liautard, of the New York Veterinary
College, on behalf of the Society; and would recom-
mend a continuation of the pecuniary tender already
made to him. '

They have also donated the sum of one hundred dol-
lars towards the maintenance of the publication entitled
““Our Dumb Animals,” published monthly by the“ Massa-

 

 




 

 

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 

 

 
 
  

 

 

O

u6

chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals,” and would recommend at a suitable time an

increase of this subscription.

They have authorized the President to offer, at his
discretion, such rewards as he might deem necessary, for
the purpose of obtaining information that would lead to
the conviction of persons guilty of acts of cruelty to

animals.

The vacancy occasioned on the Executive Committee
by the decease of the much lamented Superintendent.
Jourdan has been ﬁlled by the election of the present
efficient Chief Kelso.

They have also elected Elbridge- T. Gerry, Esq., Coun-
sellor at Law, a member of their body, in consequence of
the vacancy caused by the inability of Jonathan Thorne,

Esq., to attend its meetings.

At a meeting of the Committee on the 4th of J anu—
ary, 1871, the lamented death of the late Samuel Morris.
Waln, Esq., President of the Pennsylvania Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, was communicated
to them, in an appropriate and impressive manner, by the
chairman, Mr. Bergh, and the following resolutions ap-
propriate thereto were adopted:

Resolved, That we have heard of the death of the late President
of the Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, Samuel Morris Waln, Esq, with deep sorrow, and do hereby
tender our condolence with the bereaved family, and the profound
sympathy of this Society with the kindred institution of Pennsyl-
vania, at the loss of its truly humane and benevolent President.

Also Resolved, That copies Of these resolutions be forwarded to
the family, and to the Society whose honored and beloved chief he
was.

  

 

 




 

 

37

The following response to these resolutions was subse—
quently received: '

PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 20, 1871.

HENRY BERGH, Esq., President, (ﬁe.

DEAR SiR,—At a meeting of the Board of Managers.
of the Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, held on the 19th inst., the resolutions of con-
dolence and sympathy which were passed by your Execu-
tive Committee, at their meeting of the 6th inst., were-
received and read.

I am directed by our Board to return our heartfelt.
acknowledgments; and to assure your Committee of the
sincere gratiﬁcation which they feel at this brotherly evi-
dence of the sympathy of the Pioneer American Society

‘ for our great, and in some respects irreparable, loss.

Yours, very truly,

P. E. CHASE, Sec’y.

At their meeting on the 20th February, the Commit--
tee, after mature consideration of the subject, passed the-
following resolution :

Resolved, That no Ofﬁcer or Agent in the pay of the Society shall
be eligible to become a member thereof.

On the 22d April, a special meeting of the Society
took place at its Ofﬁce, 696 Broadway.

 

 

 




 

 

 

b

rjrcztsurrr’s $011011.

’)

if!“

The total income of the Society from all sources
«during the year ending the 30th April, 1871, was
$14,095.63. Of this sum, $0,050 was contributed in aid
of the Building Fund.

The expenditure of the Society during the same period
, was $5,796.63.

'

Cash in hand—Building Fund .............. $9,550.00
"Current Expenses ......................... 1,862.97

Also, $9,000 U. S. 5—20 Bonds.
$2,000 U. S. 10—4013onds.

 




 

 

Jg- — ,_,‘

 

£13. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in account with John B. Murray, Treasurer.

Mr...— __ ,__.1,__.,,, ,,_.,’,__V A, ,— v_ __ , .,_._,._-,__14,,,_1_ Ma‘ 1.. 4___”__>_‘ 4 ,7, #1, <_ >,, ,_,, _,4 V, ___,u __

MH#_. ,1..-__,_ . . _ __“_ . ___ _._..- 11'..._._‘V-44_'__ ..__.._, _. _- _

1871. 1870.

May 1. To €37,917; Paild out from ist May, 1870, to 30m April, May 1. By Balance— 1d
‘ znc usive, viz. .- Bui ing fund........................ 500 00
Salaries: oﬁrce $833 33 Current expenses.................. 2,013 02
“ detectives.................................. 1,820 49 ————-~ $3,113 0'2
Rent of gekaork ofﬁce, 1 year 800 00 1871,
“ r00 1 n “ “ ’" ) .
Rewards y 13:) 30 May 1' By Cash Receivedfrmn 13‘ Mag/,1870, ’0 30th 1112711,
Printinauu...".......................,... 264 18 1871* inclusive, “'3' -'
Stationary and books............ 44 00 Life mem1)erships_......... """"" 5,9“ 00
Badges for oﬁicers and seals for societies 12 1 early. memberslnpe............................................... 1‘0‘2‘ 00)
gent Of statale and repafirs YO truck......... 193 113(1)::‘t13éfel§ga..unn. ..... . 1 .28: (-5?)
a'nt'nﬂ an .. . ‘. . . ‘ (the........ , b ' coco-cocoon-coo-o‘ Ina-unnooa-couno-uc. ----- 0-0-0. nnnnnn o , 1 :Q
oa‘ace‘ei-‘pen5:88.933???"33????fof‘.“.‘.‘..‘f.‘?‘.‘.':.... ..... .. 3943‘; Interest recewed on $9.000 U- S- 5-20 BOW“ and

’Fravelino ex 011888."..."Iunn.unu.n..uuu"unuunu. premlllm:............. ...... n.......‘.................noun-u... (RX) 0—:
Poetaaesoandli‘evenue qtampq Interest recerved on $2,000 U. 5. 10—10 Bonds and
L a ‘ L \ 'ICIODOII -Illncloooolaoouatl0000 .

- . 2 2
Rent of safe 1n Natlonal Park Ballkl......-'"...'..‘.-". premlllm:~uounun-nonuouu-u:unoc-o-oa.uu‘--.a‘..-.-oo-on-.-..:u: 11 1
Law suits and counsel‘s fees 111mm“ recervgd from Unron Tm”) 901‘11”“‘Y 1‘“ , . ,
Commission.............................. the year 1b“) 3‘3" 'H
Donation in aid of “Our Dumb Animals”...... Donations In 1nd of bulldmg fund 0,000 00

Veterinary surgeon"................
Oﬂice furmture
Balance in Union Trust Co.—
Building Fund......$9,550 00
Current expenses. 1,862 07
—-—-———- 11,412 97

 

 

$17,200 00

i.“

$17,209 60

V _._, -4 A

__ , f/f-

We have examined the above account and found it correct. May 18t,BY Balance, Ic‘iiigﬁtgefﬁ‘éﬁeq $2220 0:;
w ' 11,412 0

L. D. HUDSON, §Audztmg Commottee, 3: ,

NEW YORK, May 22d, 1871.

9,000 U. S. 5—20 per cent. 1301108.

011 hand, 3:
9? $2,000 U. S. 10—40 per cent, Bonds,

 

 




 

41
AMERICAN INSTITUTE FARMER’S CLUB.

At a meeting of this Club in December last, the Hon.
Nathan C. Ely in the chair, Mr. Bergh, by invitation,
delivered an address on the treatment of the inferior
animals. At the following session of the Club the sub-
joined Resolutions, offered by Mr. Lyman and sustained
in remarks by Drs. Smith and Trumhle, were adopted:

HENRY BERGH TO BE SUSTAINED.

Whereas, Mr Henry Bergh,‘ President of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, at our last session recited with
admirable manner and praiseworthy spirit the efforts of that Asso-
ciation to prevent the torture and abuse of the dumb brutes, and to
suppress cruel and dangerous modes of transporting live stock, and
alluded to a nearly-successful effort at Albany to procure the repeal
of the law which sustains Mr. Bergh and his associates in their
humane and Christian activities ; therefore——

Resolved, That the Farmers’ Club of the American Institute have
learned with surprise and astonishment of'a concerted action on the
part of nearly one-half of the Assemblymen of this State for pro-
curing the repeal of the law which created the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Resolved, That the efforts and acts of this Society have been
useful, humane, wise and beneﬁcent only; that in this city alone it
has prevented a sum of needless suffering which no man can esti-
mate; it has arrested a thousand brutal whippings; it has required
loads to be pr0portioned to the strength of the animal that draws it ;
it has protected suffering creatures from exposures to icy storms ; it
has stripped the harness from draft animals that were beaten
because they were lame, and poundcd because their ﬂesh was raw
from the gelling of the collar; it has stepped the clubbing of horses;
it has interposed between the greed of unfeeling men and the suﬂ‘er-
ings of calves, and lambs, and poultry, on their way to slaughter-
houses; it has done much, and proposes to do more, in abatement of
that great nuisance and dishonor to our civilization—the systematic
and wholesale torture of cattle by bruising, trampling and goring,
by thirst and fever, and hunger and cold while in transit from
western prairies to eastern cities ; it has caused the arrest and urged
the trial and punishment of knaves who would, for greed of foul
proﬁts, poison our population with milk of cows fed on Swill—-

 

 




 

42

milk drawn from animals burning with slow fever and tottering
with gangrene; it has caused the arrest of cock-ﬁghters and dog-
baiters ; it has urged the disuse of severe bits and cruel goads ; it
has penetrated to the recesses of slaughter-pens, and insisted, if
animals must die for man, that the stroke be made quick and dex-
terous, so as to prevent torture and death by inches.

Resolved, That the repeal of a law by which so much good has been
accomplished would in no respect promote the general weal, is not
required by the liberty of any right-minded citizen, is not called
for by the community ; such repeal would be a blot on our statute
book and a libel on the reﬁnement and Christianity of this genera
tion.

Resolved, That authentic copies of these resolutions be sent by
our Secretary to The Albany Argus, Albany Express, Albany Jour-
nal, Troy Times, Ullca Herald, Rochester Democrat, Rochester
Union, Buﬁ‘alo Express, Baﬁalo Courier, and that the press of the
city here represented be requested to give full space for thisprotest.

At a meeting also of the New York State Agricultural
Society in February last, the following resolution was
adopted by the members, to wit :

“That the Society approves of the existing laws for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and requests that
the Legislature will not pass an act for their repeal.”

THE “LATE LOUIS BONARD.

The death of this benefactor of the animal creation took
place at St. Vincent’s Hospital, in this city, on the 20th
February, 1871.

,H On the 14th of that month he devised all his wealth
l i ‘\~ to this Society, appointing Henry Bergh and Archi—
‘ i bald H. Campbell his executors.

l l On the 21st February his remains were deposited in
: l l: the receiving vault at Greenwood Cemetery, and on the
1 l 3 l 17th of May thereafter the body was interred in a plot of
“ , ‘1 ground purchased for that purpose, and over which a
l ' suitable monument will be erected.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(I

 

 

’r

 




 

 

~13

Owing to the numerous sensational reports which have
appeared in the columns of the press regarding this be-
nevolent man, the President wrote the tollowing letter,
which appeared in many of the newspapers :

AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS,
696 Broadway, N. Y., Feb. 24, 1871.
To the Editor:

Sun—Having seen numerous sensational and defamatory articles
in the newspapers relating to the late M. Louis Bonard, the under-
signed deems it a simple act of justice to correct them. Although
the deceased gentleman’s habits were very ecOnomical, he was not
a miser, nor did he live in the squalor and wretchedness attributed
to him. His apartment was, in a large modern brick house, situated
in Wooster street, and was clean, though modestly furnished. He
was temperate to the degree of never having drank a glass of liquor,
as he informed me on his death bed, and although not professing the
faith of any sect, he nevertheless, as he declared, “had a religion
of his own, based upon justice and humanity.” He and I never
met, nor had any communication, until about a week before his
death. Believing that his end was approaching, he sent for me, but
1 was out of town at the time; and being so informed requested
that his attorney might be sent for to make his will. This was ac-
cordingly done. On my return I went to see him, and with a mind
singularly clear and intelligent he assured me of the admiration he
had long entertained for the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals and its President, although personally unknown to him-
He then said that he had bequeathed all his property to that institus
tion, as their was no cause which so entirely possessed his sympa-
thy as the one it represents. He died and is buried, and believing
that along with his wealth he also bequeathed to the Society his
memory and the duty of protecting his name from wrongful and
calumnious aspersions, it is earnestly requested of the public to dis-
regard the extravagant rumors which have been uttered through
the press. The spirit that actuates a person in devoting his hard-
earned gains to the proﬁt of creatures which can neither thank nor
even recognize their benefactor, is surely incapable of the meanness
which has been unjustly attributed to him.

Yours respectfully, .
HENRY BERGH, Pres’t.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44

LEGISLATION.

Owing to the muniﬁcent bequest of the late Louis
Bonard, Esq., of all his real and personal estate, &c., it was
deemed necessary to amend the Charter of the Society,
to enable it to take and hold real estate.

The President, accompanied by Mr. Elbridge T.
Gerry, went to Albany in March last, and succeeded in
getting the amendment enacted.

Senator W. M. Tweed presented the Bill in the
Senate, and asked unanimous consent to pass the same.
This was effected in ten minutes, and it was then sent
down to the Assembly, but not presented that night.

.011 the following morning it was introduced by Mr.
Frear, but objection being made by Mr.‘ Campbell, of
this city, it was laid over, after being referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. Later, this Committee reported it
favorably, through Mr. Field, the Chairman; and it
was then passed by eighty-six ayes to two noes. It was
immediately signed by Governor Hoffman, and the
State Seal afﬁxed thereto. The whole working time
occupied in the passage of this Bill, from its ﬁrst .intro
duction by Mr. Tweed until its ﬁnal completion, includ-
ing the ordinary business of the Assembly that morning,
was two hours and seventeen minutes!

This result was all the more gratifying by reason of
the lateness of the session, and the vast amount of unﬁn-
ished business before the Legislature ; indicating thereby
the friendly sympathy of both Democrats and Republi-
cans in the prosperity of this humane and unselfish
institution.

To the Hon. W. M. Tweed is especially due the
merit of having lent his commanding inﬂuence in the
passage of this act ; and to Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry
is the Society profoundly indebted for his able and zeal-
ous professional assistance.

 

 

 

 

ﬁx!“

 




 

 

45
The following is the Amendment referred to:

AMENDMENT OF CHARTER.

An Act relative to the acquisition of real property by
the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, and to amend the Charter thereof. Passed 7th
March, 1871.

The People of the State of New York, represented in
Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows :

SEC. 1. The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, a Corporation created by an Act of
the Legislature of this State, passed April 10th, 1866,
is hereby authorized and empowered to take, hold, use
and enjoy all the lands, tenements and hereditaments
which were by the last will of Louis Bonard devised
unto the said Corporation, for the uses and purposes in
said will expressed. And all the estate, claim, right,
title and interest of the people of this State, of, in and
to said lands, tenements and hereditaments, and every
part thereof, are hereby released, granted, conﬁrmed to
and msted in said Corporation.

SEC. 2. The Sixth Section of an act entitled “An Act
'to incorporate the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,” passed April tenth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, is hereby amended, and shall read
as follows:

SEC. 6. This Corporation shall be capable of taking,
holding and enjoying any real property by virtue of any
deed, or of any devise contained in any last will of any
person whomsoever, subject to the provisions of law
relative to devises by last will. But this Corporation
shall not, in its corporate capacity, hold real estate, the
yearly income derived from which shall exceed the sum
of ﬁfty thousand dollars.

 

 

 




 

 

47
THE NEW YORK RENDERING COMPANY.

This Company, which is under contract with the city"
authorities to remove from the city all dead horses and
other animals, as well as meat condemned by the Board
of Health, furnish the following statistics of their work
during the past twelve months. Since the 1st of May,
1870, the Company had received :

Dead Horses ............................................... 2,810
Live Horses ............................................... 6:24
Farcied Horses .......................................... 878
Glandered Horses ......................................... 647
Dead Cows .............................................. 121
Dead Dogs .................................................. 3,400
Dead Cats .................................................. 2,130
Dead Goats ................................................ 272

Twenty-ﬁve per cent. of the horses received for the
last three months by the Company had their hoofs oil, or'
were badly affected, caused by salt used din-int,r the past
winter, or from having picked up a nail.

Of this vast number the Ofﬁcers of the Society have
humanely destroyed one thousand horses and other ani-
mals. The reﬂection naturally follows this pitiful
exhibit, Whether this tremendous waste of life might not.
have been averted by a more just and comlgmssionate con--
sideration of the rights of these dependent creatures.

DONATIONS OF BOOKS, PAMPHLETS AND NEWS-—
PAPERS.

New York Sunday Dispatch.

New York Round Table and Citizen.
\Vilkes’ Spirit of the Times.

Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Weekly.
Scottish American.

The Nation.

The Daily Brooklyn Eagle.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48

The Home Journal.

Woodhull & Clatiin’s \Veekly.

The Turf, Field, and Farm.

The Anglo-American.

The Christian Weekly.

Webster’s Elegant Illustrated Dictionary, 1871, donated
by the Publishers, Messrs. Gr. & C. Merriam, of
Springﬁeld, Mass, to the President.

The City Directory, donated by H. Wilson, Esq.

Laws of New York State, 1867, 1868, 1869. 6 vols.
Donated by H. Nelson, Esq., Secretary of State
of New York State.

Agricultural Reports, 1867, 1868. Donated by H. Cap-
ron, Esq., Commissioner of Agriculture, Washing-
ton, D. C.

Report of the Iowa Agricultural Society, 1867. Do—
nated by J. M. Schaﬂ'er, Secretary of the Society.

Report of the Pennsylvania Society, 1871. Philadelphia.

Laws of the Geneva Society for the Prevention of Cru—
elty to Animals.

Report of the Canadian Society, 1870.

Report of Texas Cattle Disease. Donated by Dr. E.
Harris.

Report of the Metropolitan Board of Health, 1868.
Presented by the Board.

Bulletins de la Société Protectriee des Animaux. Paris,
Mai, 1869, to Mai, 1871.

Bulletins de la Société Protectrice des Animaux._
Bruxelles, Mai, 1869, to Mai, 1871.

Report of the Board of Commissioners of Central Park
1868. Donated by the Board.

Report of the Scottish Society for 1870.

The Animal World, a monthly magazine, published by
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. ~ London. '

 

 




’U .‘k
‘7

r

 

49

Manual of the Corporation of the City of New York.
Donated by John Shannon, Esq., Clerk Common
Council. _‘

Reports of the New York State Agricultural Society for
1867, 1868. Donated by the Society.

Sanitary Code of the Board of Health, 167“.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

5‘"

BRANCH SOCIETIES-

”—7- 0——

ALBANY BRANCH.

Organized February, 1869.

ROBERT LENNOX BANKS, JOHN M. CRAPO,
President. 1st Vice President-

DUDLEY OLCOTT, Treasurer. SAMUEL R. EARLS, Secretary..
ERIE COUNTY BRANCH, BUFFALO, N. Y. - .
Organized April 4, 1867.
SILAS KINGSLEY, DANIEL D. NASH.

President. Secretary.
HENRY HOWARD, Treasurer.

 

FISHKILL BRANCH, FISHKILL, N. Y.
Organized August, 1869.
LYMAN ROBINSON. J. HERVEY COOK,

President. Secretary.
HORATIO N. SWIFT, Treasurer.

v ‘F‘-

 




v
«3

 

STATE SOCIETIES.

Organised mu] Originating from 2,726 .Erample (3f t/ze
American Society for 25/10 Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, at New York.

PENNSYLVANIA.
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

DR. A. L. ELVVYN, President.
3P. E. CHASE, Secretary. ROB'T R. CORSON, Treasurer.

 

.Ladies’ Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.

Mrs. CAROLINE E. WHITE, President.
Miss SARAH H. DAVIDSON, Miss ELIZABETH MORRIS,
Cor. Secretary, Rec. Secretary.
Mrs. CRAIG D. RITCHIE, Treasurer.

 

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

GEORGE T. ANGELL, President.
FRANK B. FAY, Secretary. HENRY SALTSTONHALL, Treas.

 

CALIFORNIA.
Petaluma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

0. WESLEY OTIS, Secretary.

 

California Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at San Francisco.
Names of ofﬁcers for 1871 not reported to us.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5‘)

d

BANGOR, MAINE.

JOSEPH CARR. President.
EBENEZER T. FOX. Treasurer. O. H. INGALLS. Secretary.

NEW JERSEY.
New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized April 21, 1869.

MOSES BIGELOVV, President.
R. \VATSON GILDER, Secretary. AARON M. RING. Treasurer.
F. W. LEONARD, Attorney.

 

Hudson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

ISAAC SCUDDER, Prest. DANIEL MCLEOD, Treas.

JOHN J. YOULIN, EVice-Pres’te A. Z. GARRETTSON, Counsel-
LEONARD J. GORDON, ‘ ” W. H. MUIRHEAD, Sec’y.

.__—-———

CANADA.
The Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized A pril, 1870.

ROBERT HAMILTON, President. W. HOSSACK, Treasurer.
W. J. MAC ADAMS, Secretary.

 

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Montreal, 1869.

\VILLIAM WORKMAN, President.
F. MACKENZIE, Secretary and Treasurer.

 

MARYLAND.
Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. A

Organized at Baltimore, October, 1869. ‘{

WILLIAM WOODWARD, President.
T. H. BELT, Jr., Secretary. HENRY W. ROGERS, Treasurer.

 




i ‘7’
1",

IOWA.
\
Scott County' Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
' 1:. MCINI‘OSH, Secretary.

 

» MINNESOTA.
Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at St. Paul, Alarch. W70.
F. DE COU, Esq., President. \V. CHASE, Secretary

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at Detroit, March, 1870.

H. P. BALDWIN, President.

E. W. MEDDAUGH, MOSES \V. FIELD,
Rec. Secretary. Cor. Secretary.

DAVID PRESTON, Treasurer.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Washington, D. C.
Organized April, 1870.

THEODORE F. GATCHELL, President.
EDGAR'I. BOORAEM, Secretary. . A. S. SOLOMONS, Treasurer.

 

MISSOURI.
Humane Society of Missouri.
Organized at St. Louis, January, 1870.

Hon. GEORGE PARTRIDGE, Pres. W'M. H. MAURICE, Treasurer.
P. G. FERGUSON, Secretary.

 

RHODE ISLAND.
L Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
‘{ Providence.
S. C. BLODGET, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

hr“...

 

 

C}!
L!

AGENTS OF THE SOCIETY OUT OF NEW YORK.

BUCKLEY. \VAI)E_-.. -I’ort Jervis, N. Y.

BOYD, S ..................................... New Rochelle, N. Y.
BEVINS, S. H ................................ Bolton, N. Y.
\CHUMASERO, J. C ........................... Rochester, N. Y.
CHAPIN, G. B ................................ Ogdensburgll, N. Y.
CAW', D. J ................................... Schenectady, N. Y.
CLAY, HALL H .............................. Little Falls, N. Y.
CROWLEY, P ................................ 'I‘ompkinsville, N. Y.
DICKEY, W. D .............................. Newburgh, N. Y.
GRIFFITH, L. E ............................. Troy, N. Y.
HINRICHS, J. C .............................. Iamaica, N. Y.
HARRISON, R. F ............................ Canton, N. Y.
PARKHURST, J. I“ .......................... Bath, N. Y.

PAYN, C. N ...................... . ........... Hudson, N. Y.
SATHROP, J ................................. Kinderhook, N. Y.
STEPHENS, S. D., Jr ......................... Richmond, N. Y.
SMITH, WALTER McC ...................... Jamaica, N. Y.
TAYLOR, H. A ............................... Malone, N. Y.
'TILLINGHAST, JOHN ...................... Ulica, N. Y.
TOTTON, J. C ............................... Cold Spring, L. I.

XVOOLSEY, C. MEECH ...................... Milton, N. Y.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To those who may feel disposed to donate, by WILL,
to the benevolent objects of this Society, the
following is submitted as a form :—

FORM OF BEQUEST OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

‘I give and bequeath unto “ The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation
created by and existing under the laws of the State of
New York, the sum of ............. t ........ dollars,

’5

to be applied to the uses of said corporation.

FORM OF DEVISE OF REAL PROPERTY.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for

the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation_

created by and existing under the laws of the State of
New York, all [here insert description of property].
Together with all the appurtenances, tenements and
hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any Wise apper-
taining. To have and to hold the same unto the said

corporation, its successors and assigns, forever.

 

‘3

 




 

L
w

 

_ -.-——‘~4

L I ST 0 l“ llEMBE RS.

~

'I‘HUSH MARKED "

ARE LII-WI .\I If)! HICKS.

__

*Aspinwall, \Villiam H.
Acton, Thos. C.
*Appleton, l). S.
Asiiiuwall, Lloyd
American News Co.
*Anthony & Hall
Appleton, Mrs. W'm.
*Arnold, Constable & Co.
Alvord, Mrs. C. F.

Blakslee, H. A.
*Brown, James
Brooks, Erastus
Bellows, Rev. Henry W.
Bryant, William C.
*Belmont, August
Bristed, C. Astor
*Bergh, Henry
*Bennett, Jas. Gordon
*Bixby John M.
Berghaus, Albert
*Booth, Edwin
*Ball, Black & Co.
*Babcoek, Bros. & Co.
Brown, Mrs. Addison
*Bonner, Robert

*Barney, D. N.

Buchanan, Perkins & Co.

Blodget, Charles F.
Barnard, John T., Jr.
Bell, Mrs. George
Bissell, Wm. H., M.D.
Bartlett, Edw. Gr., M.D.

.lluckley, Wade
Bathgate, Chas. W.
i ieckwith, N. LI.
l ieers, Edwin
l Bliss, Archibald M.
; *Brown, Stewart
l
Cooper, Peter
Ciseo, John J.
*Clews, Henry
“‘Claﬂin, Horace B.
Collins, Mrs. C. E.
Clark, James A.
*Colby, Gardner R.
*Chittenden, S. B. & C0.
Cary, William F.
*Campbell, A. H.
*Crapo, John M.
*Corse, Israel
Connolly, R. B.
Conkling, F. A.
Coles, B. Gr.
Coles, Mrs. B. G.
Clift, Smith
Campbell, John
Caldwell, W. S.
Coggeshall, Edwin W.
Culver, E. D.
Cocheu, Frederick

Dix, John A.
Dilks, George W.
*Duncan, W. Butler

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

-4... x
A M

 

 

 

*Dinsmore, W. B.
*Dolan, Miss Ellen
*Delmonico, Lorenzo
*Darling, Griswold & Co.
Dexter, George
Doremus, Thomas 0.
Dodge, William E.
Dodge, William E., Jr.
Dillon, Robert J.
Des Maretts, Ernst
Demuth, W. A.
Davids, G. W.

Ely, Nathan C.
Ewen, John
Ewen, Miss Caroline

Ehrhardt, L. H. G., M.D.

*Fish, Hamilton
Fargo, William G.
Francis, S. W., M.D.
Farrell, John

*Faile, Thomas H.
French, Richard
Fairbanks, Mrs.
Frost, Mrs. E. R. s,

Greeley, Horace
*Griswold, George
Gardner, A. K.
*Gilbert, F. E.
*Greer, Turner & Co.
*Garrison & Allen
*Garner & Co. ,
*Groesbeck, David & 00.
*Green, John 0.
*Gray, Horace
Grafton, Joseph
*Giﬂ'ord, Mrs. Ellen M.
Garvin, S. B.
*Gerry, Elbridge T.
Grote,‘ Frederick

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

Hoﬁ'man, John T.

Hall, A. Oakey

Hill, G. Waldo, M.D..
*Hicks, B. D.
*Hicks, Mrs. E. T.
Hoey, John - ,
Hudson, E. D., M.D. ,
*Holland, Alexander ‘ ,
Howland, Meredith '
*Hodgkins, Thomas G._
Herring, Silas C.
*Hoyts, Sprague & Co..

Hosack, N. P.

Hallgarten & Co.
*Hoe, R. & Co.

Harris, Townsend

Harrison, Mrs. Mary

Ax ‘

. *Hadden, John A.

Hoagland, J. S.
Hackley, Mrs.
Hewett, H. B.

*Ingersoll, Mrs. J. H-

*J ones, John D.
*Jaﬁ'ray, E. S.
Johnson, Rowland
Jenkins, Charles E.
*J olmston, John Taylor
*Johnston, J. Boorman
*Jenkins & Vail
*Jackson, G. R, Burnet &:
Co.
*Jesup, Morris K.

Knapp, Shepherd
*Kendall, Opdyke & Co-
Knower, John ‘

Kettell, E. H.
Kapﬁ’,‘ S. Ludwig

 

3%»:

Kelso, J. I.

A‘
__

 




 

5 9

‘ *Norrie, Adam
Nutting, William II.
\o1":,11o111l Ca1',lisle Jr.

'* Lenox. James
*I.11sli11. Frank

#1 .1

U“ n

 

'z'i'I.,1'l11, John S.
*Ixml, John T.
I1111ll1111', Edward II.
’i‘I1a11', (leorge
I.1111', Josiah ().
'X'IAx‘lx' \1’11111l, I10 (il‘zllld
'X'I.:1111;'l11.1', IV. C. 1\' (711.
*Lea, J. 1\' J. 'l‘. 1&1 (In.
'Y‘I11111'I1111"11i1111n 1\' (‘11.
I 1111111 ,.J F. I)
Lansing, A. R.
I1111'ill13131'V.
I1slie, II1.1nr1'

Leslie Ali1'111l

Liv ingston, Miss Annie I1.

"‘i’Lial1t11r1l, A. M. I).

*IVI111'1'111', John I).
IVIo1'11'11i1,II111ner
IVIoore, Rich’ 1l II. IVI. I)
Moore. Mrs. Richard II.
Mint11r,n Iho1nas R.
IVI111ti1n111', Richard
IVIenike,IVI1'.s Inlia
"IVIoller, Wm. 1V: Sons

*IVI11d1,1'e,E. R.,Sa1vyer 1%

C11.
*McLean,Geor1re VV.
Morris, Charles D.
*IVIarshall, Charles H.
Martin, Richard

*Mathews, Ed 11' ard

Merritt, Anna

Morris, Fordham

Macy, Josiah H.
Morris, Lewis G.
Macdonald, J. Wilson
Mitchell Samuel
McClintock, Mrs. Emmy
McKinley, James

\111",1111od C, Jr.

0110. Mme. Antoinette
*(Isgood, Mrs. S. S.

*(Isgood, S. S.

11(1‘11111111. Wm. & John
'3"'()‘(}11r1nan. Richard
*Uuthont, \Villianl

‘i'i‘I:arish,' Daniel
""‘I’ 111 I111 Daniel

I’ark, Joseph, Jr.
I’1"1111-', ()li1"111 II.
I1":’1111',Mrs () II.
Ihe1ii.\',I’l1illi11s

’i'i‘I o1nero1' Adams 1% Co.

I’nrser, Geo11re II.

. *I’ell, Mrs. Mary R.

l
l

I111'so11s, W. II. 1& L10.

, *I l111l11s,I1111al
1 'X‘I’l1el11s,I)od1,1'e 1% Co

i

I
1
l
l
l
1
l

I’artridgc Leroy C.
Palmer, Ihomas, Jr.

Phillips, W. II.

’3‘ {11l1erts, Marshall 0.
""I111ose1' elt, C V S

%I111bbi1,1s IIeoro'e A.

Rodman,Washin1rt0n

Recd, IsaacH.

‘V'Richardson, Cree. C. 1%

C0.

Robbins, Chandler

Richardson, William
mussel, Henry

Ryan, James F.

Ravinius, Charles

Steele, Ed ward G.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

60

*Stuart, R. L. & A.
*Stewart, A. T.
Spies, Adam W.
*Suckley, Rutsen
*Stebbins, Henry G.
*Spotts & Hawk
*Stevens, Paran
Sherman, E. T.
*Stokes, James
*Skinner, F & Co.
*Stanﬁeld, Wentworth &
C

o.

*Spaulding, Hunt & Co.
Sands, Samuel S.

*Sweeney, Peter B.

*Sherman, W. Watts
Shook, Sheridan
Singer Manuf’ring Co.
Schell, Edward

*Schell, Richard
Squier, E. George
Sistare, George K., Jr.

*Schermerhorn, W. C.
Schermerhorn, Alfred
Suydam, D. Lydig
Schieferdecker, C. O.
Sullivan, Thomas
Strong, Demas
Solomon, Barnett L.
Solomon, Judah H.
Solomon, Isaac S.
Strauss, Joseph

*Taylor, Moses
Trimble, George T.

 

*Tiﬁ'any, Charles L..
Tilford, John M.
Tousey, Sinclair
Townley, D. O. C.

*Tweed, Wm. M.

*Tilden, S. J.
Torry, W. A.
Thorne, Jonathan

Unger, F.

Van Schaick, Edwin H..
Van ‘Rensselaer, Alex.
Verplanck, Miss Anna
Vanderbilt, Jacob H.

*Wolfe, John D.
*Webb, Wm. H.
*Winthrop, B. R.
*Wood, C. B.
Wells, Henry
*Walker, Mrs. John
Williams, John Earle:

» Wheatley, William

Whetten, Wm.
*Weston, Mrs. R. W..
Wright, Stephen M.
Wormser, Gustav
*Wilson, J. F., M.D.
Wallace, Mrs. C. D.
*Ward, Samuel W. H.
*Winslow, Lanier & Co.
*Weston, R. Warren
Wells, Philip
Woodward, G. M.

434%

 

 




 

A ME ~110fo 80 011911?

FOR TH E

.3

rmntinn of; (“1?“ng 1111112115.

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE. OF NEW THRR

FIFTH ANNUAL -iEl’ORTJ‘.

 

(MINCE, No. 690 BROADWAY, CORNER FOURTH h'l'Rl 1’1"

Nun Dork.

 

«:Usnmu, mum» .& u» , PRINTERS. 1H 6 U4“- “L‘W‘M‘ "“

 

 

 

‘_ ,»__-_ _._.

 

 

-«.-.—.--.—.— ...~ - -...

‘
‘
-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

.OFFICE, NO. 696 BROADWAY, CORNER FOURTH STREET

AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE
D
l

rqnqntinn of fuwlfn to Animals

.J

JNCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

A‘A
V'v

 

 

9

N £111 mark.

 




49

 

 

ANNUAL MEETING.

OF THE

332M715} Z?! @ﬂN

ﬁuciqtg for ﬁlm ﬁremﬁuu uﬁ @110th to luimnlﬁ.

1871.

Qﬂirg [If the gnrim‘y,

696 Broadway, corner of Fourth Street,,
'New York, 11171, May, 1871.

The Annual Meeting of the Society was held at
its Ofﬁces,606 Broadway, this evening, HENRY
BERGH in the Chair. The President opened.
the proceedings by the following remarks :

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN :

It has been my practice heretofore to review the pro-
ceedings of the past year, in more of a sentimental than
practical manner; for the subject of cruelty to the infe—
rior animals seemed to require elevating to the realms of"
reﬁned thought and feeling, in order to procure for it a
hearing. Numerous have been the instances in my own»
observation, of persons, otherwise tender and considerate,
Who have been almost entirely unconcerned about the ill-
,usage of those creatures which simply minister to their

 

 




 

 

 

9

elected annually by ballot, and shall hold their oﬁices
respectively until others are elected in their places.

§ 3. All ofﬁcers of the Society, to be chosen at any ‘
election, may be voted for on one ballot.

CHAPTER VI.
ANNUAL MEETING.

§ 1. The annual meeting of the Society shall be held
on the ﬁrst Thursday after the ﬁrst day of May, in each
and every year hereafter, when the annual election of
the ofﬁcers of the Society shall take place; and if, from
any cause, there shall be a failure of the annual election
at the time above designated for that purpose, the same
may be held at a meeting to be especially called for that
purpose, in the manner speciﬁed in the next Chapter of
this Code of By-laws.

§ 2. Every member of the Society, who has been such
for twenty days or more, and who is not in arrears for
his dues, shall be entitled to vote at the said election.

§ 3. At the annual meeting of the Society, the Execu-
tive Committee shall present a general report of its
proceedings, and of those of the Society during the past
year; and the Secretary and Treasurer shall also present
their annual reports.

CHAPTER VII.
SPECIAL MEETINGS.

§ 1. Special meetings of the Society may be called by
the President (or in his absence, or inability, by one of
the Vice-Presidents), and shall be so called upon the
written request of ﬁfteen members.

§ 2. Such call shall. be made by inserting a notice of
the time and place of such meeting in two daily news-
papers, published in the city of New York, at least two
days before the same is proposed to be held ; and a copy

 




 

«as,
f .

 

17

§7. It shall have power in its discretion to declare
vacant the seat of any of the ﬁfteen elected members of
its own body, who shall have been absent from its meet-
ings for three successive months, and also by a vote of
a majority of the whole Executive Committee to remove
from its own body any of such ﬁfteen elected members
thereof for cause. But in such case it shall report every
such vacancy or removal to the Society at the next
meeting of the latter thereafter.

§8. It may in its discretion remit the annual dues
of any member or class of members of this Society.

§ 9. No member of the Executive Committee except
the Counsel, Secretary, and Superintendent shall receive
or derive any salary or pecuniary compensation for his
services.

§10. The Executive Committee shall hold meetings
for the transaction of business at least once in every
month, the time and place of meeting to be designated
by the President of the Society.

§11. At all meetings of the Executive Committee,
"ﬁve members present shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.

CHAPTER XVIII.
AUXILIARY SOCIETIES.

§ 1. Any association or society of persons who may or i
shall lawfully unite as such to aid this Society in carry-
ing out its objects previously mentioned herein, pursuant
to law, may be appointed by the Executive Committee
Special Agents of this Society, subject to the provisions
of Chapter XVI of these By-Laws, and to such regula-
lations as the said Executive Committee may make.

§ 2. Such association may, pursuant to law, and subject
to the provisions of these By-Laws, and not inconsistent
therewith, make and form its own By-Laws, Rules and
Regulations for the government, election, appointment

 

 




 

25

AGENCIES.

The reports from the respective agents of the Society,
within the State of New York, detailing their operations
during the past twelve months, are very satisfactory, and
give assurance of the gradual dissemination of the com-
passionate and civilizing principles of the Society.

DOG AND COCK FIGHTS.

These cruel and demoralizing exhibitions, are, owing
to the active interference of the Society, becoming rare.

On the 2lst November, 1870, a successful raid was
made by the Presidentand Mr. Campbell and asquad of
the police, upon the notorious den of the late “ Kit Burns”
in \Vater Street. Thirty-ﬁve prisoners were captured,
among them the notorious proprietor, and Jack Jennings,

"l

and many other well-luiown members of the “ fancy
tribe.”

On being brought before Judge Dowling, they were all
comn'iitted for trial at the General Sessions; the principals
being held in $500 bail and the spectators in $200 each.

011 the 18th December, Kit Burns died at his place in
Water Street, thus ridding the city of one of its worst
pests.

On the 23d February last, the whole gang were brought
up for trial before Recorder Hackett, when, owing to an
error in the wording of the indictment, by an ofﬁcer of
the District Attorney, thejury acquitted all the prisoners,
on the ground that it was a “ {at bait,” and that the
dog ﬁght was. accidental and unpremeditated, and since
the former charge was not comprised in the indictment,
the prosecution could not convict. .

It is proper however to remark, that while this adverse
issue, to the arduous and well-planned efforts of the
President and his associates, occasioned profound regret,
nevertheless the infamous den was thereby exterminated,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3:2

The use of the burr is threefold—it is supposed to

spare the coachman some little trouble, when driving:

it compels the horse to hold his head in one position;
and ﬁnally, when the fellow wishes to “show off,” he

jerks the reins, the twenty or thirty nails enter the ten-

der ﬂesh of the animal‘s mouth, and it prances in mag-
niﬁcent agony.

In October, 1870, the attention of the President was
«called to these infernal instruments, on the bits of two
ﬁne horses, attached to a carriage which was standing at
“the door of one of the large up-town dry goods stores.
He at once removed them and issued orders to the ofﬁcers
and agents of the Society to take possession of all others
found by them on the harness of all horses, and deposit
them at the ofﬁce of the Society, to be reclaimed by their
'owners ; a privilege not availed of however. In the space
of a month, about one hundred and ﬁfty were collected,
“some of them of a very. severe description. No arrests
were made in this city, but the coachman were cautioned
against using them in the future.

The Agent of the Society at Staten Island, however,
arrested a coachman for this offense; and the owner of
"the carriage appearing on the day of trial, he was ﬁned
ten dollars by Judge Corbet, who expressed his intention ,
of imposing a ﬁne in every similar case brought before
him.

Owing to the prompt measures taken by the Society,
it is gratifying to be able to report, that the practice of
using such cruel and unnecessary instruments, is going

out of fashion.

The annexed spirited sketch from Frank Leslie’s Illus-
trated Newspaper, exhibits the use and effect of the
"“ Burr.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

  
  
  
  
    

 

 

 

3S
Present—HENRY BERGH, in the Chair.

John Bixby, John D. Wolfe,

R. Martin, Frank Leslie,
James Stokes, N. P. Hosack,
Nathan C. Ely, Dr. Moore,
Townsend Harris, S. P. Sage,

Dr. Bissell,
John T. Barnard, Jr.,
C. H. Perry, '
E. Gr. Squier,

G. K. Sistare.

A. H. Campbell,
Dr. E. D. Hudson,
Elbridge T. Gerry,
C. 'H. Marshall,

T. W. HARTFIELD,

Acting Secretary.

A new Code of By-Laws, prepared by Mr. Gerry, the
Counsel of the Society, having been read to the meeting,
Mr. Townsend Harris proposed that the same be sup-
ported for adoption at the Annual Meeting of the Society,
'in lieu of the By-Laws of 1866.

The Committee have to congratulate the Members
upon the general prosperity of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

The foregoing Report, being submitted to the Society
at its Annual Meeting, was approved and adopted.

C. H. MARSHALL,
N. M. BECKWITH, Committee.
E. Gr. SQUIER,

 

   
 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46

SEC. 3. Nothing in this Act contained shall in any"
manner affect the right of any heir or creditor of the-
late Louis Bonard.

SEC. 4. This Act shall take effect immediately.

TRANSPORTATION 0F CATTLE.

Last year, the Committee on Agriculture of the United?
States Senate requested Mr. Bergh to prepare the draft
of a Bill, based on the experience of the Society, in-
reterence to the transportation of animals. With this-
request the President complied, and a Bill was forwarded
to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Cameron, who
duly acknowledged its receipt and approval thereof; but
it was subsequently mutilated and deprived of some of”
its most essential points, and passed in the lower house
ﬁrst, but failed to receive the approval of the Senate,
although ably supported by the Hon. Roscoe Conkling-.
Hon. Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts, and other distin,.

- guished Senators.

The Secretary cannot resist the expression of his.
amazement at this apathy or opposition to a measure. in-
volving not only mercy to the inferior animals, but the-
sanitary well-being of the people at large.

“STREETS PALACE STOCK CARS.”

A carriage, combining nearly all the essentials requi'»
site to the proper transportation of cattle by rail, has.
been invented by the person whose name it bears; and
it is to be hoped that ere long it, and other improved
vehicles of a similar kind, will supersede the barbarous
truck now in use. The Pennsylvania Central Railroad
Company had commenced running these carriages over

their lines.

 

1':

 

 

 




 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

51
VIRGINIA.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
U'ateiford.

IN. \VILLIAMS, President. Col. S. E. CHAMBERLAIN, Treas.
Prof. E. H WALKER, Secretary.

 

ILLINOIS.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Chicago, 1871.
SAMUEL T. ATWATER, Trees. W. H. SHARP, Secretary.

__————--

KENTUCKY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Paducah, 1871.

(List of ofﬁcels not. received.)

.—_——-—

TENNESSEE.
..Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Nashville, 1871.

(List of ofﬁcers not received.)

 

 




 

ﬁﬁk

 

01

BUILDING FUND.

CONTRIBUTIONS.

Aspinwall, W. H ............................ $1,000
Brown, Stewart ........................... 500
Lenox, James ............................... 1,000‘
Taylor, M ................................... 1,000
Stewart, A. T ............................... 1,000
Winslow, Lanier & (lo ....................... 1,000
Phelps, Dodge & Co ......................... 1,000
Roberts, M. O ............................. 1,000
Brown, James. . . , ........................... 1,000
Wolfe, John D .............................. 1,000
Dillon, R. J ................................ 50
a

 




 

 

 

 

@bitnarg gnaw.

-———-§>§§<

During the year the Society has to mourn the

loss of the following members :—

JOHN JOUHDAN,
BENJAMIN NATHAN,
S. M. WALN,

JOHN ALSTYNE,

G. H. JACKSON.

 

 




 

CONTENTS.

 

A

Annual Meeting, 1.

Arrests and Convictions, 23

Agents, 25, 55

Animal Life, Waste of, 47

Ambulance, iii, 3

American Institute Farmers’
Club, 41

Animals Destroyed, 22, 24

Axe used for Killing Animals, 24

Books Donated, 47

Bequest, Form of, 56
Branch Societies, 50

Bergh, Henry, Address, 1
By-Laws, New Code of, 6, 38
Bonard, Louis, The late, 42
Bit Burr, The, 31

Building Fund, 61

0

Charter, vii

Charter, Amendment of, 45
Committee on Nominations, 19
Convictions, 23

Dog and Cock Fights, 25
Donations, of Books, &c., 47
Devise of Real Property, :36
Drinking Fountains, 27

 

 

Executive Committee's Report, 35-
Ex Otlicio Members, vi

Financial Statement, 40
Form of Bequest, 56
Form of Devise, 56

G
Gerry, Elbridge T. Counsel to-
the Society, 36
(ilanders and Farcy, 30

H
Horses Killed, 22, 24
Honorary Members, vi
Horse Clipping, 28
Horsedl‘urned Out, 22

I
Inspection of Stables, 27

Judiciary, The, 33

L
Lectures, 21
Legislation, 44
Law, Proposed, 46
Liautard, Dr., 35
Loss of Animal Life at Fires, 33

M
Metropolitan Police Force, 33
Members, 57 I

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N S
Notice, ii Street Railroads, 26
New York Agricultural Society, 42 Street Stages, 26
New York Rendering Company, 47 Stables, Inspection of, 27

 

Nominations, 19 Swill Milk and Cow Sheds, 27

O Societies in the U. s., 51
Obituary Record, 62 Special Meetings, 37
Ofﬁcers, v “ Street’s” Palace Stock Cars, 461
“ Our Dumb Animals.” Publica- Secretary’s Report, 21

tion, 35
A T

P Truck for Disabled Animals, iii
Pigeon Matches, 26 Transportation of Beef Cattle, 46-
Press, The, 33 Treasurer’s Report, 39

R W
Reprimands, 22 Waste of Animal Life, 47
Record Of Convictions, 23 Waln, Samuel M.,' The late, 36
Rewards for Information, 36 Work of the Society, 22

ILLUSTRATIONS.

Drinking Fountain- ...................................... On Cover
The Ambulance ................................................ iii
The Bit Burr ................................................ 31, 321
The Instrument Used for Destroying Animals .................... 24

So called “Sport” and its Victims ............................... 26'

 

 

 

 




 

3,.

 




