 

 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL IO, 1866.

_— .._.:+._ _—__

THIRTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1897.

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT.

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET,

NEW7YORK.

1898.

 




 

THE WINTHROP PRESS

NEW YORK

 




  

OFFICERS AND MANAGERS

 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
 

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS.

1898.

President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

 

Vice-Presidents.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS, ALFRED WAGSTAFF,
ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, MORRIS K. JESUP,
REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D., JOHN CLAFLIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, PARKE GODWIN,
W. C. SCHERMERI—IORN, CHARLES LANIER.
. Executive Committee. ‘
ELBRIDGE, T. GERRY, JAMES GRANT WILSON,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, FREDERIC R. COUDERT,
JOSEPH H. CI—IOATE, FREDERICK W. VANDERBILT,
GEORGE G. HAVEN, WILLIAM FAIINES’I‘OCK,
HORACE RUSSELL, REV. DAVID H. GREER, D.D.,
-EDWARD A. HAMMOND, JOEL B. ERIIARD'I‘,
GEORGE G. DEWIT’I‘, WILLIAM H. PARSONS.
Secretary. Treasurer.
GEORGE G. DEWIT’I‘. CHARLES LANIER.
Counsel. - Assistant Treasurer.
HORACE RUSSELL. JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.
Superintendent.

CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOIINSON.

    
 
 

 

BROOKLYN OFFICE,
I3 Willoughby Street.

 
   
  

F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 




 

 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Within a few days the headquarters of the Society are to
be removed to a building which has been expressly designed
and erected for the use of the executive department of our
work. This event marks an epoch, not only in the progress
of this Society, but in the advancement of animal protection on
this continent and throughout the world. The steps of prog-
ress which the Society has taken of late years have been so
rapid and so various that few even of our own enrolled mem—
bers have been able to follow them, and the present seems to
be a convenient opportunity to give a brief outline of our
whole history from the incorporation of the Society in 1866
until the close of the year 1897. These thirty—one years are
easily divided into two periods, in the ﬁrst of which the foun-
dations of the work were strongly laid, while the second has
been, and still continues to be, a period of energetic practical
development.

During twenty-two years Henry Bergh was the heart as well
as the head of organized effort for the protection of animals
on the American continent. When he began his noble cru-
sade, the cause which he espoused had few friends. As I have
said in a former report, “ He was the laughing stock of wit-
lings; not a few men of sense regarded him as a mere enthusi-
ast; legislators were unfriendly; courts were disposed to pro-




syu Av—w.“

 

6

tect the rights of property to an extent which virtually abol—
ished the God—given right of man’s dumb servants to immun—
ity from needless suffering; the press represented popular in—
difference to the cause, and winged the shafts of ridicule
against its self-devoted representative. In those days it was
sound policy in Mr. Bergh to challenge and secure public at—
tention at all costs. Opposition, ridicule, personal abuse~
anything was better than indifference; and he courted, rather
than avoided, anything, however painful, that would compel
the public to consider his cause and the fearful evils with
which he was battling.”

forts, was incomparably greater in the laying of strong founda-
tions than in the extension and development of agencies of
practical reform. The greatest work of Mr. Bergh’s life was
to secure the enactment by the legislature of the State of New
York of one efﬂuent law for the protection of animals; and he
had the great wisdom to perceive that a multitude of speciﬁc
provisions for the prohibition of particular acts of cruelty
would defeat their own purpose, since it would be beyond the
power of human ingenuity to foresee and speciﬁcally prohibit
every act by which thoughtless or brutal persons might inflict

cape would be left to the offender in nearly every prosecution.
Mr. Bergh made no such vain attempt. The one broad, com—

legislation was the crowning work of Mr. Bergh’s life. Only
a few comparatively trivial additions have been needed to com—
plete it; but, strange to say, it has severely taxed the diligence
' nst the well—intended but unin-

 

 

 




 

 

7

telligent assaults of amateur humanitarians who have at-
tempted to procure the enactment of additional and superﬂu-
ous speciﬁc laws by which the scope of the existing general
statute would be incalculably diminished.

The enactment of the humane legislation to which I have
referred was the indispensable condition of any and all efﬁ—
cient effort for the protection of animals in the State of New
York; and no such legislation could have been obtained with—
out the long labor of education to which Mr. Bergh’s life was
devoted. His plans were laid with a sagacious simplicity
which was not less remarkable than his self—devotion, and I do
not think it has been as highly appreciated as it ought to be.
In Mr. Bergh’s plan there were four distinct and clearly
marked purposes: ﬁrst, to educate the people and to rouse the
public and private conscience; second, to procure efﬁcient
legislation; third, to extend the inﬂuence of this Society
throughout the State, and, so far as possible, throughout the
world, but more particularly on the American continent;
fourth, to establish the Society itself on a strong and perma-
nent basis. If these four things could be done, the practical
extension and development of the work might be‘safely left to
the future. The self—devoted zeal with which the ﬁrst of these
four objects was obtained illustrates one of the brightest chap—
ters of the social history of our country in the latter part of
the nineteenth century, and its success was demonstrated by
the fortunate achievement of his second object. The extension
of the work in the Western hemisphere was represented by
the formation of sixty—four societies in North America (seven-
teen of which were branches of this Society in the State
of New York), and four societies in South America. The
fourth object which Mr. Bcrgh set before himself, and
which he considered to be indispensable to the greatest
uSefulness of this Society at home and abroad, was its‘es—
tablishment as a permanent institution of beneﬁcence, and
for the accomplishment of this end he held, in Opposition
to the opinions of many others of equal zeal, but of less sa-

 




 

 

8

gacity than himself, that no sacriﬁce should be considered too
great. Therefore, while the practical agencies of the Society
were still undeveloped, and the whole number of its employees,
even in the last year of Mr. Bergh’s life, was only seventeen,
he insisted as early as 1872 upon the purchase of a building to
be devoted exclusively to the work of the Society. Accordingly,
the four-story house at the southeast corner of Fourth Avenue
and Twenty—second Street, occupying a lot of 20 x 70 feet, and
actually covering 20x55 feet, was purchased and occupied,
not without strong expressions of disapproval from persons
who had contributed nothing to the work of the Society, and
who were perhaps incapable of appreciating the foresight with
which Mr. Bergh and his associates were providing rather
for the opportunities of the future than for the exigencies of
the present. Mr. Bergh was ﬁnally persuaded that the estab—
lishment of the Society in permanent headquarters of its own
would be accepted by the public as a signiﬁcant intimation that
the work of animal protection had become a permanent factor
in the social evolution of this country, and that it would bring

to that work an amount of assistance which could not be
i expected to be given to any enterprise of less evident stability.
In this belief events have proved that Mr. Bergh was not mis—
taken; and the purchase of its ﬁrst permanent headquarters,
notwithstanding the fact that they were then much larger than
the actual operations of the Society required, has proved to
be one of the most sagacious acts of the twenty-two long years
of Mr. Bergh’s wise administration.

Thus the four great preliminary objects 'which Mr. Bergh
had kept steadily in view were all successfully achieved, and
the way was cleared for a practical development of the work of
the Society, especially in the State of New York. Much re-
mained to be done, for the organization of a widely extended
and practical system of animal protection had yet to be de-
vised. As I have said above, the employees of the Society,
including its clerical staff, and its paid agents in all parts of
the State, were only seventeen in number, and the material

 

 




  

 

    

IO

In the propagation of humane selrztinzcnts among the people no
pains or labor have been spared. The periodical press—daily,
weekly, monthly,'religious and secular have all been used as
largely as possible, and have all been generous in the aid that
they have given. In addition to this, the Society has made.
large use of the printing press on its own account, publishing
and distributing during 1897 alone nearly ten millions of pages
of humane literature. '

The extension of the work in other places has been gratifying-
Against sixty—four societies in 1887, only a few of which were
incorporated, and seventeen of which were branches of this
Society in the State of New York, there are now two hundred
and four incorporated societies in North America; and against
four societies existing in South America in 1887, there are now
eleven.

Though many of our former auxiliaries have been incor~
porated as independent societies since 1887, there has been a
large increase instead of a diminution of the local work of our
Society in this State, and our n’zaterialequipment has been cre—
ated rather than enlarged. }

We have now two ambulance houses in New York and
Brooklyn; the former is owned by the Society, and was built in
1889, covering a lot of 25 x 100 feet. It has been found to be
insufﬁcient for the accommodation of our ambulances, and an
adjacent building, covering another lot of 25 X 100 feet, has
been leased for the same purpose.

In 1895 an ambulance house was built in Brooklyn, and is
owned by the Society. It is situated at 114 LawrenceStreet.

The Shelters for Animals in New York and Brooklyn have
been made necessary by acts of the legislature which have
committed all homeless and strayed animals to the care of the
Society, and also the function of licensing dogs in New York
and Brooklyn. Under the systemwhichprevailed before the.
passage of this act, stray dogs were captured, often with need-
less cruelty, and multitudes of homeless cats with which the
City was infested were allowed to run at large. The pound in

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

II

which they were conﬁned was carelessly kept, and when un-
claimed animals were destroyed there was no guaranty that
their destruction would be unaccompanied with preventable
suffering. I believe that the act of the legislature in commit-
ting this work to the Society is acknowledged on all hands to
have been a wise law. Homeless cats and dogs are captured
without cruelty, and kept for a time with the utmost care at the
shelters, where the lost can be reclaimed by their owners, as,
indeed, many of them are. Others are provided with homes;
but the great majority being unclaimed, and most of them dis—
eased, are painlessly destroyed. The Shelter for Animals in
New York is situated at the foot _of East One Hundred and
Second Street. The Shelter in" Brooklyn was built by the So-
ciety in 1895 on leased ground at 'the intersection of Malbone
Street and Nostrand Avenue. Both of these shelters are fully
furnished and equipped for the comfortable maintenance of the
animals, and also with apparatus for their painless destruction.

Our ambulance and shelter work requires a considerable
establishment. We have three ambulances of the most im—
proved pattern for the removal of horses and other animals oi
like size; nine smaller ambulances, chieﬂy used in our shelter
work and in collecting diseased animals whose owners desire
them to be mercifully destroyed, and for use in the ambulance
and shelter work we have twenty horses, some of which are
kept constantly ready to respond to any call that may be made
by day or by night. >

Of the output of humane literature I have already spoken;
but I may here add that some of our publications have been
translated into French, Italian, and Dutch. The utility of
these publications is beyond all question; but in addition to
their usefulness it may sufﬁce to say that to my personal
knowledge they have brought into the treasury of the Society
very much more than they have cost. Our manual of the State
laws and decisions of the courts on all subjects connected with
our work is extensively used, not only by lawyers, but by ‘
judges on the bench, and has had more than a little inﬂuence




  

 

 

_‘_~\_ ,,,,,,,,,,,

12

in securing a just interpretation and faithful execution of the
' law. I may here incidentally mention the fact that we have
now a fully organized printing department, including presses
and all other necessary adjuncts. This establishment is a real
economy, for the number of blank forms alone which are in—
dispensable in our daily work, to say nothing of circulars, leaf-
lets, pamphlets, and the like, amounted in 1897 to over one
million.

Our library is not yet what I hope that it will be, but it
contains already several thousand volumes, all on subjects ger—
mane to the work of animal protection. Some of our friends
have been disposed to think that a library is superﬂuous. I
cannot agree with them. The time is approaching, and I hope
it is not far off, when our library will attract students of many
departments of animal life; and even now its utility in our own
work has more than justiﬁed the quite considerable labor and
the comparatively small expense of its collection. I will ven—
ture here to give just two illustrations. Our collection of law
books has been exceedingly useful. With no small amount of
labor we have collected and digested every law of the United
States and of the several States and territories, and also of the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States and of
the courts of last resort in every State and territory of the
Union bearing upon the protection of animals. This digest,
as we might not improperly call it, enables us to give valuable

advice and assistance to other societies and humane persons
in every part of the country. W e have been urged to publish
it, but we have not yet seen our way to comply with the re~
quest. Again, I may mention our collection of medical war/es
relating to every subject in which the interest. of human beings
is said to depend upon the inﬂiction of suffering and some-
times indescribable torture upon other animals. Medical men
are sometimes inclined to think that the bare assertion of any
medical man that painful experiments upon animals are nec~
essary ought to close the question; and that a society which
has undertaken the protection of animals must in that case

 
  
 
   
    
 
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 

 




 

    

I3

abandon its function. I can admit no such postulate. This
Society does not undertake to pronounce dogmatically and
indiscriminately against all experiments upon living animals;
but, on the other hand, it is the duty of this Society, and of
every society that professes to protect animals, to inform itself
of the facts alleged by scientiﬁc authorities both for and
against the expediency of such experiments; and to keep at
least a vigilant watch in behalf of its dumb and helpless clients.
Quite recently a medical gentleman very politely intimated
to me in a private letter his opinion that no society for the
protection of animals has any right to meddle with the ques-
tion of procuring serums and antitoxins by the infection of ani-
mals with artiﬁcial disease. He assumed, of course, that no
one but a medical professor or practitioner could know any—
thing about that subject. Only a few days later, however, an-
other eminent physician took the trouble to examine our col-
lection of medical literature on that particular subject; and he
went so far as to say that our collection in that department is
larger than that of any medical society or institution in this
State. Now, it is possible, of course, to have many books and
to know little of their contents; but I may modestly claim
that we have a reasonably large acquaintance with the contents
of those documents, and that our acquaintance with them gives
us good reason to think that the medical faculty is growing
every day less certain than it was a little while ago of the utility
of antitoxins, so that there is at least some ground to hope
that the fearful suffering to which thousands of animals have
been subjected in the pursuit of what may possibly prove to
be vain researches may sOon come to an end. vAt any rate,
I should be glad. if the library of the Society should be so rich
in this or any other department of medical research as to at-
tract medical men to its alcoves.

Another part of our ofﬁce work has been exceedingly labor—
ious, but exceedingly useful. Ten years ago there was no
index to the record of cases which had been tried during the
previous twenty—two years. At the present day we have a card




  

 

 

I4

index referring to every department of our work, and by turn-
ing to some one of over two hundred thousand cards which
we have on ﬁle, we caniinstantly ascertain the facts of any par-
ticular case and the action of the court thereupon. As these
cards are topically arranged and indexed, it will be seen that
we have at our instant command resources, most of them ac-
quired in the course of the work of our own Society, which
could be found nowhere else.

I have no wish to exaggerate the present magnitude of our
work ;but I do think that the members of the Society ought
at this date to have something like a fair idea of its actual pro-
portions. I may therefore brieﬂy make the following state—
ments. We are in constant correspondence with all societies
for the protection of animals on this continent and with no
- fewer than three hundred and thirty—four societies outside of
the Americas. Our correspondence exCeeded forty—ﬁve thou—
sand letters received and thirty—one thousand letters or other
communications dispatched in the course of the last year alone.
In 1897 our headquarters were visited by an average of over
two hundred persons daily, and our ofﬁcers are on duty, ready
to answer any call that may be sent to us, at any hour of any
day or any night of the year. To sum up a multitude of par-
ticulars that it would be tedious to mention separately, I may
brieﬂy say that in the ten years from December 31, I887, to
January 1, I898, the operations of the Society, taken as a
whole, have been increased in the ratio of 20 to I, and that the
expenses of the Society in the same period have been increased
in the ratio of 4 to I. You will not understand me, I am sure,
to intend to magnify the present at the expense of the past.
What I do desire to show is that the past lives in the present,
that the purpose of the past is being largely realized, and that
the hopes of those who labored with such undaunted devotion
in the dark days of opposition and indifference were no idle
dreams of visionaries.

I shall here insert a comparative table of statistics showing
some of the details of the work in the past ten years.

 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 




I5

SUMMARY FOR THE PAST TEN' YEARS.

‘\

1887 1888 1889 1890,1891 1892 1893 1894 1895 1896 1897

 

 

Cases prosecuted in
the courts ........... 797 991 949 986 1,071 1,080 980 1,010 952 709 618
Disabled animals tem-
porarily suspended
from labor ---------- 3.456 L749 2.357 4.180 5,725 4.868 3.779 3.596 3,403 3.207 3.491
Horses, mules, and oth-
er large animals, dis-
abled past recovery,
humanely destroyed. 2,546 2,455 2,812 2,284 2,620 3,365 3,384 2,927 2,987 3,254 3,067
Small animals, home-
less or disabled past
recovery, humanely
destroyed ........... 1,202 1,281 705 1,347 2,212 3,060 4,794 24.275 46,898 73,197 88,028
Disabled horses, and ‘
other large animals
removed from streets
in ambulances ....... 522 495 407 520 578 618 607 513 576 583 563
Cases investigated.... 3,773 3,052 2,793 3,609 6,891 7,301 7,599 13,603 21,690 37,635 49,215

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I am bound to say that, as in other statistical exhibits, there
are certain details connected with this table which must be
understood or the ﬁgures will be misleading. In theyear of
Mr. Bergh’s death, as in all preceding years, the ﬁgures in-
cluded not only the work done by this Society, but that of all
of its sixteen branches' in various parts of the State. During
the seven years following—that is, till 1894, inclusive—the
annual report included the work done by agents of the Society
appointed at the request Of‘local societies. For the past three
years, however, nothing has been reported but the work of this
Society alone, exclusive of all that has been done by the sev-
enteen independent incorporated societies in the principal
cities of theState. Even so, however, the cases prosecuted
in the courts in 1897 were smaller than any one of the previous
three years. It is a fact of good import and of hopeful augury.
It indicates no lack of diligence in the prosecution of offenders,
but a diminution of punishable offenses, and also the notable
growth of a disposition on the part of offenders to act upon a
warning of the Society without deﬁantly insisting upon the
natural right of man to torture his living property.

I can not conclude without some reference to the new build—
ing at the corner of Madison Avenue and Twenty-sixth
Street, at which, within a few days, our headquarters will be

 




   

 

 

16

happily established. It was to be expected that the expediency
of erecting this building for the exclusive use of our Society
would be questioned, but the same question was raised upon
the occasion of the purchase of the ﬁrst permanent head—
quarters of the Society. At that time the clerical Staff
might easily have been accommodated in one-half of the
space provided for it; but Mr. Bergh was looking to
the future, not merely to the present. The prosecution of
his cherished plans included operations which, as the events
proved, were destined to outgrow even that establishment-
Within four years of his death a removal of our headquar—
ters was found to be necessary; and in 1894 the undertak-
ing of our enormous shelter work, including the licensing
of dogs, which was turned over to the Society by the leg—
islature of the State, required the employment of an addi—
tional force for the accommodation of which our late head—
quarters were inadequate. Some change was therefore indis—
pensable, and the choice lay between the renting of some
building, more or less unsuited to our purpose, and the erec—
tion of a building specially planned and contrived for present
needs, and also for the certain expansion of our work in com-
ing years. The latter course was adopted, not without long
deliberation and anxious consultation on all details. I am
entirely satisﬁed in my own mind that the course on which the
Board resolved was wise, and that it was fully warranted by
V the facts and circumstances of the case. It is true that the
' building is somewhat larger than is absolutely necessary for
our present work; but if the work shall continue to increase
in anything like the ratio of the past ten years, then Within ﬁve
years of the present time that building will be too small, and
within ﬁve years more it will be as crowded as our late head—
quarters have been during the past month. Not to contem—
plate so certain a contingency would have shown a singular
want of foresight, and I can not but think that it was wise to
make the building somewhat larger than our present needs
require, and also to have the plans of the architects so drawn

 
  
  

 




 




REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

During the year the Society has completed, and now oc-
cupies, its new and permanent headquarters at the corner of
Madison avenue and Twenty-sixth street. The building has
been constructed entirely with a View to the better conduct of
the work of the Society, and stands as a striking monument to
the growth of the work of animal protection in this country
during the past thirty-two years.

The membership of the Society has increased steadily during
the year, 172 names having been added to the roll of members.

Additional Special Agents to the number of twenty-four have
been appointed to protect animals at different points through—
out the State.

The Society mourns the loss of eighteen members of whose
death it has learned during the year, and whose names appear
in the obituary record.

The Committee does not feel it necessary to refer in detail
to the work of the Society during the past year, inasmuch as
the reports of the President, Treasurer, and Superintendent
cover the subject in full.

GEORGE G. DE WITT,

Secretary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

‘
‘J“
‘ -.
“‘r
{‘13

‘

.
o
C
I

 

 




REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, fannary I, 1898.

To T/ze American Soez'ezfy for tile Prevention of Cruelz‘y lo'
Animals : '

The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1897, showing a Cash Balance
on hand of $6,979.56.

Respectfully,
CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

22

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 accoum‘ 2022/; THE AMERICA Ix“
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

\K

 

 

 

DR.
To Cash on deposit in Union Trust Company,
Dec. 31,1896 . . . . . . . . . . $6,467 60
“ Cash in drawer, Dec. 31:, 1896 . . . . . 733 00
i 7 —~——— $7,200 60
“ Bequest Lyman W. Case . . . . . . . $2,491 9I
“ “ james Simons . . . . . . . . 500 00
“ “ Mrs. Alethea M. Drake . . . . 92 30
mm 3,084 21
“ Members’ Dues and General Donations . . $6, 797 50
“ Special Donations . . . . . . . . . 1,403 23
_ 8,200 73
“Fines 4,83012
“ Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . III,396 60
.//
/,/
//// f
///x
,//
//
.__/_ 77777 h, , 7 7 a 7
$134,712 26
1897

 

Dec. 31, To Balance broughtdown . . . . . . . . . $6,979 56
a

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts
of Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the

 




 

    

23

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1897.

 

 

 

Disbursements January 31 to date—General Maintenance,
including Printing, Stationery, Light, Fuel, Postage,

Salaries, etc. . . . $43,145 32
Equipment and Maintenance of Shelters for Animals 111 New
York and Brooklyn . . . . . 40,275 91

Ambulance House, New York: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Abandoned

Animals . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,132 25
Ambulance House, Brooklyn: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Abandoned
Animals . . . . . . . . . . 2,498 82
Equipment, Ambulance House, New York . . . . . . 1,121 30
Equipment, Ambulance House, Brooklyn . . . . . . 450 00
Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . 3,500 00
Repairs to Real Estate, Taxes and Insurance . . . . . 6,187 00
Furniture and Fixtures, New York . . . . . . . . . 250 00
Humane Literature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,033 35
Library Account. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373 83
Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,021 17
Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . 7,465 39
Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,319 73
Ullmann Estate: Mrs. Thayer . . . . . . 700 00
Real Estate, N0. 114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn . . . . 6,258 63
Cash on deposit in Union Trust Company, Dec.
31,1897 . . . . . . . . . . $6,920 27
Cash in drawer Dec. 31,1897 . . . . . . . 59 29
——-—— 6,979 56

$34,712 26

 

 

0f the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention
Society’s books and vouchers.

JAMES GRANT WILSON’ } Audz'z‘z'ﬂg Caiimzz'z‘tee.
BENJAMIN D. HICKS,

 




 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  

  
   
  

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

The work of the Society for 1897 in preventing cruelty and
mitigating animal suffering differed from that of the past only
in so far as it dealt with new phases of animal torture invented
by persons instinctively cruel. It might be inferred, by reason
of the lesser number of cases of cruelty to animals reported
prosecuted during the past year that cruelty is on the decrease,
or that our ofﬁcers have been lax in their several duties. Such is
not the case,however. It is because all classes of the community
are interested in the humanizing work, and volunteer, a‘s co—
workers with the Society, in enforcing the humane laws of the
State; and by moral, or, if necessary, by physical force, compel
the cruel to respect the rights of animals, which the statutes
confer. “ Every living creature, except the human race,” is the
legal deﬁnition of-the word “ animal,” and none are too insig—
niﬁcant for the Society’s protection. In many instances of-
fenders have been permitted to escape punishment on their
promise to treat their animals better, and it is but fair to say
that repetitions have rarely occurred; but when discovered the
letter and spirit of the law was rigidly enforced.

It is gratifying to report the deep interest taken in our work
by children of tender age. Daily homeless cats and dogs,

'which had been rescued from vicious youths or picked up from

the streets and gutters, are brought to the Headquarters of the
Soc1ety by small boys and girls. The civilizing work of animal
protectlon can safely be intrusted in the future to the rising

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26 °

butchers, etc., to drive young spirited horses, and it is of almost
daily occurrence to see drivers of rival concerns racing at reck—
less speed through the streets and avenues, turning corners dis—
regardless of the danger to life and limb of pedestrians. It
would be a good thing to require every driver to pass an ex—
amination as to his knowledge of horses and how to harness
them. .I have come across so-called drivers who did not know
the difference between the breeching—strap and the check—rein.

Asphalt pavements, no doubt, afford much pleasure to bi—
cycle riders, but the smooth, slippery roadway has terrors for
the thoroughbred and the work—horse, which only experienced
horsemen can understand. ,

The shock to the nervous organs of a horse which has once
fallen on the asphalt pavement will, in my opinion, never be
removed. Watch a horse stepping from stone to asphalt and
you can tell at a glance by the way he acts whether or not he
ever had a fall on the latter pavement.

It is a mistake to put asphalt on inclines, especially those in
the business part of the city where trafﬁc is heavy. Even pat-
ent blocks, such as are used on Fifth avenue between Thirty—
fourth and Thirty—eighth streets, and on other thoroughfares,
afford no foothold for horses, whether smooth or rough shod,
when the ground is frozen, as was fully demonstrated on the
occasion of the ﬁrst snow fall of the season, when horses were

slipping and falling in all directions. The use of sand, as con—

templated by the city authorities, when the streets are slippery,
will, to a great extent, make the roadways less dangerous for

horses.

STABLES.

In my opinion, it is only a question of the near future when
the use of underground stables and those in rear of tenements
and alleys will be discontinued, and more ample and commo—
dious accommodations, with improved sanitary arrangements,
be provided for horses and other large animals. Many inspec—
tions of stables, located as above, have been made during the

 

 




B moi mum .mmndm .oz memm< . \ : - ,
>z<mzoo zoF<Eommz<mh mpzm>< FEE mm? mo mmoﬁm Hi 20% 25:? mmmmoz >232 mo mzo

 

 




 

 

‘J (o‘srz “N LSJHEIV 'UHAOHLSHL’I XIHNVWHH CINV mom WOEHENEHVJ.

 

 

 

 

 




. nl\l\L'+)l 1V0. Zd,()75

29

past year; and in several instances horses have been removed
from buildings entirely unsuitable for stable purposes to more
comfortable quarters, by advice of our ofﬁcers. It is to be re-
gretted there is no law against putting horses in rickety old‘
buildings or cellars, from whence, in case of ﬁre, escape is im-
possible. The loss of animal life from ﬁre during the past year
has been very great.

GLANDERS AND FARCY.

These diseases, dangerous alike to human beings as well as
animals, have not prevailed to any great extent. It is impos-
sible to entirely eradicate them, owing to the indifference of a
certain class of horse—owners to give their animals proper care
and food, and clean, ventilated stables.

All cases of glanders, farcy, and other contagious or infec-
tions animal diseases found by our ofﬁcers are immediately re-
ported to the efﬁcient veterinary surgeon of the Board of
Health, who, after examining and ﬁnding the animals affected,
takes prompt and effective measures to prevent the spread of
the disease, by causing stables to be thoroughly disinfected, or,
if necessary, all the woodwork in them to be destroyed, and
other horses in the same building isolated for a period of time
long enough to determine whether they have been infected by
contagion. Several persons were convicted for selling diseased
horses, and severely punished by ﬁne and imprisonment by the
Court of Special Sessions.

AMBULANCE AND DERRICK SERVICE.

The usefulness of this department of the Society’s work has
been fully demonstrated. 7 Five hundred and sixty-three sick
and injured horses and other large animals were removed in
the ambulances from the streets of New York and Brooklyn to
veterinary hospitals. These vehicleswequipped with every con-
venience for the comfort and safe transportation of animal pa-
tients, are always ready for service, any hour of the day or
night. The ambulances specially designed for the transporta-
tion of small animals have been almost constantly in use, and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30

are available at all times. Our derrick has also been in almost
daily demand to hoist horses out of excavations and trenches

into which they had fallen.
CANALS.

It is gratifying to report that horses and mules employed on
the several canals of the State were found in much better physi-
cal condition than heretofore. It was only necessary to sus—
pend a few mules from labor, pending the repairing of harness

or to be properly shod. 7 ‘

SPECIAL AGENTS.

Reports from special agents, other than those attached to
Headquarters, indicate that the laws of the State regarding
animals are observed and obeyed. “ My appointment,” says
one special agent, “ has a very salutary effect upon the com-
munity, as there is less abuse of animals, and people seem to
realize that there is some. one to enforce the laws against
cruelty.” The carrying of calves and lambs with their legs
tied together with cord, and piled on top of each other in
springless wagons, then jolted over rough roads to some ship—
ping station, there to remain without food and water for an
indeﬁnite period, as heretofore, is now a thing of the past. Live
poultry is now shipped in ventilated crates of sufﬁcient size to
insure comfort while in transit.

Animals employed at summer resorts receive better treat-
ment, and overworking and overdriving of old worn—out horses
has been stopped. Everything has been done to promptly
relieve animal suffering when and where found, and to enforce
the laws of the State against cruelty.

Indifference to animal suffering is not conﬁned to any par—
ticular class of the community. The millionaire’s carriage
team is tortured by the gheck-rein being drawn back tothe
last notch; the teamster, to save trouble to himself, neglects to
clean and properly house his horse for the night, after a hard
day’s work; the huckster compels his team to remain unblank—

 

 

 




CIEIAOEILSHCI XTHNVWHH 'I'TV 'LHHHLS 0317 .LSSAA NO EI'IEIVLS NI CIENHHH SEISHOH NHAES :10 3N0

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. )

 

FMNJI/Wffl) AN!) H‘H’H' HOW!" HHMMH’I.’: I!




 

34

In conclusion, the undersigned refers with pleasure to the
neat appearance of the uniformed force under his command,
and to the zeal and intelligent judgment exercised by them on
all occasions while engaged in the performance of the onerous
duties pertaining to their ofﬁce; also to the courtesy and aid
(when requested) extended to the Society and its ofﬁcers by the
several departments of the municipal government.

Respectfully submitted,

CHARLES H. HANKINSON,
Superintendent.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

<mZUmW.m IOWmm. HLPZm. MOWm. >20 C215. 10% QOWW. >WWmmg. Zo. mmbom

 




 

 

‘1 ilkt )-,,\_K_‘,2.-&~ l )x' \Z‘lK'd‘VWi-XXX

, 7 7 7 ‘i-‘NV ‘Avﬂﬁm PM}! .H'HJ“ 7V V

 

'mvlm mum ,« , I.
--.,-.

Mm

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE FOLLOWING“ ARE SOME OF THE I[MORE IM-,
PORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING THE

YEAR 1897 :

; Jan. 4. John Moran was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
I Special Sessions for driving a horse so lame that it could
, hardly put the foot to the ground. The lameness was due to
i: a quittor on the nigh hind foot, one of the most painful ail—
; ments horses are subject to, and often caused by the horse

“ picking up ” a nail in the foot, or being “ pricked ” by an
incompetent horseshoer. The wound soon festers and sup-
purates; and such was the condition of the animal Moran

was driving harnessed to a loaded cart.

Mason Richmond paid no heed to the warning to stop
beating a decrepit horse, but thrashed the poor creature
harder with the whip. He repented his obstinacy a few
minutes later when the Society’s ofﬁcer took him to the sta-
tion house, and his equine victim to the hospital for food and
rest. Richmond was ﬁned ten dollars for his cruelty by the

Court of Special Sessions.
James De John caught a live rat in a wire trap, and to
amuse himself and others tortured his victim by pouring

boiling water over it, thereby scalding the animal to death,
for which he was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special

Jan. 6.

Sessions.

Peter Ensminger compelled his sick horse to remain all
night in an open ﬁeld, exposed to the inclemency of the
weather. The poor animal, when found by the Society’s ofﬁ~
cer, was almost chilled to death. The'defendant was ﬁned
ten dollars by Justice Mullen, and the horse shot by the

ofﬁcer.

Frank Sparling was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve
dollars, or to be imprisoned for twenty days by Judges Je-
rome, Hinsdale, and Holbrook, of the Court of Special Ses—
sions, for permitting his horse to be worked while lame,
sore, and weak. The horse, unﬁt for any use whatsoever,
had fallen in the street from exhaustion. Everything that

Jan. II.

 




 

 

 

Jan. II.

Jan. 12.

Jan. 16.

Jan. 18.

38

veterinary science could suggest was done for the relief of
the poor beast, but without avail, and its sufferings were
humanely ended. Sparling being an old offender, the
magistrates had no sympathy for him, and when imposing
sentence Judge Jerome said, “ Sparling, if you ever come
before this court again charged with cruelty to animals,
expect the maximum penalty, for it will surely be meted out
to you.”

“ You are ﬁned ﬁfty dollars, or, in default of payment,
be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days,” was the sentence imposed
upon Jacob Ebersold by Judge Jerome, of the Court of Spe—
cial Sessions. The defendant was found urging, with whip
and voice, a horse described by one of the witnesses at the
trial as being “ so lame it was hobbling along on three legs.”
The veterinary surgeon, when describing the nature and
cause of the lameness, said, “ The off front foot was actually
rotting from cankered hoof, and the pain the animal must

have suffered, when the foot touched the ground, cannot be'

described.” The horse was attached to a loaded truck.

John Graham failed to provide a sufﬁcient quantity of
food and proper shelter for his horse, although the animal
was forced to labor almost daily. Judge Ingram, in imposing
sentence, said to Graham, “while in this instance the ﬁne
imposed seems inadequate to the offence, if you are brought
here again on a similar charge, you will be punished to the
full extent of the law. In this case you are sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of thirty ddllars, or to be imprisoned for thirty
days in the county jail.”

William Tearne, Wallabout, L. I., harnessed his horse to
a wagon at six o’clock in the morning. The horse was lame
and unﬁt for work, yet Tearne, for many hours, compelled
the animal to haul the vehicle, loaded with merchandise, until
he was arrested at Maspeth, L. I., by the Society’s ofﬁcer.
Justice Brust ﬁned the offender twenty dollars. The horse
was taken to a stable and attended to.

Edward Waldstein, because his horse could not, owing
to physical disability, haul a heavily loaded truck, beat the
animal on the head and body with the butt end of a whip.
The severity of the punishment the horse received was made
apparent by the ridges on the body. Waldstein was ﬁned
thirty-ﬁve dollars by Judges Holbrook, Hayes, and Jerome,
of the Court of Special Sessions.

‘25 -




  

Jan. 19.

Jan. 19.

Jan. 19.

Jan. 23.

Feb. I.

 

39

“I cannot understand how anyone can torture a dumb
creature, as it is alleged you have done,” said Judge Hol-
brook, of the Court of Special Sessions, to William Lenehan,
who was charged with driving a horse suffering at the time
from horrible sores, measuring ﬁve inches in diameter, on
the back, unprotected from the harness. The horse was
harnessed to a coal cart and had been hauling snow from the
streets since early in the morning until stopped by the So-
ciety’s ofﬁcer late in the afternoon. Lenehan, at the time,
was urging the weary animal to gallop, in order, as he said,
“ to put in a full day.” The horse could hardly walk to the
Society’s stable when unhitched from the cart. For his
cruelty to the horse Lenehan was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁfty dollars, or to be imprisoned for twenty days.

Ralph Gould, of Watkins, N. Y., allowed his horse to re-
main unblanketed for many hours on the public highway, the
weather at the time being very frigid. The horse, when
found. was suffering from the cold. Justice J. B. Evarts im—
posed a ﬁne of three dollars, and warned Gould that a repeti-
tion of his offence would be punished very severely.

John Brown, Richmond, Staten Island, for reasons known
only to himself, cruelly beat a horse belonging to his former
employer, for which he was imprisoned twenty days, in de‘
fault of payment of a ﬁne of twenty dollars, imposed by Jus-
tice McCormac.

Bartholomew Garrick compelled a horse suffering from
a dislocated fetlock to walk from the dock at West Thirty-
fourth street to Madison Square and Twenty-sixth street.
The animal had been injured while on the boat, and on ar—
rival could only hobble along on three legs. Instead of
sending for an ambulance, Garrick, to save himself incon-
venience, made the animal walk the distance mentioned.
After taking the horse to the stable in an ambulance, the
ofﬁcer made a charge of “ cruelty to animals ” against Gar-
rick, who was subsequently ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by
Judges Hayes, Jacobs, and I—Iinsdale of the Court of Special
Sessions.

A horse, attached to a heavily loaded truck, got stalled on
West End avenue. The driver, with whip and oaths, urged
the exhausted animal to renewed effort to start the vehicle,
but in! vain. Henry Cordes happened along and volunteered

 

 




 

 

‘ Feb.

" Feb.

I.

3.

Feb. 5.

Feb.

IO.

40

his opinion that the horse was balky, and asserted that he
“ would make it go,” and in spite of the protests of driver
and bystanders, commenced to beat the animal most cruelly
with a whip, raising ridges nearly an inch thick on the body.
Judges Hayes, Jerome, and Hinsdale sentenced the offender
to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for
ﬁve days, at the same time advising him to “ mind his own
business in the future.”

“ The horSe was balky,” said Murray J. Lawrence to
Judge Hayes, when asked what he had to say to the charge
of having kicked and beaten his horse on the head with the
"butt end of a whip. Now Judge Hayes knew, even if the
horse had been balky, that the treatment "it received was not
justiﬁed, and his associates, Judges Hinsdale and Jerome,
agreed with him. The opinion of the magistrates was em-
phasized by sentencing the offender to pay a ﬁne of twenty-
ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days.

Wednesday, February 3, was a very cold day, yet Chris-
tian Lampmann, of Long Island City, compelled his horse
to remain on the public highway for over eight hours, un-
sheltered and without a blanket! The animal was almost
dead from exposure when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer, and
could hardly walk to the stable. Justice Ingram committed
the offender to jail for ten days in‘default of a ﬁne of ten

' dollars.

Thos. Slowey, because his horse could not back the wagon
to which it was harnessed, owing to the deep snow on the
street, beat the animal in» a cruel manner with a whip. A
citizen passing at the time remonstrated with Slowey, and
suggested a more humane treatment of the horse, as well as
a way to solve the difﬁculty of backing the vehicle. Slowey
resented the well-meant advice with abuse and threats, and
it was only when he found himself in the custody of a police—
man that he desisted from'abusing man and beast. Slowey
was subsequently ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Barney Weinstein was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the. Court of
Special Sessions for permitting a team of horses belonging
to him to be worked while lame, weak, and feeble. “The
physical condition of the animals rendered them unﬁt for
labor,” said the veterinary surgeon, when testifying at the
trial of Weinstein.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Feb.- 17.

Feb. 18.

Feb. 23.

Feb.

Feb.

24.

24.

 

 

  

42

James Brennan was advised that his horse was entirely
unﬁt for labor and needed rest and surgical attention. Being
of an obstinate disposition, and fancying, no doubt, he could
escape the vigilance of the Society, he harnessed the decreplt
animal to a wagon and went to work. A few loads only had
been hauled when Brennan fully realized the signiﬁcance of
the previous warning, in the presence of the ofﬁcer, who was
waiting for the horse at the dumping ground. The animal
was suffering from sprained tendons, spavin, and numerous
other ailments. “ The sentence of the Court is, you pay a
ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ﬁve days,”
said Judge Hayes, of the Court of Special Sessions, “ and if
you are brought here again on a charge of abusing any ani-
mal, you will be severely punished. 'You were cautioned by
the Society, and you disregarded good advice.”

To economize space, Isaac Frank tied the legs of a num—
ber of geese and fowl together with cord, then piled the ani—
mals on top of each other into a wagon. Frank laughed
when told to cut the cord and give the poultry more room to
move about, saying, “ They do not mind; can’t hurt them,”
and he got quite angry when the ofﬁcer cut the cord and let
the poor creatures free. A night’s lodging in the station
house, and a subsequent ﬁne of ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions has no doubt convinced Frank that even
geese and chickens have legal rights which must be re-
spected.

For shooting at and wounding his neighbor’s cat, Meyer
Hooper was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Wm. Smith.

For cruelly beating a horse on the face and eyes with a
Whip, Peter Viebrock was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions. The horse was attached to a
loaded truck that was backed up an incline. It was difﬁcult
to keep the vehicle from slipping down the rise of the pave~
ment, and instead of chocking the wheels, Viebrock beat the
horse because it could not hold the heavy truck from mov-
ing forward.

1

Victor Gal permitted a very lame horse, of which he was
the owner, to be worked by one Karl Zolstraup. The latter,
when arrested, declared he knew nothing about horses, and,
although the animal was very lame when leaving the stable,
Zolstraup drove around to the store of his employer, who

 
    
 

 




  

Feb. 24.

Feb. 25.

March 1.

March 2.

March 4.

 

43

was awaiting him, and Gal, indifferent to the animal’s physi-
cal suffering, ordered the horse to work. The defendant
tried to excuse himself on the plea of ignorance, but the
Court of Special Sessions ruled that ignorance of the condi-
tion of the horse on the part of Gal would not hold, when
the lameness and suffering of the animal was apparent to
everyone else. He was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dol—
lars, or to be imprisoned for ten days.

Samuel Scholzky, of Lindenhurst, L. I., was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by Justice Arthur Neville on the technical charge of
“ injuring and depriving a cat of proper sustenance.” The
testimony, however, of witnesses for the Society at the trial
of the defendant showed that he tied a piece of lamp wick
tightly around the neck of the cat, then fastened a large stone
to the other end'of the wick, and threw the animal into the
water—closet, where it remained for several days until res-
cued by one of the witnesses. A heartless case of cruelty,
and the punishment did not ﬁt the crime.

Frank Williams, of Middletown, N. Y., drove into the
village of State Hill one cold morning, tied his horse to a
tree on the roadway, and left it there the entire day without
covering, food, or drink. The Society’s resident ofﬁcer man—
aged to get the half-dead animal to a barn and gave it food.
Williams, when arraigned before Justice Braden, treated the
matter very coolly, and. intimated he was unjustly treated
when ﬁned ﬁve dollars for his neglect of the horse.

“ You are charged with kicking a horse several times in
the belly; what have you to say?” said Justice Hinsdale, of
the Court of Special Sessions, to Hubert Fanning. The lat-
ter made an attempt to belittle the charge, saying in sub—
stance that the horse was not hurt. “The act itself shows
you have a hasty temper, and you should know better than
to give way to it,” said Justice Holbrook, as he sentenced
the defendant to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars, or to be im—
prisoned for ten days.

For carrying live chickens in a cruel and inhuman man—
ner, viz., by the legs, head hanging downward, Robert
Makensky was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Brust, of Mas-
peth, L. I.

“ Driven up to the last notch of strength,” exclaimed an
indignant citizen as he looked upon the apology of a horse

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

March 8.

44

harnessed to a heavily loaded wagon owned by .Chas. H.
Lott. A good Samaritan in the person of one of the So-
ciety’s ofﬁcers happened along just as the driver was about
to urge the decrepit animal to renew its efforts to start the
vehicle. It was impossible. “Old, weak, lame, and unﬁt
for work,” was the verdict of the ofﬁcer, “and you are,”
turning to Lott, “under arrest for compelling the poor
beast to be driven.” “ Shoot him; he is no good; I don’t
want him,” said Lott, when he realized the predicament he
was in. The suffering of the horse was humanely ended, and
Lott subsequently arraigned in the Court of Special Ses—
sions, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars, or
to be imprisoned for ten days, by presiding Justice Hinsdale.

A. Hutchinson, of Cazenovia, N. Y., was charged, before
Justice Rouse, with having shot a number of dogs, thereby
killing two, wounding several others, and leaving the latter
on the road to die. The defendant was found guilty of the

charge, and ﬁned ten dollars.

March 10. Patrick McEarnery, of Port Jervis, while, so it was al-

leged, on a drunk, neglected to feed and water his horse for
three days. The animal when found in the barn was in a
pitiful condition. McEarnery plead guilty, and was ﬁned
ﬁfteen dollars.

March II. The Justices of the Court of Special Sessions gazed with

amazement at the Society’s exhibit in the case of Constant
Gregel, who was on trial for cruelty to his horse. A block
of granite weighing nearly twenty pounds, to which was at-
tached a piece of strong rope about six feet long, was the
exhibit which attracted attention. “The defendant wound
about four feet of the rope about his hand, then swinging the
stone around a number of times, so as to give it' force, struck
the horse several blows on the body with the rock, almost
knocking the animal down; then dropping the weapon,
Gregel struck the horse three or four times in the face with
his ﬁst,” said the Society’s ofﬁcer. “ It seems incredible to
believe,” said Justice Hinsdale, “ that such an act of cruelty
to a helpless dumb creature is possible in the community.
The defendant is sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars,
or to be imprisoned for ten days.”

March 12. The horse driven by Thomas Kelly, of Long Island City,

fell while crossing the railroad track, nearly causing the

 




45

driver to fall off the wagon. The horse was severely hurt
by the fall, and could not get up quick enough to suit Kelly,
who started in to beat the animal on the head with a heavy
whip. Although advised not to do so by several bystanders,
who volunteered to assist in getting the horse to its feet,
Kelly ignored all offers of assistance and continued abusing
the horse. The Society’s resident ofﬁcer happened along
and took charge of the case. Kelly was subsequently ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by Judge Ingram.

March 15. Christian Koper said he lost his temper, when asked by
Judge Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions, why he
kicked his horse in the belly. The trouble was the horse
could not pull the loaded wagon fast enough to suit Koper,
hence the cruelty, for which he was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned ﬁve days.

March I7. A horse belonging to Joseph St. Clair fell in the street,
some say from exhaustion, others from the lack of food, per-
haps both. Kind hands raised the animal on its feet, but
owing to its inﬁrmities, the poor creature could not stand
without assistance. St. Clair got angry when the horse
fell the second time, and commenced to kick the prostrate
animal on the body and limbs. This aroused the indignation
of the spectators, and especially a lady, who called a police-
man and caused St. Clair’s arrest. At the time of the trial
in the Court of Special Sessions, the fair complainant was
listened to with marked attention by the Court, as she graph-
ically described the cruelty inﬂicted upon the horse. Judge
Hinsdale sentenced the defendant to pay a ﬁne of twenty-
ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days.

March 20. Frank Smith had no other defense to offer for kicking his
horse in the belly than that it would not move along faster.
The animal was attached to a vender’s wagon, and stopped
just a moment, and for so doing was kicked by the defend—
ant. The cruelty was witnessed by a member of the Society,
who caused Smith’s arrest and subsequent conviction by the
Court of Special Sessions. He was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to be conﬁned in the City Prison
for ﬁve days.

March 24. Patrick Mulhall, of Auburn, N. Y., was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve
dollars by Recorder Clark for overdriving and cruelly beat—
ing a horse. The defendant refused to pay the ﬁne, and was
committed'to the County Jail for twenty—ﬁve days.

 




 

 

46

March 24. Harry Goldsmith was advised not to work an old gray

horse, which was lame, weak, and sore. Thinking, however,
he could escape the vigilance of the Society’s ofﬁcers, he
harnessed the decrepit animal to a wagon loaded with bot-
tles and started uptown. He had not gone very far when
he was seen by the same ofﬁcer who had advised him in the
ﬁrst instance. The horse was at once taken to a veterinary
hospital and Goldsmith to the station house. He was later
ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 27. A team of wretched—looking horses, gray and bay, at-

April 3.

tached to a wagon heavily loaded with merchandise, was
struggling up the incline at the Third avenue bridge. The
driVer, Joseph Ferelli, regardless of the decrepit condition
of the team, urged them along by the use of a heavy whip.
The gray was very lame from quittor; the bay suffering from
sores ﬁve inches in diameter on the breast, unprotected from
the harness. It was a pitiful sight, but did not continue
long. The ambulance of the Society happened along, in
which the lame gray was taken to the veterinary hospital,
the bay following behind. Ferelli, when arraigned in Special
Sessions, said he did not know the law. “ Ignorance of the
law is no excuse,” said Judge Hinsdale, as he imposed a ﬁne

of twenty—ﬁve dollars.

Chas. Clay, a janitor, purchased a horse for which he paid
——so it was said—-—three dollars. The animal, at the time of
the purchase, was old, emaciated, and unﬁt for use, yet Clay
compelled it to do the work of a sound horse, but neglected
to give it food and care, and ﬁnally the poor creature—so it
was alleged—died from starvation. The case was not made
known to the Society until after the death of the horse, when
an investigation was instituted, which conﬁrmed everything
as stated. While the Society’s ofﬁcer was waiting for Clay,
the latter drove up to the stable with another horse, which
the neighbors said was as bad, if not worse, than the one he
had starved. “ It could not have been much worse,”
said the ofﬁcer, “ being lame, weak, sore on back and breast,
and emaciated to a condition beyond description.” Clay
expressed surprise when the decrepit animal was taken from
him and humanely disposed of; but more so when he him-
self was lodged in the station house on a charge of cruelty
to animals. On being arraigned for trial before Judges
Jerome, Hayes, and Holbrook, of the Court of Special Ses-




April 4.

April 7.

April 12.

47

sions. the defendant declared the horse was sound and well
able to work, although he had agreed to pay but six dollars
in weekly installments for it. The Court was fully informed
of all the facts, and Judge Jerome, when imposing sentence,
characterized the case as one of “ atrocious cruelty to an un-
offending dumb creature.” Clay was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of one hundred and ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned for thirty
days.

Mike Weiss, of Flushing, L. I., for putting a live cat in a
bag, then throwing it to the ground, and jumping on the
body several times, was sentenced to imprisonment in the
County Jail for nineteen days by Judge Duffy, of Long
Island City.

“You are charged with carrying eight live calves in a
cruel and inhuman manner,” said presiding Justice Jerome,
of the Court of Special Sessions, to Morris Gestner. “ What
have you to say?” “ I am guilty,” replied the defendant.
The ofﬁcer of the Society stated to the Court that while on
duty at the stock yards his attention was attracted by the
sound of moans coming from the inside of a small covered
wagon. Upon looking into the vehicle, he saw what ap-
peared to be a bundle done up in a canvas bag, which was
fastened to the bottom of the wagon by a rope. On loosen-
ing the rope and raising the heavy canvas, eight live calves,
about seven weeks old, were found bound together with
cords in a cruel manner. One little creature was bleeding
about the neck and legs; another was almost dead from
strangulation, and all of them were in a pitiable condition.
The calves were taken from the wagon and put into a box
stall and fed. with warm meal mush. The body of the wagon
measured three feet six inches long, by three feet wide, and
was only large enough to carry three calves at a time. Gest—
ner resided at Yonkers, and it was his intention to carry his
living freight to that place, thereby subjecting them to great
physical suffering for many hours. “ A most heartless case of
cruelty,” said Judge Jerome, “ and the defendant is sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for
ﬁfteen days.”

The horse Frank McDonald was driving at the time of
his arrest was lame, weak, and feeble, but that did not ap~
peal to the kinder part of McDonald’s nature, if he possessed
any, for, when remonstrated with for driving such a horse, he

 




 

 

April I 3.

April 16.

April 19.

  

48

coolly replied, “ The, horse is all right; you mind your own
business." His indifference and disregard of the_advice to
“ take the horse to its stable ” proved very costly to him, for
he was subsequently convicted of the charge of cruelty, and
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned for
twenty days, by Judges Hayes, Holb’rook, and Jacobs, of the
Court of Special Sessions.

Richard Boas, of Clifton, S. I., in a ﬁt of anger, threw a.
sharp—pointed screwdriver at. a dog, which penetrated the
animal’s back six inches, making a frightful wound. The
offender was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Schutzendorf. The
wounded dog was taken to the veterinary hospital and at—
tended to.

Charles A; Anderson, of Kiantone, N. Y., neglected to give
fourteen cows food and drink‘for many hours: One of the
animals died from starvation, while the others "were only
saved by prompt attention and nourishing food: Anderson
was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice Ambrose Cross.

John Oprandy, of Mount Vernon, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve
dollars for permitting his .son Samuel to lead through the
streets of Yonkers, and to offer for sale, a horse having
glanders and farcy, diseases dangerous to the .life and health
of human beings and animals. The animal waslmercifully

,disposed of. . . , .

April 19.

April 19

Charles Bemish and Fred.’ Williamson, Of Geneva, N. Y.,
boys fourteen and ﬁfteen years of age, respectiVely, were
ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Samuelson, for pouring turpen-
tine o‘ver' a live cat, thereby causing the p00r creature great
physical pain and suffering.

James Sartoras and Frank Locatel, residents of
Mount Vernon; occupation, laborers; attempted to slaughter
a hog belonging to a farmer. The method adopted was bar-
barous in the extreme. The animal was struck repeatedly on
the head and other parts of the body with a sledge-hammer
(see page 74). Finally escaping from the torturers, the vic—
tim, covered with blood, ran into the street. The Society’s
ofﬁcers were notiﬁed of the case and promptly responded.
The wounded hog was humanely destroyed. Sartoras and
Locate] were ﬁned thirty—ﬁve and ﬁve dollars respectively by
Justice F. M. Bennett for their cruelty to the animal.

   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

 




7
Q]
8
m
D
E
E
E
s
E
R
U
T
R
O
T
F
o
S
T
N
E
M
U
R
T
s
m

 

 

 

 

 




April 20.

April 20.

April 23.

April 9.6.

SI

Richard Scott, of Yonkers, N. Y., fastened a cord to the
tongue of a horse, then pulled and twisted it so hard as to
cause about two inches of the tongue to fall off. For this
brutality, Judge Kellogg sentenced the offender to pay a ﬁne
of ten dollars, or to be imprisoned for ten days.

Frank Squilla was convicted for having beat his horse
most cruelly on the body with a piece of 1ron gas— pipe. The
weapon was shown to the Court at the time of the trial of the
defendant, and Presiding Justice Jacobs, When sentencing
Squilla, said: “ If you are ever brought here again, charged
with cruelty to animals, you will be severely punished.
Upon the present charge of cruelty to the horse, of which

' you have just been found guiltypthe sentence of the Court

is that you pay a ﬁne of twenty— —ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned
for ﬁve days.”

Justice Dunklee, of'Conklingville, N. Y., ﬁned Alfred

- Arnold ten dollars and‘costs, for cruelly beating a number

of sheep. Arnold believed he had a right to do as he pleased
with his own property up to the time of his arrest for cruelty
to animals. He is wiser now.

Stephen Goad, a driver for the Fifth. Avenue Stage Com-
pany, was driving a teamof lame and otherwise disabled

- horses attached to a stage partially loaded with passengers.

When he got to Twenty-third street and Fifth avenue the
nigh horse was -so played out it could hardly walk. The
Society’s ofﬁcer, on duty there, had sent the team home a
few days prior, and had warned Goad that if he drove the
horses again while lame, he 'would be arrested. The latter
stated to’the ofﬁcer that he had informed the stable fore-
man, James Donnelly, of the warning, but no notice was
taken of it, and Goad was ordered to drive the horses on
their regular trip as usual. The facts were submitted to
City Magistrate Wentworth, who promptly issued a warrant
for the arrest of Donnelly, and he was held fOr trial under
$100 bail. A photograph of the decrepit animals was taken
and offered in evidence at the trial of Donnelly in the Court ,
of Special Sessions, Judges Jacobs,_ Hayes, and Holbrook.
The picture (see page 27) spoke more eloquently than the
testimony of living witnesses, and so impressed the Court
that Justice Jacobs sentenced the defendant to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁfty dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days, at the same-
time warning him that if he was ever brought before the

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 28.

May I.

May 7.

May 8.

May II.

 

  

52

court again on a similar charge, a much more severe pun—
ishment would be meted out to him. In the case of Goad,
sentence was suspended.

William Ryan, of Jersey City, was driving a team of old,
lame horses, harnessed to a heavily loaded wagon. The
wretched appearance of the animals excited much pity as
they struggled and limped along, 'until a'public-spirited citi—
zen declared such an outrageous case of cruelty should be
stopped, and he proposed to do it. He was ably assisted
by one of the Society’s ofﬁcers who happened along, and
soon had the decrepit animals unharnessed and on their way
to the veterinary hospital for rest and treatment; but, after
careful examination, both horses were pronounced utterly
unﬁt for service by reason of old age and other inﬁrmi~
ties, too numerous to mention, and were humanely de-
stroyed. Ryan was subsequently sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
thirty—ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days, by
Judges Jerome, Hayes, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special
Sessions.

Joseph Carsiglio, in a ﬁt of temper,'kicked his horse
several times in the belly. The animal was attached to a
wagon heavily loaded with merchandise, and for not starting
off fast enough to suit the driver was kicked as stated above.
Carsiglio was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions. ' .

Owen McGuire was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days by the Court of
Special Sessions, Justice Jacobs presiding, for compelling a
horse suffering at the time from scratches, bruised heels,
lameness, and other ailments too numerous to mention, to
haul a loaded wagon. The” horse could hardly walk, yet
McGuire urged it ”along, with voice and whip." One of the
Society’s ofﬁcers took charge of the outﬁt, sending the horse
to the stable for surgical treatment and McGuire to court.

Walter Moore, of Geyserville, N. Y., was declared guilty
by a jury, of having shot a dog, wounding it severely, then
beating the animal on the head with an ax. Justice F. H.
McDonald ﬁned the offender twenty—ﬁve dollars.

Attached to a wagon heavily loaded with merchandise was
harnessed a pair of emaciated horses. The animals were

 

   
  
  
 
 




    

May II.

Bday II.

Rday 15.

 

53

willing, but the load was too heavy for their feeble strength.
Jacob Gottenberg, the driver, laughed when told to lighten
the load, saying “the plugs can haul twice as much” and
that he “ intended to ﬁnish the day’s work, no matter how

tired the horses were.”

Finding it useless trying to con-

vince Gottenberg that the horses were utterly fagged out,
the ofﬁcer employed heroic treatment, and sent the animals
to a nearby stable for rest and feed, and took Gottenberg to

the station-house.

Subsequently, in the Court of Special Sessions, the of— ‘
fender was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Judges Jacobs, Hins—

dale, and Holbrook.

The horse owned by Thomas Columbus fell sick in the
stable and was thought to be dying. The animal, when pur-
chased, was of little value, owing to numerous physical in—
ﬁrmities; and when stricken down, nothing was done to re-
lieve its sufferings, Columbus declaring he had no time to

give to it, as he had to buy another horse.

Returning home

with his new purchase, Columbus was very angry to ﬁnd the
sick horse still alive, and in the way; so in order to get rid
of the animal, permitted a rope to be fastened around its
neck and feet, and, with the assistance of a crowd of men,
dragged it up an incline eight feet long. When landed in the

street the poor creature was in a pitiful condition.

Its suf-

ferings were mercifully ended by one of the Society’s ofﬁcers,

who had been summoned.

Columbus, when arrested for cruelty to the horse, pro-
tested that, as the animal was'dying, it made no difference
about dragging it by the neck. Judges Jacobs, Holbrook,
and Hayes, of the Court of Special Sessions, promptly found
the defendant guilty of cruelty, and in sentencing him to
thirty days in the City Prison, Presiding Justice Jacobs said
it was one of the worst cases of man’s inhumanity to a de-

fenseless creature he had ever heard of.

Sylvester Smith, of Belmore, L. I., was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars by Justice Treadwell for overdriving a horse, thereby

causing the animal’s death.

Lame, weak, and feeble was the condition of the horse
seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer at the time he arrested Edwin

C. Thorne, the driver.

The decrepit horse, harnessed to a
milk wagon, had been driven from Hoboken, N. J., and com-




 

 

May 19.

May 21.

May 22.

May 29.

May 29.

"54

‘pelled‘ to haul the vehicle many miles about the city before

stopped. Thorne protested at being delayed, saying he
wanted to serve all his customers, even if the horse was
lame. The animal was' taken to the veterinary hospital.
Thorne was subsequently sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-
ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ten days, by the Court
of Special Sessions. (See illustration, page 32.)

Charles Hanson, of Jamestown, N. Y., was ﬁned ten d01-
lars by Justice Abner, for carrying a young calf in a wagon
in a cruel manner, viz., with its legs tied with a piece of
clothesline. The little creature could not move, and when
seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer, was moaning as if in great
pain.

Thomas Tierney, foreman for ' a large stable company,
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of one hundred and ﬁfty dollars,
or to be imprisoned for thirty days, for permitting a horse
to be worked while suffering from sores on the breast, un—
protected by the harness. The severity of the sentence was
owing to the fact that on several previous occasions, horses
belonging to the same ﬁrm, and while suffering from lame-
ness and other causes, had been suspended from'labor by the
Society’s ofﬁcers, and the drivers and foreman warned. Pre—
siding Justice Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, when
pronouncing sentence said to Tierney: “ You were respon-

- sible for the suffering the horse was made to endure, as it

lay in your power, being the foreman of the stable, to have
prevented the animal» from being worked; and it was your
moral duty to have done everything to relieve its sufferings.

Henry H. Smith, of Wate‘rtown, N. Y., for depriving eight
steers and three horses of food and water for many hours,
likewise neglecting to provide proper care for a deformed
heifer, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or
to be imprisoned twenty—ﬁve days, by Justice G. H. Cobb.

David Tilford, of Middletown, N. Y., while intoxicated,
o'verdrove and cruelly beat his horse, for which offense he
was ﬁned ten dollars by Recorder J. F. Barnes.

Fred Brock, of Long Island City, fastened a heavy iron
weight'to a goat’s neck with a cord, then compelled the ani-
mal to run about for the amusement of himself and friends.
The heavyweight caused the goat to fall over on its head.

" Fined ﬁve dollars by Judge Ingram.




June 2.

June 2.

June 7.

June 9.

June 10.

June IO.

55

Lorenzo Abrams was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justice
E. Wheeler for putting a twitch around a horse’s tongue so
tightly as to cause a portion of the tongue to fall off. The
ﬁne was paid under protest.

“ Your horse is too lame to haul that heavy truck,” said
a lady to Dominick Govenario, who was belaboring a de-
crepit horse to move faster. Governario pretended not to
have heard the lady’s remark and kept on striking the horse
with the whip. An ofﬁcer appeared, and it was amusing to
see how quickly the whip disappeared under the seat of the
vehicle. It Was no use,——the condition of the horse was
sufﬁcient to cause the arrest of Governario on a charge of
cruelty, and he was subsequently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by
Judges Hayes, Hinsdale, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special
Sessions. The horse was taken to a veterinary hospital.

William Myers and James Hanley, of Clyde, N. Y., were
each sentenced to be imprisoned for ten days in default of
payment of a ﬁne of ten dollars, imposed by Justice C. C.
Brink, for having overdriven and cruelly beaten a young
horse.

Robert Dolan, of Seneca Falls, N. Y., was sentenced to
six months’ in the penitentiary by Justice Nye, for instigating
and promoting a dog—ﬁght and resisting the Sheriff’s ofﬁcers.

Andrew Stranna, a stableman, while, so it was alleged, in-
toxicated, beat a dog on the head and body with a pitchfork.
The cries of the animal attracted the attention of persons
passing the stable, and on investigating the defendant was
seen in the act of striking the dog. The defendant said the
dog attacked him, but it was testiﬁed to by several witnesses
that that was impossible, for the animal was closely chained
to the ﬂoor. It was also shown that the dog was gentle and
not at all vicious. The evidence for the prosecution was
most conclusive, and the defendant was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Feliciana Sassa, of Brooklyn, was arrested for abusing his
horse. The animal at the time was not only lame and sore,
but its emaciated appearance suggested the want of food.
The horse’s mouth was badly lacerated, owing to the con—
stant jerking on the bit, and its body striped with whip
marks. “ A forlorn creature, indeed,” exclaimed a lady sym-

 




56

pathizer. Sassa violently protested when told to unhitch the
poor creature, declaring the horse was only lazy. The am-
bulance was summoned, in which the horse was taken to
the veterinary hospital. Sassa was arraigned before the
Court of Special Sessions and sentenced to pay a ﬁne 0f
twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justices Holbrook, Jacobs, and Hins-

dale.

June 15- Louis Werner was found guilty by the Court of Special
Sessions for causing and permitting live poultry to be car—
ried in a cruel and inhuman manner, viz., in crates piled on
top of each other on a truck. When being unloaded, the
crates containing the poultry were thrown about like.old
lumber. Many of the animals were found with broken Wings
and legs, and in several instances they were headless. Wer-
ner was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or
to be imprisoned for ﬁve days, by Judges Holbrook, Jacobs,
and Hinsdale. The presiding magistrate warned the defend-
ant that if he was ever brought before the Court again on a
similar charge he might expect severe punishment.

Bernard Behren, Louis Cohen, Nathan Levy, and Pinkus
Giberman, employees of Werner, were ﬁned ten dollars each

for aiding in the cruelty.

 

 

June 15. Samuel Quashy was seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer driving
a very lame, sore horse, attached to a loaded wagon. The
whole outﬁt was dilapidated and dirty, showing every indi-
cation of neglect. Quashy was advised to take the horse
to the stable and have its ailments attended to; and warned
that if he was found driving the horse again until in proper
condition for labor he would be arrested. Quashy was pro—
fuse in thanks for “being let off this time,” declaring he
would take the horse to the stable right away. Twenty
minutes later the ofﬁcer saw Quashy cruelly beating the
decrepit horse into a run. The horse was unharnessed and
taken to the veterinary hospital. Quashy was subsequently
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be im-
prisoned for ten days by the Court of Special Sessions.

June I7. For seventeen hours, John Moran, of St. James, N. Y-’

kept his horse on the go without rest or food, cruelly beat-

} ing the animal at intervals. He plead guilty to the charge

l and was sentenced to the County Jail for sixty days by Jus-
} tice J. H. Brown.

 




 

  

July 6.

/ July 7.

i ’ July 7.

 

July I 7.

58

charged with cruelty to animals, and was sentenced as
above stated. An appeal from the verdict was taken. .

Another complaint was made against Sahr for crowding
forty dogs in a place called the “ Public Pound,” andfailing
to provide the animals with food and water. The defendant
plead guilty to the charge and was ﬁned ten dollars.

David Grossman, through ignorance or indifference, al-
lowed his horse to get stalled in a hole in the street. When
the truck struckpthe obstruction, the jolt nearly threw Gross—
manfrom his seat and he vented his anger on the unoffend—
ing horse. The whip, a heavy one, was plied with vigor on
the horse’s body, raising ridges from neck to tail. A lady
remonstrated, but was threatened with the whip if she did not
“ go on and mind her own business.” She did go, only
to return with a‘police ofﬁcer, who, at her request, took
Grossman into custody. The horse beater became very tame
when he found himself under arrest. The horse was sent to
the stable, and Grossman was subsequently ﬁned ﬁfty dol—
lars by the Court of Special Sessions, the lady appearing
as the complaining witness.

Louis Edelstein, of Maspeth, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by JuS-
tice Brust for keeping twenty-eight milch cows in a crowded
and ﬁlthy stable. The place was ill-ventilated and surrounded
by stagnant water. The bodies of the cows were covered
with excrement.

Andrew Reulein was arrested for causing a horse to be
harnessed to a truck and to haul the loaded vehicle the best
part of the day, while the animal was suffering from an
old sore ﬁve inches long by four inches wide upon the breast,
with a heavy ,collar pressing the wound. What agony the
poor creature endured during the day can only be surmised.
Reulein laughed at the idea of a horse suffering. Pre-
siding Judge Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions, sen-
tenced the defendant to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars, or
to be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days. The horse was attended to
by the veterinary surgeon.

“The horse’s body was covered with ridges, the result
Of the Whipping done by defendant,” testiﬁed the Society’s
ofﬁcer at the trial of Frank Geallers, who was charged with
beating his horse in a cruel manner. The animal was old

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    




July 18.

July 23.

July 24.

July 28.

Aug. 7.

59

and ~perfectly docile, but in some way aroused Gaellers’s
anger, which he vented on the horse. Justice Jerome sen-
tenced the offender to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to
be imprisoned for ten days in the City Prison.

While passing through Catherine street a little cat crossed
the pathway of John Nolan, who gave the unoffending
animal a vicious kick, landing it into the middle of the street.
The brutal act was witnessed by a police ofﬁcer, who prompt-
ly arrested the offender, and he was subsequently ﬁned twen-
ty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Aaron Nickelson, of Maspeth, was sentenced to thirty
days’ imprisonment in the County Jail by Judge Monte-
verde for assaulting one of the Society’s ofﬁcers while the
latter was in the discharge of his duty, in releasing several
dogs that were conﬁned in a small building.

Owen Callahan was told his horse was sick, and that
he would be arrested for working it; but, ignoring good
advice, he harnessed the animal to a truck, which he loaded
with heavy merchandise. When ready to start the horse
was too weak to budge the truck, so Callahan resorted to the
whip, which he commenced to use vigorously on the ailing
horse. A police ofﬁcer ordered Callahan to cease abusing
the animal, but Callahan resented the ofﬁcer’s interference,
and continued the whipping. He regretted it later, as he
was subsequently ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Judges Hins-
dale, Jerome, and Hayes of the Court of Special Sessions.

It was believed that the cruel practice of bleeding live
calves to make the ﬂesh white had been discontinued, at
least in New York. Such was not the case, however, for
Peter Fogal was seen by two of the Society’s ofﬁcers en-
gaging in the cruel business. Fogal is an old offender, and
has been kept under surveillance for some time. He was
ﬁned one hundred dollars by Judges Hinsdale, Jerome, and
Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, and warned that if
he was brought to Court again charged with a similar of-
fense, imprisonment and not ﬁne would be imposed.

Charles Pulver, of Hudson, N. Y., was charged with un-
justiﬁably killing a mule. It is almost incredible of belief
that a human being could be so heartless as to kill a per-
fectly healthy young animal simply for the sake of realizing

" one dollar, yet that is what Pulver did. He was assisted in

 




 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 9.

Aug. II.

Aug. 12.

Aug. 16.

 

  

60

the cruelty by Jefferson Almstead. The mule belonged to a
resident of Hudson, and had a particularly ﬁne skin; and
it was for the latter the human brutes concocted and carried
out a plan to kill the animal. The details are too disgustlng
for publication. The skin was sold for one dollar. Judge
Alden sentenced Pulver to imprisonment in the Penitentiary
for six months and Almstead for two months. The punish-
ment did not ﬁt the crime.

“ The horse was so lame it could not put the foot to the
ground without suffering great pain—it was limping on three
legs,” said the ofﬁcer at the trial of Harry Shannon in the
Court of Special Sessions. At the time of the defendant’s
arrest he was urging the horse to haul a loaded cart up an
incline. The. cause of the lameness was a diseased hoof; in
fact, “the foot was rotting off,” testiﬁed the veterinary sur—
geon. Justice Hinsdale, when sentencing the prisoner to
pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ﬁf—
teen days, characterized the offense as “ most brutal.”

William H. Watkins, for striking a horse on the head
several times with the butt end of a whip, was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars or to be imprisoned for thirty
days. The horse was harnessed to a contractor’s truck, and
was engaged in hauling sand out of an excavation. The
going was heavy—the mud up to the hubs of the vehicle.
The horse, weak from overwork, ﬁnally gave out; then
came the clubbing. Presiding Judge Hinsdale, of the Court
of Special Sessions, warned W'atkins that if he was brought
to trial on a similar charge a term in the Penitentiary would
be his punishment. ’

JUdge Riley, of Yonkers, N. Y., sentenced Hugh Clem—
ents to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned
for twenty—ﬁve days, for having .struck a neighbor’s dog
several blows on the head with an ax. He went to jail.

“You are ﬁned thirty dollars, or to be imprisoned for
thirty days,” said Justice Riley to John Lee, of Yonkers,
who had been found guilty of having abandoned an old, sick
horse to die on the road. The horse was in a pitiful state,
one of the feet actually rotting off from disease; yet the
owner, although well—knowing he could easily summon the
Society’s ofﬁcer to humanely end the creature’s agony,
turned it out, thus prolonging its suffering. The ofﬁcer

 
 
 
 
    
  

 

 

 




 

Aug. 18.

Aug. 20.

Aug. 23.

Aug. 27.

Aug. 31.

61

ﬁrst destroyed the animal, then prosecuted Lee, who was
punished as above. The ﬁne was subsequently reduced to
twenty dollars by the Justice.

Frederick Fehling did not think he was hurting his horse
by holding on to. the reins with both hands and with all his
force jerking the animal’s mouth. His ignorance cost him
twenty-ﬁve dollars, which was the ﬁne imposed by the Court
of Special Sessions.

Mary Jane Gee kept a boarding and lodging house. One
of her boarders owned a little fox terrier, a playful creature,
and the pet of the other occupants of the house. Mrs. Gee
did not like dogs, especially the one belonging to her guest,
so she ordered it taken away at once. She was told that
when the term for which the room was hired had expired,
the tenant and dog would go, and not before. This an—
gered Mrs. Gee, and she went to the room of her boarder,
took up the dog, and threw it out of the fourth-story window
to the yard below. Several ribs were fractured, and the
little animal was in a pitiful condition. Mrs. Gee was ar-
rested, and later on ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Judges Hins-
dale, Jerome, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions.

“I came from Orange, N. J., and there is nothing the
matter with the horse,” said Antonio Montererde in re—
sponse to the ofﬁcer’s inquiry. The horse in question was
a sorry looking animal; lame, sore, weak, and feeble and suf-
fering in body and limbs. From Orange, N. J., to this city
had the crippled animal been forced to limp along and haul
the loaded wagon. The Society’s ambulance was sum-
moned, in which the suffering animal was taken to the
veterinary hospital and subsequently humanely disposed of.
Montererde was 'ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to be im—
prisoned for ten days, by Judges Hinsdale, Jerome, and
Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions.

Walter Waldorph, of Livingston County, was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by Justice Alden for carrying a young calf in a cruel
manner. The four legs of the little creature were fastened to—
gether with a cord and the animal then thrown into a
wagon.

“Ignorance of the law is no excuse,” said Justice Je—

rome, of the Court of Special Sessions, to Henry Bennett
when sentencing him to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars for cruelly

 

 




 

 

 

62

beating a horse in the'face with a whip, Cutting the eye.
“The horse was backing on the sidewalk,"and I did not
knowthe law,” was the defendant’s excuse. To beat a horse
on. the head for backing showed gross ignorance of the
knowledge of driving. . .

John W. Schnepp, a driver, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions for cruelty to two young calves.
Schnepp was loading the animals on his truck, and because
they did not move along fast enough, he beat them on the
head and face in a cruel manner with a stick.

James McCormac, in a ﬁt of anger, beat hishorse on the
head and face with the butt end of a whip, thereby badly
injuring the right eye. When remonstrated with the offender
declared he would do what he pleased with his own prop-
erty. Sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to
be imprisoned for ten days, by the Court of Special Ses-

s:ons. -
James Wilson,.an expressman, drove his horse from this
city to Pelham, Westchester County, with a load of furni—
ture. The hauling was heavy owing to the muddy roads, and
the horse, already tired after the long journey, got stalled at
the outskirts of the town. It was impossible to start the
load, the mud being up to the hubs of the truck. Instead Of
going for assistance, Wilson commenced to beat the weary
animal with a whip mOSt cruelly. The Society’s local agent
was notiﬁed and promptly responded. ‘The horse was taken
to a near—by barn for rest and food, while WilsOn was taken
before Justice Lyon, who ﬁned the offender ten dollars for
his cruelty to the horse. ‘

David Beck, for causing and permitting his horse to be
worked while lame, sore, weak, and feeble, was ﬁned ﬁfty
dollars in the Court of Special Sessions. The horse was so
lame and weak it almost fell when unhitched from the truck.

Margaret O’Neil was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions for causing and permitting‘a horse belong-
ing to her to be driven to a wagon While the animal was in a
weak, feeble, and exhausted condition. The horse showed
CVCI‘Y evidence Of being sadly neglected, and to end its suf-
ferings was humanely destroyed by the Society’s ofﬁcer.

Herbert Bush, of Port Richmond, S. I., was sentenced to
imprisonment for ﬁve days in the County Jail for kicking a
neighbor’s dog, thus breaking one of its legs. ’

 




-Oct. II.

Oct. 15.

Oct. 16.

Oct. 22.
Oct. 24.

Oct. 25.

Nov. 3.

63

Luke Naduke compelled a lame horse to haul a loaded
cart from Williamsbridge to Thirty—ﬁfth street and First
avenue. “ The horse was limping on three legs,” said the
complaining witness to Justices Jerome, Jacobs, and Hayes,
of the Court of Special Sessions. The defendant was sen—
tenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars, or to be imprisoned
for twelve days. The suffering horse was taken to the vet—
erinary hospital in an ambulance. -

Julius Steffens, of Yonkers, N. Y., was arraigned before
City Judge Kellogg charged with having left two horses in a
stable to starve. The condition of the animals when seen by
the Society’s ofﬁcer plainly indicated the want of food, and
one of them was so far gone that the ofﬁcer deemed it merci—
ful to end its further suffering. Its mate was taken to the
veterinary hospital and cared for. Justice Kellogg sentenced
the offender to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars, or to be im~
prisoned twenty days.

Santo Zueches, for cruelly beating a horse on the head and
body with the butt end of a whip, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions.

Tomatsio Salvini, of Corning, N. Y., was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve
dollars by Recorder Cheney for having poured kerosene
oil over a neighbor’s dog, then setting ﬁre to it. The dog
died in great agony. The punishment did not ﬁt the crime.

Arthur McShane, of Middletown, N. Y., was ﬁned ﬁfty
dollars by Justice Barnes for fastening an iron chain about
the neck of a living horse, then causing the animal to be
dragged along the ground for some distance.

Peter Nordhelper was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions for compelling a lame pony, carry-
ing a number of [articles on its back to walk from West
Tenth street to One Hundred and Twenty—ﬁfth street east.
The pony had been used for exhibition purposes and for
hire at several fairs throughout the State. Business being
slack, the horse was brought to New York for sale or hire.
The nigh fore foot was in a dreadful condition and the ani—
mal suffering much pain.

Peter McElkenny was sentenced by the Court or Special
Sessions to pay a ﬁne of thirty—ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned
for ten days, for beating a horse in a cruel manner on the
head and body with the butt end of a whip. The defendant

 




 

   
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

  

64

was appealed to by a lady to desist beating the horse, but
he replied with oaths, and continued to abuse the animal
until the lady called a police ofﬁcer and caused McElkenny’s
arrest.

Mrs. Frank Whitney, of Canastota, N. Y., fastened a
bundle of rags saturated with kerosine to the tail of a neigh—
bor’s dog, then set it on ﬁre. On being arraigned before Jus—
tice Northup the defendant plead guilty and was ﬁned ten
dollars.

Nov. II.

Nov. I7. John Murphy was arrested for compelling two horses to
haul a loaded truck while the animals were suffering from
several sores on their bodies, unprotected from the harness.
Murphy laughed at the idea of a horse feeling pain, and
protested that he could do ashe pleased with his own. Pre—
siding Judge Hayes, of the Court of Special Sessions, dis-
abused the defendant’s mind of the belief that animals could
be abused with impunity, at least in New York City, and
sentenced Murphy to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to
be imprisoned for ten days.

Abram Siegel, of Yonkers, for exposing and offering to
sell a horse having the disease knOwn as glanders, was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by Judge Kellogg. Glanders is a disease danger-
ous to human beings as well as animals.

Nov. 17.

Bernard Brady, driver, was advised not to drive a horse
suffering from quitter—a most painful afﬂiction. He disre—
garded the warning resulting in his being ﬁned twenty—ﬁve

V,

dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

N 0v. 22.

Dec. I. “ The horse hung down its head, when the defendant gave

it three kicks in the face,” testiﬁed the complaining witness
against John Lang, who was on trial before the Court of
Special Sessions for cruelty to horses. Lang’s only defense
was “ I didn’t hurt the horse.” He was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ten dollars, or to be imprisoned for three days.

Dec. 6. “The horse was lame from toe—crack, thrush, and sup-

Purating corns, each one of itself causing intense pain,” said
the oﬂicer at the trial of John Dunnion, who was charged
With cruelty to his horse. The load was heavy and the
roads POOR yet from early morning the suffering animal had
been compelled to work. An ambulance carried the afﬂicted
horse to the veterinary hospital for surgical treatment. Dun-
nion, when advised to take the horse to the stable refused,

 
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
  

 




  

 

 

 

 

   
 
    
 
    
    
    
    
   

66

‘ \\\\l-]//R7/7
‘Wt ; S

\

\ \t l
g“ /
L7 ‘ \ \ l r /

\

 

    
     

I NEW YORK I

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY MAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANI‘MAL OWNERS

 

HEADQUARTERS, NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-known
Writers.

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and
Twenty-sixth Street, New York.

 




 

67

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS T0 ANIMALS

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools, and
Families.

“ Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach it to be
humane to all living creatures.”—Nezo York Tribune.

“It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel
‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”

—New York Herald.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”-—-Spirit of the T imeo.

“Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most useful
career. ’ ’— T he Rider and Driver.

“ It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it contains
some instruction which a large number of adults are much in need
of.”———Nezo York World.

“The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses, cats,
dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh, or other animals are kept
for use or amusement. ”—P/ziladelp/zia Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

Published at Headquarters of the Society, Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND
BEAST.

There is great need for additional drinking fountains for
man and beast. The Society has already erected many and is
increasing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most
appropriate donation. could be made by friends of animals, by
the erection of fountains under the direction of the Society,
and bearing the names of the donors. The cost of erecting a
fountain similar to that represented in the above illustration,
including plate with name of donor, is, in the City of New

York, about two hundred and ﬁfty dollars.

 

 




 

 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.
SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS~THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

[neorperatea’ April 10, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS .-
Maa’ison Ave. and 26t/z St., NEW Y 013K .
JOHN P. HAINES, President. |GEO. G. DEWITT, Secretary.
BROOKLYN OFFICE:

13 Witteug/zby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

. ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

72 Dauphin Street, Moéile.
HON. RUFUS DANE, President. [MAJOR E.R.QUATTLEBAUM,Sec.
Birmingham Humane Society.

715 Ezg/zteentli Street, Birmingham.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. IDR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

 

ARKANSAS.
Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark.
Little Rock.
CHAS. F. PENZEL, President. |R. W. PORTER, Secretary.

 




 

    

 

 

72
CALIFORNIA.

The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sixteent/z and Alaoanza Streets, San Francisco.
N. P. COLE, President. IC. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.

The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Los 'Angeles.

ASA A. CLARK, Pres. MRS. ELIZABETH MILLS MIL-
LARD, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
45 Nort/z First Street, San fore.
COL. A. K. WHITTON, President. I C. C. LELAND, Secretary.

San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. I H. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
514 “K ” Street, Sacramento.
GEO. D. SMITH, President. I I. SCHAD, Secretary.

The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
310 Central Bank Building, Oakland.
REV. CHAS. W. WENDTE, Pres. I MRS. S. C. SANFORD, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino
County, Cal.

Rea’lana’s.
JOHNB. BREED, President. I HOWARD ANDREWS, Secretary.
Santa Barbara Humane Society.
Hop/gins Block, Room 5, Santa Baroara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. IA. E. PUTNAM, Secretary.
Santa Cruz County Humane Society.
Santa C rnz.

'DR. C. L. ANDERSON, President. I MRS. D. T. WILKIN, Secretary.

Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fresno.

, President. I WM. HARVEY, Secretary.

 




73

Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Sansalito.

A. SYLVA, President. I C. E. CASE, Secretary.

 

COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.
5 jaeooson Building, Denver.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. IE. K. WHITEHEAD, Secretary.
El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. IF. B. HILL, Secretary.

 

CONNECTICUT.

The Connecticut Humane Society.

Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. |CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec.

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

New Haven.
JOSEPH B. SARGENT, President. I EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

Meriden Humane Society.

Meriden.
MRS. MARY J. ROGERS, Pres. MRS. FRANCES W. HAMMOND,
Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

606 Market Street, Wilmington.
DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, Pres. | WILLARD H. PORTER,Secretary.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

The Washington Humane Society.

1317 “F” Street, N. W., IVas/tington, D. C.

A.; S. PRATT, President. | MRS. W. F. STOWELL, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

L681 NI ClEiZIHS 330L801. :10 SLNHWDHLSNI

 

 

 

 




 

£681 NI CIEIZIEIS EHDLHOL :10 SLNHWQHLSNI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

77

The Aurora Humane Society.

Aurora.
A. K. PERRY, President. MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD-ALLEN,
. Secretary.
Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford.

WM. H. F'ITCH, M.D., President. I MRS. ROBERT REW, Secretary.

Galesburg Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
227 East Main Street, Galesourg.

A. s. HOOVER, PreSident. IDR. J. F. PERCY. Secretary.
The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.
H. P. WALTON, President. I LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.

The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

, S/zeloym'l/e. , ,
DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, Pres. | MRS. H. J. HAMLIN, Secretary.

Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Cﬁampaégn.
HENRY TREVETT, President. IA. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld. 1
FRANK W. TRACY, President. | HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.
Jacksonville Humane Society.

faeksonoz'lle.
A. C. WADSWORTH, President. IWM. PATERSON, Sec. pro tem.

The Jerseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.
ferseyvz'tle.

MISS ADA C. DAVENPORT, Pres. | DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Secretary.
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Harvard.

W. C. WELLINGTON, President. | MRS. W. C. WELLINGTON, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

78

United States Humane Society.
. I 3 East Main Sz‘reez‘, Damn/1e.
JOHN W. HALLS, President. I I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.

The Whitehall Humane Society.
W/zz'z‘e/ZaZZ.
JOHN H. STUBBLEFIELD, Pres. l H. O. TUNISON, Secretary.

 

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
42 Loméam’ Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. ID. W. COFFIN, Secretary.

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals and Children.

. Crawford’sw'lle.
GEORGE W. PAUL, President. IA. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children and Animals.

3 I 5 Upper Fourtﬂ Street, Evansville.
s. s. SCANTLIN, President. ' [WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.

82 Clinton Streez‘, Fort Wayne.
GEO. H. WILSON, President. IC. E. ARCHER, Secretary.

The South Bend Humane Society.
Soul/t Bemz’.
J. C. KNOBLOCH, President. I H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.

Terre Haute Humane Society.
Terre Haule.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. I DR. E. B. MCALLISTER, Secretary.

Muncie Humane Society.
Munez'e.
DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. I W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

 




 

79

The Elkhart Humane Society.

210 Main Street, Elk/tart.
, President. I LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Secretary.

 

 

Wayne County Humane Society.
. Rzkﬁmona’.
J. EDGAR ILIFF, President. | MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, Sec.

The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Peru.
JOHN L. MILLER, President. lMRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.

 

 

Kokomo Humane Society.
Kokomo.

E. N. COLE, President. MISS MINNIE A. TRUEBLOOD,
Secretary.

——

IOWA.
The Iowa Humane Society.

Des Moz'nes.
MAX SCHLOSS, President. [JOSEPH R. ORWIG, Secretary.

The Sioux City Humane Society.
Sioux Cz'z‘y.
HENRY C. GARDIN'ER, Pres. | EDWARD CROMWELL,Secretary.

The Iowa City Humane Society.

Iowa City.
REV. S. R. ELSON, President. | PROF. CARL TREIMER, Secretary
KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
Wit/aim. ,
J. M. KNAPP, President. IMRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Secretary.

The Foster Humane Society.
Tape/ea.
JUDGE CASSIUS G. FOSTER, Pres. l SAM RADGES, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

   
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   

80

KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Mosonie Temple, 41 I West Green Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, President. I MISS BERTHA WILSON, Sec.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
, President. I INGRAM CROCKETT, Secretary.

 

Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort.

LOUIS MANGAN, President. IB. T. FARMER, Secretary.

The Kenton County Humane Society.
9 I 5 Seott Street, Cooington.
H. A. SCHROETTER, President. I MRS. FRANCES M. MANSER, Sec.

 

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Coinnzereiai Ptoee, New Orleans.
FREDERICK W. YOUNG, Pres. | HON. BERNARD C.SHIELDS,Sec

 

MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.
Port/and.
HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, Pres. | DR. H. C. VAUGHAN, Secretary.
The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.

JOSEPH F. SNOW, President. ' MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
LVaterm'Z/e. I
1 JOHN WARE, Treasurer.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

S. L. ABBOTT, President.

Lewiston.
WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. ] F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

 

 




 

81

W‘aterville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

W ateroille.
H. D. EATON, President. I . Secretary.
MARYLAND.

The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
323 Nort/i Charles Street, Baltimore.
G. M. HUTTON, President. IGEO. R. TIPPETT, Secretary.

-.__—_.

MASSACHUSETTS;
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
19 Mill? Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, President. IJOSEPH L. STEVENS, Secretary.
Taunton Humane Society.
18 Clinton Street, T aanton.
REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, Pres. | MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.
The Lowell Humane Society.

71 Central Street, Lowell.
C. H. COBURN, President. | MRS. GEO. F. RICHARDSON, Sec.

.—

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.
HON. T. W. PALMER, President. | MISS JENNIE M. SMITH, Sec.
Kent County Humane Society.
Grana’ Rapids.
LESLIE W. SPRAGUE, President. I A. C. TORREY, Secretary.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.
Kalamazoo.
FRED. HOTOP, President. I SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

l
x

i
,.

l.
x
. l

El.

:1
M
i1}

,.
‘ l
, .
.1
\m

a“
:l
‘ H
H
m
i
‘. N
.x
M
l

l ,l
m

I H
l.‘
w,
‘ M
.‘1
1‘

I .,
at, ;
“ w.
M‘ l
. .1“
i .
1, ml
.‘ 1‘
ML"
ml
“‘1‘“:
,R

. l 1’
‘ will

 

l
i
1
l
l
1

m3? 4

 

 




83

MISSISSIPPI. ,

The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Nate/zen '

JOHN P. WALWORTH, President. I RICHARD F. REED, Secretary

MISSOURI.
The Humane Society of Missouri.
506 69° 508 Columoia Building, Ely/2t}; ana’ Locust Streets, St. Louis.
GEO. D. BARNARD, President. [JOHN H. HOLMES, Secretary.
The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
617 Locust Street, St. Louis.
MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, President | MISS M. W. BRADFORD, Sec.
The Humane Society of Kansas City, Missouri.

City Hall, Kansas City.
HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS, Pres. I Secretary.

 

 

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Central Police Station, St. fosep/z.
HUSTON WYETH, President. | PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.

 

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.
Sea’alia.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. | LEE MONTGOMERY, Secretary.

 

 

.—__—___.

NEBRASKA.
The Nebraska Humane Society.
15 Commercial National Ban/e Building, Oma/za.
DR. GEORGE L. MILLER, Pres. | H. S. MANN, Secretary.

 

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I JWarket Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, President. | JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

 

 

 




  

84

1 I The Keene Humane Society.
{ Keene.
‘ HON. HORATIO COLONY, Pres. l MRS. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

 

NEW JERSEY.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

507 Prudential Buzta'z'ﬂg, Newark.
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, Pres. I CoL. E. S. EDWARDS, Secretary.
The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.

I 71 Montgomery Street, jersey City.

GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. l ABEL P. BROWN, Secretary.

 

 

Cape May County, N. 1., District Society {or the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Cape May.

DR. EMLEN PHYSICK, President. I T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

I The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Vine/and.

REV. R. B. MOORE, President. [REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Merrz'stowiz.
,1 DR. FAYETTE SMITH, President. 'MISS LOUISE SHELTON, Sec.

, I ‘ ,5 The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
i J Camden.
. :1“ g": I WILLIAM J. COOPER, President. I A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.

; I The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1,“ 5‘ } Haeéemaeé.
l 3r REV. JOHN c. VOORHIS, Pres. 1 CHAS. W. VANDERBECK, Sec.

 

1 _
H . y ‘ The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
if County, N. J.

E/z'zaéet/Iz.
E. P.:EDWARDS, President. I]. C. COLE, Secretary.

 
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
      

 




 

85

Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Pert/z A 77250)».
DR. FRANCIS W. KITCHEL, Pres. I WILBUR LA ROE, Secretary.

Cranford, N. 1., Branch of The New Jersey Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

Cranfora’.
GEORGE A. MORRISON, Pres. I ALFRED H. MILLER, Secretary.

Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

I 19 Ellison Street, Paterson.
ARTHUR W. BISHOP, President. I ARTHUR W. BISHOP, Secretary.

Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Someroz'l/e.
JOHN H. LORD, President. I JOHN VOORHEES, Secretary.

Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Princeton.
W. B. GREENE, JR., President. IMISS M. C. SCUDDER, Secretary.

—-—.—_.

NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, I883.
Sing Sing.
E. G. BLAKESLEE, President. I MRS.CORNELIAM.ARNOLD,Sec.

MONROE COUNTY.

The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated August 9, I888.
90 Sop/Zia Street, Rochester.
J. B. Y. WARNER, President I MISS ELIZA AMSDEN, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
   

86

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, 1888.
39 Erie Street, Buffalo.
WALTER DEVEREUX, President. I MRS. LILY LORD TIFFT, Sec.

 

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 18, 1889.
305 Mill Street, Peugﬂéeepsz’e.
WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, Pres. 1 CHARLES F. COSSUM, Secretary.

 

ORANGE COUNTY.
The Newburgh Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.
Newéurg/z.
GEORGE W. PETERS, President. I A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

 

 

OSWEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City, N. Y.
Incorporated September 23, I889.

Doolittle Home, Oswego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. IMRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Sec.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of

Fulton, N. Y.
Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.

THOMAS HUNTER, JR., Pres. IMRS. C. H. DAVID, Secretary.

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
207 Granger Btoeé, Syraeuse.
DWIGHT H. BRUCE, President. [JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

87

ROCKLAND COUNTY.
Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.
Nyack.
DR. HARVEY C. GILCHREST, Pres. | WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec.

 

CHEMUNG COUNTY.
The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 21, 1891. .
Elmira.
DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, President. | MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER, Sec.

 

BROOME COUNTY.
Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, 1891.
Bz'ngfzamz‘on.
DR. L. D. STONE, President. ‘ |c. E. SHORES, Secretary.

——._

ULSTER COUNTY.

The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. | W. D. HALE, Secretary.
JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, 1891.
Watertown.
REV. S. A. HAYT, D.D., President. I MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Sec.

 

ALBANY COUNTY.
The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.
287 State Street, Albany.
DR.WM. O. STILLMAN, President. | GEORGE R. HOWELL, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

88

 
   
 
     
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
  
  
  
   

NIAGARA COUNTY.
The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 24, 1895. ‘
Loaéjﬁort.‘ ” '
F. J. SAWYER, President. ‘I MISS ALICE E. CROCKER, Sec.

.———_—

CORTLAND COUNTY.
The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated April 17, I895.
Carl/anal.
CALVIN P. WALRAD, President. I ENOS E. MELLON, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

ONEIDA COUNTY.
The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
Rome, N. Y.
Incorporated ‘March 31, I896.
- Raine.
EDWARD L. DENIO, President. | ARTHUR A. GILLETTE, Sec.

 

 

CAYUGA COUNTY.
The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated October 26, 1896.
Anénrn.
THOMAS M.OSBORNE,President. I F. C. LADD, Secretary.

NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
2 Legal Building, As/zew'lle.
, President. I WALTER S. CUSHMAN, Sec.

 

North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

Wilmington.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. I F. A. LORD, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

89

OHIO.
The Ohio Humane Society.
24 East N1'nt/1 Street, C1"'.neznnat1
BENJAMIN C. SMITH, President. [MISS CECILIA RITTER, Sec.
Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEN. JAMES BARNETT, President. I H. A. GARFIELD, Secretary.
The Canton Humane Society.
Frazer Block, Canton.
W. W. CLARK, President. | CHARLES R. FRAZER, Secretary.
Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Columbus.
JULIUS F. STONE, President. |FRANK P. JACKSON, Secretary.

Toledo Humane Society.
3I3 Adams Street, Tolea’o.
JAMES M. BROWN, President. ' l W. W. H. SMITH, Secretary.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren.

GLORGE P. HUNTER, President. | MRS. GEORGE KNEELAND, Sec.
Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

8 Nortlz feferson Street, Dayton.

IRWIN C. SOUDERS, President. | BENJAMIN MAROT, Secretary.

Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Athens.
D. J. EVANS, President. | MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
The Erie County Humane Society.
Sandus/ey.
A. E. MERRILL, President. | MRS. FANNY F. EVERETT, Sec.

Scioto County Humane Society.
Portsmouth.
E. E. EWING, President. | HARRY BALL, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

91

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Pennsylvania. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1627 C/zestnnt Street, Pnz'taa’eZp/n'a.
COL. M. RICHARDS MUCKLE, Pres. | M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.

Women’s Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Sixteenth ana’ C/zestnat Streets, Pin'laa’etpnz'a.
MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. | MRS. BRADBURY BEDELL, Sec.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Lancaster.
D. S. BURSK, President. |WM. D. MOSSER, Secretary.

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

York.
CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, Pres. | H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 Sixth Avenue, Pz'ttsoarg.
HON.GEORGE WILSON, President. | T. M. PORTER, Secretary.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The Penn-
slyvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

, West C/zester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. [WILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

5 36 Penn Street, Reading.
JOHN D. MISHLER, President. ' [JOSEPH A. ALLGAIER, Secretary.

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I 120 West Fourth Street, W z'tlz'amsport.

MRS. C'.“‘L'A”RU'E MUNSON, Pres. | MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.
Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.
JOHN M. KEMMERER, President. | MRS. D. B. ATHERTON, Sec.

 

 

‘ ‘, y . ,il
. w v M

W11}
. 1, l'

. ‘ \w
‘ Wu

‘ WW

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie.
HON. F. F. ADAMS, President. | HON. W. B. FLICKINGER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals. '
W z'lkesoa rre.

JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, Pres. REV. HORACE EDWIN HAYDEN,
- Secretary.

The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.

Altoona.

MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRATTAN, MISS FLORENCE L. BAIN, Sec.
President.

RHODE ISLAND.

Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
6 I Westminster Street, Providence.
HON. J. C. B. WOODS, President. IJOHN W. ANGELL, Secretary.
Newport Branch of the Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Newton Building, 1V ewport.
| EDWARD R. WHARTON, Treas.

SOUTH CAROLINA.
The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to'Animals.
‘ C/zarleston.

JOHN M. KINLOCH, President. I]. ALWYN BALL, Secretary.
Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columbia.

TILMAN WATSON, President. | D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.
The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenville.
W. E. JOHNSTONE, President. | P-. T. HAYNE, Secretary.

 

 




 

    
 
     
  
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
  
  

93

The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Spartanéurg.
J. B. LEE, President.

-————_

TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.
337 Mississippi Avenue, Memphis.
TOM GALE, President. | TURNER H. LANE, Acting Sec.
Chattanooga Humane Society.
Cﬁattanooga.

D. G. CURTIS, M.D., President. I H. H. SOUDER, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville.

W. L. TRENT, President. | REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society.

P. 0. Box 46, Nas/zville.
W. H. PAYNE, President. | MAT HOKE, Secretary.

The Madison County Humane SoCiety.

fete/awn.
REV. M. A. MATTHEWS, Pres. | L. R. GRIFFIN, Secretary.

TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Galveston.
I. C. s. SPENCER, Pres. pro. tem. IW. H. RITTER, Secretary.

The Texas Humane Society.

W aeo.

 

The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

A its/in.

MRS. I. H. EVANS, President. | J. E. OLDRIGHT, Secretary.

 

I CHARLES H. HENRY, Secretary.

, President. | ROBERT J. BROOKS, Secretary.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

 

94

UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake City.
DR. T. B. BEATTY, President. | J. W2 GREENMAN, Secretary.

VERMONT.
The Vermont Humane Society.
I Cﬂester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. IA. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Brattteoorougﬂ.
DR. GEO. F. GALE, President. I MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Rutlamt.
T. L. DRURY, President. IT. L. DRURY, Secretary.

The Vermont Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. Burlington.
COL. HORACE J. BROOKS, Pres. | H. P. WHITCOMB, Secretary.

 

Chester Humane Saciety;
Cﬁester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. [MERRILL WRIGHT, Secretary.

The Randolph Humane Society.

Randotp/z.
JAMES A. FOWLER, President. I MRS. EMMA PETERS, Secretary.

——

VIRGIN IA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

618 East Main Street, Rz'e/zmorzo’.
DR. JUD. B. WOOD, President. | FRANK J. CRAIGIE, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
106 Main Street, N orfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, President. IW. B. BARTON, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

95

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

 

Pam‘smeaﬂz. -
MRS. A. P.‘GRICE, President. | MISS M. A. BINGLEY, Secretary.
The Lynchburg Humane Society.
Lyme/Marga
P. A. KRISE, President. | ‘ , Secretary.
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
C/zaméer of Commerce Building, Tacoma.
C. P. CULVER, President. | H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

Seattle Humane Society.
Seaz‘z‘ie.
ROGER S. GREENE, President. MRS. LAURENCE GRONLUND,

Secretary.

-—.__...

WEST VIRGINIA.

West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W/ieeiiiig.
JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. | MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE. Sec.

 

WISCONSIN.
The Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 ﬂiz'lwaa/eee Sz‘reez‘, Milwaukee.
CHARLES W. NORRIS, President. I ELIZABETH KNIGHT, Secretary.

Fox River Valley District of The Wisconsin Humane Society.
61 Merrili Streez‘, Os/ikus/z.
EDGAR P. SAWYER, President. | DR. F. J. WILKIE, Secretary.

Sheboygan Branch of The Wisconsin Humane Society.
Sizeboygaa
T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. | WM. TALMADGE, Secretary.

The Wisconsin Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
(free/z liar.
XAVIER MARTIN, President. I WERIHCN REYNOLDS, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

   
    
     
    
   
   
   
   
        
    
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    

96

Manitowoc Branch of The Wisconsin Humane Society.
Manz'tozooe. ‘

EMIL BAENSCH, President. I WALTER WITTMAN, Secretary.

Organized Committee of The Wisconsin Humane Society of Ozaukee
County.
Port Wasnz'ngton. ,
A. A. FARMER, President. I C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.

Janesville Humane Society.

fanesz/z'lle.
I MISS M. CHITTENDEN, Sec.

_._____

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

79 Granville Street, Halifax.
JAMES C. MACKINTOSH, Pres. [JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.

W. G. PALMER, President.

 

Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Hamilton.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., President. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
I 28 Barrie Street, Kingston.
G. J.» B. PENSE, President. [J. M. COTTLE, Secretary.

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

, 196 St. fanzes Street, Montreal.
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. l GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.

Ottawa Humane Society.
Ottawa.

MRS' GWYNNE, President. I HON. MRS. LAMBART, Secretary.

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Qneoee.

JOHN T. ROSS, President. IA. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

97

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ferry Building, ‘Water Street, St. fo/zn.
JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., President. | S. M. WETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.
103 Bay Street, Toronto.
W. R, BROCK, President. | MISS ANNA B. DELL, Secretary.
Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

_ Fredericton.
GEORGE E. FENETY. President. I CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

Moncton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Aloneton.

WILLIAM WILLET, President. | WILLIAM A. MCDOUGALL, Sec.

St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
St. fo/zns, Newfoundland.
, President. IGEO. M. JOHNSON, Secretary.

 

The Winnipeg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W z'nnz'peg, M a nz'tooa.
REV. C. MATLESON, President. | MISS M. LANT, Secretary.
Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

S/zeroroolce.

WM. FARWELL, President. | FRANK THOMPSON, Secretary.

 

SOUTI:J AMERICA.
Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.

Calle Paraguay, 1059, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, CONRADO HERZFELD, Sec.
President.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.

Rosario de Santa [*‘e’, Azgentine Rqﬁuolle.
GUILLERMO BARNETT, Pres. l ROBERTO SOHN, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA

 

It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies that the work
of ammal protectlon has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies are powerful organ

.izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as w
literature. The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world.

in every considerable city of England.

ell as at home through the dissemination of humane
It was organized in 1824, and now has branches

 

LOCATION.

________'________,______———

ALGERIA.
Algiers . . . . .
Bona . . . . . . . .
Constantine.
Oran . . . . . . . .
Philippeville . . . .

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide . . . .
Brisbane . . . . . .
Melbourne . . . .
Sydney.. . . . . .

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.
Agram . .
Budapest. . . . . .
Carinthia. . .
Czernowitz . . . . .
Graz . . . . .
Karlstadt. . . . . .
Kaschau. . . . . .
Klagenfurt. . . . .
Krakau . . . . . .
Leitmeritz. . . . . .
Lemberg. . . . . .

c
O
O
o

I V C O

 

NAME OF SOCIETY.

 

of the Dept.

. .A.
. rot. . . . . . . . .

<<<1
§

6’
H
D-aD-qQ-tQ-«D-q CLO-t

mmmdm mm

.<:
do

Victorian S. Frot: A . . .
Animal P. A. N. S. W . .

S. Prot. A. at Agram. . .
S. P. A. . . . . . . .
. of Carinthia . . .

.4

o
C
I
I
O
u
I

O O O I O O

Karnten . . .

S I
.-H<‘.

nnmmmmmmm

<<0444044

o

O

O
o
u

of Algiers .

 

PRESIDENT.

 

Dr. Collardot. . . . . .
G. C. .Ze'ngre1..
J. G. Riviére-

Jas.M. Campbell: . .
Sir Geo. F. Verdon,
John de V. Lamb. . . . .

Josip Muzler. . . . . . .
Dr. Karoly Verédy. . . .
F.F.Oertl........
Aug..vdn.Flad.ung. . . .
Julia Ivancic._. . . . . .
Franzojos. Oertl..
Dr.vonKopff. . . . . .

Felilts.de Ftawic. Ptawiclfi .

 

 

SECRETARY.

 

Pinguad.
Miss Faure.

 

99

A. Abrahams. .
Richard F. Woodcraft.
Thomas Latham.

F. Montague Rothery.

Josip Medved.

Dr. Jules Szalkay.
Lorenz Washietl.‘

L. L. Strzalkowski.
Rud. von Khuepach.
Josip _Absatz.

Adalb Pater.

Alfred Kohlert.'
Bronislaus. Gustawicz.
Eduard Schmiedt.

Dr. Jozef Limbach.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY-C’a’
Linz . . . . . .
Mahr Ostrau .

Prague . .

Przemysl .
Rzeszow .
Temesvar.
Trieste .

Vienna .

Zagreb .
Zara . .
BELGIUM.
Antwerp
Brussels
Ghent. .
Liege .' .
Louvain.
Malines.
Namur .
Verviers

DENMARK.

Copenhagen.

EGYPT.
Alexandria.
Cairo. . . .

ENGLAND.

London. . .

FRANCE.
Biarritz . .

 

 

 

S
S.
S.
S.
V

l

.foi' the Kingdom of

men

Denmark S. P. C. A. and six

branches

Alexandria S. P. C. A. .
Cairo S. P. C. A. .

l

S.

Royal S. P C. A. [and branches

throughout England].

P.A. . .

o

erviers S. for Suppress’ n of C. toA.

l

”l

 

Alois Edler von Warnus . .
Florian Gartner . . . ..

[Mathias Novotny . . .
Hubert von Freyberger .

D. M. Parlagi Marton.
Com. Luca Pellegrini.

Richard Tunkler . . .

Prof. E. Kamenar .
C1. Urschitz. . . .

Julien Koch. . . . .
Alphonse Solvyns. . .
Lt. Gen. van Eechout.
Alphonse Gulikers. .
Victor Hénot. . .
Chas. Niemants.
Baron Fallon. . . .
Viscount Raymond de
[Biolley

F. Chr. Lembcke .

H. E. Sabri Pacha. . .

H. R. H. Duke of York

E. Ardoin.. . . . . .

 

 

Ossokar Beer.
Richard Hartmann.

Josef Hudl.
Joh. Haralewicz.’

Graef Janos.
Ant. Gianelli.

Gustav von Henriquez.

Drag. Leskovac.
L. Strzalkowski.

Adolphe van den Bosch.

Alban Roels.

Adrien Groverman.
Fécher.

E. van den Eynde.

Leon Diercxnes.

Emile Dupont.

Jules Ruhl.

P. Jorgensen.

A. von Dumreicher.
Hon. Arthur Stanley.

John Colam.

M. Vail.

 

 




 

Cannes.
Dunkirk
Havre . .
Lyons. . .
Marseilles
Mentone .
Monaco . .
Nice . . .
Paris. . .
Pau. .
Rouen .
GERMANY.
Aachen . . .
Altona . .
Aschaffenberg.
Augsburg..

Baden-Baden .

Bautzen. .
Bayreuth. .
Berlin
Bernstadt. .
Bonn. . .
Bremen
Breslau. .
Bromberg.
Brunswick
Cassel
Celle. .
Chemnitz .

Coburg .

Cologne. .
_ Constance.

 

S. P. A. of Cannes. .
Dunkirk S. P. C. A .
Havre S. Prot. A. . . .
S. Prot. A. of Lyons. .
S. P. C. A. . . . .
S. P. C. A. of Mentone.
S. P. A. . . . . . .
S.Prot.A.. . . . .
S. Prot. ofA. .

rot. A. at Pau

..A . . . .

.A.

. an 11d Birds .
A. of Aschaffenberg
a.ndB . . .

at Bautzen

.P
..P
P.
.P.
..P
.P.
.P.
..P
..Pn
ri

s..':.'PcA.

:

L5 L5<10<i<1<1< <mu<<ﬂ<ﬂo<ﬁ<ﬁ
<1)

.P.n
n

.<:'
o

I]

..Q_;<.:

..P

..P

..P

..P . . . . .

P. .A. of Cassel

.P.ofCe11e . .

..P

Animal and Plant P. S.
Duchy of Coburg . .

Cologne S. P. A. . . . .

S. P. A. of Constance .

(tic/5 uicnuiuim'm'uimm'muiuiuiuiuiz/Smwrv

 

M. S. Marrauld. . .
Auguste Vesson. . .
A..Jarnet
Louis Pugin. .
Pelletier de Noirlieu
Dr.Gent. . . . . .
Mrs. Adlam.

Sir James Harris . . . .
A. Uhrich

Dr. H. Draner Speakman .

Paul Drouet . .

Baron von Coels .
Dr. Greve . . . .
F. H. Deubler . .
Jacobus Reimers .

Maj. -Gen. D. von Parseval
H. Wetzlich . . . . .
Preu . . . . . .
General Koring . .

Giille.
—Bongartz
Ad. Brinkman . .
Dr. Ulrich. . . . . .
Nolte . . . . . .
B. Schwarzenberg . .
Rev. Carl Wilhelm Peter
Dr. Sch1eckenberger
Dr. Schwarze . .

Max Brodfﬁhrer . .

Dr. Otto Hartmann . .
—- Rothenhaiisler .

 

 

 

Ch. Rocoffort.

Emile Pouleur.

G. Serrurier.
Charles Lebrun.

Mr. Charles.

Miss Mary, F. Sourin.

L. J. Jerome.
Général Lamquet.
Joseph Sabatier.
M. Bavant.
[Gatzweiler.
J. Bernarts, Jr., and Mr.
Trenkner.
M. Metz.
Chr. Flemer.
Weinig.
Dr. Helbig.
Heinr. Heuschmann.
Major Wagener.

Dr. Korten.‘

V. S. Sosna.

—— Weiss.
Sauberlich.

W. Koch.

Martin Betting.

Rev. K. Gartner.
Hartmann.

Adam Brﬁckner.

Dr. V. Wiedmann.
Franz Walter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY— Continued.

Crefeld. .
Crimmitzschau
Dantzig . . .
Darmstadt .
Dortmund.
Dresden. .
Duisburg.
Dusseldorf .
Elberfeld .
Elbing . .
Elmshorn.

Essen. .

Flensberg.
Freiberg. .
Frankfort- on- Main.
Frankfort-on-Oder.
Friederichstadt .
Gelsenkirchen.
Glogau. .
Gorlitz. .
Gotha. .
Greifenberg.
Greifswald .
Giistrow .
Halle.
Hamburg. .
Hanover . .
Heide. . .‘ .
Hilchenbach
Hirschberg.
Homburg.
Innsbruck. .

 

Mmmmmmmm

madam

eammmaem

 

d

of the Lower Rhine

O o I o I O

o¢<od<<<

'<

0 O

rthalmerS P. C. A.

o<ﬁU
24mg.

A. andB.

S. P. A. for the town and envir- .

onments of Essen .
. C. A.

of Freiberg

o n a

<<ddu

«ea

in Gelsenkirchen.

<1<1

ofGorlitz. . . .
of the Duchy of Gotha.

altic Ass’ 11 mProt. A.
.in Gﬁstrow.

0.fHalle .
S. P. A. . . .

.in Hanover

m<1<j1bo<1 ' '
O<4Euu

:3
.D

o<4<<
gmemmm.

irolian

 

.. ; Judge Vehse . .

1
2‘.
. i W. Pollitz. . .
1 Dr. Griittner .

Dr. Ferd. Busch
Paul Germann . .
Dr. Borntraeger
Dr. Eisenhuth
H. Werneke . .
Dr. F. Schurrig.
A. Van Meetereu.
Georg Gundelach . .
Heinrich Espenschied .

.Staberow. . .
M. W. Reinhardt .

Prof. Dr. Meyer.
A. F. J. Eiler.

Dr. Carl Schenck .
Schumann .

Richter.

Major Rudolf von Schollen
C. Angermeyer.
Rev. Mr. Rittner.
von Wolffrath.
Dr. Fritzsche.
Dr. Tramhaijn . .
Prof. C. F. Schulz. . .
Gen. Count von Waldersee
Dr. Lammers.
H. Feldmann. . .
Rev. Mr. Lauterbach.
Heinr. Mockel . . . . . .
Johann Tschugmell. . .

 

 

Aug. Herzog.
Rich. Rietzch.
Alexander G011.
Dr. Lennert.

Fr. Strunck.

Dr. Emil Do'ring.

Carl Grundmann.
Nicholaus Metzroth.
Staberow.

—-— Engel.

Jolly.

A. Jorgensen.
Wolf.

. 'Adam Echzeller.

Rev. Mr. Bieder.
J. Sieden.
Oberwinter.

H. Edler.
—— Jahnke.
Mauermeister Hensel.

Dr. Bauer. .
Emil Meyer.

. , 5—— Sierds.

W. Schweissfurth.
Wagner, II.

Heinr. Schudt.

Amadeus Simath.

 

 




 

Itzehoe.

Jena...
Karlsruhe. .
Kattowitz. .

Kiel . . . .
Koenigsberg .
Landshut. . . . .
Langenschwalbach
Lauban. . . . .
Laugensalza
Leipzig. . .
Liegnitz . .
Lubeck. .
Ludwigshafen.
Luneburg.
Malchin

Mainz

Meissen

Mﬁlheim .
Munich. .

Munster. .

Neisse . .
Neubrandenburg
Neumiinster. . .
Neustrelitz .
Nordlingen .
Nuremberg .
Offenbach. .
Offenburg. .
Oldenburg .
Osnabruck .
Passau .
Pforzheim. .

aaaaooaoaaoo

.iof. Leipzig:
. of Liegnitz

.31
o
o

:5

gammmm¢m¢m¢mpmmmmmmm°
mmmmmmmmmmqummmmmmmaw

elmSI’CA I H

04004<<Qg<o<~<o44<444

“ma—Io; :mmmmmmmm

 

. in Kiel.
. in Koenigsbergn

. iniLan'genschwalbacli

P.A...

. in Mainz

thalian S. P. Wild Birds
Domestic Fowls and A.

.A. of Neubrandenburg.

A. in Nuremberg

of Passau. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

________________.___—————————-

 

j I. H. Raasche. .
Lt.-Col. Lehman .
Hetzel . . . . .

lRabbi Cohn. . . . .

Franz Schuck. . . .
Gen. Brausewetter .
von Fuchs Bimbachs .
Schutt. . . . .
Hermann Wende.
Fischer. . . . . .
Dr. Rob. Klec. . . . .
Dr. Otto Gﬁthling. . .

Dr. F. L. G. Wichmann

Sebast. Ledere. . . .

H. Reinecke. . . . .

Gustav J.Hamdorf .

Prof. Schlenger.

C. Ed. Bluhm . .
Schmidt.

M1chae1Ze1n.ger

' Prof. Dr. H. Landois .

Pohlis.
Rev. Mr. Steinfiihrer .
E. Messtorff . . .
B. Praefcke. . .

Gottlieb Held. . .

Prof. Franz Dosch.
Wilh. Kahtmann .
—— Hﬁpeden. . .
Adolf Leeb. . . .
-——— Pﬁsterer '.

 

 

Rev. C. D. Bruhn.
Richard Zwetz.
Karl Kellner.
-— Rﬁdiger.

— Kloppenburg.
— Hasperg.

Saurer.
—— Anacker.

Hanke.
Max Rabe.
Heinrich Reinisch.
F. F. Vollers.
Charles Weingart.
Aug. Lb'ﬁ‘ler.
E. Thiel.
Dr. L. Schaum.
Cam. F. Schaufuss.
Ernst Schﬁrmann.
Ignaz Friedrich.

Aug. Bollmann.

O. Mahn.
Kock.
Reckow.

Francis Monniger.

Dr. Mannheimer.

F. Scheidemann.

Joseph Alteneder.
Berner.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.
Pirna. . . . ‘
Ploen. . . .
Posen . . .
Remscheid .
Regensburg
Ribnitz. .
Rostock .
Saalfeld . .
Schleswig. .
Schwerin .
Sensburg.
Siegen . . .
Solingen .
Stargard. .
Stettin . . . .
Strassburg i. E.
Straubing.
Strehlen
Striegan . .
Stuttgart. .
Warstein .
Wiesbaden..
Wﬁrzburg
Wupperthal.
Zabern .
Zittau. .
Zurich .
Zwickau

HOLLAND.
Alkmaar . .
Amsterdam.
Arnheim . .
Baarn. . .

t

 

.O . -
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm U)

41

of Pirna.

-<c<:<<

and B. .
. in Ribnitz .
of Rostock.

. bf’ séhieéw'ig'.

n'd AC. .

-<:
o<<<ooo<o<<gédd<<
H

d

O

meemmmmmmmmmmmmmamm

<d<c

. in.
. .of. Wieshaden

. of Zabern

dddéddédé

A. .of. Zurich .

S. P. A. . . . .
. A. of Arnheim .

nJcloJoJaJoianJoi DJ :2.

o

<ti_5§U<C
3mm

Wdrtemburg

 

Julius Lutsche. .
H. Foerster. . .
Rudolf Schulz...
Gottl. Arns. . .
E. Erichsen. . .
Ludwig Dolberg.
Ferd. Matz .
Dr. Mauer.
Dr. T. Steen. . .
Rev. Mr. Florcke

Rud. Hoch. . .
Prof. Schirlitz.
C. Hartmann. . .
Rev. Ed. Schneider
Hasse. . . .
A. Egglhuber. . .
Otto Ulm. . . . . .
August Friedrich . .
Count von Zeppelin .
Kropz. . . .

Count A. von Bothmer.

Dr. Bauerlein . .

Dr. Pellzer. ._ .

Thiemer. .
P. H. Wolff. . .
Captain Reich. .

H. F. de Wildt . .
B. .T. Polenaar . .
Baron H. A. Elias.
J. P. Hooft.

 

Sontag-Conrector.
O. Kaven.

Ed. Reissmﬁller.
-——— Paffrath.
Heinrich Speck.

H. Wilken.
Heinrich Teutmann.

Dr. T. Steen.
Moller.
Dorn.
Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.
Reinhardt.
Rev. Mr. Schwarze.
Rev. Ed. Schneider.
Dr. Schwarz.
G. Dechner.
Rev. A. Bojanowski.
Schikor.
Seybold.
Wiesmeyer.
Count A. von Bothmer.
Mr. Eichelsbacher.

B. M. Goettgens.
Peschel.

H. Fischer-Sigwart.

-— Kausche.

C. J. Reiziger.

C. F. J. Hanedves.
M. F. W. Van Dulm.
J. C. van der Veen.

 

 

 




Brada. . . . .
Dordrecht. . .
Haarlem .
Hague,The. . .
Hertogenbosch. . .
Hook of Holland .
Maastricht. . . . .
Rotterdam . . .
Utrecht. . . . .
INDIA.
Ahmedabad
Bangalore
Bombay .
Calcutta . . . . .
Howrah . . . .
Kandy (Ceylon) . .
Kurrachee . . . . .
Madras . . .

Madras

Mandalay . .
Rangoon . . .
Singapore . .
IRELAND. .

Belfast . . . . . .
Cork . . . . . . .
Dublin . . . . .
Kilkenny . . . . .
Waterford . . . . .

Wexford . . . . .

ITALY.
Bologna . . . . .
Florence . . . . .

 

 

 

of Dordrelclit

O O O C O 0 I I

NH

444<2<<§4 4<
mmmmémms

landsS. P. A

Q)

wwwm<mmzm dm

main;

The BombayS. P C. A.
CalcuttaS. P. C. A. . . .
Howrah S. P. C. A. . . . .
S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . .
S. P. A. . . . . . .
MadrasS. P. C. A. . . .

S. for Prof. ofA. from Vivisec

l tion and Cruel Treatment
S.............PA
S.P.A..........
S.P.C.A.. . . . . . . .

The Ulster S. P. C. A.
Cork S. P. C. A. . . .

DublinS. P. C.A. .III-

S. P. A. . .
Waterford S. P. C A.

County Wexford S. P. C. A.

The Emiliana S. of Zoo'phily

'5. Prof. A. of Florence . . .

 

A. P. Scheltus . . . . .
H. H. Th. Hoyer . . . . .
A. von der Voort . . . . .
R. A. Klerck . . . . . . .
F. X. Verheijen. . . . . .
P. Dregmans. . . . . . .
P. H. H. Routs. . .

Hendrik Muller, Sr.

Van Sorgen. . . . . .

I C I I O O

Hon..Justic.e Pulton . .
Hon. W. H. Grimley. C. S.
F. W. Duke, I.C.S. . . . .

Rt: Re.v..F.. Gell,.D.. D.
M. K. Chette . . . .

RtSRev: J.M. S.tracl1a.n,.M.. D.

Sir Wm. Q. Ewart, Bart

Alexander McOstrich. J. P

Rt. Hon. Lord Ardilaun

Hon: nu'di'ey' 15. .Fortesc‘ue

{Rt Hon. Lord Maurice?
Fitz tzgerald . . . . .,

Angela Diana Costelli . .

 

 

— Van Vooren.
S. Schotel.

A. Beernink.

L. V. van Rossern.
L. G. P. Max.

.7. C. Jansen.

K. Vonk.

D. van Stolk.

Van der Lip.

— Manibkai.

T. T. Leonard.

K. M. Shroff.

G. W. Lees.

R. A. Donnithorne.

W. Goonetilleke.

Major Merewether, R. E.
D. A. McCready.

V. Ranganatham Nayudu.

Rev. J. McGuire.
F. McCarthy.
St. Vincent Down.

W. H. Patterson.
John C. Newsom.
George Ryall.
Thomas Kough.
J. C. Kelly.

Thomas Harper

T. L. Buswell.
Gen. Giuseppe Mellini.

 

105

 

 

 

 




 

M _.

Lisbon. . . .

Oporto . . . .
RUSSIA.

Abo (Finland)

Archangel. .

Astrakhan. . .

Berdichev. . .

Czernigow. . .

Ekaterinburg .

Helsingfors (Finland)

Kalish. .
Kamenetz

Kazan . . . .
Kiev. .
Kovno . . .

Krementchoug.

Lodz .

Mariopol .

Melitopol.

Minsk . .
Moscow .
Narva .

Odessa .- . . .

 

Omsk....

o

. 1‘ Kazan Sec. of The Russian 5. P. A.
l

.P.Domest1c An1mals of Portugal.
.P..CA........... CountdeMoser
P. C. A.
rchan neg
S. P. A
t

eISection of The RuSS1an W. W. Tuweliakin. .

Conde de Samodaes . .

sian S. P. A. .
erdichev Section of The Rus-
sian S. P. A. . .
Czeringow Section of The Rus-

A
As
B

rakhah Section of TheIRusl- L'
1e

ut-Gen. Hasenkamf

N. M. Kossowsky .

P. Shitkoff .

sianS. P. A. . .
{Ekaterinburg Section of The;

 

Russian S P. A. . .. .

S. P. C. A.
Kalish Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. P.

i Kamenetz Section of The Rus- }

 

sian S. P. A.

Kiev Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. O.
Kovno Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Col. A. Daronoff
Krementchoug Section of The
Russian S. P. A.
Peiser. . . .

SP..A

Baron von Taube.

Manassein .
T. K. Michalewicz. .

T. N. Lange . . .
O. Eichelmann.

B. M. Orenstein. .

W. Stankewicz . .

s1an S P. A.

Lodz Section of The Russian 11} T

Melitopol Section of The Rus-

lgMariopol Section of The Rus-
5

S.P...A

l

Minsk Sec. of

Moscow Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

The Russian S P. A.

Narva Sec. of The

Russian S.P.A.

P. Schreider. .

E. Smolski .
Count Keller .

F. Pawlowski.

 

W.

A. Orloff .

OdessaS. Prot. A. . . . . .
Omsk Sec. of TheRussian nS.P.A. F.

  

 

Sendczikowsky.

 

 

 

Alfredo Henri ue da S'l
J. Costa, Jr. q l va.

D

T. A. Piotrowsky.

John Rosenfeld.

A. Wilensky.

N. T. Lewitzky.

K. N. Dementjeff.
Wladislaw Hmielewsky.

F. K. Czerwiksky.
T. Goomelewsky.

Io7

—— Lindenbaum.
I. B. Orenstein.

Tul. Pomianowsky.
D. Charadshieff. \

—— Chludzinsky.

—— Minsk.

—— Kalashnikoff.
Julius Selten.

A. T. Odolski.
—-—— Solovieff.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

RUSSIA—Continued.
Oofa . ‘. .
Orel . . . . -
Riga. . . . .
Rostov-on-Don
Simferopol . .
St. Petersburg.

Stavropol. . . . .

Thuemen (Siberia)

Tiﬂis. . . . . .
Uman. .
Vilna. . .

Voronezh

Warsaw
Zytomir
SCOTLAND.
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr . . . .
Dundee . .
Dunfermline
Edinburgh .
Forfar . .

Glasgow .

Inverness .
Perth . . . .
Tavistock . .
SOUTH AFRICA.
Barberton (S. A.
Cape Town . .

 

 

Oofa Sec. of The Russian S.P.A.
Orel Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
Livland S. P. A. . . .
Don Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
Taurida Sec. of TheRussianS. RA.
The Russian S. Prot. A. . . . .
Stavropol Section of The Rus- j
i sian S. P. A. . . .
3 Thuemen Section of The Rus- j
sionS..PA.
TiﬂisS. Prot. A. .
Uman Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
Vilna Sec. of The Russian S.P.A.
{Voronezh Section of the Rus-
51an S P. A. . i
Warsaw Sec. of The Russians. P. A.
Zytomir Sec. of the Russian S.P. A.

Gov. N. Lozwinoff. .

A. Staritzky. . . .
M. Werbatus. . . .
Maj. -Gen. Irekoff .

E. Kessler. . . .

Col. A. R. Gershelmann.

T. A. Kaskinsky .

———- Shishkowsky.

. S. A. Klimoff . . . .
D. Levanda. . . .
Maj. -Gen. 0. K. Sharsky

A.A.Isaeff . .

BaronI. Briining . . .
Baron de Chaudoire.

Aberdeen Ass’ 11 P. C. A. . Lord Provost of Aberdeen .

érgroath Branch Scottish S. P. C. A. Henry Corstorphine
A

S. P. A.

S. P. A.

Scottish S. P. C. A. .

S. P. A.

3 Glasgow and West of .Scotandl gActing Lord Provost of
- l

The Lord Provost of Edin’gh

S.P...CA. . G1asgow....
InvernessS. P. C. A. . . Rev. 1.1.
S. P. A.
S. P. A.

g I

Black . . . .

S. P. C. A.. . ..
Cape of Good HopeS. P C. A

. Hon. SirRic’rd SoutheyK. C.

 

 

—- Yolianowsky.
—— Zywopiczeff.

F. W. Deringer.

— Turmoresoff.
—— Kazcouchoff.

Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

A. T. Taroshenko.

I. M. Pawloff.
T. Rasoum.
A. Rylshewicz.

P. A. Kedroff.
S. F. Nedselsky.

Alex J. R. Thain.
Webster & Littlejohn.

Archibald Langwill, C. A.

Henry F. Lowndes.
Robert Davidson.

W. Prosser.
W. Pavel.

 




 

Durban (Natal). . . . . . . - . . . . His Exc. Sir Walter Hely C. H. Knowler.
- [Hutchinson.
. . . . . . W. C. Jackson . . . . . E. H. Crouch.
. . . . . . . . . . . Lionel Phillips. . . . Rev. W. Ed. Kelly.
His Exc. Sir Walter Hely F. J. Dickson.

[Hutchinson.

0 L500

<3 «Bid

0 East London . .
Johannesburg(S. A. R )
Pietermaritzburg(Natal)

a. mom;

SPAIN.
Barcelona . . . . . Barcelona S. P. A. and Plants . . Salvador Badia y Andren . Francisco de Maymé y Llo-

[part.

Rom ualdo.
Arthur Hasluck.

 

Cadiz.......S.P.A..........................
Gibraltar.....SPA...........
Madrid......S.
Malaga ...A
Seville.......P.
S.
S.
Ek

R. de Bustamente.

 

SWEDEN. .
F. Kylander . . . . . . . Albert M1chelsen.

Alingsas . . . . . . . . .
Borgholm . . . . . . . . . . . . . K. J. Hellgren. . . . . . J. Wilner.
Eksjo . . . . . . . sjoS. P. A. . . . . . . . . . F. Aug. Pettersson . . . . Edward Petri.
Falun . . . . . . . Valleys. P. A. . C. E. von Odreich. . . . . E. Hedblom.
S. P. Animals and. Small Birds. . M. Rubenson. . . . . . . C.J.Garde11.

Goteborg. . . . . .1.
Grebbestad. . . . . GrebbestadS. P. A. . . . A. J. Mo 1n A. Alstrom.

Jonkopings. . . . . Jonkopings S. P. A. . . . . . . Rev. J. P. Lagergren. . . J. Platon.
Kalmar.. . . . . . KalmarS. P. A. . . . . . . . . A. Hellner. . . . . . . H. Bohman.
Karlshamn..... SWPA OttoBerg. ErikLeth.
Karlskrona.....S.P..A............G.E.Axelson..... ..JHJBlomberg.
Karlstad. . . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . BishopC. H. Rundgre-n. . K. B. J. Forsell.
Linkopings. . . . . LinkopingsS. P. A. . . . . . . Dr. A. Sterner . . . . . G. A. Wallen.
Lulea . . . . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . O. A. Wester. . . . . . . K. Hallman.
Lund . . . . . Lund S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . Prof. S. L. Torngvist . . . N. Lundahl.
Lund. . . . . . . . Friends P. A. . . . . . . . . . . Fredrik Krebs . . . . . . AuroreYtterstrom.
Lyckeby . . . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . . .. . . . . Rev. H. Bergstro'm . . . . H. Stalfors.

. S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . A. P. Gustafsson. . . . . Carl Hammarqvist.

Marieped. . . . . . .
Morsil . . . . . . . Morsil S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . Gustof Er1kson. . . . . . N. Otto Llndstrom.
Nettraby. . . . . . Nettraby S. P. A.. . . . . . . . N. J. Mellander. . . . . . Ivar Espelund.

109

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

H“

Orebro.
Skofde .
Stockholm
Stockholm
Stockholm
Strengnas .
Stromstadt .
Sundsvall.
Tjo'rn.
Umea
Upsala.
Vexio. .
Visby. .
Wimmerby.
SWITZERLAND.
Aarau. .
Basle.
Berne . . .
Bienne. .
Burgdorf .
Chur. . .
Fribourg.
Geneva. . .
Langenthal .
Lausanne.
Lucerne
Neuchatel.

Nyon. . .

Rolle. .
Soleure.
St. Gall

Toggenburg.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Orebro S. P. A.

J. Wahlﬁsk .
Sko'fdeS. P. A. . .

. H. Uggla. . . . . . .
Stockholm Branch S. P. A. . Count G. von Rosen. .
Swedish S. P. A. . . . . . . . Baron Carl C. von Bonde
Swedish Women’s Branch. Mrs. Josephine Varenius
S. P. ..C A. of Strengnas. T. Nordstrom. . . .

S. P. A. . . . . Sven Ljunggren.
S. P. A. . . . . . . . . Aug. Bystedt. .
Tjo'rn S. P. A. . . Carl Ljungman.
Western Territory S. P. A. . Prof. C. N. Pahl
Northern S. P. A. . . Henrik Akerstrom.
Vexio S. P. A. . . . . . L. Montclius .

Visby S. P. A. O. Carlstedt. .

s. P. A. . I . . Fr. Ljung. .

..C A. in the Canton of Aarga

A. Keller-Jaggi.
..A . B. Siegmund.
C. .. . . . . . ,. . . . Albt. Diirheirn .
ne . .

on.A

maul:
mmmm

g
a)
"-1

 

Henri Thalmann
E. Glauser- Diir. . . .
Maj. Hartm. Caviezel.
. . . Rev. Charles de Raemy.
. . . John Cuénoud.
Ed. Miiller- J'aggi
. . A. Crétenoud. .
Rob. Marbacher.
. . . . Rev. Mr.-Lardy.
in the

J J Eugene Gamboni

ofSoc’sP. C. A. inChur.
ur.gS P. C. A.

A in Lanogenthal.
iseS. Prot. A.

a

ngmm>mZ

euchatel S. Prot. A. .
S. Prot. A. of Vaud.

C

P. . . . . . . Reymond .
..P . . . . . . . . . . . T. Arnold. . .
..P in St. Gall. . C. Tuppinger. .
P. fToggenburg. J J. Edelmann .

t

 

Dr. E. Adlez. .
Atel Th. Wahlstrom.
A. E. Ljungberg.
Baron Ludwig von Platén.
P. G. Isberg.

J. A. Sillén.

A. Wiklund.

H. Salvin.

Y. A. Kallstrom.
Dr. P. B. Regnér.
A. G. Florén.

Frans Berggren.
Alfr. Rosvall.

J. P. Johanson.

Rud. Hunziker.
Dr. Hans Keller.
Emile Kaeser- -Duby.

 

Albert Chopard.
Joseph Rey.

Dr Michel Valer.
JProf Otto Moser.
Eugene de Bude.
§.F Schneeberger.

. J E. Chavannes.
. J J. Arnold.

J Eugene Courvoisier.

l
l
1
1

Louis Maquelin.

Schopfer.
Prof Servert.

. J T. Edelmann.
. 1 H. Torgler.

 

 




 

 

 

Thun. . . . . .P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . A. Knechtenhofer. . . . . F. Brandt.
Vevey . . .P. A. G. Pfeiffer . . . . . . . . E. Favez.

Zurich....'. .S.P.A.:i:::::::..:-H.Wolff......... G.Suter.

TASMANIA.
Hobart. . . . Southern Tasmanian S. P. A. . . R. G.- Hamilton. . . . . . Miss Gellibrand.

Launceston. . . . Northern Tasmanian S. P. A. .

TURKEY.
Candia (Crete) . . . S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . M. E. von Schwartz.

Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Headquarters
and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented throughout
the State of New York by the following Agents :

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R. W ........................................ Rushford

GREENE, MILO B .......................................... Alfred

HARRIS ‘(M.D.), WILLIAM H ......................... Canaseraga

HILL, HARLAN H .................................... Canaseraga

WILLIAMS, HORACE H ............................... Friendship
BROOME COUNTY.

WILSON, JOHN M ........................................ Deposit
CAYUGA COUNTY.

CLAPP, A. B ........................................... Port Byron
WALLACE, RICHARD A ................................. Auburn
CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

BRUNDAGE, HENRY D ................................. Dunkirk
JENKS, A. FRANK ..................................... Jamestown
CHENANGO COUNTY.

BRIGGS, WILLIAM P ..................................... Smyrna
BROOKS, CHAUNCEY D ................................. Smyrna
HECOX, AUSTIN ASmyrna
COLUMBIA COUNTY.

GANTLEY, THOMAS H .................................. Hudson
STOTT, FREDERICK DU BOIS ........................ Stottville
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ............................. Craryville
WILSON (M.D.), THOMAS ............................. Claverack

DELAWARE COUNTY.
HALSTEAD, GEORGE ..................................

Stamford
KAUFMAN, C. C .....................................

Margaretville

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    
 
    
   
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
 

.113

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M.D.), THOMAS ........................ Wappingers Falls
MOITH, THEODORE .................................... Fishkill
ESSEX COUNTY.

STANTON, JOHN W. . . . . . . . ........................ Elizabethtown

_ FRANKLIN COUNTY.

BALLARD, JAY O ......................................... Malone
DONOHOE, M. C .......................................... Malone
FULTON COUNTY.

GRANT, W. M .......................................... Johnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ..................................... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J ....................................... Gloversville
GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN ................................. Le Roy
MCNISH, JOHN ........................................... Batavia

GREENE COUNTY. -
DECKER, ROSCO'E .................................... Prattsville
HORTON, J. BRADLEY ................................... Athens
MOON, WILLIAM H .................................... Windham
REILLY, JOSEPH ........................................ Catskill
RILEY, WILLIAM T ................................... Lexington
WILLARD (M.D.), CHARLES E ....... ‘ .................... Catskill
HERKIMER COUNTY.
HALL, H. CLAY ....................................... Little Falls
KLEM, PHILIP G ....................................... Herkimer
SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ................................ Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
WARD, PETER A ...................................... Watertown

KINGS COUNTY.
DE MUND (M.D.), J. E ........... . ..................... Bath Beach

LEWIS COUNTY.

DRYDEN, JOHN D ................................... Copenhagen

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

KILLIP, W. W ............................................ Geneseo
SHULTS, WARREN D .............................. Mount Morris

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

115

PUTNAM COUNTY.

BENNETT, WALTER J .................................. M'ahopac
QUEENS COUNTY.
BUSCH, ADAM ....................................... Woodhaven
CLAPP, IRA M ........... V ................ . ................ Flushing
CLOWES, LEWIS H ................................... Hempstead
DUNBAR, JOHN J ....................................... Freeport
DUSING, WILLIAM ........... ‘ ...... ' ...... 231 Ninth Ave, Astoria
HENTZ, ALBERT ......................................... Maspeth
MERRITT, DAVID H ..................................... InWOOd
POST, JR., JAMES B ........................ . ........ Richmond Hill
SCHOLLE, THEODORE E .............................. Winﬁeld
SEAMAN, VALENTINE .......................... Rockaway Beach
VAN' WAGNER, WILLIAM ......................... Locust Valley
WAGNER, MARTIN ........................... ' .......... Woodside
WALKER, DEXTER H ................................... Jamaica
WALSH, GEORGE H .............................. Richmond Hill
WALSH, JOHN C .................................. Far Rockaway
RICHMOND COUNTY.
ELLIOTT, GEORGE ...... . ......................... New Brighton
.MATHESON, JAMES C .............................. Green Ridge
g _ g ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
WRIGHT, D. V ........................................ Ogdensburg
SARATOGA COUNTY.
FONDA, ROBERT C .............................. Saratoga Springs
KAVANAUGH, F. W ................................... Waterford
RICE, GEORGE A .............................. ‘. . . .Mechanicsville
SELDEN, EDWARD D ........................... Saratoga Springs
WOODWORTH, H. J ............................... Mechanicsville
SCHENECTADY COUNTY. '
HOAG, C. E ......................................... Quaker Street
, SCHOHARIE COUNTY. ‘
PLANK, OLIVER F. . .' ............................... Gallupville
SCHUYLER COUNTY.
WAIT, WILLIAM HENRY ............................... Watkins

SENECA COUNTY
KNIGHT, IEWISJ ........................................

1* armer

 




  
 
   
   
     
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
 

 

 

 

 

  
 
    
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

116

STEUBEN COUNTY.

BURKE, THOMAS W. . . . . . ............................... Addison
PHILLIPS (M.D.), CHARLES R ...................... Hornellsville
WILKES, ROBERT B ........................................ Bath
SUFFOLK COUNTY.

ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W ......................... Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L ...................... T ............... Babylon
CAMPBELL, A. H ..................................... Huntington
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P .............................. Elwood
HOMAN, C. E. C .................................... East Hampton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M ................................. Setauket
MORISON, GEORGE W ............................. Ronkonkoma
MULFORD, HENRY D ................................. Northport
POST, REGIS H ........................................... Bayport
REEVES, DETMOLD .................................. Greenport
ROGERS, JOHN F ................................... Southampton
SAVAGE (M.D.), WILLIAM B ........................... East Islip
SIMONS, FRANCIS W .............................. Shelter Island
SMITH, CHARLES F ................................... Cutchogue .
STRONG, JAMES S ..................................... Wainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L ................................. Blue Point
TOTTEN, JOHN C .......................... ..Cold Spring Harbor
VAIL, ALFRED R ........................................ Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B .............................. Baiting Hollow
WIGGINS, JR., DAVID B ............................. Sag Harbor

SULLIVAN COUNTY.
CREVELIN G, REV. P. C ................................... Liberty

DECKER, A. A ...................................... Mountain Dale
TIOGA COUNTY.
STEELE, CHARLES R .................................. Apalachin
ULSTER COUNTY.

ELSWORTH, ELIJAH .................................. Kingston
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ............................ Clintondale
WARREN COUNTY.

BEVINS, STANLEY H ............................... Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ............................. Lake George
GRIFFING, E. T .......................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S ......................................... Lake George

 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

117

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEWAY, FRED .................................... Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M ................................ Salem
SCOTT, GEORGE H ..................................... Whitehall

WAYNE COUNTY.
AGETT, WILLIAM W ...................................... Lyons
COOPER, BYARD J ......................................... Clyde
SHARP, GEORGE ........................................... Lyons
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
ANGEVINE, GILBERT J .............................. Mt. Vernon

BACON, MARSHAL L ................................... Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H .......................................... Irvington
BERBERT, FREDERICK .................... Hastings—on—Hudson
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H ................................ Tarrytown
COLLINS, HIRAM J ................................... Mt. Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ............................... Yonkers
HARRISON, WALTER S .............................. Pelhamville
HART, FRED. R ......................................... Mt. Kisco
HUSS, HENRY ....................................... Mt. Vernon
JOHNSON, P. D ....................................... Mt. Vernon
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS ................................. Tarrytown
KOPP, GEORGE M ...................................... Sing Sing
MAHONEY, JOHN H ......................... , . .North Tarrytown
MONTGOMERY, FERRIS R ......................... White Plains
SCHENCK, CHAS. STEWART ................................ Rye
SLOCUM, WILLIAM E ................................... Ardsley
WRIGHT, JOHN C ................................... Dobbs Ferry

WYOMING COUNTY.
POND, MARCUS E ......................................... Castile

 

 




  
  
  
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

 

The payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time,
secures a life membership.

 

A

Anderson, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, C. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Arnold, William

Astor, Mrs. John Jacob
Astor, William Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P.

B

Banks, Gen’l Robt. Lenox
Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox
Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B.
Benson, Miss Mary
Bergh, Henry
Billington, Mrs. Reno R.
Bliss, Robert P.

Bonner, Robert

Boyd, J. Gilmore

Brown, Lewis B.

Bundy, Hobart L.
Burdick, B. W.

Busteed, Jr., Richard
Butler, Miss M. H.
Butler, Miss M. W.

Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Campbell, A. H.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Claﬂin, Arthur B.

Claﬂin, John

Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B.

Clausen, Henry
Clendenin, D..,D Rev. F. M.
Clews, Henry

Coddington, Gilbert S.
Convers, E. B.

Corning, John J.

Crapo, John M.

D

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
DeWitt, George G.

Dey, Anthony

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.
Dilks, George W.

Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleve’d
Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry

Dunlap, Cornell

E

Egei, Mrs. T. G.
Ehret, George
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Ford, William T.
Foster, James

 




     

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerry, Elbridge T.
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gray, Horace
Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hard, Miss Julia Post
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann

I
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K
Kemp, Edward
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, J. W.
Kraus, Miss Emma
L

Lanier, Charles
Lee, Miss Alleine "

Lewis,Mrs. Henry Dickinson

  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
   

Liautard, Dr. A. F.
Lilley, C. W.
Low, Joseph T.

M

McGee, James
Marié Peter

Marlor, Henry S.
Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.
Meeker, Mrs. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. E. A.
Murray, John B.

O
O’Brien. William
Olcott, F. P.

Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin. A.
Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor

Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.
R

Reusens, ('}.

Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Ruppert, Jacob

Russell, Jr., Archibald Doug.

Russell, lion. Horace

 

 

 

 

 




  

 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   

   

ll]

i ll

‘ i l .
“ “l W

. . ‘ w

I l W

 

l l ‘ l‘ ‘a
, ‘ “ My 1.
l i I (

 

 

 

S

Schaefer, Frederick
Scharmann, H. B.

Schermerhorn, William C.

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts
Smith, Dr. Edward A.

Smith, Miss Josephine C.

Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.
Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, Miss C. P.
Stokes, Jr., James
Straus, Nathan
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.
Suckley, Rutsen
Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T

Thompson, Fred. F.
Tiffany, Charles L.
Townsend, Mrs. Howard
Trevor, Henry G.

Tuck, Edward

   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

V

Valentine, Mitchel
Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss .Lila
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen
Van Tassel, Emery M.

W

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Watson, George H.
Webb, William H.
Wendel, Miss Ella
Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrs. C. E.
Winans, Miss M. Antoinette
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.

Wood, Charles B.
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon

Y
Yuengling, Jr., David G.

 

 




   

 

   
 

MEMBERS.

The annual membership subscription is ﬁve dollars

A

Abbott, ‘Warren G.
Abendroth, W. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlmann, Otto
Alexander, Tom
Allen, Mrs. John K.
Amend, C. A. L.
Appel, Jr., Henry J.
Appelbaum, Henry
Appleton, W. H.
Archbold, John D.
Aron, A.

Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Bachmann, Frederick
Backus, Mrs. Foster L.
Bacon, Marshal L.
Baeszler, Charles

Bailey, Miss Mary L.
Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, H. M.

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Ballay, Eugene C.
Banyer, Goldsboro
Bardes, John

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis

Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barnes, Reon

Barret, Miss Lily
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barry, Wm. J.

Barth, Gustav A.
Barth, Joseph J.
Battermann, H.
Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Beard, Mrs. J. Carter
Beemer, James G.
Beinert, Charles
Belford, William J.
Bell, Jr., Edward T.
Benedicks, Leonard
Benedict, Miss Laura
Benedict, Miss Louise
Benedict, Samuel Ward
Benjamin, A. Bedell

Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell

Bennet, Frank
Benscher, Fred.
Beramji, R.
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Biddle, John

Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Bishop, Miss Eleanor
Bishop, Miss M. C.
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.

 
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    

 

 




  

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Conner, Mrs. Crowell M.
Constable, W.

Cook, Frank D.

Cooper, Charles W'.
Corbett, C. H.

Corbin, Dr. Job

Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coster, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowdin, Winthrop
Cowles, Alfred A.

Cox, Charles F.

Cramer, L. H.

Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Critten, Miss Mignon
Crocker, D.

Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cuming, James R. '
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Miss E. G.
Cunningham, George
Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia~

D

Dailey, John L.

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Jr., Henry
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrell, Edward F.

Darrigrand, Alexander A.

Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davidson, Peter '
Davison, Clarence B.

Dawson, Benjamin Frederick
Day, Mrs. H. M.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova, Alfred

De Gerlach, Alexander
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

De Luze, Francisco 0.
Dempsey, Daniel

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.

De Witt, Mrs. George G.
De Witt, William G.
Dexter, Henry

Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles F.
Dillar, W. E.

Dimock, Mrs. J. J.
Ditson,_Mrs. C. H

. Dittrich, M.D., Eberhard w.

Dix, Charles. B.

Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Dodge, William E.
Doelger, Peter

Doerr, J. B.

Donnelly, Edward
Donovan, Dennis
Donovan, Joseph

Dowd, Timothy

Dowst, Arthur A.

Doyle, Edward P.
Drake, .Miss Mary Hopeton
Drake, Mrs. Charles
Duer, Miss Alice M.
Duer, Miss Caroline K.
Duer, James G. K.
Duer, Mrs. James G. K.
Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Dunham, Mrs. Minnie
Dunlop, John

Du Vivier, E. A.

 

  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

H “I '
““““

 

 

E

Eaton, Dorman B.
Eckstein, Samuel
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Walter T.
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Emory, Mrs. John Comegys
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles M.
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry
Eppig, Joseph

Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. .L.
F airchild, Mrs. A. V.
Fargo, James C.

F arnham, George A.
F eist, Karl

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Finck, August

Fisk, Mrs. Harvey E.
Fitch, M.D., Neil O
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Miss Annie

' Flint, Miss Helena
,Flint, Mrs. Austin

Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.

Foley, John

Foller, Nicholas
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia F. (le
Forbes, Miss Agnes

Ford, Malcolm W.

Forney, Matthias N.

124

  

Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Franchot, Mrs. Héléne
Frankenberg, D.
Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas

F ranzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, Mrs. L.
Freeman, W. D.
Freud, Miss Hannah

F riedmann, H. G.

Fries, Frederick

F riihauf, Miss Victoria
Fuller, M.D., William H.
Furman, John T.

G

Gage, William B.

Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A.
Gallatin, Frederic

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Almy
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.

Gebhard, Mrs. Frederic
Gellatly, Mrs. John
Geossell, Charles

Gerrans, H.

Gescheidt, Anthony L.
Gibb, John

Gibert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.
Gibney, Dr. Virgil P.
Glassford, H. A.

Glatz, Mrs. Pauline
Glenn, Miss Janie
Goddard, Miss Annie C.
Goddard, Mrs. J. Warren
Godfrey, Miss Lily Alys
Godkin, Lawrence
Godwin, Parke

Goin, Mrs. James D.
Goodrich, George Selden ,
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
   




     

    

Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Gould, Charles Judson
Grant, Rev. Percy S.
Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.

Groh, John

Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Randolph
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiltord, Mrs. Nathan
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H
Hackett, Jeremiah
Haddock, J. W.

Hadkins, Frank L.
Haffen, John
Hagedorn, Frau H.
Hagerty, M. H.
Haines, G. Sabine
Halberstadt, S. E.
Hale, Mrs. Thomas
Hall, Miss Mary L.
Hamilton, Henry
Hard, Anson W.
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.

Hart, Patrick

Hartman, P. H.

Harvey, George F.
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Hathorn, Frank H.
Havemeyer, J. Craig
Haven, George G.
Haviland, S. W.
Hazard, Mrs. E. C.

125

Healey, John J.
Hecht, Aaron
Heckmann, Mrs. Barbette
Heckscher, John G.

Hein, Eggert

Heins, John L.

Heller, C.

Heller, Mrs. E. .L.
Henderson, Mrs. James A.
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hennig, Mrs. Sophia
Hentschel, Charles

Hentz, Henry

Herrick, M.D., Everett
Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.

Heyman, Charles
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Hill, James K.

Hill, Warren E.

Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Welcome G.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
Hoefer, Charles R.

Hoegg, William

Hoffmann, Jacob

Hogan, Charles W.

Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Harry
Holcombe, Mrs. Wm. Fred.
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Hollister, Thompson _
Holmes, Mrs. J. W.

Holz, Bernard

Holz, Mrs. Bernard

Hopi, Max G.

Hopkins, H. C.
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Horn, William E.

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Hower, Frederick
Huber, Otto
Humason, Mrs. V. P.
Huntington, Archer M.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J. C. G.

Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Robert G.
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Isaacs, David

Isaacs, Gabriel

Iselin, Adrian

Iselin, C. Oliver

Iselin, Miss G.

J

Jackson, F. W.

Jahn, Wm.

Jarves, Miss Florence

Jeffery, Dr. Geo. C.

Jennewein, Valentine

Jermanowski, Baron E. J.

Jerome, Mrs. Henry A.

Jex, Miss Emily D.

Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnston, John Humphreys

Johnston, Mrs. Mary

Jones,
Stanton

Jones, Frank

Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader

Juiler,Miss Constantine H. V.

Jurgens,’ W. B. A.

126

F loyd-, Mrs. Geo.

 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
  
  

Jurvelius, Madame Thyra

K

Kakels, Dr. M. S.
Kane, S. Nicholson
Kaufman, C. C.
Keck, Albert

Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.
Keeney, E. W.
Keltermeyer, John
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Keugh, Miss Anna
Kimbel, Richard M.
King, Dr. Morris Lee
King, Marc J.

King, Mrs. Percy R.
Kingan, R. W. James
Kirk, Mrs. Harford B.
Knapp, Dr. G. Lee
Knapp, John M.
Knapp, L.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knight, Mrs. Arthur
Knopf, A. E.
Knowlton, E. F.
Koegler, William
Kohlmann, John D.
Koke, Dr. W. A.
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Kortright, Gouverneur
Kraus, Benjamin
Krause, M.D., William H.
Krowder, Miss Alice

L

Lambert, Fred. A.

La Montagne, Mrs. E. C.
Lampe, Miss Elise H.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
Larremore, Mrs. Wilbur
La Tourrette, Miss J. E.

 




Lawrence, Miss Hannah N.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.

Lawson, Mrs. Emma
Leahy, David T.

Leao, Francisco Garcia P.
gLearned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P.
Lee, Prof. B. F.

Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Leggett, Francis H.
Lembke, Jr., Charles
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levings, James H.
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie
Liebmann, Charles
Lilienthal, Mrs. S. P.
Lincoln, Dr. H. Warren
Lindner, Jr., Charles
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.

Lorette, Miss Frances M. V.

Lovedale, Charles

Low, Hon. Seth

.Low, Mrs. Seth
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Ludlow, Banyer
Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Lund, John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lusk, Miss Mary E.
Lyman, E. H. R.
Lynch, Mrs. Jasper

M

Macdonald, A. J.
Mackay, George D.
Mackenzie, John

127

Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Maclay, Mrs. J. W.
Maclay, Robert

Macy, Mrs. V. Everit
Maitland, T. A.
Maitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.
Major, F. H.

Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marcks, L. H.

Marks, Mrs. Nannette
Marsh, David

Marsh, Nathaniel
Marshall, E. C.
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, C. C.

Marvin, James M.
Mason, James Kent
Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.
Maverick, Mrs. Brewster
Maxwell, Henry W.
Maxwell, Miss Ida F.
May, Moses

Mayer, David
McBurney, Mrs. S. A.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C._
McGahie, John

McKee, D.V.S., James
McKee, Mrs. Mary Harrison
McKendrick, Miss Claire ‘F.
McLaren, Alfred S.
McLean, George H.
McLean, John

McLean, Miss Mary S.
McLean, Miss Matilda
McLean, Mrs. Thomas
McManus, J. F.
McNamee, Miss Jessie
McQuade, John
McQuade, P. J.

Meht, Mrs. Helena 1.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mergle, Anton

Merritt, Miss E.
Mertz, Miss M.
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Meyer, Hen1y

Meyel, M1s. L. H.
Michelbachei, S.
Miller, Mrs. C. A.
Mills, Ogden

Minck, Henry
Mintu1n, Miss Eliza T.
Mintz, Dr. Fredelick
Mitchell, John A.
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Moller, Peter
Monahan, Thomas
Monnot, J. B.

Monroe, Mrs. Elbeit B.
Montgome1y, George L.
Morgan, Miss Louisa P.
Morris, Lewis G.
Mor1ison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Mo1rison, Henry P.
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Moss, Frank

Moss, Harris

Mulle1, Edwa1d M.
Mulligan, James
Munch, William
Mustoe, Dr. F1ederick
Myers, Ge01ge L.
Myeis, Miss Lillie

N

Namm, Adolph I.

Natrass, Mrs. Frank E.

N e1d11110'e1 Adam

Nelson, ers. Waltel II.
Newman, D...,VS Phil 11p H.
Newton, M1s R H.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.

128

   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
    
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  

Noble, Mrs. G. Clifford
Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine
N orvell, Duncan R.
Noyes, Mrs. Henry D.

O

Oakford, Miss Ellen
Obermeyer, Theodore
Ochs, Ernest
Ockershausen, Henry A.
Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George M.
Oliver, Mrs. Dillon
Oothout, Mrs. William
Orr, John C.
O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J.W.
Otis, Charles R.

Otis, Mrs. N. P.

Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.

P

Palmer, Dr. Ernest
Palmer, Francis E.
Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, Lowell M.
Palmer, N. F.
Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Palker, Miss Maly D.
Parsons, Mis. Edwin
Parsons, W. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. E. E.
Pell, J. H.

Pell, M1s. J. H.
Pelkins, Miss Edith Howell
Pe11y, Mrs C. M
Perry, Dr. John L.
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.
Phillips, William
Pirie, S. C.

Pitcher, L. A.

Plate, Carsten
Pohalski, H. Percy

 




     

  

Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pond, Warren

Pool, John H.

Potter, Mrs. Geo. M.
Price, W. W.

Proctor, Miss H. F.

Prout, Dr. J. S.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.

Purdy, J. H.

Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

Q
Quimby, Frank .P.
Quinlan, Thos. F.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Raisch, Julius

Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Rapelye, Mrs. C.
Rappenecker, William F.
Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor, Miss Florence
Reboul, H. W.

Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renault, Louis
Renwick, William W.
Reynolds, C. H.
Reynolds, Mrs. Jennie
Rhinehardt, Clark D.
Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhoades, John Harsen
Riker, Mrs. D. S.
Rinschler, Frank
Robert, C. R.

Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Robinson, Henry
Robinson, Mrs. Henry
Rodewald, F. L.

 

Rodrigue, John J.

Rogers, Noah Cornwell
Roome, W. Harris
Roosevelt, J. A.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund

Ross, William B.

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch
Rowland, Thomas Fitch
Russell, Mrs. James Towns’d
Ryer, George S.

S

Salmon, H. H.
Sanford, Hon. Horatio S.
Schaefer, Charles
Schieffelin, E. S.
Schieffelin, William Jay
Schippell, August

Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Miss Alice M.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmidt, William
Schmielan, C. F.

Scholer, Dr. Gustav
Schrader, George
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Schwcnke, Henry

Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seabury, George J.
Scccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Sedgwick, Robert

 

 




Taylor, Frederic
Taylor, Mrs. Moses
Taylor, Thomas F.
Thebaud, Paul L.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomas, Miss Mary L.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, G. A._
Thompson, Miss Alice
Thompson, Miss Rhoda

Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.

Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Tiedemann, F.

Tilford, Mrs. Charles E.
Tilford, Miss Etta
Tiliord, Mrs. Frank
Tilley, John W.
Timolat, James G.
Toby, Geo. P.
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Toucey, John M.
Townsend, Dr. Charles W.
Townshend, John
Tracy, Dr. E. Clarke
Trask, G. D. S.

Trevor, Mrs. John B.
Truog, Mrs. Randolph
Tryon, F. M.

Tuck, H.

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred

T uckerman, Mrs. Alfred
Tully, Matthew S.

T urney, Winthrop
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrichs, Thomas

Ulshoeffer, W. G.

131

V

Valentine, Mrs. A. C.

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van der Stucken, Frank
Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Name, J. Howard
Van Ness, J. Newton

Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.

Van Volkenburgh, Miss S. E.

Vietlin, Miss Louise
Villard, Henry

Villard, Oswald Garrison
Vogt, Henry
Voislawsky, S. P.
Vollkommer, Joseph
Vorgang, Charles T.

W

Wade, William D.
Walker, Joseph

Wallin, Dr. Mathilda K.
Walser, Dr. William C.
Walsh, Samuel A.
Ward, ,L. B.

Ward, Miss Jennie E.
Ward, Mrs. F. A. B.
Warren, Richard Henry
Waterbury, Miss Elsie
Waters, V.S., Dr. E.
Weaver, Miss Lucy A.
Webb, H. Walter
Weber, Joseph
Wedemeyer, H. William
Weekes, Arthur D. ,
Weeks, Rev. William H.
Weil, Charles M.
Wells, Miss Julia Chester
VVelz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Westcott, Miss Thalia

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wetherbee, Miss Lilah
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Edward R.
Whitcomb, Miss Georgia
White, Horace

White, Miss May W.
White, S. V.
Whitewright, William

Whiting, Miss Matilda M.

Wicke, William

Wickett, S. G.

Wickham, William Hull
Wilhelm, lWrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris

Wilcox, William G.
Williams, Mrs. John 0.
Williams, Paul F.
Williams, R. C.

Willson, Charles Hill
Wilson, D. J.

Wilson, Miss Elizabeth B.
Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Wilson, John M.

Winans, Miss Isabel T.

Winans, Miss S. S.
Wing, L. Stuart

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Winship, L. A.

Winter, George
Winthrop, Mrs. Grenville

I32

Wissel, Andrew

Witte, Charles G.

Wood, George A. W.
Wood, Mrs. H. G.
Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan.
Wood, Mrs. James
Wood, P. Erskine
Woolley, Edgar W.
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, G. H.
WOOSter, Mrs..G. H.
Worden, William W.
Work, James Henry
Work, Mrs. James Henry
Wotherspoon, Henry H.
Wright, Miss Harriet
Wyckoff, Peter

Wygant, W. E.

Wyman, Miss Esther

Y

Yeisley, Rev. George C.
Yocum, Rev. Thomas S.

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry
Zimmerman, E. J.
Zittel, Frederick _
Zollikoffer, Mrs. O. F.

 




®bituarx2 1Recorb

The Society mourns the loss of sixteen mem-

bers of Whose death it has been notiﬁed during the
year 1897, Viz.:

BALDWIN, C. C.
BUTLER,CHARLES
COLE, MRS. H. EGER

*CONKLIN, MICHAEL
‘DARRIGRAND, MISS MARIE

*DECKER, J. P.
EHRMANN, JULIUS

*FARGO, MRS. JAMES C.
FEARON, ROBERT J.
GAGER, MRS. MARY M.
HEINS, CHARLES
HINRICHS, C. F. A.
HOLDEN,HENRY
KEMP, MRS. GEORGE
LOCKWOOD, JOHN E.
MUNCH, FERDINAND
POPE,N.Q.

ST. JOHN, WILLIAM P.

* Died in years prior to 1807

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A
Acker, Merrall & Condit. $10 00
Allen, Mrs ................ 2 00
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.... 100 00
Anonymous .............. IO 00
Arnold & Constable ....... 5 00
Appleton, D., & Co... . . . .. IO 00

B
Bacon & Co .............. IO 00
Barker, Miss Isabel R.. . . . 3 00
Bartnett, Robert .......... 3 00
Bauder, Geo. H ........... 2 00
Birdsall, Dr. Theodore... . 3 00
Blenkwenn, F. W ......... 2 00
Blood, Mrs. S. S .......... II 00
Boden, Miss Sarah ........ 2 00
Bossert, Louis ............ 5 00
Bowley, F ................ I 00
Brackett, E. T ............ 5 00
Braidich, A. F ............ 50 00
Brooks, Geo. W .......... 5 00
Brush, W. F .............. IO 00
Budweiser Brewing Co.. . . IO 00
Bunce, John .............. 5 00
Bunder, Geo. R ........... 5 00
Burger Brewing Co.. .. . . . IO 00
Burt, Hackaliah ........... I 00
Bushe, E. L .............. 3 00
Butler, Rosalie ............ 5 00
Butts, Mrs. Laura A ...... IO 00

C
Canﬁeld, R. A ............ 25 00
Carll, Miss C. J ........... IO 00
Carmer, A. S ............. 50
Carroll, John ............. 3 00
Cash, Mrs. C. A. A ........ 50
Cash, C. C. S ............. 50 00
Cash, C. S ................ I5 00
Cash, H. L. M. ..... 50 00

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING
YEAR 1897.

 

Cash, “In memory of my

mother” ............... $10 00
Cash, M. H C ............ 5 00
Cash .................... 5 00
Chamberlain, Mrs. M. H.. I oo
Childs, Dr. T. S ........... 3 00
Chisolm, Mrs. Wm. B. . . . 50 00
Chrome Steel Works ...... 5 00
Clark, Mrs. Fanny A ...... I 00
Cobb, Mary Ethel ........ 50
Cobb, Percy Low ......... 50
Collins, Miss Gertrude. . . . IO 00

Congress Brewing Co.. .. . 5 00

Cooper, Chas. W .......... 5 00
Corner, Thomas .......... I 00
Credo, Mrs. G ............ 25 00
Cross Austin Ireland Lum—

ber Co ................. 5 00

Cross, Mrs. Frances E.. .. . 5 00

Curtis, G. Warrington.. . . . 25 00
D
Dahn, J. A., & Son ....... 5 00
Daly, Henry F .......... 4 25 oo
Daly, Mrs. Henry F ....... 25 00
Demarest, Mrs. A ......... 3 00
De Morgan, Mrs. L ....... I 00
De Ridder, J. H ........... 2 00
Destin, Miss L. Y ......... 2 00
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. Wm. B. 5 00
Dwyer, Michael ........... IO 00
E .
Eastern Brewing Co ...... 5 oo
Eastman, Joseph .......... 25 00
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady ...... 25 00
Eckert, Thos. T .......... 25 00

Edwards, J. Pierrepont.. . . 5 00

Ehrlich, Mrs. Simon M. . .
Embury, Miss Kate .......

Eppig, Joseph ............

100
500
500

 

  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  

 




 

135

F
Farmers’ Feed Co ........ $5 00
Fisher, Thos. R ........... 3 00
Fonda, Miss Helen L ..... I 00
Fonda, S. V. R ........... 2 00
Fowler, Mrs. H. K ....... I 00
Frank, W. H., Brewing Co 5 00
Frech, Mrs. J. J ........... IO 00
French, Winsor B ........ 5 oo
Frese, Chas., Estate of. . .. 5 00

G
Gates, Miss Charlotte G... 2 oo
Gilford, S. T .............. IO 00
Gilmour, Mrs. J. H ....... 3 00
Gom, Mrs. James ......... 3 oo
Goldsmith, B. J .......... 2 oo
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic. Io 00
Greason & Son ........... 5 00
Gunther, Albert E ........ 3 00

H
Haight, Mrs. Alicia ...... I 00
Halstead, P .............. Io 00

Hann, Mrs. Geo. V ....... 3 00
Hard, Miss Laura W ..... 5 00
Hardy, Voorhees & Co. ..

20 00
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L... 15 00
Hatch, Mrs. W. D ....... 3 oo

Hawley, Miss Jessie 0.... I 00
Hearn & Son, James A... 150 00
Heissenbuttel & Nearing. 5 00
H111mann, Miss Antoinette I 00
Hoffmeister, Chas ........

3 oo
Hogan, Timothy ......... 25 oo
Holbrook, Miss Lilian 35 00
Holt, Mrs. Henry ........ 3 oo
Hosch, F ................ 5 00
Hudson, Miss Alice P. . .. 2 00

I

India Wharf Brewing Co. 5 00
In memory of “ Black

Pete ” ................. 2 00
In memory of “ Gambler ”

2 00
Iron Clad Mfg. Co ....... 5 oo
Iselin, C. Oliver .......... 3 oo
Iselin, Miss Emilie E...” 25 00
Isley, S. A ............... 5 00
Itgen, E. H .............. 5 00

J
Jackson, L. F ............. $5 00
James, L. W .............. 2 00
Jacquins, Mrs. Edward... I 00
Jennings, Walter ......... IO 00
Jones, J. H ............... 2 00
Joseph Fallert’s Brewing
Co. .................... 5 00
K
Kadelbach, L ............ 5 00
Kelsey & Loughlin ....... 5 00
Kenyon & Newton ....... 5 00
King & Adams ........... 5 00
Klots, Walter T., & Bros.’

Sons .................. 5 oo
Korfman, Henry C ....... 2 00
L
Langdon, Woodbury G... 5 oo
Langler, N., & Sons ..... 5 00
Lawrence, C. J ........... I 00

Lewis, Mrs. Harry Dick—

inson .................. 110 00
Lewis, Mrs. George ...... 600 00
Lewis, Miss L. Kate ...... 2 00
Lins, H., & Sons ......... 5 00
Livingston, Miss Ann L. . 2o 00
Lockitt’s Sons, Geo ...... 5 00

Lockwood, Miss L. A... . I 00

Long Island Brewery. . . . 5 00
Low, Edward A ......... 5 00
Low, Mrs. Seth .......... 5 00
M

Mali, Chas ............... 5 00
Manney, Mrs. Chas. P... . I 00
Martense, A. V .......... 5 00
Marston & Son .......... 5 00
Mathews, John, Firm of. . Io 00
May, Levy & May ........ IO 00
McCord, W. H ........... I oo
McCulloch, Mrs. H. T... . 5 00
McDonald, P. J ......... . I 00
Meeker, Mrs. Mary E... . 25 oo
Meltzer Bros ............. 5 oo
Milbank, Joseph .......... 100 00
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph... . 50 00
Moffat, Miss Alice E ..... 100 00
Mollenhauer Sugar ng.

Co. ................... 5 oo
Moller, J. M., & C0 ...... 5 00

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Montant, Mr. and Mrs.

Alphonse .............. $3 00
Moquin—Offerman—Heis-
senbuttel Coal Co ...... 5 00
Morgan, John ............ 100 00
Morgan, Miss Louisa P.. 4 00
Morton, Dr. J. B ......... 50
Morton, John, & Sons. . . . 5 00
Moulton, Mrs. F. A ...... 300 00
Murray, W .............. 3 00
N
New York Condensed Milk
Co .................... 20 00
O
O’Connor, D. F .......... 3 00
P
Palmer, Mrs. T. W ....... 3 00
Palmer, Wm. D .......... 3 00
Parkhurst, Mrs. Francelia
B ..................... 5 00
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin ..... 5 00
Pell, John H ............. 3 00
Pell, Mrs. John H ........ 3 00
Plaut, S. & H ............ 5 00
Pool, John H ............ 3 00
Powell, D. B. ........... 5 00
Power, E. J .............. 3 00
Pratt, Dallas B. ......... 3 00
Pratt, Mrs. Dallas B ...... 3 00
Pratt, Miss Katharine... . 3 00
Pratt, Alex. D ........... 3 oo
Prescott, Mrs. A. E ...... 5 00
Putnam, Victor .......... 2 00
R
Rapallo, Mrs. Edw. S.... 5 00
Reynolds, Dr. T. B ....... 2 00
Riehl, John W ........... I 00
Rogers, Mrs. S. B ........ 5 00
Rushmore, I. W .......... 5 00
Rushmore, Mrs. S. L ..... 3 00
S
Saxton, Mrs. M .......... 8 00
Schaefer, F. & M., Brew—
ing Co ................. 5 00

Schnippell, Mrs. Fanny. .. 100

136

  

Screven, Mr. and Mrs.

John H ................. $6 00
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A ...... 151 50
Seitz, M ................. 5 00
Sill, Miss Mary E ........ 2 00
Smith, Miss Lottie E ..... I 00
Smith, Mrs. Mary Dor—

land ................... IO 00
Stokes, Miss Olivia E. P. 300 00
Stone, Mrs. Grace ....... 2 00
Stutz, Louis .............. 5 00
Strathern, Mrs. A. W ..... I 00
Strong, Theron G ....... 20 00

T
Taylor, Jas. R ............ 5 00
Thompson, Jas ........... 5 00
Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna 25 00
Todd, H. H .............. 3 00
Tom .................... IO 00
Tom and Jim ............. IO 00
Topham, Miss A. E ...... » I 00
Topham, Mrs ............ I 00
Turner, Miss E. J ........ I 00
Turner, Miss F. S ........ I 00
U
Ughetta, Henry L ........ 5 00
Ulshoeffer, Wm. G ....... 5 00
U. S. Bung Mfg. Co ...... 5 00
V
Van Pelt, Rev. Daniel. . .. 2 00
Vogel, Wm., & Bros ...... 5 00
W
Walbaun, G .............. IO 00
Wallace, Wm. H ......... 5 00
Wandell, Townsend ...... 5 00
Ward, Miss F. L ......... 5 00
Ward, Mrs. F. L ......... I oo
Waterbury, W. R ........ 2 oo
Weil, Lemuel ............ 5 00
Westcott Express Co.. . .. IO 00
White, Miss S. E ......... 50 00
Wilde’s Sons, Samuel..... 5 00
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily ..... 4 00
Winans, Miss Isabel T... 6 00
Winans, Miss M. Antoi-
nette , .................. 5 00

Wright, Miss Harriet. 5 00

 

    
    
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  




 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BROOKLYN
BUILDING FUND RECEIVED DUR-
ING THE YEAR 1897

 

Brooklyn Women’s Dumb Animal Aid ASSOOiation . . . $248 73

 




 

COLORADO.
Denver. . . . .
Colorado Springs

CONNECTICUT.
Hartford . . . .
New Haven. . .
Meriden . . . .

DELAWARE.
Wilmington

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Washington. . . .
FLORIDA.
St. Augustine
Jacksonville
Pensacola
Tampa . .
GEORGIA.
Augusta .
Atlanta. .
Macon . .
Brunswick
ILLINOIS.
Chicago .
Aurora .
Rockland .
Galesburg
Quincy . .
Shelbyville
Champaign .
Springﬁeld .
Jacksonville
Jerseyville .
Harvard . .

 

 

 

 

Tampa S. P. C. A. .

 

 

Colorado Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .
El Paso County Branch Colorado Humane Society*

Connecticut Humane Society .
The New Haven S. P. C. A. . .
Meriden Humane Society . .

Delaware S. P. C. A. . . . .
The Washington Humane Society
St. Augustine Humane Society .
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A.* .

Humane Society . . . . .

lGeorgiaS. P. c.A. ......
1 Atlanta Humane Society . . . .
1 Macon Branch of Georgia S. P. C.

Brunswick Humane Society . . . .

The Illinois Humane Society* . . . . . . . . .
The Aurora Humane Society . . . . . . . . . .
Winnebago CountyBranch Illinois H mane Society*
Galesburg Branch Illinois Humane Society . . . .
The Quincy Humane Society . . . . . . .
The Shelby Co. Branch of The Illinois Humane Soc.
Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society . .
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld . . . . . .
Jacksonville Humane Society . . . . . . . . .
The Jerseyville Humane Society P. C. A. & C. .
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ILLINOIS—(.‘om‘z'nued.
Danville . . .
Whitehall . .

INDIANA.
Indianapolis .
Crawfordsville
Evansville . .
Fort Wayne .
South Bend
Terre Haute
Muncie . .
Elkhart .
Richmond
Peru . . .
Kokomo .

IO\\'A.

Des Moines
Sioux City
Iowa City

KANSAS.
Wichita
Topeka .

KENTUCKY.
Louisville
Henderson
Frankfort .
Covington .

LOUISIANA.

New Orleans

MAINE.
Portland .
Bangor .
Waterville
Lewiston .
Waterville

 

 

 

United States Humane Society
Whitehall Humane Society . . . .

The Indiana Humane Society . . . . . . . . .
Montgomery County Humane Society P. C. A. 8:
The Evansville Humane Society P. C. W., C. 8:

‘Fort Wayne Humane Society . . . . . . .

The South Bend Humane Society

1 Terre Haute Humane Society . .
Muncie Humane Society . . . .
; Elkhart Humane Society . . . .
. Wayne County Humane Society .
‘ The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.

Kokomo Humane Society . . . .

The Iowa Humane Societyi'r . .
The Sioux City Humane Society .
Iowa City Humane Society . .

' The Kansas Humane Society .

The Foster Humane Society . .

Kentucky Humane S. P. C. . . .
Henderson Humane Society . . .
Franklin County Humane Society
Kenton County Humane Society .

Louisiana State S. P. C. A.* .

Maine State S. P. A.* . . . . .
The Bangor Humane Society . .
Waterville S. P C. A. . . . . '. .
Lewiston and Auburn S. P. C. A.
Waterville S. P C. A. . . . '. . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

MARYLAND . I
Baltimore . . . . The Maryland S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . . . . . . f 75 121 .15 . . . 4 ; 2355
MASSACHUSETTS. i
Boston . . . . . . The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . f l
Taunton . . . . . Taunton Humane Society* . . . . . . . . . . . l . . . l 5 7 1 . . . 41
Lowell . . . . . . The Lowell Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . IO 1'
MICHIGAN.
Detroit . . . . . . Michigan S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . ‘. . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . .
Grand Rapids . . . Kent County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . 14 21 I6 . . . . . . I90
Kalamazoo . . . . Kalamazoo Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MINNESOI‘A. ' '
St. Paul . . . . . Minnesota S. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minneapolis . . . Minneapolis Humane Society . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . , , , ,
Duluth . . . . . . Duluth Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St.Pau1..... St.PaulS.P.C................. 6 14 127 287
Owatonna . . Steele County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . 4 I5 3 9 . . . 42
Winona . . . . . The Winona Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . H
St. Cloud. . . . . St. Cloud Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . 3 2 2. 1 . . . 15 'E.‘
~ Red Wing . . . . Red Wing Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rochester . . . . Rochester Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stillwater . . . . Stillwater Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , .
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez , . . . . The Mississippi S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , _ _ , , ,
MISSOURI. H S * '
St. Louis . . . . . umane ociety of Missouri . . . . . . . . . 106 o 2
St. Louis . . . . . Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri . . . . . . . . . . 4. 9. . 3.3 . . 1.06. . .44. 1993
Kansas City . . . The Humane Society of Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Joseph . . . . The Humane Society of St. Joseph . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .
Sedalia . . . . . . The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri . . . . . . . . . , , , , . . . _ . . ' ' '
NEBRASKA. ° ' '
Omaha . . . . . . Nebraska Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . 12 45 20 7 , _ , 148
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Portsmouth. . . . New Hampshire S. P. C. A . . . . . . . . . . . 8 32 115 48 , , . 232

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Keene . . . . . . The Keene Humane Society .
NEW JERSEY.
Newark .

Jersey City .

The New JerseyS. P. C. A. . .

The Hudson County District S. P. C. A
Cape May . Cape May. N J. District S. P. C. A.* .
Vineland The VinelandS. P. C. A. . . . .
Morristown . . . . Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P. C. A.
Camden . . The Camden S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
Hackensack . The Bergen CountyS. P. C. A. . . .
Elizabeth. . The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J.

Perth Amboy. Perth Amboy S. P. C. A. . .

Cranford . . . Cranford, N. J., Branch of The N. J.
Paterson . Passaic County District S. P. C. A.
Somerville . Somerset County S. P. C. A. . . .
Princeton. Princeton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .

NEW YORK.
New York . . . . The American S. P. C. A J .
Sing Sing. Sing Sing Branch of The American S.
Rochester. The Humane Society of Rochester, N.
Buffalo . . . The Erie County S. P. C. A.* . . . .
Poughkeepsie. The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A. . . . .
Newburg. . The NewburgS. P. C. A. . . . .
Oswego . . . S. P. C. A. of Oswego Cit ty, .Y.
Fulton . . . S. P. C. A. of Village of Ful
Syracuse . . . . The Central New York S. P. .nA.*
Nyack . . . . The Rockland County S. P. .A.
Elmira . . . . . The Elmira S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Binghamton . . . Broome County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Kingston. . The Ulster CountyS. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Watertown . . Jefferson CountyS. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Albany . . . Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society .
Lockport . . . The Niagara County S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Cortland The Cortland County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Rome . . The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y. . . . . .

'1' Includes work of its own agents throughout the State.

NEW HAMPSHIRE—Con. I
1

meﬂ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




I.
‘1 ,4 __-- \ruhllvub LLLD ULLLLC,

 

NEW YORK— Continued
Auburn . . . . . . The Cayuga County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NORTH CAROLINA.
Asheville . . . . . The North Carolina S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilmington. . . . North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A. . - . . . . . . . I2 37 2 IO . . . 73
OHIO.
Cincinnati.. . . . The Ohio Humane Society . . . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland. . . . . Cleveland Humane Society* . . . . ,. . . . . . 35 5099 I47 . . . . . .-
Canton . . . . . . The Canton Humane Society* . . . . . . . 38 21 8 7 126
Columbus. . . . . Humane Society of City* of Columbus, Ohio . . . 31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Toledo . . . . . . Toledo Humane Society* . . . . . 2 79 92 . , . 6 397
Warren . . . . . . The Trumbull County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dayton. . . . . . Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society P. C. .& A. . . 6 2 6 . . . . . . I4
Athens...... AthensS.P.C.A.
Sandusky. . . . . The Erie County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Portsmouth. . . . Scioto County Humane Society . . . .1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashtabula . . . . . Ashtabula County Humane Society . . . . . . . 2 I . . . . . . . . . 2o
Chagrin Falls. . . The Chagrin Falls Humane Society P. C. C. & A. . 2 47 2 . . , . . . 22
Pomeroy . . . . . Pomeroy Branch Humane Society*. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1. . . . . . . . . . .
Youngstown. . . . The Youngstown Humane Society* . . . . . . . p 28 6 4 . . . , . . 146
Yellow Springs. . . Yellow Springs Humane Society. . . . . . . . . 6 IO 2 , , .
Tifﬁn . . . . . . . Seneca County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chardon . . . . . The Chardon Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . 4 I I _ , , , , , Io
Norwalk . . . . . Huron County Humane Society. . . . . 1 .
New Lexington . . Humane Society of New Lexington . . . . . . . . . . i . . . . . . . , . , , . , , .
OREGON.
Portland . . . . . The Oregon Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . 37 1 7o 47 12 , , _ 300
PENNSYLVANIA. 1
Philadelphia.. . . The Pennsylvania 5. P. c A.. . . . . . . . . . . . ’ ’
Philadelphia . . Women 5 Branch of Pennsylvania S. P C. A . . . . . l
Lancaster. . . . . Lancaster S. P. C. A, . . . . . . . . . . . . .g .
York . . . . . . The York County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . ‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . ., .
l

I43

 

Pittsburg . . . . Western Pennsylvania Humane Society. . . . . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PENNSYLVANIA. — Con.

West Chester .
Reading . . .
Williamsport
Scranton . . .
Erie. . . .
Wilkesbarre
Altoona. . .
RHODE ISLAND.
Providence
Newport . . .

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston . .
Columbia. . .
Greenville . .
Spartanburg
TENNESSEE.
Memphis . . .
Chattanooga .
Knoxville
Nashville .
Jackson
TEXAS.
Galveston
Waco. . .
Austin . .
UTAH.
Salt Lake City
VERMONT.
Chester. . .
Brattleborough
Rutland . .
Burlington . .
Chester. . . .

Randolph .

 

 

 

Chester Co. AuxiliaryWomen’ 5 Branch Pa. S. P. C. A.
Berks Counry S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Lycoming County S. P. C. A.. . .

Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania S. P. C A.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane SOciety. .
Luzerne County Humane Association P. C. C. & A.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society*

RhodeIslandSP..CA.*.
Newport Branch of Rhode ISIandS .P. C. AI)“ .
The South Carolina S. P. C. A. . . .

Richland County, South Carolina, S. P.
Greenville Branch of South Carolina S.
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A.

'cfA.I .
P C. A.

Tennessee S. P. C. A. & C. . . .
Chattanooga Humane Society .
Knox County Humane Society
Nashville Humane Society . .
Madison County Humane Society

The Galveston S. P. C. A. .
The Texas Humane Society
Austin Humane S. P. C. A.

Utah Humane Society.

Vermont Humane Society. .
The Brattleborough S. P. C. A.
Society P. C. A. . . .
Vermont Society P. C. A. .
Chester Humane Society . .
The Randolph Humane Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




VIRGINIA.
Richmond.
Norfolk. .
Portsmouth
Lynchburg

WASHINGTON.
Tacoma.
Seattle . . .

WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling. .

WISCONSIN.
Milwaukee .
Oshkosh l
Sheboygan ;
Green Bay |
Manitowoc. . 1

Port Washington. \

l
l
l
l

 

Janesville. . . .
BRITISH No. AMERICA.
Halifax. . . . . .
Hamilton. . . . .
Kingston .
Montreal
Ottawa . . . . .
Quebec. . . .
St. John, N. B.
Toronto.
Fredericton .
Moncton
Winnipeg. .
St. John’,s N’ﬂd

Richmond S. P. C. A. . . .
Norfolk S. P. C. A. . . . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.
The Lynchburg Humane Society. . .

Tacoma S. P. C. A. . .
Seattle Humane Society .

West Virginia S. P. C. A.

Wisconsin Humane Society .

Fox River Valley District, The Wis. Humane Soc.*
Sheboy gan Branch Of the Wis. Humane Society.
The Wisconsin S. P. C. A . .
Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Societ3
Organized Committee of Wisconsin Human e Soc.*
Janesville Humane Society. . . . . . . . .

The Nova Scotia S. P. C.*
HamiltonS. P. C. A. *
Kingston Humane Society.
The Canadian S. P. C. A.
Ottawa Humane Society .
QuebecS. P. C. A. . .
New BrunswickS. P. C. A
Toronto Humane Society.

lFredericton S. P. C. A. .

Moncton S. P. C. A.
Winnipeg S. P.
P.

CA.
St.]ohns.S C..A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

NEW HEADQUARTERS

OF THE SOCIETY, MADISON AVE. AND 26TH ST., NEW YORK

 




 

9

 

equipment of the Society for practical work consisted of one
single old—fashioned ambulance which was kept in a shed and
when used was drawn by hired horses. There was no shelter
at which to receive lost or strayed animals, and there were no
appliances for their humane destruction in case of necessity.
No library of reference had been collected, though this had
been contemplated in the charter of the Society, and was ear—
nestly desired by Mr. Bergh. The Society had no means of
publishing humane literature, and, in point of fact, it published
nothing except its annual report. After twenty-two years Mr.
Bergh was about to enter upon a new epoch in his great work,
ready to grapple with new problems and to overcome new
difﬁculties, when he fell at his post on March 12, 1888, and the
Society was left without the leader by whom it had been nobly
and wisely and triumphantly led for so many years. It was
a time of great perplexity, for no one knew what Mr. Bergh’s
plans were for the prosecution of the work under its new condi-
tions; but on one point there was no question in the consulta-
tions of the Board. The work of the Society must be carried
on, and the members of the Board felt well assured that, with
patience and discretion, it would not fail to be enlarged. It
was clear, however, that great prudence would be necessary,
and that every step of progress must be taken rather under the
suggestions of experience than as the elaboration of some
plausible theory. On these modest lines the work of the last 1
ten years has been conducted, and I think the Board has a
right to say, ﬁrst, that it has been conducted with loyal ﬁdelity
to Mr. Bergh’s ideas, and second, that its present success has
proved the wisdom of his plans.

Throughout these years it has been necessary to maintain a
diligent watch over projects of legislation, some of which have
been introduced into the legislature for the purpose of repeal—
ing some part of the law, while many others have been intro-
duced by unwise friends of our cause with the intention of
adding to the efﬁciency of the law, while the measures pro-
posed would have had a directly contrary effect.

 




I7

as to provide for the enlargement of the building when the
progress of our work shall really call for such an addition. Of
one thing I am quite sure: in the erection of such a building in
such a spot, to be exclusively devoted to the work to which
Henry Bergh gave his whole heart and service during twenty-
two laborious years, he would have seen the fulﬁllment of. his
most cherished wishes. That building will stand for many a
year, not only for the practical uses of the Society, but as a
testimony, a lesson, and a declaration to all the people of the
land: a testimony to the sacred law of universal justice which
forbids the unrighteous torture or abuse of any sentient crea—
ture of God; a lesson of God’s law of mercy and compassion
to all creatures, great and small; and a declaration and adver-
tisement that this Society intends, with God’s help, to prose-
cute the work it has undertaken until every habitation of
cruelty shall be banished from the land, and the principle of
justice and mercy to our humbler fellow creatures shall be as
deeply graven on the hearts of the American people as their
love of liberty.,
JOHN P. HAINES,
President.
December 31, 1897.

 




 

  

25

generation of the nineteenth century. Education, combined
with wise discrimination, will, I venture to predict, inﬂuence a
better regard for the rights of God’s inferior creation, and wan-
ton acts of cruelty inﬂicted upon animals,.which at one time
disgraced our civilization, will be referred to only as things of
the past.

It would be impossible, even if time or space permitted, to
give in detail the innumerable instances of animal suffering re-
lieved or abuse prevented by our ofﬁcers during the past year.
“ Employ moral suasion and advice in the ﬁrst instance, and, if
disregarded, prosecute to the fullest extent of your authority,”
is the rule of the Society, promulgated to its ofﬁcers, and
strictly carried out.

Much trouble is still caused by people sending in anonymous
complaints, many of them worded in language apparently con-
vincing, yet, when investigated, are found to be malicious or
void of truth. Others, describing well-founded wanton acts of
cruelty, are not prosecuted owing to the unwillingness of wit-
nesses to testify against the offenders.

Manly athletic sports of all kinds are fast taking the place of
the so—called sport of dog-ﬁghting and kindred brutalities. “ I
am ashamed of my past acquaintance with the dog—ﬁghting fra-
ternity,” said an old sporting man to the writer. Several con-
templated animal fights were prevented during the past year,
owing to the watchfulness of the police and the vigilance of the
Society’s detectives.

It may be said, in connection with this report, that many
shoeless horses are found from time to time by our ofﬁcers, and
on inquiry it is learned that unless a horse has been shod in the
ﬁrst instance in a “union ” shop horseshoers refuse to even
nail a shoe on temporarily. In England a farrier is bound to
shoe a horse, if required to do so, under penalty of the law.

Many good horses are ruined by young or incompetent
drivers, and I am surprised that the city ordinances against fast
driving are not more rigidly enforced. Boys between the ages
of twelve and twenty years are often engaged by grocers,

 

 




54

19A < 2 11-:

ARREST Nu. 92.70). 1;“:

.LY DIYS'I'IK’OYIEI).

.‘
i

EMACIATED AND FFFBLF, HORSE HUMANl

33

eted in the market-place for hours; the expressman overloads
and overdrives his equine slaves; the cow dealer, unmindful
of the suffering of his cows for the want of being milked, gives
them no relief until sold; the poultry seller, to economize space,
crowds his live stock into crates until many die from suffoca-
tion; the small boy, with bean—shooter, mangles and breaks
the limbs of sparrows and pigeons; the butcher, to enhance the
price of veal a few cents, inﬂicts untold agony upon the calf
by slowly bleeding the animal to death to whiten the flesh.

Such phases of cruelty as described above have been found
by our ofﬁcers from time to time, and the offenders brought to
justice.

Trapping birds for their plumage, to be used for ornamental
purposes; keeping live turtles in an unnatural position, with
ﬁns pierced and tied, behind the back for many hours, or until
sold; setting dogs to worry and kill cats; exposing live canaries
in the streets for sale in cold weather; and many other similar
evils have been remedied.

The efﬁciency of the Brooklyn Department of our work,
under Inspector Clark, has been materially increased through
the appointment of several additional ofﬁcers; yet a still larger
force will be necessary in the near future, owing to the area of

territory annexed in the Greater New York.

SUMMARY FOR THE PAST TEN YEARS.

 

1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894

 

 

Cases prosecuted in the
courts .................. 1 52 709
Disabled animals tempo— 797 99 949 9
rarily suspended from
labor ...................
Horses, mules, and other
large animals, disabled
past recovery, humane—
1y destroyed ........... 2,546 2,455
Small animals, homeless
or disabled past re-
covery, humanely de-
stroyed ................. 1,202 1,281 705 1,347 2,212 3,060 4,794 24,275 46,898. 73,197
Disabled horses, and
other large animals re-

986 1,071 1,080 980 1,010

3,456 1,749 2.357 4.180 5.725 4.868 3.779 3.596 3,403 3,207

2,8I2 2,284 2,620 3.365 3,384 2.927 2.987 3.254

 

 

 

 

moved from streets in
ambulances ............ 522 495 407 520 578 618 607 SB 576 583
Cases investigated ....... 3,773 3,052 2,793 3,609 6,891 7.301 7.599 I3:503 21,690 37~635

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1895 1896 1897

 

618

31491

3.067

88,028

563
49,215

 




  

Feb. II.

Feb. 15.

Feb. 16.

Feb. 16.

 

41

Thomas Sliney was advised by the Society’s veterinary
surgeon that a horse belonging to him was not in ﬁt condi-
tion for work, being very lame. caused by what is known as
“open joint,” a very painful ailment. Sliney fancied he
knew better, and ignored the good advice given him, as well
as a warning not to permit the horse to be worked until ﬁt
for use, and caused and permitted one Henry Steers (driver)
to harness the animal to a loaded cart and haul broken rock
out of an excavation. Sliney was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions, and admonished that a
repetition of the offense would result in a more severe pen-
alty.

Harnessed to a coal cart, and compelled to haul snow from
Broadway, was a decrepit horse. The animal was in a state
of almost total collapse from overwork and want of food,
yet the driver, James Davy, declared he intended to keep on
driving the horse all night. Before he could change his
mind, the Society ambulance drove up and the weary horse
was on its way to the veterinary hospital, where it was kept
for several days and carefully attended to. Davy was sub-
sequently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions for his cruelty to the horse.

Herman Cohen caused and permitted a decrepit horse,
owned by him, to haul a heavily loaded express wagon. The
animal, when seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer, was ready to fall
from exhaustion, and when unharnessed from the vehicle
had to be assisted by several ofﬁcers to a nearby stable.
Cohen was Sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or to be
imprisoned for ﬁfteen days, by the Court of Special Sessions.

“ Because I feel like it,” said Edward O’Donnell, to a lady
who remonstrated with him for kicking his horse in the
body and beating it on the head and face with a whip. A
police ofﬁcer, who was a witness to the cruelty, arrived just
as O’Donnell gave the unoffending animal another vicious

I blow in the neck. Now, those who are cruel to animals, are

always cowardly, and O’Donnell was no exception, for at the
sight of the ofﬁcer, the whip was thrown into the cart. It
was too late. “ Arrest that man,” said the lady to the ofﬁ-
cer, “and I will make a complaint.” O’Donnell weakened
and plead for mercy, but-the lady was inexorable, and the

. offender went to jail. He was subsequently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve

dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

 

 




 

 

INSTRUMENTS OF TORTURE SEIZED IN 1897

 




June 23.

June 30.

July 2.

July 3.

57

The load which Henry Jager expected his team of horses
to haul weighed 6,600 pounds, exclusive of the weight of the
truck. The horses were willing, and made every effort to
accomplish the task set for them, but in vain. At each fresh
start the animals fell on their knees, only to be whipped and
urged on again. The arrival of the Society’s ofﬁcer put a
stop to the cruelty. The panting horses were unharnessed,
and sent to the stable. Jager was subsequently ﬁned ﬁfteen
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Abraham Sussman, for compelling an old lame horse to
haul a loaded wagon, was ﬁned thirty-ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions. The horse was suffering, so the
veterinary surgeon said, from festered corn and sprained
tendons, a combination of ailments which caused great pain
and suffering. The animal was sent to the veterinary hos—
pital.

William Boyle didn’t think three horrible sores on the
neck of his horse, unprotected from the harness, caused
any pain. He refused to unhitch the animal, and take it to the
stable for treatment. Justice Hayes, presiding magistrate of
the Court of Special Sessions, sentenced him to pay a ﬁne
of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned in the City Prison
for ﬁve days.

Chas. Sahr, of Maspeth, L. I., was sentenced to imprison-
ment in the County Jail ‘for thirty days by Judge Monte-
verde for having caused and permitted a number of dogs
to be carried in a cruel and inhuman manner. (Sahr was
the ofﬁcial dog-catcher for the Town of Newtown, and was
allowed considerable latitude by the authorities, which he
exercised, so it was reported, very arbitrarily. Ofﬁcers from
the Society’s Headquarters were sent to investigate Sahr’s
method of capturing the dogs and their subsequent treat-
ment while in his charge. The wagon used for the purpose
contained an ordinary drygoods box, into which the dogs
were put when seized.

The ofﬁcers found in the box at the time of their visit a
number of large dogs suffering from the want of water and
air. The day was very warm, which added to the torture of
the animals. The entire outﬁt was seized by the ofﬁcers, who
released the dogs and provided them with water and food,
which they partook of ravenously. Sahr was arrested and

 

 

 




  

Dec. 15.

Dec. 28.

 

65

saying he only had a few more loads to ride to complete
his day’s work, and he intended to put in full time. “ The
sentence of the court is you be ﬁned ﬁfty dollars, or be im—
prisoned for twenty days,” said Presiding Judge Holbrook,
of the Court of Special Sessions.

Ignatz Jacobowitz, a horse—dealer, was ﬁned one hun—
dred dollars by the Court of Special Sessions for selling a
horse diseased with glanders and farcy. Both of the diseases
are of a contagious nature, and dangerous to human beings
as well as animals. ’

Morris Albert was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars, or be im-
prisoned for ten, days, by the Court of Special Sessions for
cruelty to live chickens, in that he caught the animals by
the neck with an iron hook and held them suspended for
some time.

 

 

 




     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
      
  
   
   
   

74

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
Sf. Augustine.
DR. JOHN K. RAINEY, President. I RICHARD DALE, Secretary.

The jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals-
fac/Izsmw'Z/e. .
O. PIERRE HAVENS, President. I B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.

 

Humane Society.

- Pensacola. —
S. S. HARVEY, President. IFRANK MAURA, Secretary.
Tampa Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Tampa.

W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, Pres. I MISS JENNY E. BABBITT, Sec.

.__——-—

GEORGIA.
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. -
I Mcfm‘osa Sireez‘, Augusta.
HON. HENRY B. KING, President. I S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

 

Atlanta Humane Society.
Aﬂam‘a. 7
‘ JOS. F. BURKE, President. I I. S. PANCHEN, Secretary.
i The Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
l ' Cruelty to Animals.
‘ Mama.
ROBT. E. PARK, President. I MRS. T. O. CHESTNEY, Secretary.

 

Brmzswz'r/e.

DR. J. A. BUTTS, President. MRS. JOHN A. KING NIGHTIN-

.j: ( _ ‘ ' Brunswick Humane Society.
( GALE, Secretary.

E

 

ILLINOIS.

' The Illinois Humane Society.
‘ 560 [Va/105a Airy/11M, C/u'c‘aq‘o.
1

JOHN G. SHOR'I‘ALL. President- 1 BICLUICN I". (:ULVER, Secretarv




 

 

 

 

82

MINNESOTA.
The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Relief Society Building, I41 East [Vint/z Street, St. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. | THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Secretary.
Minneapolis Humane Society.

504 Bank of Commerce Building, Minneapolis.

DR. H. N. AVERY, President. I WILLIAM CHENEY, Secretary.

Duluth Humane Society.
614 C/zmnler of Commeree, Dnlntn.
REV. A. W. RYAN, President. I]. B. MIDDLECOFF, Secretary.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
C/mnzéer of Ceinineree Building, St. Paul.

W. L. WILSON, President. I MISS A. V. WRIGHT, Secretary.
Steele County Humane Society.
Owatonna.
B. S. COOK, President. IDR. W. AMOS. Secretary.

The Winona Humane Society.

Winona.
REV. PHILIP VON ROHR, Pres. I L. D. FROST, Secretary.
St. Cloud Humane Society.
St. Cloud.
WM. B. MITCHELL, President. IS. S. PARR, Secretary.
The Red Wing Humane Society. I
Rezl l/Ving.
A. J. MEACHAM, President. [DR. F. W. DIMMITT, Secretary.
Rochester Humane Society.
Ree/tester. .
PROF. F. D. BUDLONG, President. I I. W. SOULE, Secretary.
Stillwater Humane Society.

Stillwater.
G. E. CLARK, President. ] FRANK T. WILSON, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
  
 
 
  
   
    
    
 
 
  
   
   
     
 
   
 
 
   

90

Ashtabula County Humane Society. ‘
Asntoonlo.

W. M. STRADER, President. | MRS. W. M. PENFIELD, Secretary.
The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Clzagrz'n Falls.

A. H. WILLIAMS, President. I C. E. RYDER, Secretary.
Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
Pomeroy.
, President. ] MRS. W. H. EWING, Secretary.

 

The Youngstown Humane Society.
Youngstown.

REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. I MRS. J. J. HAMILTON, Secretary,

Yellow Springs Humane Society.

Yellow Springs. .

CHARLES HAMILTON, President. | CHARLES E. ADAMS, Secretary.

Seneca County Humane Society.

T2' in.

DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, President. | IRVINE N. REX, Secretary.

 

The Chardon Humane Society.
Cﬁaro’on.
L. C. .COWLES, President. I M. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.
Huron County Humane Society.
Norwalle.
I MISS MARY A. STEWART, Sec.
The Humane Society of New Lexington.

F. B. CASE, President.

New Lexington.

REV.HENRY BEEMAN, President. MRS. FRANCES L. RINEHART.
' Secretary.

 

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
72 T/zz'ro’ Street, Portland.
T. L. ELIOT, President. I W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

    

 

98

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Mena’eza, Argentine R¢ublic.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, President. | PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Secretary.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rio de faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, President. I J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.
Caracas, Venezuela.

SENORA ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA DR. RAFAEL F. SEIJAS,

E VASCONCELLOS, President. Secretary.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.
Montevideo, Uruguay.

JUSTUS CUBILG, President. | LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA, Sec.

 

WEST IN DIES.
Havana, Cula.
D. J. G. VILLARAZA, President. | , Secretary
San Domingo, Dominican R¢uélia
RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC,Pres. | CESAR N. PENSON, Secretary.

 

Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Port of 51min, Trinia’azl.

‘ SIR HUBERT H. E. JEMINGHAM, KATHARINE H. BOURNE,

President. Secretary.

 

BERMUDA.
Bermuda Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Bermuda.
HON. T, N. DILL, President. ' CL‘AUDE W. MCCALLAN, SCC.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ITALY— Continued.

Genoa .
Magenta
Milan . . .
Naples .
Naples .
Padua . .
Palermo
Rome . .
San Remo
Turin
MALTA.
MADEIRA.
Funchal .
NEW ZEALAND.
Christchurch
Dunedin . .
Wellington .
NORWAY.
Aalesund . .
Arendal. .
Bergen . . . .
Christiania .
Christiania .

Christiansand . .

Drammen. .
Ibbestad .
Kongsvinger .
Mosjoen
Stavanger. .
Trondhjem .
VOSs . . .
PORTUGAL.
Lisbon .

 

 

 

 

 

 

S.P.A.
S..PA.

The Lombardy Ass’ 11 of Zoo'phily

Naples S. P. .
Neapolitan S. Aof Z.
S. P. A.
S. P. A. . . . .
Roman S. against C. to A.
S. Prof. A. of San Remo
Turin S. P. A.
S. P. A.

O o

Funchal S. P. A.

S...PA.
OtagoS.PCA.

thern S P. A. . .
A. in Christiania.

<c' <44
m ¢MA§L

H

gaaaaaaaa <

m mwmzmmmwmmmmm m

oinJaioJoioJaio. oi

. of Lisbon.

 

 

 

 

G. Bellini . . . . .
Princess Mele Barese . .
Prof. Ach. Costa .
Carlo Maluta
G. Whitaker .

Prince A. Doria Pamphili

MichaelC. Foster . . .
Baron F. C. Lucifero .

J. V. Damasio Ribeiro.

Justice Williams. .

M. Y. Bugge.

—- Holpeldt. . .
Schmidt . . . .

Mrs. Marie Esmark.

Georg Sverdrup.

Hans Johnsen.

And. Larssen. .

P. A. B. Opsion .
Prydtz.

O. Hals. . . .

E. Ronneberg .

A. Sporck. . . .

J. Hesselberg . .

Julio d’Andrade.

 

 

Prof. Giulio Cantu.
Chas. A. Turner.

Dr. Adolfo Giordano.
CaV. Tullio Nob. Abriani.
Vittorio Spataro.

T. Serras.

O. Piccone.

Franco Riccabone.

M. Murph.

.E. Quick.

T. J. Freeman.

H. Regland.
E. Olsen.

Oscar Nickelsen.

Mrs. Caroline Tofte.

Kund Kloster.
A. Gaustad.

Joaquim Carlos da Silva
Heitor.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

114

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C. F .......................................... Canastota
BRYANT HAROLD ........; .......................... Brookﬁeld
LIPPITT, F. B ............................................ Solsville
LOCKMAN, A ........................................... Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H ........................................ Oneida
TEALE, B. S ................................................ Oneida
WARREN, JOB A ....................................... De Ruyter
WEST, ADDISON J ................... _ ................... Hamilton
MONROE COUNTY.
WEITZEL, FREDERICK W ............................ Rochester
MONTGOMERY COUNTY. '
DE FOREST, DAVID ................................. Amsterdam
EATON, ALFRED G ................................... Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C .................................. Canajoharie
MERENESS, CHARLES W ............................ Fort Plain
NIAGARA COUNTY.
POMEROY, D. N ......................................... Lockport
ONEIDA COUNTY.

LEWIS, W. D .................................. , .............. Utica
ROBERTS (M.D.), DAVID HENRY .................... ‘ ..... Utica
ONONDAGA COUNTY.

OTIS, ISAAC C ............................................. Jordan
ONTARIO COUNTY.

MAYNARD, ELI M ........................................ Geneva
ORANGE COUNTY.

GOULD, THOMAS B .................................. Middletown
MILLS, JAMES J ....................................... Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W .................................. Goshen
WILLIAMS, NATHANIEI H .......................... Ridgebury
OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G .................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H ......................................... Mexico
OTSEGO COUNTY.

HOWE, JESSE E ......................................... Oneonta
PLATT, CHARI ES M ...................................... Morris

SITTS, JOHN H ............................. .....Richﬁeld Springs >

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
    
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

 




 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Blake, Henry

Blake, Peter

Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.
Bliss, Miss Ida E.
Bliss, Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Miss Sue D.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.

Bloomingdale, Charles A.

Bloor, A. J.
Bodine, B. J.
Bolton, Mrs. Charlotte

L.

Bowdoin, Miss Edith GQ

Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.
Brackett, Edgar T.
Brady, Patrick

Braun, Ludwig

Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brinkerhoff, Mrs. E. R.
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brooks, William L.
Brown, Benjamin
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Thomas
Brown, Walston H.

Brown, Mrs. Walston H.

Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bryan, Charles S.

Bull, W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burnett, Mrs. Dr. W. J.
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, William V.

Burt, Dr. Stephen Smith

Buswell, Mrs. F. C.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

 
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  

C

Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Caldwell, R. J.
Calef, Mrs. John H.
Callender, Thomas O.
_ Campbell, Alexander
Caney, L. B.
Canty, Daniel
Caro, Benjamin
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carrington, Miss E. B.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, Rev. Charles A.
Cassidy, John
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Miss K. L. R.
Cauldwell, Mrs. William
Cestero, J. N.
Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chace, Miss Helen F.
Chisolm, Benjamin 0.
Choate, Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Clark, Edward J.
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Close, S. B.
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.
Colgate, Miss Adele W.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sellew, Edward

Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Seybel, D. E.

Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James

Sheldon, Mrs. James
Shepard, Dr. A. W.
Sheridan, Thomas W.
Shine, Rev. E. A.
Shipman, Judge W. D.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell, H. T.

S'hults, John H.
Siegman, Alfred
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard

Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Silvie, Isaac A.

Simon, George A.
Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Small, Miss Blanche D.

Smart, Mrs. F. R.

Smith, A. W.

Smith, Andrew W.

Smith, Crawford C.
Smith, Henry A.

Smith, Master Jewell Kellogg
Smith, Michael

Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Mrs. Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, Mrs. William Alex.
Snow, E. G._

Snyder, Mrs. Josephine
Solomon, Robert G.
Spencer, A. H.

Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Speyer, Mrs. James
Spring, Miss Anna R.

I30

 
    
  
  
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
     
  
 
  
  
  

 

Spruck, Henry
Squire, Newton R.
Standish, Myles
Stanton, Edmund C.
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stark, William
Starr, Mrs. Daniel E.
Stedman, Miss Gertrude
Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad
Stephens, John H.
Stern, Benjamin
Sterne, Miss Alice
Steurer, Miss Anna
Stewart, Hugh
Stewart, Thomas J.
Stewart, William Rhinelander
Stickney, Mrs. Joseph
Still, John A.
Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stone, Edwin

Story, J. T.

Strauss, Mrs. Jacob
Strauss, Samuel
Stricker, Henry

. Strong, Dr. B. G.

Strong, Theron G.
Strong, Mrs. Theron G.
Struthers, Miss Armitage
Stuart, Robert W.
'Sturges, Miss May F.
Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine A.
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore
Sutton, Mrs. Gregory
Suydam, Walter L.
Swalm, Geo. W.

Swords, Miss P. Caroline
Sylvester, Miss Elizabeth

T

Tailer, William H.
Tanenbaum, Moses
Taylor, Jr., Alexander

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1897.

The following summary Will be found interesting as showing the work accomplished during the year 1897 by
kindred societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted, it does not follow that no
work was accomplished. In many instances reports were not received, and in others the ﬁgures were not available
or no records were kept.

 

 

-od

—9u12u1n1{ ‘AJQ

'paAonsap A1

LOCATION.

11101} papuad

p91qesip ‘SIEUIIUB 93.1121
191110 pun ‘soInuI

NAME OF SOCIETY.

—nqum u; 8199119 11101}
paAoquJ spawguu 98.1121
131110 pun $981011 p91qcstq '

‘saoueI
‘AJQAOQQJ used p31qesip

'pamﬁpsazxur
'paAonsap Apumunq
A0381 lsed

sns Anna;

'JOQBI

.IO ssalauroq‘spzm gun [Imus
"sunoo

pun paAgaogu slugmdmog
9m u; paqnoasmd saseg

‘SQSJOH
tum slmugue pQIQBSlG '

 

 

 

i
i
i
l
l
l
i
l
l
i

ALABAMA.
Mobile.... iMobileS.P.C.A.........
Birmingham ! Birmingham Humane Society . . .

ARKANSAS.

Little Rock . Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark. . .

CALIFORNIA.
San Francisco The San Francisco S. P. C. A.* . . . .
Los Angeles . The Los Angeles S. P. C. A. ‘ . . . . .
San Jose . . . Santa Clara County 8. P. C. A. . . . .
San Diego . San Diego Humane Society (6 months) .
Sacramento . . The Sacramento County Humane Society
Oakland . _ Oakland S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . . . . .
Redlands . . . S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal. .
Santa Barbara . Santa Barbara Humane Society . . . . . .
Santa Cruz . . . . l Santa Cruz County Humane Society . . .
Fresno.... .IFresnoS.P.C.A.
Sausalito . . . . . } Marin County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .

* Fiscal year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

HISTORY.

The American Society forthe Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals was organized and incorporated April 10, 1866, being the
ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection of ani-
mals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the late Henry
Bergh, to whose noble self—sacriﬁces and untiring energies the
cause of animal protection in this country owes its origin. The
history of the Society, therefore, is practically an account of
the inception and development of the work of animal protec-
'tion in America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. VV‘hile in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed
to personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the
subject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in Lon—
don on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of
the Earl of Harrowby, then president of The Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much
valuable information concerning the operations of that Society
in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found that
no similar society existed in this country, and he immediately
devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it
might probably have failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh
delivered a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his
cause with such force of argument and such warmth of elo-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
 

 

  

I48

quent conviction, that expressions of sympathy and offers of
assistance were freely made by persons in attendance. The
press then lent its powerful aid; the lecture was published in
whole or in part in all the great cities of the country; public
sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly
aroused, and on April 10, I866, “The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals” was incorporated by
the Legislature of. the State of New York. Among the orig—
inal charter members of the Society were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It

‘ provided that “ every person who shall, by his act or neglect,

maliciously kill, rnaim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat
any horse, mule, cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.”

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
country came into active existence. The purpose of the as—
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “to provide ef-
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through—
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then were or
might thereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found Violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, another “ act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now hardly
a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal power to

 
     

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    

I49

prevent within the boundaries of the State of New York. The
legal deﬁnition of the word “ animal ” now includes every liv-
ing creature except members of the human race, and the words
“ torture ” and “ cruelty ” include every act, omission, or neg-
lect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death
is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION OF OTHER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS OF THE
WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of local societies incorporated
in the United States is now 204, and in other American nations
I I societies-have been established and incorporated since 1866,
making a total of 215.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the Sov-
ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for,the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. This was
done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D. Wright;
Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice-President of the new society,
the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, which has done so much and
such effectively good work in the last twenty—three years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep-
resented an increased interest in humanework which has found
a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every State
in the Union. At this date there is not a single State in which
cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under stringent
penalties for disobedience. Some defects continue to exist, of
course; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that the laws on
this subject are good. What is now required is that the great
mass of the people shall be educated into sympathy with the
humanity of the law. That is now the greatest work of the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

150

Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful for the as-
sistance and encouragement which it receives from the press,
the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed. with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and by
night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offenders
against the laws. relating to animals. In addition to the uni-
formed police, the Society has nearly two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In the cities of New York and Brooklyn the So-
ciety has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and dis—
abled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning animals
and animals which have fallen into excavations; and a patrol
wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus and medi—
cines for rendering aid to injured animals in the streets.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human-
ity to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and

growing circulation.

 

 




 

 

AN APPEAL.

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous-hearted people for aid. It receives no appropri-
ations from the City or State, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors ”greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and over-driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed nearly ten
millions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity
to animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the
effect has been fully as great as could have been reasonably
hoped for this purpose; and to these ends we earnestly invite
your pecuniary assistance.

The Library of the Society contains many valuable books
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The Library is of great
importance and. value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
  
 
     
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
a number of Leaflets, among which the following may be men—
tioned: \

No. I.-—-“ Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints in regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

No. 2.-——“ What is Docking?” Points out the absurdities
of the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities
proving the cruelty of the operation.

No. 3.—“ Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by J. A. Allen, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion.

No. 4.—“ The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
resume of the famous English dishorning case.

No. 5.—“ Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig—
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner-
vous disorders, and its care.

These Leaflets are intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of postage, as fol-
lows per packet of 100: No. 1, six cents; No. 2, ten cents; Nos.
3 and 4, twenty—ﬁve cents, and No. 5, ten cents.

Title XVI of the Penal Code, relating to cruelty to animals,
is also published by the Society in pamphlet form, and a copy
will be forwarded to any one interested in the work.

 

 

 




 

 

 

HOW TO PROCEED AGAINST
OFFENDERS.

If a case of cruelty to animals comes under your observation,
call a policeman and have the offender arrested. The law of
the State of New York makes it mandatory on the part of a
po1ice ofﬁcer to arrest and take before a court or magistrate
having jurisdiction any person offending against any of the
laws enacted for the protection of animals.

In the absence of a police ofﬁcer, ascertain, if possible, the
name and address of the offender, the name, address, and num—
ber marked on the vehicle, if any, and make a note of the time
and place where the offense occurred. Then immediately re-
port the circumstance, in person or by letter, to the Society,
giving full particulars as to the nature of the offense. The
name of the complainant will not be divulged, if so desired.
It IS also important to obtain, if possible, the names and ad—
dresses of witnesses to the cruelty. The Society will then take
up the case, and endeavor to deal with it in such a manner as
to prevent a re-occurrence of the offense, and the offender
will be punished according to law if the circumstances warrant
it. It is not always advisable to punish the offender to the full
extent of the law, as cruelty to an animal is frequently the re-
sult of ignorance or thoughtlessness, and a caution or word of
advice often has the required effect.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To Mose who may feel disposed z‘o donate oy WILL Zo
Me oeneoo/em‘ oojeoz‘s of l/zz's Society, the following
is suémz’z‘z‘ea’ as a form .°

Form of Bequest of Personal Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the
sum of ............................ dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Devise of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “ The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here-
insert description of property], together with all the appurte-
nances, tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or
in any wise appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto
the said corporation, its successors and assigns, forever.

 




 

._,fl\.§.1.luvf It? .I."‘01|a\.0r ‘fti‘a'ﬁlv‘. to? \‘l‘ 2 \I!
I . ‘ ‘n: . 4/ 3.! .1.}lf, J. | i‘ ‘ : ‘1. 1.. \v x , A . l l
‘1! ‘ ‘ I, 5.4 I. u. II . |. ‘q H“ I 11]“ x 1'

 




