 

 

presided over the branch annual meeting at which Mr
George Cansdale gave a talk on animals. Mrs Allibert
Council Member, attended and an outline on branch activ:
ities was given by Miss Cunlilfe, branch hon sec.
Surrey—Guildford and District A bring and buy sale organ-
ized by Mrs Merritt, Guildford aux hon sec, at Holy Trinity
Parish Hall, Guildford, raised £300 for branch funds. ’
Sussex—East, and Hastings Mrs Sletcher, branch hon sec,
reports that the branch annual general meeting was a great
success.

Mrs L. Wheadon, Staplecross aux hon sec, organized a
whist drive and raised £37 for branch funds.
Warwickshire South and East Miss D. Lake, branch
organizing secretary, reports that rummage sales at Leaming—
ton and Stratford have raised £28 1s. 9d. and £55 respectively
for branch funds. Talks on the work of the RSPCA have
been given to clubs and organizations in the past few
months.
West London Mrs Retallack, Paddington aux hon sec,
reports that a concert given by her daughter-in—law raised
£34 85. for the Animal Aid Clinic. Mr Retallack and mem-
bers of the auxiliary committee paid the expenses.
Wiltshire—North Inspector Hussey organized a children’s
pet show at Silver Street School, Minety, by kind permission
of Mrs Barnbrook, Headmistress.

One hundred members attended the branch annual general
meeting.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District The Countess of Radnor,
branch president, presented the Margaret Wheatley Cross
to Cpl. P. J. Randall, whose rescue of a dog from a burning
truck has already been described in Animal World. The
Countess of Radnor made the presentation at the branch
annual meeting and also gave the RSPCA bronze medal to
Mr E. F. Perry who rescued a cat from a swiftly moving
stream. Branch ofﬁcers were re-elected and Councillor and
Mrs H. J. Annetts were added to the committee. Chief
Inspector Turner in presenting his report spoke 0f the in-
creased interest in animal welfare.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mrs Beeny
Ashford (Middlesex) aux hon sec, organized a jumble sale
in Ashford and raised £32 for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Barnsley and District Police Constable John
Jacques and Mr J. O. Atkinson were both awarded the
RSPCA bronze medal and citation for the rescue of a sow
and her piglets during a ﬁre. The presentation was made by
Sir Henry Studdy, Chief Constable of the West Riding
Police, in the Drill Hall, Barnsley.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs C. W.

Mrs]. Underhill,
Canvey Island
Auxiliary hon
sec, sends this
picture which
shows the
RSPCA tableau
which won
third prize in a
carnival at
Canvey Island.

 

Gray, branch hon sec, reports that a dancing display entitled
‘Dancmg Shoes” raised £10 for branch funds.

STORE COLLECTIONS

West London, at Sidney Ross St Co. Ltd, New Bond
Street, London, by Mrs John, £1 16s. 461.; Forest Hill and
Sydenham, at Jones St Higgins, Peckham, by Mrs John,
£6 11$. 6%(1.

FLAG DAYS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Sawbridgeworth, Mrs B. Agarwala, aux hon sec, £18 75 6d.;
Stockton—on-Tees, Mrs M. E. Postle, £341; Okehampton,
Mrs Weaver, aux hon sec, £91 35. 5d.; Welford—on—Avon,
Mrs Setten, aux hon sec, £9 25. 6d.; Horsforth, Mrs N.
Hume, aux hon sec, £39 125. 9d.; Southampton Branch
Rural Districts, £60 155. 9d.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Haversham, Mrs Siggs, aux hon sec, £6; Wimbledon
Branch, Mr Frost, £21 135. 5d.; Wimbledon Town, lvliss
Harmsworth, aux hon sec, £1 115. 9d.; Bournemouth and
District, Mrs Crooks, branch hon treasurer, £224 45. 7d.;
Edgware, Mrs Anderson, £5 ls. 2d.; Kemerton, Mrs Cook,
£5 45. 6d.; Leeds, Mrs Harvey, branch hon sec, £1 85. 5d.;
Grimsby, Mrs Clapham, branch hon sec, £75 35. 5d.;
Normandy and Wyke, Mrs Squier, aux hon sec, £11 55.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Wadhurst, Kingswinford, Hatherleigh,
Nutbourne, Bransty, St Helens, Hunstanton, Gateshead,
Charlton, Chapel—en-le—Frith, Wanstead, Wigan, Congleton,
Thrapston, Berkhamstead, Grasmere, Chorley, Lytham,
Whitehaven, Abergavenny, Hastings, Leeds, Frizington-
West Hartlepool, Okenampton, Macclesﬁeld, Sitting,
bourne.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

June 1955

THEANIMAL WORLD 65

THE RSPCA AT WORK

APRIL 1955

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,460 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
92 Offenders ﬁned.

44 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
926 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting 7
CATTLE——Neglecting, conveying in an unﬁt state 5
SHEEP—Neglecting . . . . 1
PIGs——-Neglecting, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state 4
COATS—Neglecting .. . .. . . . 1
DOGS—Neglecting, starving, shooting and wounding .. 21
CATS—Neglecting ' 5
FOWLs——Neglecting, conveying in improper manner 3
PIGEONs—Neglecting 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 3
Being in possession of recently taken birds 16
Offering for sale other than a close:ringed specimen
bred in captivity . 6
Selling other than a close ringed specimen berd in
captivity .. . .. 3
Using traps 1
Using bird lime 2
Shooting 2
Injuring 3
Killing 4
VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Laying poison 1
Infringements of the Transit ”of Animals (A) Order,
1931 2
Permitting in an offence 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS... 92

During APRIL, 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed THIRTEEN persons from owning a dog or holding a
dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

T'ivo for 12 months: ONE for 2 years: 51x for 5 years: FOUR
or ife

In APRIL, 1955, ONE person was disqualiﬁed from owning
animals:

Disqualiﬁed from keeping goats.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 9.373
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 426
Total number of CAUTIONs from January Ist 3.479

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats 4,421 Dogs 3,878 Miscellaneous 775 Total 9,074

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst-aid: 2,075

PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number of animals handled:

Cats 26 Dogs 89

Miscellaneous 1 Total 116

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls received. 1, 537

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls. 2, 320
Number of animals rescued: 7
Number of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 218

NORTH WALES IINIT

First‘aid cases:

Cats 19 Dogs 39 Miscellaneous 1
Number of animals handled by the Unit:

129 Cats 93 Dogs 8 Miscellaneous. Total 230
Number of miles covered by the Unit: 2,035

Total 59

AWARDS

(Current awards are under review)

RECORDS FOR 1954

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS ' 27,790
CONVICTIONS . . . . . . ... . . . 872
CAUTIONs 9,657

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls. 18, 849

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled: 2,537

AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving 12
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving 65
Bars to the Bronze Medal .. 6
Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 12
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1

 




 

 

June 1955

 

and certiﬁcates were presented to RC. Harrison and RSPCA
Inspector Matthews by Mr Swaine. Lt.-Col. Coventry
addressed the meeting on the work of the RSPCA.
Devon—North At llfracombe auxiliary annual meeting
the Home Secretary‘s proposals on birds’-nesting was dis-
cussed. Mrs M. du Sautoy Newby, aux president, and Mrs
C. Norman, aux chairman, were present. Mr H. K. Sellers,
aux hon treasurer, reported on ﬁnances and a report was
submitted by Inspector Williams. Mr and Mrs J. Lovering
were elected Joint hon secretaries.

Dorset—~North At the branch annual meeting Lady
Shaftesbury was present and was elected vice-president.
Mr Hugh Ricketts, branch hon sec was asked a variety of
questions showing interest in the branch. Mr Peter Turner
addressed the meeting. Senior Inspector Hancock presented
a report.

Dorset—South Mrs G. E. Roberts, Corfe Castle aux hon
sec,dorganized a jumble sale and raised £14 05. 8d. for branch
fun s. ‘

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District

 

2-: “ﬁg, 5 -. RR
[Picture from Mr W. J. Harris, hon sec of Kettering Auxiliary]
Mr Harris’s son and the dog Neptune, for whom Mr
Harris cared. Later, Neptune was placed permanently m
«another good home, where he was reported as growmg

happier and bigger every day.

Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, and Major Chapman gave
a lecture on Animal Defenders to members of .the 1st Run-
well Scout Group, and their guests, the 1st Wickford Cubs
and the lst and 2nd Wickford Brownies. The lecture was
held at the 1st Runwell Group Headquarters. As a result
of the visit four new groups of Animal Defenders have been
started.

Exeter, East and West Devon Mrs Eden PhrllpottS, branch
chairman, appealed at the branch annual meeting for more
collectors. Reports were submitted by Senior Inspector
Thwaites and Inspector Pickett and Wing—Commander
Hillier gave a review on the general work of the RSPCA.

* .
A ﬁlm show organized by Miss May Sanders was held in
Hatherleigh Town Hall and a collection of £2 16s. 9d. was
[made for branch funds.

*

Dr Wills, Sidmouth, Sidbury and Salcombe Regis aux
Chairman, presided over Sidmouth auxrliary annual meetlng.
Mrs Eden Phillpotts gave an address. Wlng-Commander
Hillier spoke on the work of the RSPCA. _
Forest Hill and Sydenham Mr S. R. Geary, branch presr-
dent, presided over the branch annual meeting and was
GSpecially pleased again to see Mrs Dowdell (Councrl
Member) and Mr Dowdell. The reports from the ofﬁcers,
Who were all re-elected, showed a very 11ve and energetic
branch. The work done by Senior Inspector Boyle came in
for commendation by the branch chairman. Mrs Beaumont,

 

THEANIMALWORLD . 71

voluntary lecturer, gave a most interesting and inspiring
talk on the RSPCA, its work in the past, present and future
which was enjoyed and appreciated by all the members.
(Repprt received from Mr W. Glendinning, branch chair-
man.

Glamorgan—Nlid and Port Talbot Mrs V. L. Hands,
Porthcawl aux hon sec, organized a jumble sale at Grifﬁn
Park and raised about £63 for branch funds.
.Gloucestershire—Mid An address on the general work of
the RSPCA was given 'by Miss L. G. Bransom, Council
Member, at the branch annual meeting in the Church
Institute, Stroud. Mr W. A. Sibly, branch president and
Council Member, thanked Miss Bransom. Mr S. Hill,
branch chairman, presided over the meeting and Mrs
Desborough Walford, Council Member, congratulated ex-
lnspector Dadswell on his 40 years service, at the same time
presenting him with a testimonial. Mrs E. M. Porri, branch
hon sec, reported a successful year.

Great Yarmouth and District A report on the work done
locally was given by Miss Muriel Castle, branch co hon sec,
at the branch annual meeting held in the Town Hall, Yar-
mouth. Dr R. L. Ley, branch chairman, was thanked on
a proposition from Mr Crighton. Chief Inspector Tye pre-
sented a report and a talk on the general work of the RSPCA
was given by Mr D. A. L. Camm, assistant sec from head-
quarters. Mr Camm was introduced by the Mayor (Mr T.
Cotton), who presided. A vote of thanks was proposed by
Mr C. E. Kevill-Davies, branch president.
Hampshire—Southampton and District Mrs G. Hales,
Hedge End aux hon sec, organized a rummage sale at
Hedge End and raised £13 3s. 6d. for branch funds.
Headquarters Mrs Beaumont, RSPCA voluntary lecturer,
addressed the Ladies Unity Club at Hanwell Library on the
work of the RSPCA. A donation of £1 1s. was given to
RSPCA funds.

Hull and East Riding C01 and Mrs Birch organized a bring
and buy sale at the Parish Hall, Walkington, and raised £60
for branch funds.

Isle of Wight Mrs ,Wallis Power, vice-chairman of the
RSPCA Council, attended the branch annual general meet-
ing. Mrs Jesty, branch hon sec, reports that the meeting was
very successful and says that the branch is fortunate in its
chairman, Lady Lloyd, and in its hon treasurer, Mr R.
Watson.

Kent—Canterbury and District ’ At the branch annual meet-
ing-held in the County Hotel, Mrs Dance, branch hon sec,

I“; ,.

 

 

 

Peter Owers receives the Challenge Cup from Mrs Fitzroy
Newdigate, Deputy Mayoress of Nuneaton. Behind Mrs
Fitzroy Newdigate is Mrs D’Arcy Tremlett, auxiliary
hon sec for Nuneaton; on the left of the Inspector is Mrs
Miller, leader of the Arley Animal Defender Group. Miss K.
Wright, organizer of the show and leader of Nuneaton
Animal Defender Group, is holding the dog’s lead.

 

 




 

 

 

 

     

June 1955

    

THEANIMALWORLD 63

 

 
    

Photo :' Svens kt Pressfoto

Ritual slaughter need NOT mean death by the. knife alone; pre-stunning DOES NOT render the flesh of cattle unfit for

[ewish consumption. THIS PICTURE GlVES PROOF.

The man on the right is preparing to apply the Elther electric stunning. apparatus to a beast moved into position at a

, slaughter house in Stockholm. The beast‘was being slaughtered to provide meat for people of the jewish faith in Sweden,

- .where pre-stunning is required by law in ritual slaughter. The operation is being watched by a party from England

..(left to right) Mr H. E. Bywater (RSPCA Council Member), Mr H. G. McGhee, MP (masked by the slaughter-house

employee), Major. Hancock (Chief Veterinary Officer, RSPCA), Mr R. F. Crouch, MP (who introduced the Slaughter of
Animals Bill) and Mr Roland Ampleford (RSPCA Parliamentary Organizer).

This party visited Sweden to obtain evidence in support of the Slaughter of Animals Bill. The Bill embodies the principle

that pre-stunning must be used in ritual slaughter.

 

cow'BEATEN

A twenty’ﬁvevyear'old farm worker, who was
alleged to have beaten a crippled cow for ﬁfteen
to twenty minutes, pleaded ‘Not .guilty’ at Odir
ham, Hampshire to ‘cruelly beating a ,cow".'f He
was gaoled forathreéi-‘mOnths and had to ‘pay
£10 105. costs... " ' ' .
-..He was said to have beaten the. cow over the
head, eyes and ears with a stick. The stick broke,
so he fetched another. That broke, and he con,
tinued beating the cow with a third stick. The
cow was destroyed by the‘RSPCA.

- The defendant said. that he gave the cow three
taps with a thatching stick. ‘She turned round
and started to use her head. I became frightened
and struck her across the nose in selfvdefence.’

. (A9114; Inspector Budd.)

LAME FOWL

When Senior Inspector Young .and Inspector
Wood Visited a certain hen run they saw a fowl
standing with its head tucked under its wing.
The owner of the fowl, brought before the
magistrates at Rotherham, was, fined £2 and

ordered to pay 305. costs for causing un’

necessary suffering to the bird. ’

Senior Inspector Young’s evidence showed
that the bird was in an emaciated condition.
The left leg was missing at the second joint
an?! the stump was in a very bad condition.
In order to get to food the bird had to ‘ﬂop
about’ on its wings.

The defendant said he was very sorry for the
bird and was going to kill it. The chairman of the
magistrates said ‘Why did you not do so?’ comv

    




June 1955

THEANIMAL WORLD 67

 

MOUNTAIN RESCUE '

At times crawling on all fours, occasionally
digging in their ice axes for support, Inspector
Harland and Mr C. E. Arnison made their way
to the 1,700—ft. summit of Arthur’s Pike, Ulls—
water, in search of a missing spaniel bitch.

Joe was thick in every ravine that was
searched, and snowdrifts were deep. Knowing
this, Inspector Harland nevertheless did not
hesitate—although he was 'no mountaineer—-
when he learnt that the dog was missing and
was supposed to have made towards the" Pike.
Mr Arnison is an expert climber and he volun-
teered to accompany the Inspector.

Although the search was unsuccessful, the
rescuers learned that the following day ‘Hedy’
the spaniel had made her way down to the lower
slopes near the hotel where she lived and had
allowed herself to be tempted with tit—bits to re
turn to her home. ‘

For their disregard of danger in an attempt at
rescuing a dog, both men have received the

RSPCA silver medal.
RESCUER IN MID—AIR

Having crawled down a narrow path—
with a vertical drop to the sea—at Car.—
nachenlwyd, Mathry, near Haverfordwest,
Police Constable T. 1. Evans secured a rope
round a stranded ewe on a ledge 20 ft. from
the cliff top and saw the animal hauled to
safety by helpers. He then turned to the rescue
of a second ewe, 20 ft. lower down. There
was no hand or foot hOId' down to the-ledge
where this animal was. stranded, and the
Police Constable, who was roped, had to be
suspended in mid—air to attempt the res-cue. .

’ Whilst he was trying, in this precarious-posir
tion to tie a rope round the ewe, she slipped
lower and 'had to be reached from the beach,
where the wind and waves—the time was midv
winter—made work difﬁcult and trying. The
Constable has received the RSPCA bronze medal,
and his helpers, Mr A. Charles and Mr G. Charles,
have each received an RSPCA certiﬁcate.

FIGHTING FOR BREATH

Exhausted and ﬁghting for breath was the condi’
tion inwhich Fireman G. T. Yoiing reached the
surface after being lowered dOWn a IOOaft. deep
dene hole "at Wood Street, Swanley, Kent, to
rescue a Lab'raddr Retriever. Though such ‘dene
holes are knOwn to" be treacherous, both from
the foul air and the loose earth, the ﬁreman
volunteeredr'to be lowered. Two lines had to be
joined before the ﬁreman was lowered through
overgroWing brambles. He sentrthe dog to safety
and then,~followed. For his bravery, he has re«
ceived the bronze medal of the RSPCA.

. Another bronze medal winner was Fireman
F. F. Truckle, Who. rescued a~ ewe from a, gorge
at Devil’s Bridge, near Aberystwyth; two men
who. already hold bronze medals shared in this
rescue and have received bars. They are Suba
Officer D. 1. Evans, and Fireman D. H. Edwards.

Inspector Turnell rescued a dog from a disused
shaft at Valley Field, Moresby Hall Farm, Whiter

haven, and has received a bar to his bronze medal.

DOLLY WAS MISSING

 

Pictures by courtesy of the Bristol Evening World

When the herd was called in to Rodlay’s Farm, Wick, Dolly,
the cow, was-missing. One of the farmer’s sons remembered
the hole in the ground a couple of hundred yards from the
farm where the land had subsided over a disused tunnel in
one of the ochre mines in the district. Dolly was found at the
bottom of fa 6, ft. pit and the Fire Brigade; and RSPCA
inspectors Cox and . McCready were called out. A mask
of sackcloth w’as'madevto keep the dirt out of Dolly’s eyes

as the rescuers dug. A rope wasﬂxed round her horns, and

straw was packed round her to keep her warm and to stop
her sinking deeper. 'By pulling on the rope the Inspectors,-
‘Fire Ofﬁcers and other helpers finally drew Dolly to safety,
Shewasuninjured.-- -~, -'

 




 

 

 

NIMAEHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol L No 6 New Series

jUNE 1955

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

CATS SEIZED AT NIGHT
‘Hideous’——says Magistrate

Cats kept in roomy RSPCA baskets in the corri—
dor outside Clerkenwell Magistrates’ Court at
the time this case was heard were said by the
magistrate to have been caught ‘by nocturnal
prowlers who have gone round just snapping
up these animals wherever they saw them’.
He added: ‘Who actually stole these cats is
at the moment a mystery.’ .

 

Photo by courtesy of the Daily Herald

HAPPY REUNION
The scene outside the court after the prosecution, when
owners who had identiﬁed their pets were able to take them
away

A motor trader was ﬁned £25 or three months
for conveying ten live cats in such a manner as to
cause them unnecessary suffering. The RSPCA
supported the police in this prosecution.

The same defendant and his brother were both
ﬁned £20 or three months for having six cats in
their possession knowing them to have been
stolen, and they were similarly ﬁned for having
three cats in their possession knowing them to
have been stolen.

Mother acquitted
A third defendant, a livestock dealer, was ﬁned
£20 or three months for having cats in his

possession knowing them to have been stolen.

Each of the accused was ordered to pay ﬁve
guineas costs.

Charges and summonses for stealing cats were
not proceeded with.

Summonses against the mother of the ﬁrst two
defendants were dismissed, the prosecution offer»
ing no evidence.

Counsel for these defendants said their mother
knew nothing about the matter and had done all
she could to discourage her sons from having
anything to do with cats.

The accused men pleaded guilty to the offences
for which they were ﬁned.

Vivisection

Counsel for the two defendants continued: ‘As
I understand it, there is a very grave shortage of
cats used in the laboratories for testing and vivi—
section purposes.’ No one quarrelled with the
very sincere views of the RSPCA, who did not
feel it their task to supply stray animals for such
purposes, but the result was there was a market
for obtaining cats for laboratories.

‘This waS‘not a question of skinning the cats
to line clothes,’ he added.

Counsel for the third defendant said he was a
genuine livestock dealer who had done something
which he thought would bring him further busiv
ness, but unfortunately it turned out to be bad.
He bought animals for the sole purpose of supv
plying hospitals and research institutions. In the
course of his business he frequented Club Row'
(the London pet market) and it was there that he
met one of the other defendants who asked
him if he wanted cats. He had nothing to do with
the actual taking away of the animals.

The magistrate, in his summing up, referred to
it as ‘this unhappy case’. People who required
animals for a scientiﬁc purpose would be most
anxious to prevent any kind of hardship to
owners, and he was sure they thought they were
dealing with stray animals.

Spirited Away
The magistrate said the matter must be dealt with
seriously and he was satisﬁed the accused knew
the cats were stolen. ‘This is a nightrtime job——
just the sort of setting when you expect cats to be
stolen, and spirited away in motor cars and sacks

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 1955

7——

As if in prayer

‘The matador (pages 177 and 178) sights along
the blade of the sword and—the bull trots
past with the sword sticking up and shaking in
his neck! The matador has struck bone. The beast
now bucks and jumps, trying to shake out the
sword. He manages to do so. . . . The matador
takes a fresh sword. This. time it slides in smooth
ly up to the handle. . . . And the bull walks off
in a quiet, digniﬁed way, with the idea of getting
back to his querencia, the same spot in the corner,
but he never gets there. Halfvway he stops. His
head goes down. His body sags. He looks as if he
is going to be sick. He is. Thick blood pours from
his mouth. Slowly, very quietly he sinks to his
knees and stays like that as if in prayer. Suddenly
he falls over dead.’

We cannot agree with Mr Morton, when he
writes that nothing can ever be done about bullv
ﬁghting.

This was the view held by many people in
England before 1835, in which year bull—baiting
was outlawed here. If tourists from this country
would make clear to travel agents their disgust
with these exhibitions, they could help to see
that something was done. How many barbarities
were once accepted in our own country and are
now banned by law! We feel sure that the Spanish
people will one day inevitably take the same enr
lightened path.

FUTILITY

To condemn painful experiments on animals as
does the RSPCA on purely ethical grounds is
one thing but Dr Beddow Bayly goes much further
and with great success. He contends (in his book
The Futility of Experiments on Animals) that in
many cases the claim that useful knowledge has
been obtained by animal experimentation is in,
correct, seeing that such information had already
been acquired by clinical observation.

His book also shows that much knowledge
gained by this type of experiment has proved
to be misleading and even dangerous in the
treatment of human disease.

To prove his thesis, Dr Bayly relies on no
argumentation of his own, but calls to his aid
some two hundred and fifty witnesses, nearly all
modern, and in many cases still living, the great
majority of his quotations coming from treatises,
lectures, speeches, reports, reviews, editorials,
leading articles, etc. published within the last
twentyvﬁve years.

One medical man says:

‘1 am not an antirvivisectionist, but I am of the
OPinion that the value of animal experimentation
is in many cases greatly overrrated and that many
Of the results obtained are useless and even mis'
leading when applied to human beings.’ (W.

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 69

Mitchell Stevens, MD, FRCP, personal com'

munication, April 22, 1933.)

We are sure that all animal lovers who think
on these things will send for a copy to the pub'
lishers, The National AntivVivisection Society,
92 Victoria Street, London, SW1. Bound in
paper, the book costs 23. and in cloth 3s.

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT
Sheep-worrying
SIR A. BOSSOM asked the Minister of Agriculture
what steps are taken to enforce an order to keep
a dog under control; and if he will consider
introducing legislation to make the penalty more
severe for owners of dogs caught worrying sheep.

MR AMORY: I understand from my right
honourable and gallant friend the Secretary of
State for the Home Department, that the police
would normally take further proceedings if it
came to their knowledge that a court order to
keep a dog under control was not being observed.
As to the second part of the question, I think
we should have more experience of the Dogs
(Protection of Livestock) Act, 1953, before con'
sidering whether further legislation is required.

SIR A. BOSSOM asked the Minister of Agriculture
if he will request the British Broadcasting Corv
poration to broadcast once more a warning about
dogs worrying sheep.

MR AMORY: The BBC are aware of the im—
portance of this problem, and I am assured that
they will continue to refer to it as suitable op
portunities occur.

(Note: In districts where sheep’worrying is
reported, the RSPCA displays this notice:

Warning to Dog Owners
SHEEP-WORRYING

Several cases of sheep worrying by dogs have
occurred in this district. Dog owners are asked
to ensure that their pets are under proper control
when in the Vicinity of sheep, and to cooperate
in preventing any recurrence of these incidents.

The attention of all dog owners is also drawn
to the following Section of the Dogs Act, 1906,
which relates to Injury to Cattle (including horses,
asses, mules, sheep, goats and swine).

‘The owner of a dog shall be liable in
damages for injury done to any cattle by that
dog, and it shall not be necessary for the per-
son seeking such damages to show a previous
mischievous pro ensity in the dog, or the
owner’s knowlegge of such previous pro.

ensity, or to show that the injury was attrio
bumble to neglect on the part of the owner.’)

 

 

 




Incorporating eThe Winged, ‘Messenger’

 

VOLUNIE L No 6 THREEPENCE

 

Photo by courtesy of South African Tourist Corporation
THE EPICURE
The giraffe photographed in the freedom of his natural home in the Kruger National Park

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS ~ I
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW]
PATRONS ’,
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN M()'I‘HI-R

HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTIiSS OI“ A'I‘IILONI‘. '
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OI“ CONN/\IKIII'I

PRESIDENT .
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, I)I-Itt, I)(‘L, IIIA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MIIS, I-‘RCM, I-‘RSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

v.1;

. JW‘ .
ﬁ¢
j

(‘OLONISL R. M. I’()\\I l l , ”SO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

‘ALLIBERT, MRS

 

 

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP Pom I I , («II R. w., I)S() I.
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP 'RAI IRAI', R. I .. ISQ, MA, PH.D V
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISEII-zy, MRS, R. (‘. ‘
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ ’RIII'R. II. II., I w
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAPIISIIIIRV. IIII R I' IION THE COUNTESS 0F
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRcvs HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ., MBE SIRIY. w. A., ISO. MA. JP ,
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP *HUNTER, MISS SNIII 'I III. RI \‘ I’RI III NDARY L. J. B., MBE, TD, JP I
DAWEs, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. " I'AI I‘, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD IIIINI-I I , I II l'I-('H.\1.\IANI)ER R. L., MA, RN
‘DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN. MRS w. ‘WAI IORI), MRS I)I SIR )ROUGH i
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP ‘WIIIII-. HARRY. ISQ. I-(‘A I
. (CANTAB), DOMS POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL \K'IIII R I, SIR AR I IIIIR, KBE
EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA ‘WINHII SII R. I. 1., ISO, I-‘CIS, Fss

 

" Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP

 

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS I'SQ, MBE, ACIS
Deputy HP“ Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, E50, FCA Assistant Secretarv—I). A. I.. (‘AMM, I-SQ, IIA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary 3 ”A” ”Q
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON ' I -. -

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer MAJOR R. (‘. (i. HANCOCK. 35C: MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY PRICE AND GOODYFA ‘ ‘ ' ‘
. R, CH . -. - J.‘ . .
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7I77 ’ ARTFRI D Adm NTAVIS

USED‘XI. TRUSTEDTIIE WORlD OVER

................

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

ADVERTISER’S ANNOUNCEMENT
‘OUR CATS’, the popular monthly magazine that Spam
the world of Cat Lovers. Every issue contains interesting and
helpful articles by experts, general interest features and
wonderful pictures. A splendid gift for a Cat Lover finY'
where. Subscription rate [75. 6d. for l2 issues (SPec'men
C0py ls. 7d. post free), from 4 Carlton Mansions, Claphdm
Road, London, SW9

 

,

 

 

 

    

  

G ODDS
Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON ,‘APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShOpsgate 57501§uTelegramsz ‘Unibutco Edo

 

'sIMPIE‘
SAIL.
sun: realism X7

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
‘ FOR ALL ANIMALS

AND SHEIVOKE liD ' BIRMINGHAM

 

 

 

 
    

‘cc“‘ 5 - ENGLAND
5456

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD

W33!"
cv
w

 

 

 

 

and so on. I think it is a hideous business alto;
gether.’ He regarded the offence by the third
defendant as the most serious because he was a
dealer. He thought something ought to be done
about requiring records of such transactions.
(A.9334.)

(Because of the nature of most of the offences,
these prosecutions were taken by the Police.
The RSPCA worked with the Police throughout,
and it was as aresult of identiﬁcation of the cats
by their owners at the RSPCA Mayhew Home
(London) that the Police were able to take prO’
ceedings. An RSPCA veterinary surgeon and
other RSPCA witnesses stood by ready to give
evidence in the case against the ﬁrst defendant
for causing unnecessary suffering; as he pleaded
guilty, they were not called. The cats were housed,
until restored to their owners, at the RSPCA

June 1955

l

., ‘5'...
"A,
:1} s
" 'i i
I

   

 

 

 

Photo] [Keystone

 
 

 

 

IDENTITY
PARADE

Distraught
owners identify
missing cats
at the RSPCA
Mayhew Home

 
 
 
 

 

Mayhew Home.)

_ a:~;|ng._s.-.I§5.Iinggr

In Aid of Wild Birds

The Protection of Birds Act 1954 now has its
place among current statutes and its importance
must soon be recognized. It may truly be termed
the Wild Birds Charter. Though embodying little
that is new in law, it enunciates for the ﬁrst time
the far—reaching principle that, subject to deﬁned
exceptions, all birds are now protected at all
seasons in all places throughout the country.

Though a great improvement on former Acts
the present Act is open to criticism, particularly
in respect of: the destruction of nests and eggs.
The eggs of certain common birds are not pro
tected, and the list of such birds may be enlarged
at will by the Secretary of State.

The preservation of bird life is of importance
for two reasons. Firstly, there is the economic
factor. There can be no doubt whatever that, on
the” whole, in spite of occasional and perhaps not
inconsiderable depredations, the services which
wild birds render to the agriculturist far outweigh
the harm. To state a contrary proposition would
not only be illogical but foolish. Farmers, smart;
ingr under feathered aggression, may'deplore their
pillaged crops, but, to strike a sane balance, what
would be their plight were they to be deprived of
the assistance of their busy friends? Insec tlife
would perforce run riot, and fruitful ﬁelds would
be replaced by barren wastes.

The second reason is the avoidance of suffer,
ing. As everyone knows, or should know, there
is unfortunately a widespread and organized
trafﬁc in wild birds. Bird catching is carried on in
every part of. the country and has reached the

 
 

 

proportions of a proﬁtable industry with dealers
able to encOurage trappers and to ﬁnd a ready
market for their wares. This trafﬁc, apart from the
distress caused by unnatural conﬁnement, in;
volves great hardships, and the mortality among
its victims is high. ‘
It is to combat the evils Of this pernicious
trade that some of the manyasided activities of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals are employed.
' During the past year the Society has conducted
a highly successful campaign against bird catchers
and dealers and magistrates’ courts have shown

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

      

~ - \

 

their approval of its efforts by the inﬂiction of,

maximum penalties (unfortunatelysmall but now

" happily increased under the new Act), and sub«

stantial costs. Readers, therefore, will note with
gratiﬁcation the following ﬁgures, which cover the
months January to] December, 1954, inclusive:

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:.

Offering for sale... 7

Selling 25 Total: (’52

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OE BIRDS ACT, 1925:

Small cages . .. '

Using; bird lime ‘ 5

Using decoy bird 1 Total: 30

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTs:

Recently taken

Shooting _

Recently killed

Using traps

Setting pole trap

Using instrument for
pose of taking

Using nets

Taking swans eggs

4:.
wwwww

the pur-

{uh—AH

Total: 59

, Bf
Fines inﬂicted reached a total of £136 and costs
recovered exceeded £207. '

A. O].

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

 

  
 
  
 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

 
  
  
 
  

    




 

 

 

 

64 THEANIMAL WORLD

June 1955

 

menting: ‘You saw it every day, suffering more

and more.’ (A.9210.)

WILD PONIES HUNGRY

Sixty—six ~ ponies belonging to one of the few
wild mountain pony herds left in North Wales
were sent in February to a barren, mountain
region of heather and bog.

But their owner did not provide sufficient food
and attention for them, it was alleged at Port
Madoc Magistrates’ court. He was ﬁned £10
and was ordered to pay £7 17s. 6d. costs for caus—
ing the ponies unnecessary suffering.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
it was alleged that the defendant failed to provide
sufficient food and attention for the animals,
which he had sent to a mountain region of barren
rock, heather and bog patches above a forestry
plantation. The ground was hard and frozen at
the time.

In a statement to the police the defendant said
he took it for granted that another farmer who
owned the land would look after the ponies, as
that was the custom.

Inspector T. E. Thelwell, RSPCA, said he found
12 dead ponies. Three had not been accounted
for and the rest were in poor condition.

A veterinary surgeon said that 13 ponies were

x
N

in poor condition. One could not get up without
assistance. A postmortem examination of four
revealed completely empty stomachs and absence
of bodily fat, he considered they had been grossly
undernourished for weeks, and death was due
to starvation.

For the defence a veterinary surgeon said he
considered the land typical mountain grazing.
The ponies were not able to forage for food be—
cause they were in an anaemic condition. Welsh
mountain ponies, being hardly, could exist on
this kind of land if normally healthy. The ponies
did not die of starvation but were in desperate

need of attention. (A.9498.)

BRENT GOOSE SHOT

The ﬁrst prosecution for killing a bird prov
tected under the Protection of Birds Act, 1954,
was brought by the RSPCA before the magistrates
at Boston, North Holland. The defendant was
summoned for killing a brent goose and he
pleaded guilty to killing the bird, but he added
that he killed the goose by accident. He was ﬁned
£1 and ordered to pay 303. costs. The defendant
stated he ﬁred at pinkvfooted geese but it was a
brent goose that fell.

Evidence was given by Senior Inspector Grant

and Inspector Scott. (A.9488.)

 

BOYS KILLED CATS

 

(Circles show stab wounds)

The reluctance of the RSPCA to prosecute children was
mentioned by the solicitor conducting this case, brought
by the RSPCA before the West Bromwich juvenile Court-
The two boys involved had shown such revolting and dis-
gusting cruelty that the Society felt that it had no option
but to prosecute. The ages of the boys were l0 year!
9 months and ll years 3 months. They admitted causing
unnecessary suffering to two cats by killing them in an
improper manner. The picture reveals the stab wounds in
one of the cats. The younger boy told RSPCA Inspector
Downes that he was stroking a cat when the other bOY
suggested that they should take it to a wood and kill it.

 

SWUNG CAT

The younger boy said: ‘He caught hold of it by its tail,
swung it round and banged it against a wall. He told me
to have a go. Then he had another go.’

They admitted they killed the other cat. "90“"! it
similarly before throwing it into a pool.

The solicitor said he understood that both boys had been
thrashed by their parents. '

Asked by the chairman of the magistrates why theY had
killed the cats, the younger boy said he did not know. He
knew they were hurting them. He was placed on Pr°ba'
tion for two years; the other boy was sent to a residential
school, where he will stay until reaching the a“ °f l8-
Both had to pay IOs. costs. (4.92M)

 

 




 

 

66 THEANIMALWORLD

 

 

 

June 1955
OBITUARY Charles Gaskoin lived with his sister, Miss

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mrs
A. Wright, a supporter; Sir Richard Butler,
Chairman of, St John Partridge Memorial Clinic
Committee; Miss Hewitt, a supporter; Mr C. J. B.
Gaskoin, member of the RSPCA Council; Miss
E. Lindsay, life member of the Oxford Branch;
Mrs H. Duck, co hon sec of Biggin Hill auxiliary;
Mrs Cay, a supporter; Major Bradley, a supporter.

Mr C. J. B. Gaskoin
Miss L. C}. Bransom (Council Member) writes:

The passing of Mr Charles Jacinth Bellairs Gas—
koin, at the age of 81, takes from the RSPCA one
of its oldest and most steadfast workers.

He had been a member of Council since 1928
and he was rarely absent from its meetings. He
followed discussions with meticulous care, inter;
vening comparatively seldom and never idly nor
impulsively, but solely to put a fresh and always
valuable point of View or to draw attention to
essential ’facts; and when, he spoke, it was with
authority, based on wide knowledge and long
experience. At its meeting on March 17, a week
before his sudden death, he had announced his
immediate resignation, in order, as he put it, to
make a vacancy at once for a Branch worker, for
in the Branches was carried on the hardest and
most important work of the Society. That actiOn
was typical: his ﬁrst thought was always how best
to further the work"of the Society.

For many years he was Chairman of the
Society’s Education and Publicity Committee.
When we paid tribute at the meeting on the
afternoon of ,March 17, to his devoted service in
that capacity and he replied in his usual felicitous
manner with his endearing, donnish humour,
little did we think that we were seeing and hear’
ing him, for the last time. I _

He was selﬂess and single—minded to an una
usual "degree in his zeal for the welfare and
‘rights’ of animals. He was as a man dedicated to
a great cause; and few ‘extremistS’ would have
had any fault to find with his personal views. Yet,
in deliberations concerning official policy for this
Society, he was ever a most wise counsellor,
advocating slow hastening and a consolidatiOn'o'f
gains rather than ill—considered leaps which might
lead to disastrous losses. Nevertheless, at times
of crisis—~—I am thinking more partiCularly' “of
instances which will be remembered by the older
of our members-ewhen Well thought—out policy
or carefully determined" action needed a chamv
pion, he was to the fore; and with his 'acute and
disciplined intellect, his mastery of the telling
phrase and his scholarly wit, what a champion he

could be!

Muriel Gaskoin, to whOm we offer deepest sym.
pathy in this sudden breaking of a life—long and
perfect companionship. Miss Gaskoin has sent
a few brief recollections of her brother in earlier
days, from which I quote;

‘I can see him as a Cambridge undergraduate in
cap and gown, returning from church, where he
used to read the lessons, with his college cap
reversed and lined with grass, on which reposed a
half—ﬂedged nestling that he had picked up, but
could not reach to restore to its nest.

‘I see him racing pell mell along Jesus Lane in
pursuit of a boy who had knocked down a
sparrow with his cap, and had the impudence to
come into our front garden after it. Seized by the
collar and held in a vice, the.culprit was com!
pelled to take it out of his pocket and let it go.

‘One of his history students drew an amusing
picture of daily life in his rooms, excellent in«
struction being given while the tutor crawled
about under the table, collecting his notes for a

coming lecture in London; while outside his door,

the RSPCA Inspector waited to catch him as he
came out, for a few minutes’ talk on some im—
portant matter.

‘He did a great work in rousing the body of
general members to the duty of attending Head;
quarters Annual Meetings, in cheering on the
various efforts of the Auxiliary Secretaries in the
Branches that, he represented on the Council, in
championing all good causes, dealing with the
“Old Horse” traﬂic, humane slaughter, the horv
rors of the steel trap, especially in the earlier
stages, when the public (on its best side) had to be
stirred to play its part.

‘And always a sensetof humour sustained him,
which, I am sure, accounted for the way he came
through “a sea of troubles”, and remained un’
Scathed to the end of his life.’

In personal relationships he was the ‘VerraY
parfit gentil knight’, who

‘loved chivalrye,

Trouthe andlhonour, fredom and curteisye.’
Throughout his long years of work for 'the SO’
ciety, he was of those who ‘would make gOOd Of
bad, and friends of foes’. He had a special gift
for making peace in diﬂicult situations; and he

turned many of the Society’s antagonists into
useful workers. ‘ i

We hold his memory inaffection andhonO-llr‘

L.'B.

OVERSEAS

From America comesthe sad news of the death
of Mr Sydney H Coleman former President of
the American Humane Association.- ~- '

$.34"
./

(W A

a.

\.




 

68 . THEANIMALWO’RLD

June 1955

 

MISERY IN THE STREETS

Who has not been disturbed at the patient, uni
comprehending bewilderment of cattle and sheep
driven through the streets-especially in market
towns? For many a sensitive person the sight of
such incidents has marred all the pleasure of an
outing.

Who could not but be moved at the turning '

hither and thither of the animals, often on
their way to slaughter, as they seem to be
trying to understand what is expected of them?
Often they share the road with motor trafﬁc,
and as they become involved with it, their
plight is miserable.

The busy drover usually wishes to be kind in
handling the animals, but the general confusion
makes his unhappy charges seem stupid and
obstinate (fear and lack of. the comprehension
producing this effect) and the man is apt to lose
his temper—another possible source of suffering
to the animals.

The RSPCA believes that the driving of sheep
and cattle through busy streets is unnecessary. It
urges upon the proper authorities the wisdom of
adopting bye—laws similar to those operating in
the areas listed below.

Ilfracombe and Teignmouth, Devon. , No
horned cattle —— other than dairy cows —-— are
allowed to be driven through the streets between
the hours of 10 a.m. and 8 pm. from May 1 to
September 30, or between the hours of 10 a.m.
and 5 pm. during the remaining months of the
year.

Preston. This town has a bye—law prohibiting
the driving of cattle through certain streets.

Scarborough. This town has a bye—law prov
hibiting the driving of animals through the streets
from 9 a.m. to 8 pm. from June to September
inclusive, and between 9 a.m. and 5 pm. during
the rest of the year.

Derby. The driving of cattle and sheep in
Derby is restricted to certain routes.

Liverpool. Animals may not be driven through
the city except on certain deﬁnite routes between
the hours of 8 a.m. and 9 pm. ‘

Bedford and Luton. Driving of cattle and
sheep through busy streets completely forbidden.

Carmarthen. There is a restriction on the
driving of cattle.

Cheltenham, Glos. Here there is a limit on
the hours during which cattle, sheep, pigs and
lambs may be driven through the streets.

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Cattle Market Reforms

Newport, IOW. For some years the Isle of
Wight Branch and RSPCA Headquarters have
been endeavouring to have straw provided for
the Calves in Newport Market. In some instances,

the RSPCA have paid for this. For ﬁfteen months
Senior Inspector Rose, since his transfer to the
Isle of Wight, has been backing up these efforts.
He approached the Town Clerk, the Borough
Surveyor, and the Mayor, and in the end the
Borough Council ﬂatly refused to supply the
straw. The Senior Inspector then applied to the
Auctioneers, who have agreed to do so in future.

Huddersﬁeld. Thanks to the efforts of Mr Wata
son, the Huddersﬁeld Branch Hon Secretary,
and those of Senior Inspector Lanning when he
was stationed there, the Corporation of Hud’
dersﬁeld has now decided to use the powers
it has to forbid access to children under
sixteen years of age (unless accompanied by an
adult) to the local market. The Branch has been
trying to get this done since 1938.

Reeston. Senior Inspector Proctor has been
successful in getting improvements in this cattle
market. The Sale Ring is to be enlarged to 14 ft.
in diameter, with top rails turning inwards slightly
to prevent buyers from sitting on them, and the
Auctioneers have assured the Inspector that
when this ring is in use no one other than the
Auctioneers’ assistant and the vendor of the
cattle is to be allowed in the ring.

Ashford (Kent). The dilapidated poultry pens
at this market have been rebuilt, so that three
thousand poultry can be comfortably penned
under complete cover. All calves are now under
cover, and all store pigs.

 

Continuing an exposure on bull—ﬁghting

THE SACRIFICE

We saw last month how the horse, the voiceless
victim, was made to suffer in the bull ring, and
we now move to what H. V. Morton (A Stranger
in Spain, Methuen, price 183.) calls Act II of the
spectacle.

‘The banderillero,’ (he writes, pages 176 and
177) ‘alarmed by the cries of disapproval, runs
lightly to the bull and plants two more darts in
its shoulder. The animal bellows in pain and
twists round, mouthing at the wounds and trying
to get rid of the things that are tearing him.
Blood is now plastered on his ﬂanks in dark
streaks. He smells it and it frightens him. He runs
to the side of the ring with the banderillas shaking
and knocking together. He is a piteous object.
But the crowd jeer at him because he is not a
tom bravo. His death is evidently not going to be
very exciting. This is the moment when someone

ought to have the decency to come in with a
humane killer.’

‘The blood is now running down into the
sand. The hull stands with lowered head, lost
in misery’ (page 177).

 

 

 

 

 




 

7o ' THEANIMALWORLD

June 1955

 

 

'DINNER HAD TO WAIT
Although school ﬁnished at noon, an RSPCA

School Lecturer was still answering questions
at twenty minutes after this time. Reporting this,
the lecturer said that this was perhaps one of the
most satisfying lectures of the tour.

Since the last report eighty lectures have been
given in schools in LancaShire, Cumberland,
Surrey, Hampshire, Devon, Oxford, Cardiff and
the London area. A group of children at the Har»
penden Public Library were also addressed, also
an Animal Defender group at Wymondham.

Nineteen new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 440 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

This picture was taken when Mrs Donovan, Essex—Mid.
Branch Hon Sec, and Major Chapman spoke to Animal
Defenders of the 1 st Runwell Scout Group, and their guests,
lst Wickford Cubs and 2nd Wickford Brownies.

BIRDS’ NEEDS _
The RSPCA is rightly alarmed at the cruelties

committed by children against birds. However,

the Society was anxious for news of the other side
of this picture. It invited its school lecturers to
report on the reactions of children in general
to appeals for them to feed wild birds in winter.
All of them. spoke of the noticeable wish to act
with kindness. A typical report from one lecturer
stated:

‘Without exception, the children are fully
alive to the birds’ needs, feeding them at home
and at school, where there is usually a bird
table ﬁlled with every kind of food—lumps of
fat on skewers, strings of nuts, and a dish of
water. Teachers set a good example, and itis
seldom I come away from any school without
one or more saying how glad they were I had
talked about birds. There does not appear to
be as much bird’s—nesting as there used to be—-—
much more watching!’

WILD BIRDS’ EGGS

The Wild Birds (Eggs of Common Birds) (Scota
land)‘ Order, 1955, has now been received at
RSPCA Headquarters. Issued on April 6 and
coming into operation on April 8, it carries all
thirteen of the common birds appearing on the
Order. applying to England and Wales, and, in
addition, names these seven birds as species whose
eggs may be taken: common gull, oystercatcher,
meadow pipit, redshank, pied wagtail, willow—
warbler and yellow—hammer. That is to say, in
Scotland, under the Protection of Birds Act,
1954, protection has been removed from the
eggs of twenty common wild birds.

 

BRANCH NEWS

 
   

Mrs N. Maloy of
West Clandon,

sends this ap—

pealing picture

of Jenny.

(The use of dogs for collecting in public places is governed
by local regulations and helpers intending to. collect in this
way will always findit advisable to make inquiries in their
own district.) . .

Barnet and District . Mrs Spears, Potters Bar East aux hon
sec, organized a coffee morning in her own home and
raised £7 4s. for branch funds. .
Berkshire—eNewbury and District A ‘bring your pet’ service
was heldat Shaw-cum-Donnington Church, the Rev Wood-
ﬁeld conducting the service. ' . ,
Caernarvonshire West and Anglesey Mrs E.- M. Furse,

branch hon sec, presented her annual report at the branch
annual meeting and Mr H. E. P. Furse was present. Mr
Wilfred Owens addressed the meeting on the work of the
RSPCA and also made the prize presentations.

Cleveland and Tees Side Mrs Roberts, Skelton aux
hon sec, organized a whist drive in- Skelton- and ”raised £6
for branch funds. - .' . _
Coventry and District Major Chapman opened a dancing
display given in aid of branch funds. He also presented the
awards to the winners. ‘ '
Craven and Upper Wharfedale At the branch annual meet-
ing Mr'A. B. Swaine, branch chairman, was in the chair.
Councillor Moorhouse, Chairman of the Rural Council,
and Mrs Moorhouse were present. RSPCA bronze medals

Presentations
were made to
Chief inspector
Ryan on his
transfer from
Shefﬁeld.

Photo by courtesy of
the Shefﬁeld Telegraph

   

 

 

 




 

U THEANIMALWNNHJ)

June 1955

 

Animal Defend-
ers’ stall at the
Solihull Bazaar,
where £250 was
raised for
branch funds.

 

presented her report on the activities of the branch during
the past year and Inspector Rhodes submitted his report.
Mr Allan Joiner from headquarters addressed the meeting
and was thanked by the Mayor (Ald. H. P. Dawton).
Ofﬁcers re-elected en bloc were: Mr G. T. Hall (president),
Mr E. J. Mount (chairman), Mrs Dance (hon secretary),
and Mr A. H. Matheson (hon treasurer).

Kent—Isle of Thanet Miss Lawrance, branch hon secf’

reports that Mr H. A. Hardman addressed the branch
annual meeting.

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District ‘A wonderful show’;
these three words spoken by Mr Ronald Haynes, branch
chairman, in a short address at the end of the show, summed
up admirably a variety concert presented at the Municipal
Theatre, Maidstone, in aid of the branch funds. He tendered
special thanks to Mrs Sybil Simpson, who organized the
show. The sum of £30 was raised.

Kent—West Mr H. P. Archer, branch chairman, took the
chair at the branch annual meeting held in Sevenoaks. Two
Police Ofﬁcers and Senior Inspector Smith were awarded
RSPCA medals and certiﬁcates. Mrs Appleyard, Westerham
aux hon sec, was present. Mr C. R. Davies addressed the
meeting on the work of the RSPCA.

Lancashire—St Helens and District Col Coventry attended
the branch annual meeting at which Mr W. Nixon was
elected chairman. The meeting was held in the Town Hall,
St Helens, and the Mayor took the chair. Among the branch
ofﬁcials are: President, Mrs F. B. Waldron; chairman,
Mr W. Nixon; hon secretary, Mr F. Sims and hon
treasurer, Mr W. Hodgkins.

Lincolnshire—Mid., and Lincoln Miss Joanna Bergne—
Coupland and Virginia Meagher organized a bring and buy
sale at Skellingthorpe Hall and raised £12 for branch funds.
(Report from Miss C. May Harrison, Lincoln aux hon sec.)
Monmouthshire At the branch annual meeting held at the
King’s Head Hotel, Mr C. T. Stephens, branch chairman,
asked members not to be complacent about the present
branch ﬁnancial position. Mrs Pughe-Evans, branch hon sec,

presented her report for the year. The Bishop of Monmouth, ,

a vice-president of the branch, congratulated the branch on
its good work. A report on the work of the clinic was given
by Miss Hester Gunn, who said she had treated 880 cases.
Senior Inspector Godley in his report said that he had in-
vestigated 115 complaints of cruelty during the year. All
ofﬁcers were re-elected and Miss Hester Gunn was elected
a vice-president.

Norfolk West Mrs J. Mudie, Hunstanton aux hon sec,
organized a whist drive with the help of Mr and Mrs Cooper.
The sum of £7 5s. was raised for branch funds.

Dr C. R. H. Ball took the chair at Hunstanton auxiliary
annual general meeting held in the Masonic Room of the
Golden Lion Hotel, Hunstanton. Mrs J. Mudie, aux hon sec,
presented her report. The aux hon treasurer, Mr E. W.
Molyneux, reported that £175 had been sent to the branch
in the past year. Mr C. R. Davies addressed the meeting on

the work of the RSPCA and Chief Inspector Morrison
reported that he had investigated 183 complaints of cruelty.
All ofﬁcers were re-elected en bloc with the addition of Mr
R. Stuart-Mudie, hon auditor, who was elected vice-chair-
man of the auxiliary.

Nottingham and Notts. Mrs Wright, Worksop aux hon sec,
reports that Miss Foreman has raised £12 125. 6d. selling
produce from her own garden.

Mrs Hurst, Retford aux hon sec, reports that a jumble sale
raised £20 4s. 4d. for branch funds.
Oxford Chief Inspector Waite addressed the No. 5 District
Police Training School on animals and the law.
Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey aux
hon sec, reports that Mrs Lutkin, Whittlesey aux hon
treasurer, organized a whist drive at her home and raised
£5 12s. for branch funds. Mrs H. Acred was MC.
Plymouth and South-West Devon Mrs Rees, branch hon
sec, organized a collection at a rugby match and raised
£11 7s. 5d. for branch funds.
Rochdale At Heywood auxiliary annual meeting held in the
New. Church School, Heywood, the Mayor, Alderman
P. 0. Walker, took the chair. Mr S. Moorhouse gave a talk
on wild life. Col Coventry was present.
Somerset—South Wing-Commander Hillier spoke at a
drawing room meeting, organized by Miss Eynon-Davies,
Milborne Port aux hon sec, on the work of the RSPCA.
A collection of £16 was made for branch funds.
Southport, Birkdale and District At the branch annual
meeting, Miss Alice Richards, hon sec, presented a report.
The Mayoress of Southport presided, and the Chief Con-
stable of Southport, Colonel Myall, was present. Lt.-Col.
Coventry spoke on the work of the RSPCA.

The Mayoress presented the RSPCA’s bronze medal and
certiﬁcate to Police Constable Proﬁtt, who had rescued a
dog from an electric rail.

The Branch essay competition prize giving was held in
The Little Theatre foyer and the Mayor presented the prizes.
Lt.-Col. Coventry spoke.

Mrs Bourhill, Formby aux hon sec, organized a jumble
sale and raised £18 for branch funds.
Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch Mrs
Parsons, Chapel-en-le-Frith aux hon sec, reports: a whist
drive and dance at the King’s Arms Hotel (organizers, Mr
and Mrs Partride) raised £5 13s. 3d. and a whist drive
(organizer, Mrs Hawkins) raised £3 ls. 6d. (which includes
:1 callection of £1 8s. made by Mrs N. Davies) for branch
un s.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Mrs Connors, Halesworth
aux hon sec, organized a jumble sale and raised £10 8s. 11d.
for branch funds.
Suffolk—~East, and Ipswich Mrs E. E. Crawford, branch
hon sec, reports that the branch annual meeting was a great
success. Mr E. A. Garrad was elected branch hon treasurer
to replace Mr A. R. Saward who has retired after 25 years
as branch hon treasurer.
Suffolk—West, and Bury-St-Edmunds At the branch annual
general meeting held in the Guild Hall, Bury-St-Edmunds
the Mayor of Bury-St-Edmunds (Mr W. Bevis Southgate)
presented awards to four boys for helping in the rescue of
a bullock from the River Stour. They were Michael Simpson,
John Setchell, Derek Grimwood and Kenneth Whittle. He
also presented awards to Cedric Evans, who rescued a cat
from a 60—ft. tree and to Eric Chaplin who descended a
40-ft. well to rescue a dog. Mr Elton Halliley, branch
chairman, gave the ﬁnancial report in the absence of the
hon treasurer, Mr P. R. Catling. Miss Hunter, RSPCA
Council Member, was present as was Mrs Francis,
branch hon sec, and Major Chapman. Mr Allan Joiner,
from headquarters, addressed the meeting. Hon secs from
various branch auxiliaries were present.
Surrey—Epsom and District His Honour Judge Tudor Rees

 

 




 

 

 

@EEEORMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON 8; SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All enquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

T telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lineS) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. COA.

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may Wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded ,
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex'

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act Of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing Signed by the

Testmor,‘ and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each Other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press. Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




