 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

 

A PROFlTABLE DISPLAY
In two months (july l2 to September l2) this box, helped
by the attractive display, raised £32 l5$. 6d. for llfracombe
auxiliary. Report from Mr and Mrs Lovering, llfracombe
auxiliary co hon secs

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

 

Saturday, May 11

 

if only for an hour or two!

OFFERS OF HELP, PLEASE, TO:—

Appeals Department, RSPCA
105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

WWWWWWWWWWﬁg

13”

ii

3?

if

é Please Help
i

i

ﬁt

 




 

January 1957

THEANIMALWORLD 7 5

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

NOVEMBER 1956
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,033 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
73 Oﬁenders ﬁned.

50 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
708 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSE—Kicking 1
CATTLE—Neglecting, travelling by rail when in an unﬁt

state, etc. 5
SHEEP—Neglecting, exposing for sale when in an unﬁt

state 4
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner l6
CATS—Neglecting, beating, stabbing, etc. 10

FOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in sacks, injuring with

missiles, etc. .. 11

PIGEONS—Conﬁning in receptacle of insufficient size
etc. 3
TURKEY—Beating 1

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 8
Being in possession of recently taken birds... 2

Oﬁ'ering for sale other than close—ringed specimens
bred in captivity . 2
Setting spring trap 1
Injuring 1
Taking 4
Attempting to take 1

VARIOUS OEEENCES:

Permitting in offences 3
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 73

During NOVEMBER 1956, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TEN persons from owning a dog or holding
a dOg licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

THREE for 10 years; THREE for 5 years; THREE for 2 years;
ONE for 12 months.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 24,597
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 956
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 8,340

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,844 Dogs 3,990 Miscellaneous 715 Total 8,549
o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1.665

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats 20 Dogs 83 Total 103

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,221

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 13

N o. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 234

No. of animals rescued: 4 _

N o. of Inspection complaints: 8

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,430

NORTH WALES UNIT

First aid cases: ‘

Cats 32 Dogs 51 Miscellaneous 6 I Total 89
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 177 Dogs 131 Miscellaneous 6 Total 314

No. of miles covered by Unit: 3,000

DEVON & CORNWALL IINIT

First aid cases:

Cats 63 Dogs 55 Miscellaneous 6 Total 124
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 146 Dogs 72 Miscellaneous 6 Total 224
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,343
AWARDS
CASES CONSIDERED 59
BRONZE MEDALS 6
CERTIFICATES 22
RECORDS FOR 1955
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS .. 28,128
CONVICTIONS 1,052
CAUTIONS ... ... ... . . . 9,843

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 148,963

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,545

 

 




 

I"

 

 

 

 

ANIMAEHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LII No I New Series

JANUARY I 957

PRICE FOURPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

ANIMAL WELFARE IN WEST AFRICA

by w. A. SIBLY

 

The photographs accompanying this
article were taken by Mr W. A. Sibly,
Council Member

 

 

 

Mr Adeogun with Inspectors and helpers outside the
RSPCA Headquarters in Lagos

In pursuit of my plan to visit old pupils scattered
around the Commonwealth, last winter I spent
77 days and nights in British West Africa. Of
these nights 70 were passed in their homes or
those of other friends, four in catering rest
houses, run by Africans under the direction of
British District Ofﬁcers, two in railway trains and
one wrapped in my mackintosh by the roadsrde,
when a ‘mammy—wagon’ in which I was travellmg
broke down. During this time I visited Sierra
Leone, the Gold Coast—soon to be Ghana—
British Togoland, Nigeria and the Brltish
Cameroons.

A secondary object of my journey was to look
into the problems and affairs of the N1ger1an
Branch of the RSPCA and to give what help I

could. In this connection, a public meeting was
arranged in my honour, as a member of the
Council of the RSPCA, in Lagos. This was pre—
sided over by His Highness the Oba of Lagos, a
digniﬁed and genial African gentleman who seems
to combine the ofﬁces of Hereditary Chief and
Lord Mayor, and who four days later welcomed
our Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh at the
city’s boundary. '

At this meeting I found myself called upon to
give some account of the work of the RSPCA,
and of the place of animals in Nigeria as I saw it.
I was also asked to present prizes and certiﬁcates
to some gorgeously dressed Yoruba market—
women and others, and to make a formal hand;
ing over of the handsome chair presented by the
Liverpool Branch of the RSPCA to the Nigerian
Society, as represented by the President, Mr A.
Omololu, MBE.

 

Sheep in street at Kano

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS GARDNER, HON. JULIET *RATTRAV, R. F., ESQ, MA, PILI)
*ALSOP. ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOGG, s R. ESQ, Dso, MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOWELL, BASIL P. ,ESQ, MBE SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
BYWATER. H- F“, ESQ» MRCVS "‘HUNTER MISS SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. R.,
CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, FR MET S, HON CF LEE, MRS E. M. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS w. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A. *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
(CANTAB), DOMS POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *PRITCHARD ,MRS D.

 

 

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Oﬂ‘icer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secretary—R_ MURRAY, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
TeIegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

USED &TRIISTED TIIE WORID OVER

  

 

FLAG DAY I
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

\..

SIMPLE" W
SAFE”
SURE 7126i “@ASH Xﬂ

 

 

  

HOME WANTED-—Sma|l collie, male, affec-

tionate, house-trained, two years Old. Apply:
CAPTIVE 30” PISTOL A. Gordon Jones, Legal Dept, RSPCA. '05
FOR ALI. ANIMALS

‘ Jermyn Street, London, SWI.

ACCLES AND SHELV©KELTD B’IRmNGHAM 6' ENGLAND '
5456

 
     
 

 

 

 

 




 

January 1957

 

THEANIMALWORLD’ ‘ 7

—..

LEFT: CRUEL TRANSPORT METHOD

Mr D. A. Anifowose, hon secretary of the RSPCA Branch at
Lagos, Nigeria, sends this snapshot which shows a man
tying a goat to the rear of a bicycle. The picture does not
reveal it, but string is fastened round the goat’s leg and on
to the carrier. The auxiliary honorary secretary where the
incident happened warned the man against the practice,
but the warning was not heeded. The police were told and
the man was admonished in the presence of the senior
ofﬁcial at his place of work. The goat was then conveyed in
a more humane way, and the owner had learned a lesson
in kindness

 

DYING CATTLE CONVEYED BY RAIL

 

Mrs Slater, organizing secretary Tanganyika
Division, sends this picture with a press cutting
which reports that dismay was caused at the
RSPCA Tanganyika Headquarters, Dar es Sa—
laam, when a report was received of dying cattle
which had been unloaded from Dodoma. The
cause of the dismay was that the Division hoped
that with the co—operation given by the railways,
the question of allowing unﬁt cattle to be trans—
Ported by rail had been satisfactorily settled.

The Division’s inspector found a cow, two
heifers and a young bull emaciated and dying at
the Ilala unloading bank.

The Tanganyika Division, which considered
animals should never have been allowed to travel
from Dodoma, was informed, that the animals
had been bought at Singida four months previous—
ly andhad been walked to Dodoma, a journey
Which took thirteen days. There they were kept
for three months, as no wagon was available to
bring them to Dar es Salaam. The cattle wagon
was stated to have left Dodoma and arrived in
Dar es Salaam three days later.

More Humane

‘Much has been said about the conditions of
transport by rail for cattle in Tanganyika’, says

Mrs Isobel Slater, RSPCA organizing secretary,
‘and the Division feels that the railway authorities
have made a genuine attempt to improve con,
ditions over the past year, so the question now
arises as to why desperately sick and emaciated
animals are allowed to be loaded for these long
and trying journeys.

‘It would surely appear to be more humane to
have the animals slaughtered at loading point
and save them further unnecessary suffering’, she
declares.

The Division is working hard to improve
conditions.

 

Good Homes
Mrs Collier, hon sec Shefﬁeld Branch, writes

of regulations introduced in the branch to
make sure that dogs placed by the branch go only
to good homes.

It is a regulation throughout the RSPCA for a
home to be inspected before any animal is placed.
In Shefﬁeld as well as this a prospective owner
with a favourable report has to complete a form
promising that he will take full responsibility for
the animal’s welfare, allow him to be inspected
by an RSPCA Inspector, and undertake to get
veterinary treatment when the animal is ill or
injured.

The owner also promises that should he at any
time ﬁnd he can no longer keep the animal he will
inform the Society and will not allow the animal
to be used for experimental purposes.

When the new owner gets his dog a further
form, in similar terms, has to be completed, and

witnessed by a member of the RSPCA staff.

 




 

January 195 7

THEANIMAL WORLD 11

 

 

Photo by courtesy of The Sheﬂield Telegraph

This picture, sent by Mrs Collier, Sheﬁield branch hon sec,

shows ‘Sandy’, a stray dog, appealing for old blankets at

the' Odeon Cinema, Sheﬂield. The blankets are to be used at

the Shefﬁeld Branch’s Animal Shelter to keep stray dogs
warm during the winter months

Whitstable, jumble sale, Miss V. Slingsbury (aux hon
sec), £58 6s. 6d. -

Canterbury, jumble sale, Mrs Rhodes, £40 12s. (clinic funds).
Kent—Dover and District Dover, jumble sale, Mrs Price
(branch hon sec), £17 7s. 0d.

'Kent——Folkestone and District Jumble sale, Mrs Ethering-
ton, £17 Os. 10d.

Kent—Tunbridge Wells and District Langton Green, Ani-
mal Service, conducted by Rev R.. H. Douglas, Mrs Roche
(aux hon sec), collection taken for Branch funds.
Lancashire—East, and Blackburn Blackburn, bring and
{buy sale, Mrs Wignall, £50. ,
Lincohishire—Mid, and Lincoln St Mark’s Church, L1n-
coln, Animal Sunday, lesson read by His Honour Judge
R. S. Shove (branch president).

Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham AM (branch), Mayor
of Grantham, speaker Mrs Brace (president).

.Grantham, bring and buy, £20 133. 6d. _
leerpool Liverpool, presentation of the medal and certiﬁ-
cate by the Rt Hon The Lord Mayor of Liverpool to Lance-
Corporal Kenneth Evans in recognition of the rescue of a
d0g_1n Tobruk Harbour.

Liverpool, presentation of the RSPCA silver cup awarded
annually to the owner who best complies with the landau
horses’ charter, to Mr Francis Rossi by Mr C. Derrick
(hon treasurer). ,,
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton T ythering-
ton, coffee morning and bring and buy sale, £55 43. 0d.

Ralnow, whist drive, Mrs Whiston (aux hon sec) and
Mr Martin, £9. ‘

Manchester and Salford Northenden, Christmas bazaar,

opened by Mr Gerald Iles, £61 109. 0d.

Merioneth AM (branch); speakers, The Venerable H.
llllams, Archdeacon of Merioneth (president), and Mr

Peter Turner (branch organizer); collection, £8 9s. 0d.

Mr K. Jeffs and Mr M. O. Clutterbuck received RSPCA
bronze medals. .

ewcastle-upon—Tyne Berwick, coffee morning, Mrs
Dougall (aux hon sec); Mrs Young lent the room and
Prov1ded service, £10.

Alnwick, bridge drive, Mrs R. J. Middlemas (aux hon
sec), £15 10s. 0d. -

orth Tees Stockton-on—Tees, coffee morning and sale of
work) £91 143.

Oxford Oxford Bridge Club, bridge tournament, Mrs
Beck, £18

Pembrokeshire—Mid & North Fishguard, Letterston and
Newport, ﬁlm shows, Mr A. F. Boucher (branch hon sec), £20.

Dinas Cross, ﬁlm show, Rev Gerwyn Stephens, £2 10s. 0d.
Peterborough and District Whittlesey, whist drive, Mrs
Hunt-Pain (aux hon sec) and committee, £10.

Whittlesey, St Andrew’s Church, Animal Service, con-
ducted by Rev G. A. Field. Mrs Hunt-Pain (aux hon sec)
and Mrs F. Colbert, Animal Defender Group leaders,
attended.

Rotherham and District Millmoor (Rotherham United
Football Club), collection, £33 18s. 3d.

Shefﬁeld Sheffield, presentation of RSPCA kindness to
animals badge and book to Michael Carrigan, for'rescuing a
dog from the River Don. Presentation made by the Manager,
Odeon Cinema. Mr D. J. Haggie (branch chairman) present.
Shropshire Oswestry, bring and buy sale, branch mem-
bers, over £42.

Sittingbourne Division Sittingbourne, jumble sale, Mrs M.
Draper (hon sec), £20.

Staffordshire—North Burslem, bring and buy sale, opened
by Mrs M. Biddulph (Biddulph aux hon see), over £29.

Chell, jumble sale, £23.

Coffee morning, £28.

Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Lowestoft, bazaar, Miss
Meredith (aux hon see), £64.

Wangford, jumble sale, Mrs R. Belcher (branch hon see),
over £6.

Torquay and South-East Devon Torquay, Animal Service,
conducted by Rev E. E. Robinson, collection to Branch.
Wakeﬁeld and District AM (Dewsbury aux). His Worship
the Mayor, Ald J. E. Savage, took the chair. Speakers: Mr
Mortimer (aux hon treasurer) and Miss J. Lister (aux hon sec).
The meeting observed a silence to the late Mr Walter West.
Westmorland Kendal, cinema collections, Kendal aux
committee (collections permitted by Mr W. H. Colman;
special help by Mrs E. M. Rowe), £80 5s.

Kendal, coffee morning, Kendal aux committee, £21.
Wi61tshire—North Calne, rummage sale, Mrs C. Burgess,
£2 .

Worcestershire—West and Malvern Malvern, jumble sale
Mrs A. Harrison (branch hon sec), £65 18s. 6d.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Harro gate, coffee morn-
ing and bring and buy sale, Mrs Fattarini (branch com-
mittee member), £58 15s. 1d.

Harrogate, jumble sale, members of the Branch Com-

mittee, £14 25. 0d.
Yorkshire—York and District York, coffee party, De Grey
Rooms and refreshments provided by Mrs Keech. The
Sheriff’s Lady, Dowager Lady Deramore, and Lady
Atcherley were present. Almost £46.

,

 

Rex, photographed at the home of Mrs Butler, Diss and

District auxiliary hon sec, who adopted him when his owner,

a war-time RAF pilot, had to return to Queen Mary’s

Hospital for Limbless Men. There was a likelihood that Rex

would have to be destroyed and Mrs Butler’s kindness in

rescuing him from this fate is amply rewarded in happiness
of this healthy dog

 




 

 

 

 

1
.

 

 

,vltmt: A.. x .

 

 

 

\ .
Jﬁw-3

.. In

 

WINTER PICNIC

 
 

.l 1. JLI..$I.VIDK .w

I l .1: Iva‘xii

 

1..
S
d
O
J
3
no
9
a
u
a
J
W:

 

 

/ A
k \ axilluail/ L\.. A

 




j? 4‘4\_

 

January 1957

THEANIMALWORLD 9

 

RSPCA goes to another man who performed his
gallant act overseas—at Tobruk. _ ,

He is L/Cpl Evans. His rescue attempts were
made for a dog. He did not succeed, but the ani—
mal was ﬁnally rescued by Sappers Honeyman
and Newman.

At the time of the incident, it was blowing half
a gale, and there was a swell running in the har«
bour at Tobruk. Tyres had been placed between,
the craft of the ﬂotilla, moored alongside one
another, to hold them apart and save them being
damaged.

L/Cpl Evans was on watch on one of the craft.
A dog who was the mascot of the craft tried to

 

jump from it on to another craft, misjudged the
distance and fell into the water. The Corporal,
without thinking of his own safety, ﬁrst called for
help from the crew, and then went where the dog
had fallen overboard. As the craft separated, he
leant down between them in an attempt to get the
dog out of the water. The two craft came together
and he was badly crushed between them. When
the crew came on deck they found him lying on
the deck. He told them the predicament of the
dog, which was then saved.

L/Cpl Evans was rushed off for urgent medical
treatment; his chest and one eye were severely
injured.

 

The RSPCA Inspector works with the
police and ﬁremen to rescue a Friesian
cow stuck in a 5 ft. x 3 ft. hole 4 ft. deep.
Notice how the police and firemen look
after the head to pacify the animal
while the RSPCA Inspector digs. After
the rescue the cow trotted away unhurt

Photos by courtesy Telegraph and Argus, Bradford

 

LOUTH CATTLE MARKET

AS a result of representations made to the
market authorities by Senior Inspector Grant,
supported by Market Inspector Gould, strqu
tural alterations have been carried out in this
market, so that the animals now enter the sale
ring by a covered passage, unseen by the by—
standers, and much needless beating has been
obviated. The sale ring itself has been roofed over
and the presence of children is discouraged.

PREVENTION OF OIL POLLUTION
On September 8, 1956, it became an offence, under
the Oil in Navigable Waters Act, 1955, for British
ships to discharge persistent waste oils into the
sea anywhere within a thousand miles of our
Atlantic coast line. So far only Great Britain,
Denmark, the German Federal Republic, Mexico,
and Sweden have passed legislation controlling
the discharge of oil into the seas, in accordance
with the International Convention for the Pre—
vention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil, drawn up
at the International Conference called by the
British Government in 1954. The Co—ordinating

Advisory Committee on Oil Pollution of the Sea,
on which the Society was represented, held a meet—
ing to consider what further steps could be taken to
bring pressure on other maritime nations to pass
legislation on this subject. There is little chance of
abating this menace without their cooperation.

VOLUNTEERS ONLY

The audience for one RSPCA school lecturer
comprised only children who had volunteered to
stay behind after school to hear the talk. Even
the Headmaster was impressed by the large
number of pupils who attended.

Since the last report 170 lectures were given in
schools in Surrey, Kent, Wiltshire, Caernarvon—
shire, Rhondda, Worthing, Crawley, Woodbury,
Blackburn, Sunderland, York and Port Talbot.
The Burnley Animal Defender group, a Boy
Scouts’ meeting in York and a Boys’ Brigade
group in South Harrow were also addressed.

Twenty—seven new Animal Defender groups
were formed; 450 children joined the Headquar—
ters Group. '

 

 




 

 

 

January 195 7

Mr Omololu,
President of the
RSPCA Nigeria
Branch, with
Mr Sibly, out-
side Mr Omo-
lolu’s house

 

 

Cattle at Kano awaiting transport to the South

and I sometimes reﬂect that there are some
human beings who could count themselves
fortunate if they knew that their own end
would be as quick.

Donkeys, Dogs and Fowls

In the drier Northern Region the donkey is the
chief beast of burden, and one sees long lines of
these patient and heavily laden creatures pur—
suing their way along the dusty country roads
and through the narrow and crowded city streets.
Dogs are unlicensed, and all sorts of mongrels
abound. Very few Africans feed their dogs reguv
larly. They are left to pick up a living as best they
can, and with vultures they are the natural
scavengers. As to fowls, I saw them with their
legs tied together lying on the ground in the
tropical sunshine. . '

Sheep and Goats

Like the dogs, these seem often to be left to
pick 11p a living for themselves, and they can be
seen nosing about the streets and gutters, espec1—
”HY in the north. In spite of the parable in the

0313618, if I wanted to survive in these jostling
Crowded highways and bvaays, I would much

THEANIMAL WORLD ‘ 3

 

' ' ' .1.
+50%»

Cattle in the British Cameroons being driven down
to the Plains

 

Donkeys in the Northern Territory

rather be a goat than a sheep. Goats seem to have
far more intelligence. .

The Fate, of some Horses

In spite of oﬂicial white—washing and denials
there is no doubt as to the continuance of the
dreadful horse initiation ceremonies in the East;
ern Region, in which old hOrses are beaten to
death in the presence of the initiates. The British
administration failed to stop this practice during

its ﬁfty years of authority, and it seems very

doubtful whether African ofﬁcials can or will do
so when they take over the Government, prob—
ably this year.

By way of excuse for both it should be'pointed
out that this Eastern Region is about as large as
Great Britain, with hundreds of isolated bush Vil—
lages, approached only by mud tracks, and if we
cannot put down cock—ﬁghting in our own highly
developed land, can we expect better things in

Africa?

From all of which it will be seen that the
need of the Nigerian RSPCA is very great,
and I hope many will help. '

 




 

 

 

 

2 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1957

 

 

 

 

I found the affairs of this Society in some con—
fusion owing partly to a loose handling of ﬁnance
by a former secretary, but in conjunction with
Mr Omololu I was able to arrange for the streng’
thening of the committee by the inclusion of some
Well—known and representative animal lovers,
both African and European.

I visited the new headquarters of the Society in
Iddo Road, just opposite the handsome new ter’
minal station of the Nigerian Railways. This is a
modest wooden structure with some six or seven
.rooms, used as ofﬁces, dispensary, etc., and there
is a small provision for housing stray dogs and
other animals. Here I met Mr Adeogun, who was
then acting as secretaryvtreasurer, two inspectors
with RSPCA on their armlets, and other Africans
associated with this headquarters.

' During a journey to Ibadan, the capital of the
Western Region, and one of the largest native
cities in Africa, I met Mr A. G. Willder,
MRCVS, a British veterinary surgeon who is
very interested in the work, and also Mr A.
Adepoju, an African civil servant who was
acting as secretary. Ibadan is more than a hundred
miles from Lagos, and I found that the RSPCA

workers there were anxious to form a separate

branch.

A Great Need

The need for humanitarian work throughout
Africa is very great. Compassion is not highly
developed amongst most Africans. If an old
woman upsets a basket of oranges which she is
carrying on her head few if any passervay will
give a helping hand. As is shown by the cruel
treatment of prisoners and slaves in such places
as Benin City and Kumasi less than sixty years
ago, and by the revolting horse initiation cere’
monies still practised in parts of the Eastern Rea
gion, there is a strong streak of inhumanity in
many, but in general I should say that the African
attitude to the sufferings of animals is one of
complete indifference. In journeys totalling 7,000
miles through the length and breadth of what is
still British West Africa, I concluded that the

‘-

A flock of sheep near lbadan

animals chieﬂy in need of humanitarian treatment
are cattle, donkeys, dogs, and poultry, while in
certain parts sheep, goats and horses may need
special care.

The Case of Cattle

At the great city of Kano in the Northern Ree
gion I saw large herds of scraggy cattle being en’
trained for the long journey of nearly 800 miles to
the cities and slaughter—houses of the south. The
journey to Lagos takes three days, and is of
course through a tropical climate, but lately, with
the cooperation of the railway authorities, the
RSPCA has been able to improve the watering
facilities en route.

Very earlyone morning, about 4.30 a.m.,
in company with Mr BreWster, the chief
veterinary officer and a keen humanitarian, I
visited the Lagos abattoir at a place some
miles outside the city. Here, beneath' bright
and bluish electric lights, terriﬁed cattle were:
being slaughtered in the sight of fellow Victims.
In deference to Moslem religious custom—-
and there are millions of Mohammedans in
Nigeria—this was the method used. A beast is
ﬁrst thrown to the ground by a rope twisted
round its hind legs, and then its throat is cut.
Although to me as a vegetarian and a mem’
ber of the RSPCA the spectacle was most re!
pulsive, one must keep a sense of proportion,

 

Cattle begin their 800-mile journey to the South

 

 




 

 

 

 

4 THEANIMAL WORLD January 1957

 

 

Bull Fighting

‘An Unsavoury Spectacle’
In a letter addressed to RSPCA Headquarters

expressing the sincere hope that ‘something can
be done’ to stop bull ﬁghting, Miss Norma
Bright writes this graphic and damning eye
witness account.

 

‘If you look closely at the grey horse in the
middle of the photograph of “The Parade”,
just before the commencement of the ﬁghts,
you will notice how a dirty piece of sacking is
used to blindfold partially each one of the

 

four horses mounted by the picadors. One
blinker is used on the “near—side” eye of the
horse, and the sacking is then placed well over
the blinker so that the vision of this eye is
impaired to such an extent that the horse is
only able to see approximately 5 ft on this
side.

‘The horse’s protection is about 1%— in. thick,
well patched, and very old, and when the horse
leaves the ring after the slaughter of the bull, it
seems to have great difﬁculty in walking the
circumference of the ring, having to rest every
few yards.

‘The thing that seems most revolting is the drawn—
out death of the bull. Having suﬁered six banderillas
in its back which have about 8 in. of steel %— in.
approximately thick with a barb; twice being in con—
tact with the picador who jabs his pica in the animal’s
back four separate times at each charge; and then
ﬁnally, when the toreador attempts to kill the animal,
the sword sinks partway into the ﬂesh possibly two or
three times before the ﬁnal thrust right to the hilt.
I was under the impression that death came very
quickly after that, but unfortunately the bull then
carries on feebly charging for about another two
minutes, coughing blood from its mouth, until eventu’
ally sinking on its knees, one of the matadors ap
proaches it, pulls out the sword and sinks a stiletto
into him ﬁnally to ﬁnish off the beast. The unsavoury
spectacle lasts nearly twenty minutes, with the bull
dying VERY slowly.’

 

We British
have a word for it.

  

2'
and the word is Cruelfy—abominable (5
cruelty at that. In this degrading “sport” 1’
only human beings stand a chance ‘
of getting away with it—the is
. professional bull-ﬁghter and, of 5
course, the -s:=-
pitiless ‘
spectators.

  

  
 
 

F."

 
 

.l The bull is doomed in any event to :_ ' 1
death by expert tormentors armed with 233- 8:? l
ﬁendish goads. The poor horse is doubtless grateful when
he’s not gored, but if he survives this encounter he will soon be

made to face the ordeal again.

Mercifully, this country left bull-baiting and bear-baiting behind

a century ago. Remember, when you attend a bull-ﬁght you support it.
Send a donation instead to the Chief Secretary, RSPCA, (Dept. ')
105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I. ' ’

Retire/Mew t/ze R S P 0 A

 
  
 
  
  
  

Readers will have seen the advertisement on
the left which was published extensively last year
in the national and the more prominent pro”
vincial newspapers. '

Supporters of the RSPCA have suggested that
readers of Animal World should be invited. to
make donations to meet the cost of similar
propaganda in forthcoming years.

The eye witness account of a’bull ﬁght, seen
recently, by a supporter, underlines the need for
the dual activities of the RSPCA, which must
ﬁrst persuade British people not to support bull!
ﬁghts abroad. The British have a special responSI’
bility since large numbers of them Visit bulk
ﬁghting countries every year. The second aCtIVltY
of the RSPCA is to give help and encouragement
to animal welfare workers in bullrﬁghting counv
tries. These workers have a hard battle. Recently
the RSPCA made a grant of £50 to help animal
welfare work in Spain.

Mark envelopes enclosing donations: ‘Bull
Fighting’, and address them to Chief Secretary,
RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

 




 

 

 

Senior Inspector Pennell returned recently from
a second visit to Malta GC, where he had spent

three months giving advice to the Malta Branch .

on animal welfare work. During his Visit the
Branch erected a combined headquarters, dogs’
home and animal clinic at Floriana, the cost of
£1,500 being contributed mainly from the
RSPCA Overseas Fund, supplemented by ﬂag
day donations in Malta. His Excellency the
Governor of Malta, Sir Robert Laycock, who per—
formed the inauguration ceremony, said that the

Seychelles

A helpful Handbook of Information published
by the Branch for the use of District Representaa
tives gives extracts’from the laws of Seychelles.
The main extracts echo clauses in the Protection
of Animals Act, 1911, but a paragraph that will
be of interest to readers of Animal World (as
illustrating local problems) is: *

Green Turtles—manner of conveyance

When green turtles are being conveyed alive from
outlying islands to Mahe, they shall be placed on the
vessel in such manner that they shall not be exposed
to the rays of the sun; they shall be sprinkled with
water at least twice a day ; they shall not be stacked
one on top of the other; and sufficient space shall be
left about the decks so that members of the crew and
passengers shall not require to step on the turtles.

.
Tanganyika

Fresh evidence of the need for humane education,
to which a large part of the efforts of RSPCA
Commonwealth Branches is directed, is given in
the most recent report from Mrs Slater, Organiz—
ing Secretary of the RSPCA Tanganyika Division.

In a description of a safari covering about 1,500
miles Mrs Slater said she spent a lot of time
visiting bush settlements. Her report continues:

THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1957

‘

MALTA, G.C.
Photograph shows: Left to right
(sitting): Miss York (in charge of
Floriana Dogs’ Home), Mrs M. de
Wolff (hon secretary), the Hon Mr
justice W. Harding (President),
Mrs B. Psaila, Mr Biasini (Director
of Agriculture)

Left to right (standing): Mr H.
Grech (lately Commissioner of
Police), Mr Victor Sammut, LL.D.
(legal adviser), Colonel A. V.
Mallia, the Noble Major Sciberras
Trigona, Senior Inspector W. F.
Pennell, Major Stone (Royal En-
gineers), the Noble Saverin Man-
duca, Col A. ]. Dunkerley, OBE,
Mr Charles Wirth (hon treasurer),

measure of a country’s civilization could be
judged by its attitude to animal welfare; he ex—
pressed satisfaction at the strides made in Malta
and his thanks for the help and inspiration of the
RSPCA in London. The state of animal pI‘Ov
tection legislation in Malta was reviewed by the
Malta Branch with Senior Inspector Pennell and
recommendations have been submitted to the
Malta authorities, who have promised them full
consideration.

‘Many times I stopped the car on seeing
poachers with poisoned arrows and muzzle
loaders, and took the risk of a “black eye”!
Many of them, of course, ran away through
the bush when they saw the car stop, as also
did small boys herding goats, and dragging
cattle along with ropes tied tightly round one
leg! These boys just ﬂed and left the animals!’

Mrs Slater ﬁnds it difﬁcult to persuade the
DCOple to stop and listen to the lessons of kindness
she wishes to teach. Generally she has some sweets
and bright beads with which to tempt them.

Membership of the Animal Defenders movement

' in the division is now 14,000. Most of the members

are African.

 

This picture, sent by Mrs Slater, shows the Tanganyika
Division stand at the Nzaza Agricultural Show

 




 

 

 

8 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1957

PARUAMENTARY N EWS

Huddersﬁeld Corporation Bill

This Bill received Royal Assent before Parliament
adjourned for the Summer recess.

The clause dealing with the registration of ani—
mal boarding establishments by the Corporation
was approved. Under this clause, all animal
boarding establishments in the Huddersﬁeld
area must be registered by the Corporation, who
may make byelaws relating to such premises.
These byelaws will be made for the purpose of
securing that

(a) pet animals will at all times be kept in
accommodation suitable as respects size,
temperature, lighting, ventilation and
cleanliness;

(19) pet animals will be adequately supplied
.with suitable food and drink and (so far
as necessary) visited at suitable intervals;

(c) all reasonable precautions will be taken
to prevent the spread among pet animals
of infectious diseases;

(d) appropriate steps will be taken in case
of ﬁre or other emergency.

The owner failing to register his premises is
liable to a penalty not exceeding £20, and a daily
penalty not exceeding £5, and for the contravena
tion of any byelaw to a penalty. not exceeding
£5, the court having power to suspend or cancel
his registration.

EXCEPTIONS

Nothing in this section or in any byelaw made
thereunder shall:

(a) apply to premises kept by a person under
the authority of a licence granted in ac—
cordance with the provisions of the Pet
Animals Act, 1951;

(b) apply with respect to any accommodation
for greyhounds provided at or in con—
nection with any greyhound racecourse
owned by a member of the National
Greyhound Racing Association of Great

Heroes’ Corner

AERGPLANE RESCUE

The bravery of a man in soothing a terriﬁed dog
in an aeroplane at Algiers has been acknowledged
by the RSPCA. _

Monsieur Marc Fra has been awarded the
RSPCA silver medal. He was called out to help

with the handling of an Alsatian dog, who had-

been sent from Paris to Algiers by air and had
broken loose in the part of the plane where the
baggage is carried.

The terriﬁed dog had already bitten two men.
Monsieur Fra had to crawl on his stomach to
reach the dog. He risked being bitten on the

Britain Ltd and licensed by the Stewards
of the National Greyhound Racing Club;

((3) apply so as to require the registration of a
veterinary surgeon or a veterinary practia
tioner or of any premises at which accom—
modation for pet animals is provided by
such person;

(d) affect the application of any prohibition,
restriction or requirement imposed by or
under the Diseases of Animals Act, 1950,
in respect of any premises or in respect of
the movement of any animal to or from
any premises.

Boarding Establishments

Reforms sought
Mr Julian Ridsdale, MP, who obtained ninth

place in the Parliamentary ballot for Private
Members, introduced the Animal Boarding
Establishment Bill which is sponsored by the
RSPCA.

The measure aims at ensuring that all
animal boarding establishments for dogs and
cats should be licensed and inspected. It is
due to come up for the important Second
Reading stage in February.

 

Question

MR VIANT asked the Secretary of State for the
Home Department why there have been no
prosecutions of persons who, according to the
Return of Experiments performed under the
Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, during 1955, had
shown a reprehensible degree of carelessness.

MAJOR LLOYD'GEORGE: As is explained in the
last paragraph of the return it did not appear that
in any of these cases there had been any deliberate

intention to contravene the Act. I was satisﬁed, '

after careful consideration of each case on its
merits, that prosecution was not justiﬁed.

 

face and head, but he managed to soothe the ani’
mal and get it out. Within 24 hours the dog was
returned—normal and gentle—to the owner by
M. Fra. '

Miss N. Hosali, of the Society for the ProteC'
tion of Animals in North Africa, says that M.
Fra, who has tremendous courage and a great
love of animals, indirectly saved the dog’s life;
had he not soothed it by his kind approach, the
dog would perhaps have been shot, and it is likely
thatpit would have been wounded before being

killed. -

Silver Medal
The second silver medal award made by the

 




l

. “they” "W“
It - I “ ,

 

10 THEANIMAL WORLD

Obituary

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Miss
E. West, a supporter for sixty years; Mr R. P.
Helyar, former hon sec of Bristol Branch;
Colonel R. M. Powell (see separate report); Sir
Alexander Leith, vice—president of Newcastlevonv
Tyne branch; Mrs R. J. Sharman, a supporter.

Colonel ﬂobert Wentagu
Span/ell, 9215.6).

In the association of Colonel Powell with the
RSPCA we see exempliﬁed the spirit of steadfast
devotion to a worthy cause from which all who
are connected With it will draw inspiration. It is
our ﬁrst duty, in brieﬂy reviewing the Colonel’s
career as an honorary worker for the RSPCA, to
offer to Mrs Powell sincerest condolences. Symv
pathy also goes to Mrs Doxford, his daughter,
at whose home he died suddenly.

After a distinguished military career the
Colonel occupied himself with the affairs of the
RSPCA Auxiliary in which he lived, becoming,
many years ago, the Honorary Secretary of the
Aldershot Auxiliary. He became, in 1939, the
Branch Honorary Secretary for Hants and Surrey
Border, having been at that time no less than
six years a member of the Society’s Council. In
1951 he was appointed a Vice—President of the
RSPCA and occupied that ofﬁce at the time of
his death. ‘ V

In recent years the interest of Colonel Powell
in overseas work has perhaps been not quite so
much in the foreground, but we recall that he was
formerly honorary secretary of the Gibraltar
SPCA. Those who have read ANIMAL WORLD

January l957

for many years will remember the ﬁne articles
which he contributed in 1938 on animal protec—
tion work overseas. Topics over which the
Colonel ranged in these articles were the work
undertaken in Lisbon, Madeira, Istanbul and
Naples.

Colonel Powell was awarded the DSO and Bar
in the 191448 War, in which he served in France.

The funeral service was at All Saints Church,
Aldershot, and although Lord Merthyr, the
Chairman of the Council, was detained inthe
House of Lords and unable to attend, the
RSPCA was represented at the funeral by Mrs
Wallis Power, VicerChairman of the Counc1l;
Mr A. W. Moss, Chief Secretary; Mr J. Hall,
Legal Secretary, and the following Inspectors:
Senior Inspector Marsh (Winchester), Inspector
Budd (Aldershot), Inspector Harland (Westmor—
land), Senior Inspector Mahony (Petersﬁeld),
Inspector Scruton (Woking), Inspector Tynan
(Newbury).

 

THE OTHER BIBLE

‘The Other Bible’ by N. J. Marr is reprinted in
leaﬂet form from the Sunday Gleaner of March
25th. A copy has been received by Animal World
from Mrs Ruth Grubb, Lilliput II, 94H Old
Hope Road, Liguanea, PO, Jamaica, BWI, from
whom copies may be obtained.

The article speaks of ‘The Gospel of the Holy
Twelve’. This contains several stories of special
interest to animal lovers.

Refugees’ Animals

The RSPCA offered to pay for the quarantine of
animals belonging to needy refugees arriving in
England from Hungary.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting: they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
oﬁfcials presenting reports: other information is given as
necessary.)

Balham and Tooting Wandsworth Common auxiliary (two
events): Highﬁeld, sale, £30; Mrs Lewards’ Infants School,
£16 12s. 6d.

(Balham Clinic) Annual sale, Mrs E. F. Taylor (joint
hon sec, Balham Animal Clinic), £153 3s. 0d.
Berkshire—Newbury and District Whist drive, Miss A.
Baylis (Winterbourne aux hon sec), £6.

Birmingham and District The Mayor’s Parlour, Dudley
Council House, presentation of a special plaque by the
Mayor of Dudley, Councillor S. Danks, to ‘Ming’, the
Pekingese who gave the alarm which saved Miss Hadlington
when her home caught ﬁre.

Blackpool Presentation of a framed certiﬁcate, by Mr C.

Derrick (hon treasurer) to Mr C. Hodgkinson in recognition
of 1118 courage in stopping a runaway horse.

Cumberland—North and East Carlisle, presentation of
framed certiﬁcate, for rescue of dog from disused quarry, by
Lady Graham (branch president) to eight men. Mr Lionel
Lightfoot (branch chairman) presided.

Abbeytown, Whist drive, Miss M. Beckton (aux hon sec),
£11 12s. 6d.

Kirkoswald, Whist drive, Mrs E. Wilde (aux hon sec), £16.
Essex—North—West Braintree, Whist drive, Miss Everitt
(Welfare Centre hon sec), £4.

Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Annual concert, Mrs
K. Turner (hon sec Park Gate aux), £40 11s. 3d.

Isle of Wight Northwood Parish Church, Animal Sunday,
conducted by Rev H. E. Strudwick, Mrs Haigh (Branch
President), collection to Branch £12 5s. 2d.

Freshwater, three churches, collections taken for Branch
funds, £6 5s. 1d.

Kent—Canterbury and District» Canterbury, dog show,
opened by Mr E. J. Mount (chairman).

 




 

12 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1957

 

Pussy Thorney-
croft—picture
from Mrs
Florence Clay

RSPCA
FILM NEWS

  

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Linton, Coulsdon, West Bergholt, Lambeth, Blackpool,

Battersea, Great Shelford, Welburn, Market Weighton,
Ascot, Sale, Bristol, Redruth, Bermondsey, Redditch,
Merstham, Willerby, Chard, Scarborough, Swanscombe,
Plymouth, Kirkstall, Nuneaton, Hurst Green, Swindon,
Bransty, Gravesend, Thorndon, Hoxton, West Drayton,
York, Winchcombe, Sidcup, Gillingham, Buckfastleigh,
Garras, Trowbridge, Penketh, Frimley, Norwich, Honey-
bourne, Taunton, Wednesﬁeld, Cambridge, West Wick-
ham, Haverfordwest, Long Ashton, Rochdale, Chingford,
Woking, Croydon, Sheerness, Stonebroom, Great Gadv
desden, Watford, Darlington, Seaford, Stoke—oanrent,
Hawksworth Wood, Chipping Sodbury, St George’s,
Mirehouse, Iver Heath, Leeds, Huddersﬁeld, Stratford—on»
Avon, East Ham, Aylesbury, Cheltenham, Kirkby Stephen,
Eton, Walthamstow, Aldeburgh, Fishguard.

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the mike
tion was made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

 

Reading Flag Day—picture sent by Miss E. M. Wadland,
branch secretary

FLAG DAYS

‘ £ 5. d.
Storrington, Mrs D. Norman, aux hon sec 10 0 O
Bromyard, Miss L. C. Kempson,aux co hon sec 20 15 10
Saltash, Miss H. P. Creba, aux hon sec 28 7 2
Yarm, Mrs E. E. Kitson 12 10 O
Westbury, Mrs Cambray, aux hon sec 23 8 4
Fishguard, Mr A. F. Boucher, branch hon sec 32 3 0
Hyde 1 17 2

Gloucester City and Rural Areas, Mrs M. V.
Nash, branch hon sec 363 15 4
Bromsgrove, Mrs J. T. Whiteley, aux hon sec 134 4 3
Widnes, Mrs Pullen, aux hon sec 79 1 6

Peterborough, Miss A. N. Hartley, branc

general sec 332 14 1
Llanidloes, Mrs G. Williams, aux hon sec 16 19 4
Welshpool, Mrs Cookson, aux hon sec 64 9 3
Mansﬁeld, Miss M. P. Cooper, aux hon sec 217 14 5
Cove, Mrs Wilson, aux hon sec 28 13 2
Farnborough North (Hants), Mrs Gritton,

auxhon sec 31 18 5
Farnborough South (Hants), Mrs Carlton,

aux hon sec 61 15 2

HOUSE TO HOUSE
:6 s. d.
New Mills, Mrs Greenwood, aux hon sec 64 4 O
Huddersﬁeld, Mrs Cumming Bell, br hon sec 422 9 2
Colchester, Dr A. Estcourt—Oswald, br hon

secretary 97 0 10

Bury St Edmunds, Mrs Francis & Mrs Hillyer 32 1 O

Bearpark and Ushaw Moor, Mrs Dixon, aux £ 5. d.
hon sec 29 17 3
Nettleham, Miss Heath, aux hon sec . . . 9 12 8
Heighington, Mrs McFall, aux hon sec 5 1 O
Trevine, Mrs E. M. Thomas 7 0 O
Dinas Cross, Miss Hallowell—Carew 3 14 10
Neyland, Mrs Lewis 11 17 4
Goodwick, Miss L. Holmes 16 4 8
Letterston, Mrs John .. 2 5 IO
Bourne, Mrs Fitzsimmons, aux hon sec 10 14 5
Welwyn Garden City, Mr P. H. Marriott,
auxhon sec 51 5 4
Northenden &Wythenshawe, Mrs Johnson,
auxhon sec 7O 14 1
Crowle, Mrs Spencer and Miss J. Pidd, co aux
hon secs 5 8 10
Newton AycliHe, Mr R. Wilson, aux hon sec 8 5 4
Buckfast, Miss B. M. Carus, aux hon sec 10 O 2
Wiltshire, Mid, Miss R. Goddard, br hon sec 19 10 9
Winchester, Mrs Lombard'Hobson, br hon sec 160 8 6
Shildon, Mrs Betty Allinson, aux hon sec 3 4 5 '
Formby, Mrs Bourhill, aux hon sec 38 3 3
Sparkford, Mrs Huttenbach, co aux hon se 2 7 6
Adderbury, Miss M. E. Jackson, aux hon sec 5 6 ll
Southport, Miss A. Richards, br hon sec 184 11 9
LARGE BEGGING—DOG
BOXES
£ 5. d.
Burnard’s Stores, Boscastle, Summer Season,
Mr S. E. Burnard, aux hon sec 22 3 4
Lido Cafe, Benllech . 10 2 4

 

Oxhey Flag Day—picture sent by Mrs Muckel't, aux
hon sec

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

B.S.P.C.A=

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex-

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@FlﬂFORMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

(LONDON) LTD BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every
All inquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone! HOP 2476(41in68) will be forwarded free of charge

Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed 13‘? Shénval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
131113115th bY John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




