 

Mar. 19.40

OUR DUAIB ANIMALS

 

 

  

First Nightcrs

JANE COFFEY

When the curtain goes down on the drama called day,
All the birds are on hand to applaud for the play.

The robins and wrens join in on a trill,

While a bob white calls from a neighboring hill.

And a red—winged blackbird with a nest in the birch
Applauds and condemns from his treetop perch.
With a basso profundo, the. frogs all say,

“Don’t forget our presence. We’ve been here all day.”
It’s quickly all over and coolness descends.

All noises have ceased, for the play now ends.

But early next morning at the break of day,

They’re ready and waiting to see what will play.

6‘ ° ,’
Jlm
WILLA HOEY

J IM” was a sick sparrow which we found in the garden
last June. We brought him to the house, doctored him,
and made him a bed in an empty bird cage, leaving the door
open, fearing that the little fellow might feel conﬁned.

In a few weeks he had become quite well. The time had
come, in our opinion, when he would wish to join his friends
outside. One sunny morning we took him to the door, and
with a measure of regret, saw him ﬂy away.

The same evening he returned to the window-ledge, and
when the door was opened ﬂew in. He hopped into his cage,
and, in sparrow fashion, requested us to cover him, which
we had been in the habit of doing during his illness.

One day he accompanied us to the park, three blocks away.
While there, he became quite interested in the birds and when
we were ready to return home Jim had disappeared. Again
we thought we had lost him, but that evening, to our great
surprise, he came home again. '

Jim still goes in and out at will, and has become one of the
family, which we hope he will continue to do, for to us his
conﬁdence is invaluable.

Aviators in Fur Coats

RALPH HADLEY

HE sun has dropped behind the horizon and the tree

trunks become indistinct in the gathering twilight. Sud-
denly, a small, shadowy form sails silently across the glade to
be swallowed up by the darkening haze on the other side. Was
it a bird, or a bat? It didn’t ﬂy like the screech owl or any
other bird of the night, nor did it dart to and fro as the bat
does in his quest for ﬂying insects—its ﬂight was a glide.
Launched from‘high up in one tree, it sailed through the air
to the trunk of another tree nearly one hundred feet away,
where it ﬁnished its ﬂight near the ground. This small ﬂier,
neither bird nor bat, is one of the most gentle dwellers in the
woodland, the ﬂying squirrel.

How does this soft fur-coated little fellow ﬂy? Or, cor-
rectly speaking, how does it glide? A heavy skin membrane
connects the front and hind legs on each side of the ﬂying
squirrel’s body, being attached to the legs down to the wrists

  

 

' )UL;. .Jl

 

“WHEN GOOD FELLOWS GET TOGETHER”

 

and ankles. The animal’s strong hind legs give it power in the
take-oﬂ" for ﬂight; it spreads its legs wide apart forming a
gliding surface which enables it to sail through the air for
distances up to 100 feet. Its descent can be controlled to a
considerable extent by its bushy tail which is used as a rudder.

Flying squirrels are sociable little creatures, and often live
in communities in abandoned bird nest holes in trees or in
hollow limbs. A supply of seeds, grain, nuts, and acorns are
usually stored near their den for food to be used during cold
weather. They are also fond of fruits and berries.

In April, three to six young are born, and a litter or two
later in the season. When captured while young, ﬂying squir—
rels tame easily and make delightful pets, though they are
most often wide-awake when their owner is asleep.

Queer Animals!

ALFRED I. TOOKE

No! This is not a list of things John Jones wants to do
for the next few days. It is a list of jumbled names of ani—
mals. See if you can arrange the letters of each one in the
proper order and ﬁnd what animals they are.

FRI SEE H THU SAM POO PIP
SAT MORE MS FRI SAFE G

SUN A PIGGIE SAT NO PEEL
MON CATS AT U SUN PIE CROP
TUES L R T MON SEE HAL C

Correct answers will be given on this page next month.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

May, 191,0
The Dog in Health and

Sickness

N the interest of the dog, we take the

following from the pamphlet entitled
“The Dog, Its Care in Health and Disease,”
issued by the Veterinary Department of
the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital:

Fleas

Spirits of camphor applied on a sponge
rubbed over the body will have the desired
effect. A powder containing 2% derris root
extract can be secured of almost any drug-
gist. This may be dusted well into the fur
twice each week. A creolin bath composed
of one teaspoonful of creolin to a quart of
warm water may be used. Still another
effective wash is the following kerosene
soap emulsion: Dissolve one-half pound of
hard soap in one gallon of boiling water.
While still hot add one-half gallon of kero-
sene and stir well until the whole is a
cream-like mixture. Use one part of this
mixture to ten parts of water as a bath.

Wounds

In the treatment of wounds do not use
drugs which are poisonous to the animal,
for a dog is subject to poisoning from
absorption, also from licking the wound.
The following is a safe procedure: When
ﬁrst noticed, paint the wound once with
tincture of iodine and dust well with dry
boracic acid powder. For future dressings
a solution of boracic acid (two teaspoonfuls
to a glass of warm water) may be used as
a wash, and dry boracic acid may be dusted
onto the wound following the washing with
the solution. A 3% Carrel-Dakin solution
is also an effective wash to use on wounds.

Worms

Puppies are subject to worms, and often-
times develop ﬁts as a result. For the
destruction of so-called round or wire
worms, use the following:

Fluid extract pink root ........... 2 drams
Fluid extract senna ............... 2 drams
Syrup orange peel ................ 2 drams
Syrup licorice root ................ 2 drams

Give a teaspoonful on the tongue every
other morning for three mornings. If a
large dog, give two teaspoonfuls.

A Font of Friendships

JOHN P. DINNENY

IGHTEEN months ago I came to the

city, a stranger from the country. I
soon discovered the cold unfriendliness of
the metropolis to be a harsh reality. Lone-
some and heartsick, I sent for my dog
whom I had left behind. I then took on a
new lease on life, began enjoying myself,
but poor “Spot” simply pined in the close
conﬁnement of leash, busy streets and
cramped apartment houses. After two
months I reluctantly came to the decision
that the city was no place for the little
fellow, and sent him back to his beloved
lots and hills.

But that is not the main point of my
story. Spot’s short stay greatly helped me
to adapt myself to metropolitan life, not so
much from his presence alone, but rather
from the friends and acquaintances I made
directly through him. It once again illus—
trates the universal appeal dogs make to

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

BORN IN ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL

Page ’71

care and marvelous efﬁciency,
the goat dog hazes them toward
the bedding grounds, where
they will be safe from Nma-
rauding coyotes and bobcats
for the night.

As the goats approach the
pens, the dog bounds ahead to
clear the way for their com-
ing. He dashes at a ﬂock of
chickens, as if they might
harm his goats. They ﬂee to
cover. He barks at the milk
cow, to make her move on. He
charges at the mules, baying
loudly. The mules sometimes
will paw or kick or bite his
goats.

An old bull stands in the
way. The dog nips him in the
nose, pinches his hocks. The
old bull bellows in anger, but
he makes way for the goats
the dog is bringing in.

The goats trail into the pens,
snifﬁng and snorting and rat-
tling the loose stones with their
little hard hoofs. A light cloud
of hoof-pounded dust hangs
suspended in the air behind

 

all manner of men, and the power they
possess to draw folks together in congenial
brotherhood.

Hardly a day passed, when exercising
Spot, that I did not strike up several ac-
quaintances. Instinctively, it seemed, other
dog lovers on the same chore and myself
were drawn together to talk about our pets,
the weather, and eventually other topics.
And many who were not owners lingered,
stopped, with a friendly pat, a “nice dog,”
“wish I had one.” Their faces, ordinarily
masked by the city’s callousness, would
light up in a shy wistful smile, and in those
moments I’d glimpse the collective heart
of mankind in all its eagerness to seek
everything that is noble and good if given
the opportunity.

These daily rounds of exercising Spot
laid the foundations of several valued and
enduring friendships. Gratefully I thank
him, now happily roaming his beloved coun-
tryside. And sometimes when I get think-
ing way up in the clouds, I give every man
a dog—rich, poor, black, white, Republican,
Democrat, in fact every opposite, and turn
them all loose on an exercising stroll. Then
I like to imagine the solution of all our
many problems in a spirit of tolerance and
understanding based upon a dog-inspired
camaraderie. But here the sense of reality
intervenes. Yet of such stuﬁ dreams are
made, and to the majority of people
throughout the world today, dreams are
mankind’s only remaining benison.

Goat Dog
FRED GIPSON

T is sundown at the S. K. Fowler ranch,

on the San Antonio River, not far from
the little town of Kenedy, Texas. Out of the
mesquite and retama brush, singly, in pairs,
in threes, fours and dozens, stream the
herd of short-haired spotted goats. They
move toward the night pens.

Barking at a laggard here, nipping gent-
ly at a heel there, working with loving

them.

Maybe the ranchman is close by to shut
the gate after the goats. Maybe not. It
doesn’t matter. The dog has put them
there, and he won’t let them out before
morning. He may trot out to the horse
trough to lap a thirsty tongue in the water.
He may go to the kitchen door for a hand-
out of food from the ranch cook. But al-
ways he keeps an eye on the goats. And
the moment one ventures out of the pen,
he dashes back to round it in.

The goat dog sleeps in the pen with his
charges, where he can protect them during
the night. For the life of the goats is his
life. Was he not nursed by a mother goat
from the time he was born? Hasn’t he lived
with the goats, rambled with them, guarded
them from beasts of prey, loved them like
a dog will love anything he’s given a chance
to love? His love for the goats is the only
love he has ever known. And every warm-
blooded creature must have something to
love.

Not even a man dare disturb the goat
herd when it is feeding out in the brush.
Not, if he’s a stranger. Somehow, a good
goat dog—and there are many in South
Texas—seems to understand about a
rancher and his ownership of the animals
on his land. But a stranger, in the sight
of a goat dog, is no different from a pan-
ther or a hungry wolf. Let a man seek to
catch a goat out of the old dog’s ﬂock, and
he will be met with the same ﬁerce recep—
tion from this staunch defender.

It is a good lesson in faith and love and
loyalty for one to watch how fondly a South
Texas goat dog takes care of the goats he
lives with and how he will risk his life any
time, day or night, to see that no harm
comes to one of them.

The fruition of the greatest art will
never civilize the world. . . . When we learn
to be kind to animals we will be kind to our
neighbors. The day of wars will pass. It
does mean changing human nature, a slow
process, but it can be done.

MINNIE MADDERN FISKE

 

 

 




Nov. 1940

The Old Horse in the Country

ALICE DICKINSON ROBINSON

Day is a furrow to cut, a load to haul;

The chafe of breeching, jerk and slap of
rein; p

A field where halt with spavin, lame with
gall,

I plod till sunset through forbidden grain.

Night is a shaft of darkness sun to sun;

A bed of straw, a bin of hay and oats:

The stable calm, the sweating harness
slung,

The breath of cows, the lazy snore of shoats.

Youth is a lively hoof, an arching neck,

A supple mouth hard taught to hold the bit.

Age is a leathery hide, a loosened check:

The blinker gone . . . the eyes gone blind
from it.

Death is a lane beyond the stable door

Where crupperlessand free from thill and
neap,

My tail untied to switch forever more,

I roll at last beneath the stars and leap

Toward Heaven, a field of millet, ribboned
blue

With water running past a ferny bed . . . .

In Heaven a horse may sleep. The iron shoe

Hangs in the barn for luck when the old
are dead.

A Code for Sportsmen

1. Never in sport endanger human life.

2. Never kill wantonly, or needlessly or
brutally.

3. Obey the laws of state and nation,
work for better laws, and uphold the en-
forcing authorities.

4. Respect the rights of farmers and
property owners and also their feelings.

5. Always leave seed birds and game in
cover.

6. Discourage the killing of game for
commercial purposes by refusing to pur-
chase trophies.

7. Study and record the natural history
of game species in the interest of science.

8. Never throw down a lighted match, or
cigarette. Put out your camp ﬁre.

9. Love nature and its denizens and be
a gentleman.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Canary’s Long Flight

NCREDIBLE as it may appear, there is

ample proof that a tiny canary ﬂew from
San Diego to Los Angeles, a distance of
over 125 miles. The story of the bird’s long
ﬂight, originally chronicled in the Tribune-
Sun, San Diego, of August 22, has been
fully veriﬁed.

When Mrs. Edith Arris moved to Los
Angeles, where she had formerly lived with
her eight-year—old canary named “Pat,” she
left the bird in care of Mrs. Lillian Wil-
liams of San Diego. In mid-July the bird
escaped from its open cage and disappeared.
After a few days it was given up for lost.
But such was not to be its fate. Its homing
instinct gave strength sufﬁcient to ﬂy the
long trail.

About two weeks later Pat was picked up
in Los Angeles by a kindly woman only a
few blocks away from his former home.
Bruised and weakened after his heroic or-
deal, he was taken to a pet shop for treat-
ment. A few days later Mrs. Arris visited
the shop on an errand for her neighbor and
had her attention called to the crippled bird.
Recognition was mutual between Pat and
his mistress.

Complete identiﬁcation was assured al—
most instantly by an old scar on one of the
bird’s legs caused by injury. One can but
imagine the joy of the brave little canary
and his owner in being reunited.

Deer vs. Automobilists

While many of the sportsmen who spend
their vacations or week-ends tramping
through the forests of northern California
in search of deer are ﬁnding it hard pick-
ing, the automobilists who merely wish to
go places are being menaced by these same
deer. Game Warden Earl Hiscox of Grass
Valley says that more deer are killed by
automobiles than by hunters in his terri—
tory. He estimates that during the past year
about one hundred and twenty deer were
killed by cars on the Tahoe—Ukiah highway,
with the record standing at six in one night
on the road near Nevada City, California.
Perhaps if hunters carried dazzling head—
lights to confuse their prey they could
compete more successfully with mere trav-
elers. But would that be sport—to say
nothing of sportsmanship. E. B. T.

Page 167

Tribute to Mrs. Kendall

N connection with the dedication of me-

morial tablets to Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall
and Roscoe F. Proctor with suitable exer-
cises before a large company in the Proctor
Cemetery for Animals at Nashua, N. H.,
September 29 last, the Telegraph of that
city carried this leading editorial:

Dedication of memorial tablets to M.
Jennie Kendall and to Roscoe F. Proctor at
the Animal cemetery was a ﬁtting tribute.

It recalled the long years of unremitting
vigilant effort made by Mrs. Kendall, of a
real crusader spirit, in the battle against
cruelties to animals (and unfortunate chil-
dren as well) which placed her in the front
rank of humane workers in this state.

Her energy and effort led Mr. Proctor,
himself an ardent advocate for enforcement
of humane laws, to give the land for its
unique purpose, a burial place for family
pets. It is the only one of the kind in the
state; at the time of its establishment, one
of the very few in the country.

The grand life work of Mrs. Kendall car-
ries on. The lot of all animals hereabouts
is better, the sympathy and concern of all
of us in cases of neglect and cruelty to chil-
dren is sharper because of her unceasing
struggle.

These tablets to Mrs. Kendall and to: Mr.
Proctor in this cemetery for animals are
tokens of appreciation therefor in endur-
ing stone and metal.

Besides serving a long term as president
of the New Hampshire Humane Society,
Mrs. Kendall was for many years a director
of the American Humane Education Society.

New Style Calendar

The 1941 Humane Calendar is of an en-
tirely new design, with colored picture of
a boy and a dog, 8 X 10 inches, and a
straight pad, 2%. by 41/2 inches, all mounted
on a light green cardboard, 11 X 16 inches,
mailed ﬂat. Price, 15 cts. each; six for 80
cts.; 12 for $1.50, postpaid. It is the most
attractive calendar we have ever put out,
and is a product of the nationally known
Osborne Company. Special prices to Soci-
eties wishing their own imprint, if orders
are received at once. Address, American
Humane Education Society, Boston.

 

MRS. DAPHNE SAMS OF BUCKINGHAMSHIRE, ENGLAND, AND SOME OF HER SHETLAND PONIES
(From a “Globe Photo” taken before the present war)

 

 




 

 

 

 

Sept. 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 
  

 

A Lost Kitten’s Plea

BESS LEVINE

Have mercy on me, please, kind sir,
And do not put me out;

’T is such a dark and stormy night,
With not a soul about.

A little nook is all I need,
To curl right up and sleep.

Perchance a mouse might show his head,
And then I’ll earn my keep.

Animal Masquerade
STANLEY s'rorz

ALTHOUGH Australia is the smallest continent, it has
the largest variety of animals in the world. If one each
of all the different kinds of animals in Australia were assem-
bled in one place, there would be a veritable animal masquer—
ade party.

The most peculiar creature in Australia, or in the world for
that matter, is the duckbill or platypus. Without its head,
the platypus looks like a mole, but completely assembled it
has a bill just like a duck, webbed feet, fur instead of feathers,
and it lays eggs in a nest from which its young are hatched.
Call it what you will, it is still Nature’s queerest freak. In no
other place in the world is this animal found.

A close “runner-up” for the title of queerest is the koala or
honey “bear.” Although the koala poses as a bear, he is not a
member of the bear family. His nearest relatives are spiders.
The koala is small, and looks like a child’s plush teddy bear
come suddenly to life. Like baby kangaroos, baby koalas are
carried in the mother’s pouch until old enough to ride on her
back.

If your were to see a rabbit that looked like a miniature
kangarOo, you could call it a bandicoot, but the Australian
bandicoot is actually a member of the rat family, despite its
rabbit-like ears and whiskers and its kangaroo habits.

Another masquerader in Australia is the feather-tailed ﬂy-
ing mouse which perches in trees. When quiet, its tail of ﬁne
fur hangs down and looks just exactly like the tail feathers
of a bird. This fellow does not really ﬂy, but makes long leaps
like the ﬂying squirrel. What looks like wings, is simply thin
skin membrane which is stretched out when in ﬂight.

All of the animals in Australia are gentle and live on foli-
age, with one exception. This is the dingo dog. The dingo is
the only ﬂesh-eating animal in Australia. When pressed with
hunger, they will band together and attack a ﬂock of sheep,
but most of the time they harass only the small and harmless
animals.

We cannot leave this masquerade party without mentioning
a relative of the great gray kangaroo that has taken to living
in trees. The tree kangaroo is smaller and darker in color
than the gray kangaroo and can negotiate some of the most
difﬁcult tree-climbing stunts with the utmost safety. It can
be said that they can “look down” on their clumsy cousins of
the plains.

   

o

.. «If? -
.‘VN'n, u'
3W"

.
:-..;
.9 ,

41’,

 

 

' wu. .Jt

 

Company for Dinner
B E R N A R D L.

KOBEL

D ID you ever have dinner all set on the table and then
have company pop in unexpectedly? Well, from appear-
ances, that is just what has happened here, for the little girl
of Melbourne, Australia, has started on her lunch and look
who dropped in. Mrs. Koala Bear and her two children. One
of the baby bears still holds on to his mother’s back as they
always do when youngsters, but the other one has climbed off
the mother’s back to go over and see what food is made of.

It was these tiny bears that were used as models for the
“Teddy Bear” of a generation ago and which caused the sen-
sation among toy buyers as did the recent imitation of the
panda. The koala is protected in Australia by law because
heartless men were shooting the harmless little fellows and

they were fast disappearing until action was taken to protect
them.

My Cafeteria
ADELAIDE BLANTON

I have a cafeteria,
I feed my callers free,

And all they need to do is come,
And that is pay for me.

The menu always diﬂers some
From bread to bits of grain,
I try to keep them satisﬁed
So they will call again.

I often tie some suet fresh
Upon a limb or stick,

And that aﬂords a banquet fine,
They come and pick and pick.

You may by now quite understand
The kind of guests I feed,

They are my little feathered friends
Who are so fond of seed.

 

 

 




 

 

June, 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

  

Little Houses
ALOYSIUS COLL

“I have a house,” said the Chickadee;
“A little green twig in a hawthorne tree;
Room for a nest and babies three—
That is my house, and it just suits me!”

“I have a house,” the woodchuck said;
“A hole in the ground, with a little bed
Of leaves and grass, and overhead

A garden of clover white and red!”

“I have a house that is bright and neat,”
The goldﬁsh said, “in a window seat;

A little glass bowl that is lake and sea
And bed and board for a ﬁsh like me!”

“These are our houses,” declared the three—
The woodchuck, ﬁsh and the Chickadee;

“And we love our homes in the little glass bowl,
The little green tree and the little round hole.”

A Good Deed for the Birds

FRED CORNELIUS

T HE day was the hottest that Betty had ever seen here
on the desert. The heat waves danced up from the dry
earth and almost scorched her face. She put her hand on a
rock that lay at the side of the yard and drew it back quickly.

“Why that rock is quite hot? enough to cook on,” she said
in surprise.

A few sparrows ﬂew up into the cottonwood tree and sat
under the leaves with their mouths wide open, panting for
breath, and their wings held away from their hot little bodies.

“The poor things! I wish I could help them,” said Betty.

And then she thought of something. Perhaps the birds
wanted a drink. She turned on the yard hose and let the water
run under the big cottonwood tree. It formed a puddle and
made a cool, gurgling sound like a running brook.

Betty sat on the porch step and waited to see what would
happen. Soon a sparrow ﬂew down and plunged his hot beak
into the cool water. It drank and drank, and then took a good
cool bath in the water.

It was soon joined by a dozen other sparrows and a few
house ﬁnches. They all drank and splashed in the water. Then
they ﬂew back up into the tree and started preening their
feathers. They seemed quite happy and refreshed, and the
little girl was happy, too, as she ran into the house to tell her
mother about it.

“I must give them a drink every day, as long as this hot
spell lasts,” she said, with her eyes sparkling.

“Yes,” agreed her mother, “that will be a wonderful thing
to do.”

Do not throw bottles, broken glass, nails or cuttings from
tin into the street. Children, as well as animals, may be
wounded by such thoughtlessness. Always think of the
results of your action.

 
 

 

\d

.ll )ll\k\\ﬁlL-.zL.-.....

 

' lULL. "(L

“Oscar,” the Penny Dog
CHARLOTTE M. TEMPLE

SCAR” is just a little black-and-white terrier—mutt dog,

not very big and not very beautiful as dog beauty goes;

but he is the most popular canine in the town of Salem, Vir—
ginia, or of the entire Roanoke County, for that matter.

He is known as the “penny dog” because since he was a

puppy he has been a collector of pennies which he promptly

 

OSCAR SEARCHING FOR HIS PENNY

carries home and deposits in a big wooden cigar box provided
for the purpose. His master, F. G. Whiticar, better known as
“Cy,” operates a pool room in this college town of Salem.

Every student, co-ed and man-about-town knows that Oscar
likes pennies, and if these are tossed to him, will chase them
down with utter disregard as to whether they be Lincolns or
Indians, and of whatever mintage. It can be truthfully stated
that Oscar never looses the scent. Other coins do not interest
him in the least. Since he was a year—old puppy, he has paid
for his own food and bought his license. When his license
becomes due, the county clerk looks for Oscar to enter his
ofﬁce carrying a bag containing 100 pennies. Surrendering
this he runs home with the tag he has purchased.

He has not yet been levied an income tax although his pres—
ent balance shows about $70 in his bank.

He is devoted to his mistress, Mrs. Whiticar, who says he
is now seven years old and a. very happy little dog because he
has always been treated kindly and allowed to lead a dog’s
life, hampered by no more strenuous conventions than the
highly decorated harness which he wears.

Three times Oscar has been “dog-napped,” but being a well—
known dog, each time some one recognized him and advised
his master of his whereabouts. He is white, marked with a
black eye, black ear and half-saddle of black on his right
side, has a blaCk nose and left ear tipped with black.

 

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1940

The Sybarite

‘RUTH PAGE

Rajah climbs on roofs of slate
Thinks nine lives a joyous fate;
Eyes of sapphire, coat of sable,
Purrs as only he is able;

Langnid beast in roses lying,
Somnolence alone belying.

M onkey-like he runs along,
Hearing some far eastern song,
Leaves vexed spiders in his wake
For feathered cobwebs round him shake;
Wanders to a leaf-strewn glade,
Settles silent in the shade,
Glancing once toward working bees,
Smiles and sleeps, Lord Siamese.

A Life-Saver Cat

G.P.RONICKE

N the large farms in this semi-arid sec-

tion of North Dakota, life is a struggle.
Cats and dogs have to prove their worth
besides being pets. Cats and dogs cannot
be coddled as in cities and towns. Dogs
don’t live so long because of the rigors; the
weather and cattle are rough on dogs. But
cats—their job is to keep down the mice
and rat population. Relax on vigilance in
this direction, then your grain and other
stuff is gravely endangered. You have to
keep cats whether you have an aversion to
felines or not. You all know the casualty
on cats is high.

’Twas a worthless cat that stood by when
Marianne was threatened by a rattler. The
baby girl repeatedly reported to her busy
mother that this object of her interest went
“pth-th.”

“Oh, that’s only a grasshopper; go and
play,” was the mother’s indulgent answer
in dismissing the child.

After the third time, there was an un-
mistakable rattle. The mother, horriﬁed,
rushed to the scene, fearing the worst.
There stood the worthless cat, between the
coiled rattler and the curious child, with a
paw poised in readiness to halt the strike.

Needless to say, the snake was summa-
rily destroyed. A new appreciation for cats
has taken place.

 

“BENNIE,” NINETEEN YEARS OLD

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 119

Do Not Let This Happen to Your Pet!

 

It’s all gone, Mister!
My folks are gone, too!

Two Cats and a Radio

EDITH H.1MORRELL

NIMALS act so much like us human

beings sometimes that we’re bound to
be either amazed or amused. I think I was
both when I saw the reaction of our two
cats to our ﬁrst radio.

“Murphy,” a young cat with a yellow
coat and big amber eyes, walked in non-
chalantly, wiggled his ears back and forth
as sweet music tickled his hearing, stared
at the radio, crooked the tip of his tail a
time or two, then drifted over and sat
down in front of the thing. And there he
stayed as long as the sweet music lasted,
turning ﬁrst one ear, then the other, wav-
ing his tail gently, giving every sign of
pleasure. He was young enough to take
this amazing world as he found it, no matter
what strange gadget turned up, as long as
it showed no signs of being an enemy.

The ﬁrst time voices came out of that
brown box he was amazed indeed. His eyes
dilated, his ears pointed abruptly forward.
He rose cautiously and looked behind the
radio. Seeing no one, he lashed his tail
a time or two, glared at his mistress as if
he thought she was playing tricks on him,
and stalked away. After that he paid no
attention to voices but he always listened
when violins played.

But with “Chad” it was something else
again. Good gracious, yes!‘ Chad was old
and gray and full of years, Wise in the ways
of the world. And he knew men’s voices
didn’t come out of brown boxes. They
simply didn’t, that was all! He glared
suspiciously when music poured from the
radio, but when men’s voices boomed out
from that funny box, it was too much. Up
went Chad’s back, every hair on end, his
tail ballooned straight up in the air. He
glared for a moment in stark terror just
as you or I might do if we’d never heard
of a radio. Then he bolted for the door, mak-
ing a wide swath as far away from that
uncanny thing as he could get. He gave
that radio a wide berth from then on. To
get rid of Chad, all we had to do was to
turn on the radio and away went the cat.

I’m hungry and I’m thirsty——
What shall I do?

Dogs Do Reason
BLANCHE BUTLER

HAVE had many smart dogs, but “Dock”

is the smartest yet. One of the things
I have always tried to impress upon him is
cleanliness in his eating habits. I always
feed him in his own tin dish on the back
porch, and he will seldom eat anything
which he ﬁnds on the ground.

Down the street from our house, how—
ever, lives a friend of mine who is very
fond of Dock, and he formed the habit of
saving choice bones and meat scraps and
tossing them out to Dock whenever the dog
appeared at his back door, as often hap-
pened. Having no dish handy, and suppos-
ing it to be a matter of unimportance
anyway, he threw the meat on the ground
and thought no more about it. Although
well fed at home, it was hard for my dog,
true to his nature, to refuse good meat, so
he always ate it and came back next day
for more.

Although eating the meat, Dock had evi—
dently done some serious thinking while he
ate. One day, in answer to a knock at my
door, I opened it, and there stood my friend
on the porch, holding a tin dish in his
hand. “I found this on my back porch this
morning,” he said. It looks to me very much
like the dish I have seen you feed Dock in.
Have you missed his dish?”

Being a rather late riser, I had not yet
gone out to feed my dog, so we went to-
gether to the back porch and found the dish
gone from its usual place. Just then Dock
came bounding around the corner with a
tell—tale look on his face, as much as to
say, “Well, I certainly did the right thing
this time, didn’t I?”

He had evidently decided at last that my
friend had no dishes, and as it was strictly
against his principles to eat longer from
off the ground, he took- his own dish to the
neighbor, conﬁdent that I would provide
him with another dish at home. This was
certainly as sensible reasoning as that of
any human could have been, and after this
Dock was able to obey his laws of cleanli-
ness in his eating both at home and abroad.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

. n.‘
9)“:

v u- . - '..'_'.'.'.'._i..‘n.:.u .4-.:.‘at{".l.a'£€.al "Ca-'u‘.«it‘dﬁbrin/LIiittniiﬂvﬂwhliﬂ‘lé-i‘..'-"-‘.‘vhvﬁlt'ﬁlﬁlﬁiﬂd ‘EUJQBII‘WV-szfluul.' wi'uélum-«ut‘wv"~~2«’ -i..'...........---' ”mud-w" .. '«
Dec.19[;0 OUR DUMB ANIMALS

»_ , r 75”,,
{‘13
‘3“.4 )“ a? ' “’4‘
, ya x {‘35-'41
_, 4 . II ,2

. . m:
t r

- 5:4

- ‘2:

_. 9-,
bit—x

. )1.

 

 

 

 

 

Will Santa Claus Come this Year?

Y EIS, dear children, we are happy to say that Santa Claus
will come again this year, we trust to every home in
this happy country of ours. But how about the children in
many [of the other lands—those across the sea where the
monster of War is daily devouring so many of them? Will
he come to the children of Norway, of Denmark, of Holland,
of Belgium, of Germany, [of Japan, of China, of Italy, of
Greece, of France, of England? We wish with all our hearts
that we could say he will come to all children, everywhere.
When you receive your presents this Christmas, will you not
think of the children of other lands, not so fortunate as you?
And will you not offer up a devout prayer that the Prince
of Peace may come speedily to this troubled world and give
every child its right to security, happiness and all the joys
of Christmas?

Church Gives Medal to Dog

An Associated Press dispatch from Chandlerville, Illinois,
says that the shining silver medal worn by Mrs. Gretchen
Aney’s German shepherd dog, “Rin Tin,” proves he is a model
church goer. The Congregational Church gave him the medal
for ten years’ regular attendance at Sunday—school. Since
1930, when the dog started going to church with Mrs. Aney’s
children, he has not missed a Sunday, always occupying the
same spot in the front of the church auditorium and accom-
panying the primary class to its Sunday-school service.

.‘ ’,
via-"a. ‘ "

. L91..- . ‘ ‘. .
x . - .- .
. M y .. .
.. , . r . _| .
n - ‘ —

8—1! :5: Ian-3:“;

€351.14» Cr: '
‘.. .. .32.
m.~.§-

m
9 .m' I 1%,» i.

'- .x‘ﬁzx‘i g;- - 55‘???“
.. «‘2 "q.~'—t“:o— ‘3:-

I' . 4‘ -. - ‘
a - _ =..--_ .2 .- _ . - '..
' ‘:§"o: ~' - 1‘". .

“sﬁ'.
‘1”
T‘rex .- x

_ .

.: .
Gas-.W . A
D; a , . 4 r _
'ﬁkﬁz‘ ‘... A
‘omaw

“’ .t‘v"

‘9' an .-
N

#3:?

...
.g iv
,. 4-
‘4‘”:
u..-
‘bf—ﬁrt,.

a?
0‘ .
.. ,y.‘
-u—a— .
.1
«41435234:

. w:.'\. 1.
‘33:.

~. ‘> . .
.' “‘3‘ “3,;
. . . .4. 9"
' Q
. ~ -
“a. ‘41” a

a ‘-
‘ f

"4'
my.
5; ‘33:

:0
.25! 'r- .
W

v
!

 

‘5, n
9—8.1 n

.‘Y‘
5

/ ‘*‘:‘EE‘.:}:';:I":

..

 

THE LONG-AWAITED VISIT

 

Letter from a Little Refugee

 

 

l LEONA HAHN

s ‘ Dear God:
5 My puppy’s in the raid—
H e is so awfully afraid
Of shells and bombs and battle guns;
'5 He always lifts ihis ears and runs
Around in circles like he’s mad;
You’ll know him, God, just call him “Lad”—

w .< . .- m4”. ; < - -.- - - ‘ 1‘ ‘ ‘

’ ’;/f '_ 4 .',,1 . . kw" _ A _,. 4 ~ . _ '$. . v r g”. ;_ .
5w" .r~ ,. Ain't! 3:. -, '7 ‘ .- _..; : ‘1'" I- = - '
‘ ‘ '. $.34» as": ‘ 3'. : c. .. f'--' ‘ -- R" 1. 4‘ '

l

l That’s his name—please hold him tight; 1.;
‘é He’s such a little bitsy mite.
3 Please, God, don’t let the soldiers kill '

My little dog!
With love,
from Bill

Answers to “The Queer Birds” puzzle last month: 1. Pigeon.
2. Widgeon. 3. Godwit. 4. Bobwhite. 5. Oystercatcher. 6. .
Shearwater. 7. Waxwings. 8. Nightingale. 9. Penguin. 10. ;
Linnet. 11. Tanager. 12. Bittern. 13. Pheasant. 14. Meadow-
larks. 15. Yellowhammers. 16. Cormorant. 17. Spoonbill.
6 18. Condor.

 

 

tln’ﬂ ~ "“"’"11.'3=""'1w-;f
M3 \S‘P’W' ' k #4‘
_.- ....‘“- 1.: % _ H...

-\ \ . ( \.\.’ f "2“

.. .. .. .. . . .. wwmsmmimwwsrv‘w is We -
' _ i. .- .~ -. . 1..., w... W, .. '

yr-ztrrrr.~-‘.'uz- 'v,‘< mg: "~ ':~»",;7u,.1is.-u.t;r'r~tmz .7 '. ' " "
my? “M“"W‘l; ' NZ?“ "f'SY-l'lr53y-w..§1~;§'.3.."”-= ‘ "3 L “
1 ,. u." . .| .~. .1 :v ~f.~n\m‘ ., '. >z ~' '

 




Feb. 1940
Dog’s Life

INEZ GEORGE GRIDLEY

Mine is a life of silken ease:

I’ve never scratched plebeian fleas

Or chnmmed with vulgar common dogs,
0r dag for rabbits under logs.

In general, I am content

But there’s one thing I do resent:

My lady calls me “Lamb” or “Pet”

0r “Sweetie Pie.” Please don’t forget

I often hang my head in shame

And wish she’d call me by my name!

Lost or Stolen?
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

N the “Lost and Found” columns of our

newspapers one can ﬁnd frequently ad-
vertisements asking for the return of dogs
that are lost. The majority of the adver-
tisements offer substantial rewards for the
return of such dogs. But just how many
of these dogs were really lost? The habit
of dog owners in allowing their pets to run
along the streets off their leashes has often
brought their dogs into the hands of dog-
snatchers. Many times these dog—snatchers
are employed by men who offer them small
sums of money for each good breed of dog
they can pick up. These men then either
sell the dog or, if the owner offers a sub-
stantial reward in the paper that would be
more than they could sell the dog for, they
return it for the reward. Owners of the
small type breeds of dog are more in dan—
ger of losing their pets than the owners of
the larger breeds, such as the police dog,
Great Dane, or similar breed that would be
certain to resent being snatched up by a
stranger. However the Pekingese, Scotty,
Boston, Pomeranian or poodle are the more
desirable kinds to the dog-snatcher. Many
times cars are used for preying on dogs on
country roads. Many of these expensive
dogs are allowed to roam along the roads
and it takes but a moment for a dog-
snatcher to step out of his car, pick up
the dog, and speed away to the city. These
dog-snatchers are well informed as to the
type of breed that they will ﬁnd easiest to
dispose of. Female dogs are less often
snatched, as the male dog is much more in
demand by purchasers. It is a good plan
for all dog owners to examine their dogs
closely for any particular markings so they
can be sure of identiﬁcation in the event
that someday they see their dog in the cus-
tody of a new owner. Many dog owners
even go so far as to take several good pic-
tures of their dogs at different angles for
just such an eventuality. Watch your dog
closely lest he fall into the clutches of the
dog thief!

Poet: “Why do you think I can’t sell
anything? Don’t I put enough ﬁre into my
verses?”

Friend: “Excuse me, but frankly, I think
you don’t put enough verses into your ﬁre.”

Scotchman (at riding academy) : “I wish
to rent a horse.”
Groom: “How long?”
The Scotchman: “The longest you’ve got,
laddie. There be ﬁve of us goin’.”
—Utah Farmer

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 23

 

“Queenie,” the Depot Mascot

JANE RA WLEY

BOUT twenty-two years ago this

fall, a collie puppy wandered into the

Roper yards of the Denver and Rio
Grande Western Railroad, Salt Lake City,
Utah. No one seems to know now where
she came from or why she chose this
rather barren spot for her home. But from
that time to this, 1917 to 1940, she has
faithfully served as guard, mascot, and
companion to the men working their shifts
from that station. Besides these duties, she
has found time to raise many litters of
from nine to ten puppies each. They say
that one can ﬁnd “Queenie’s” descendants
in scores of homes in Salt Lake Valley.

Back in her young and active days, the
station was quite far from houses, and a
grove of trees near by made a convenient
“jungle” for tramps. Queenie would have
none of it, however, and bravely chased all
intruders away. They say, too, that she
could tell a railroad man, always, but that
all others had better keep their distance.
She suffered no caresses or attention save
from her chosen associates. She would run
a mile or so down the tracks to lead the
trains in each day. She got to know when
certain trains were due and would wait for
her favorite engineers in hopes of a tidbit
or a pat on the head. '

A few years ago when the natural slow-
ing-up of age came upon her, Queenie had
her ﬁrst accident. Failing to judge distance
accurately, a train backing up in the yard
severed her tail. The men of the yards
straightway took up a collection to pay her
doctor and hospital bills. And recently,
when the dogcatcher picked her up, the
men again came to her aid with the license
fee. It is a yearly custom now.

When she ﬁrst came to the yards, a
frame building stood near the tracks.
Under this she lived her domestic life,
raised her puppies, and kept warm during
the winter because of the stoves in the
rooms above. This building has given way
to a modern brick one, now, with no place

under it for a dog. But Queenie still
spends most of her time lying on the gravel
where the original building stood. The men
look serious when they watch her now——
they wonder if she can stand the cold: and
snow of another winter.

Queenie is in wonderful condition for a
dog of her advanced age—her teeth are
gone but her sense of smell and taste must
be very active. One sniﬂ“ at a piece of
candy I held out to her was sufﬁcient—
stranger to her or not, she took it from
my hand. She seems to hear fairly well,
too; answers immediately to her name. And
while she likes best to lie comfortably in
the sun these chilly days, she can run fast
enough to keep out of range of a camera
as I found out when I ﬁrst tried to get her
picture. And she still likes to be petted by
her favorites, the men at the railroad
yards, though she resignedly let me pat
her head once or twice—after she had eaten
the candy. So, despite her twenty-two years
(which would equal 132 years of human
age, according to the six to one ratio given
by Albert Payson Terhune, the collie ex-
pert) she seems to be enjoying life. And
with her railroad pals, I join in saying,
“Many more happy years of railroad life,
Queenie!”

Why We Like Dogs

The most patient thing in the world is
your dog, waiting for hours at the top
of the stairs to hear the sound of your
footsteps, never complaining however late
you may be.

The most forgiving thing in the world
is your dog. The one virtue most humans
lack is that of forgiveness. But your dog
carries no grudge and no spite. Punish
him even undeservedly, and he comes to
you, nudges his moist nose into your hand,
looks up at you with pleading eyes, and
wags his tail hesitatingly as though to say,
“Oh, come on, let’s be pals again.”

CAPT. WILL JUDY

 




 

  

The American . Ofﬁcers of Both Societies The Massachusetts Society
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President FOR THE
Humane Education Society GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY 8; STOREY

 

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

  
  
   

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
170-184 Longwood Avenue. Boston

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by CEO. T. ANGELL in 1868

Ofﬁcial organ of all our Societies

 
 

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0

AND MERCY T0 "1b
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

«7‘
g
t“

E?

 
      

 

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman, Finance Com.,

, United Shoe Machinery Corp.
CHARLES E. SPENCER, J R.. President, First National Bank of Boston

Receiving no aid from city, state or community fund, the Societies are supported by
gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;
Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual, $1.;
Children’s $0.75. '

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free.

.The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even
than in the cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

.The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931, and a Clinic at Attleboro, in Octo-

ber, 1938. _Altogether we have treated 668,987 animals, 189,976 in the two Hospitals and
479,011 in the three Dispensaries.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 48

Report of the President
(Continued from page 44)

pieces of literature were distributed and
nearly 3,000 Jack London Club pledges ob-
tained. There were a number of humane
articles in county and state newspapers.

Florida a Fertile Field

The work of the Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth in
Florida is constantly extending in its scope.
Besides visiting nearly 100 towns and or-
ganizing 463 Bands of Mercy, he gave 74
talks before conferences and other assem—
blies. He also reached many people through
the use of the loud speaker. More than
18,000 pupils and 14,000 adults listened to
his messages of kindness. His practical
work included the rescue of dogs_ and a
successful protest against permitting dog

racing in Volusia County. He visited ﬁll- .,

ing stations, libraries, police and ﬁre head—
quarters, convict camps, CCC camps and
children’s hospitals, distributing literature
freely.

Humane Educational Exhibits

Mrs. Park, working from Palo Alto, Cali-
fornia, continued her Western Press Bu-
reau service by supplying copy each month
to hundreds of newspapers. She held ex-
hibits of humane literature, with free dis—
tribution, at meetings of the National Edu-
cation Association, the American Library
Association, and the West Coast Confer-
ence for Peace and Security, all in San
Francisco; at the annual meeting of the
State Humane Association, in Palo Alto;
at meetings of the American League to
Abolish Capital Punishment, in Palo Alto
and in San Francisco; and at teachers’
conventions held in various cities, at sev-
eral of which she gave humane addresses.
She reSponded to many requests for leaf-
lets, calendars and books.

Volunteer Workers for the Society

The Chicago Humane Education Society,
Mrs. E. C. Dow, president, co-operates
heartily with our Society. Mrs. Dow works
through the Federation of Women’s Clubs
and has been unfailing in efforts to obtain
more humane methods in the slaughter of
food animals, to prevent the sale of toy
guns to children, and to get convictions for
those guilty of stealing dogs.

Mrs. Dorothy F. Krahl, a volunteer
worker in Chicago, was instrumental in
organizing 1,296 Bands of Mercy during
the year.

Miss Blanche Finley, a former full-time
worker for the Society, has returned to
Richmond, Virginia, where she gives part
of her time to promoting humane education.
She distributed a large quantity of litera-
ture and arranged for 125 free subscrip—
tions to Our Dumb Animals to be sent to
schools in Virginia.

Some of Our Foreign Contacts

Mr. N. B. Matta, president of the Ori—
ental Humane Education Society, Lebanon,
despite the war menace in Europe, has con-
tinued to visit villages in Syria and Pales-
tine and to give lectures on humaneness
and the care of animals in time of war. A
Band of Mercy was organized in the Na-
tional Episcopal Secondary School at Bassa,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Palestine. Mr. S. C. Batra, as our foreign
representative in India, lectures on humane
education and organizes Bands of Mercy.
A new foreign representative is Senor E.
J. H. Escobar of Colombia, with head-
quarters at Cali, where a new animal shel-
ter was erected. Literature and posters
were sent to Madras, India; Rome, Italy;
Johannesburg and Cape Town, South Afri-
ca; Bulgaria, Mexico, the Philippines, and
several places in Canada. Special designs
for buttons were provided for Societies in
Port Elizabeth, South Africa, and Hono-
lulu, Hawaii.

Society’s Films in Constant Demand

That the ﬁlm of “The Bell of Atri,”
which the Society has had so long, is still
in demand is shown by the fact that dur-
ing the year one print of it was sold and
27 different rentals were called for. Of the
ﬁlm, “In Behalf of Animals,” there were
35 rentals. One print was contributed to
Mrs. Alice W. Manning for use in Istanbul,
Turkey. There were two rentals of “Small
Peter’s Chief Adventure,” the new ﬁlm
produced by the Springﬁeld Branch of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Our ﬁlms are
in permanent use in the First Corps Area,
Boston; in Springﬁeld, Mass; in Chicago,
Ill.; and throughout Georgia.

Jack London Club

Membership in the Jack London Club,
opposed to the cruelty involved in training
animals for stage and screen, is growing
steadily, nearly 25,000 additions having
been made in 1939. The total number now
enrolled is 759,243. It is encouraging to
note that influential humane societies are
now making special efforts to control the
treatment of animals in making pictures
and that a representative of the American
Humane Association is now stationed in
Hollywood for this particular purpose.

Twenty-ﬁfth Be Kind to Animals Week

The twenty-ﬁfth annual Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week was most successfully observed.
Governor Saltonstall of Massachusetts and
several other Governors throughout the
country issued special proclamations. The
American Humane Education Society dis-
tributed 3,000 national Be Kind to Animals
posters; 13,000 copies of an 8-page pam-
phlet, “Humane Exercises,” for schools; and
issued 5,000 copies each of a new Humane
Sunday leaflet and a playlet, “I’ll Never
Hunt Again,” in addition to circulating
thousands of reprints from Our Dumb Ani—
mals. National contests included one for
the best animal photographs in which three
cash prizes were given. In Massachusetts
the S. P. C. A. observed the Week by giv—
ing nine radio talks in Boston and several
in Worcester and Springﬁeld. On Humane
Sunday Mr. Thornton W. Burgess gave a
popular illustrated animal talk before a
large audience in the Boston Public Li-
brary. In the state-wide poster contest
there were 6,993 entries, representing 500
schools and 159 cities and towns. First
prize medals were given to 1,021 pupils,
second prize medals to 1,178, and honorable
mentions to 1,429.

New Literature and Reprints

Nearly a quarter of a million pieces of
literature, including booklets, pamphlets,

M ar. 1940

leaﬂets, calendars, cards, blotters, and
folders, were printed by the Society in
1939 to meet the demand for humane sup-
plies. Among these were 10,000 copies of
the tenth edition of the ever-popular
“Teachers’ Helper in Humane Education,”
and nearly 5,000 copies of extra editions
of “The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation,” bothrby Dr. Rowley.

The value of the free literature given out
by the Society runs into many hundreds of
dollars, not counting thousands of free
subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals. Dur-
ing the year 200,541 pieces of printed
matter, 18,045 medals, buttons and badges,
and 16 banners were distributed free, many
of them in response to requests that come
from all sections of the country and often
from foreign lands.

Summary of Field Workers’ Reports

A total of 3,174 addresses were reported
as having been given by the Society’s
ﬁeld workers before both school and adult
audiences. The aggregate attendance was
564,952. This means that somewhere in
the country, on an average, nearly 2,000
persons are listening every working day to
the humane message from a ﬁeld worker

of the American Humane Education
Society.

Sum.mary
Addresses by field workers . . . . 3,174
Total number in audiences 564,952

Pieces of literature, e»tc:., distributed

free ...................... 218,602
New Bands of Mercy organized . . 10,192
Total Bands of Mercy at end of year 246,945

New members enrolled in Jack

London Club ............. 22,761
Membership of Jack London Club

at end of year ............. 759,243

Treasurer’s Report

Receipts from. all funds ..... $20,578.85
Expenditure-s ............. 20,607.25
This leaves deﬁcit of ....... 28.40

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

For information in regard to Be Kind to
Animals Week (April 15—20) and Humane
Sunday (April 14, 1940), please turn to
page 37 of this issue.

 

 

Oiur Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. A-dldress all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year.
the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

Postage free to any part of

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. I’. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

.Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page’72
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

M AY, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Horses in Ireland

ELEBRATED as it is for its ﬁne

horses, many of which from time to
time are imported into this country, Ireland
has also its problem of the old, worn—out
horse which, having served his day, and, en-
titled to a painless death, is sold over and
over again until utterly played out, and then
perhaps shipped abroad for butchering.
Against this latter fate and for his general
protection in old age, the International
League for the Protection of Horses was
organized. The Irish branch of this League
is buying as many of the unfortunate,
faithful old servants of man as its funds
permit, and giving them a merciful death
free from suffering. A hundred and thirty-
eight were bought in and about Dublin the
past twelve months and humanely put to
sleep.

The Animals of Finland

Though Finland may be'no longer facing
Russia’s invading armies, the poor animals
that are left within its borders need help
as well as its people. Finland has been long
noted for the care given its domestic ani-
mals. Madame de Gripenberg, wife of the
Finnish minister in London, writes: “I have
visited cow stables, dog kennels and horse
stables which are heated and so clean and
beautifully kept that I consider them better
in some cases than the houses in which
human beings live.”

Before the war, Finland had approxi-
mately 350,000 horses and about 1,000
reindeer. How many are left, how many
have perished, no man knows.

Rangoon, India

In this far-off city of the Orient, there is
an S. P. C. A. which has its animal hospi-
tal. In its last report it states that during
1938, 5,057 patients were cared for. The
hospital has eighteen stalls for ponies and
bullocks, including three fly-proof stalls for
protecting injured animals from annoyance
by insects, a large open shed for bullocks,
buffaloes, goats and sheep, pig pens, pens
for chicks and other birds, washing tanks,
and quarters for the staff.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

What Happens to Animals
In Time of War?

HIS question is asked by Animals in

War Time, published by the Animal De-
fence and Anti-Vivisection Society, London,
England. We quote from an article in that
publication as follows:

“They share, and are given more than
their share of suffering. Horses are com-
mandeered for cavalry and transport; they
have to endure shot and shell, terror,
strain, overwork, sometimes lack of food
and water. In his recent broadcast in Lon-
don, the French Minister of Finance, Mon—
sieur M. Reynaud, stated that in many
'French villages today there is only one
horse left. This statement disposes of the
idea that modern warfare has little use for
horses. In the recent attack on Poland, the
Polish Cavalry distinguished itself by
charges on the tanks and mechanized units
of the German army. It is not difﬁcult to
imagine the fate of the horses thus used.
Dogs are now trained for war, and used
in trench warfare as messengers and scouts.
The French Army has opened recently a
station for Alsatians and sheep dogs where
they will be accepted as gifts or on loan
for the duration of the war. They are often
wounded, and undergo all the hardships of
the soldier.

“Cattle and sheep are driven to the front
to be slaughtered for food, and have to
endure much suffering. They, too, are
bombed in ﬁelds and meadows in the ruth—
less war on civil populations. Pigeons are
used as messengers; the ‘instincts’ of the
homing pigeon are precious assets in time
of war. When towns are evacuated, ani-
mals—dogs and cats—are often left behind
to starve, to roam the street, to be trapped
and killed by any convenient method.
Horses, dogs, cats and birds suffer terror
and death.”

The Hen-Battery System

Shortly before the outbreak of the pres-
ent war, the Animal Defence Society of
London was engaged in successful agitation
against the cruelties of the hen—battery
system. The press gave excellent support,
and there were signs of weakening on the
part of the trade supporters of the hen-
battery. The continuation of this agitation
at the present time would be fruitless. The
need for home production of eggs is now
very great, and there is no sympathy to
spare for hundreds of thousands of hens
conﬁned in small cages. The hen—battery
system ﬂourishes—people are encouraged to
put batteries in sheds, in backyards, any-
where where there is a chance of egg pro—
duction. The other day one of the,big Lon-
don daily newspapers carried an advertise-

ment of a new type of hen-battery, which .

“requires no hen-run” and which is “no
larger than a chest-of—drawers” 2 ft. X 3 ft.,
4 ft. X 6 ft., arranged to house twelve
birds, and to be kept in any shed. Proliﬁc
egg production is promised. Such wicked
and cruel treatment of living birds passes
unnoticed.
——Animals in War Time

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. when making your will.

M ay, 1940

Proclaims Animal Week

Governor Saltonstall Pays Tribute to
President Rowley in Annual
Pronouncement

UST before leaving Massachusetts for

a much-needed vacation, March 28,
Governor Leverett Saltonstall of Massachu-
setts issued the following:

More than 25 years ago an obscure, re-
tired linotype operator in Charleston, S. C.,
conceived the idea of a national Be Kind to
Animals Week and tried in vain to have
some inﬂuential humane society carry out
his plan.

It was not until our own Dr. Francis H.
Rowley, President of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. and the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, Boston, ﬁnally listened to
these pleas that the idea was adopted and
taken up by humane organizations through-
out the country. Now press, pulpit, and
radio from coast to coast join with several
hundred anti-cruelty societies in stressing
this week in behalf of those who cannot
speak for themselves, and school children
everywhere take part in exercises teaching
lessons in kindness to animals.

It was another prominent son of Massa-
chusetts, Edward Everett Hale, who said:
“We are all in the same boat, both men and
animals.”

Recognizing the claims upon us of beast
and bird for kindness, mercy and justice,
and in accordance with the proposed na-
tional observance of a special week for
their beneﬁt, I hereby designate the week of
April 15 to 20, '1940, as

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK
and Sunday, April 14, as
HUMANE SUNDAY

At the suggestion of the Commissioner
of Education, Friday, April 12, will be ob-
served as

HUMANE DAY IN SCHOOLS

It is ﬁtting that our children everywhere
should be instructed in those humane prin-
ciples for which the people of Massachu-
setts, have ever stood. It would be appro—
priate also for editors, ministers, and
speakers on platform or radio to add their
inﬂuence by speaking a word in behalf of
our animal friends during Humane Sunday
and the week following.

From Greater Miami

An excellent report of the Dade County
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, Miami, Florida, has just reached
us telling of the unusually large number of
small animals picked up or brought to its
shelter. There was a total of 4,898 dogs
and 6,080 cats. Those not restored to owners
or placed in good homes were humanely
put to sleep. During the year the Society
investigated 616 cases of reported cruelty;
and carried forward its work of humane
education in the public schools of the coun-
ty. Like all humane organizations, the
Society needs additional funds for enlarg-
ing its work, and we trust the people of
Florida will generously respond to its needs.
Its address is 9,501 Northwest 22nd Av-
enue, Miami, Florida.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96
Photographs of Wild Life

Prizes of $70, Cash, and Ten Subscriptions
Contest Closes June 30, 1940

Our Dumb Animals is conducting a photo-
graphic prize contest with cash prizes
amounting to $70, and 10 annual subscrip-
tions to Our Dumb Animals, for the best
pictures of wild animals and wild birds.

The contest is open to everybody, every-
where, under these conditions:

1. Twenty-three prizes in all are offered:
First, $30, cash; second, $15, cash; third,
$5, cash; fourth to thirteenth, $2, cash,
each; fourteenth to twenty-third, one year’s
subscription to 0m" Dumb Animals (value,
$1, each.)

2. The subjects must be either live wild
animals or live wild birds. (No circus or
hunting pictures or those showing cruelty,
considered.)

3. Entries will be accepted only from
those who actually have taken the photo-
graphs.

4. Only strictly original, hitherto unpub—
lished photographs may be entered.

5. There is no limit as to size, but we
suggest approximately 3 X 4 to 4 x 6 inches,
and no limit to the number that may be
sent by one person.

6. Send no negatives, only good, clear
prints, preferably glossy ﬁnish.

7. Photographs not winning a prize will
be returned only if full postage is provided.

8. All photographs must be marked
plainly on the back with the full name and
address of the sender.

9. The contest-will close June 30, 1940.
No entries will be considered after that
date. '

10. All photographs intended for the
contest must be addressed, Contest Editor,
Oar Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass.

If the words “Contest Editor” do not
appear on the address, any photographs re-
ceived for Our Dnmb Animals will be con-
sidered in the usual way and, if accepted,
will be paid for only at the regular rates.

The Homing Pigeons

We are frequently called upon to identify
banded, homing pigeons which have become
exhausted by long ﬂight and lack of sus-
taining food. Many persons are anxious to
help these birds and enable them to reach
their home lofts. It is not advisable to hold
them long, since by so doing they will likely
lose their bearings and become lost. The
following instructions are issued by the
Pigeon Union which registers these birds:

Many a pigeon is easily spoiled by letting
a lost bird have freedom in your home.
When you notice them take them in and
place them in a cage away from other birds,
and where they cannot see your surround—
ings. If a bird has a race ring on and is in
poor condition, feed and water, hold for a
day or so, then take it a few blocks from
home and nine out of ten chances the bird
will ﬂy home. This will save you a feed bill,
and the owner an express bill.

We can usually inform ﬁnders of these

unfortunate birds as to the owner and his
reSIdence.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE SCIENCE AND THE MYSTERY
OF THE CAT, Ida M. Mellen.

This book, written by one of America’s
well known zoologists, is a remarkable con-
tribution to the best literature on the eat.
It embodies the results of a quarter century
of profound study and close observation of
an author of distinction. No one, it would
thus far appear, has delved deeper and
more widely in the history and evolution of
an animal of so great antiquity down to its
domestic status of today and acquired the
information which is presented in this ex-
traordinary volume.

A few of the salient features of the work
are as follows: Part I treats of the “Mis-
sion of the Great Cat Family,” its wild
traits, feral tendencies and its enemies.
Part II, “Physiology and Psychology of the
Cat.” Part III, “Behavior of the Cat,”
which includes its habits and instincts and
friendships with other animals. Part IV,
“The Cat’s Eﬁect on People,” which records
its utilization in many ﬁelds, and ﬁnally its
aelurophobes, haters and lovers.

It is a work of monumental endeavor and
thorough presentation. More than a hun-
dred new facts are related and many moot
questions herein ﬁnd their accurate and
authoritative answers.

Some forty-ﬁve illustrations of individual
specimens of the various kinds of felines
are included.

275 pp. $2.75. Charles Scribner’s Sons,
New York.

WILD BIRD NEIGHBORS, Alvin M.
Peterson.

Readers of this magazine who are espe-
cially interested in birds must have marked
the outstanding contributions on this sub—
j ect which we have presented through many
years, from the pen of Mr. Peterson. One
such article is to be found on page 87 of
this very issue. It is a sample of the kind
of essays that the author has collected in
the present volume, a worthy successor to
his earlier book, “The ABC of Attracting
Birds.”

The thirty-two studies of wild birds (two
chapters are given to bobwhite) cover a
great variety—woodpeckers, ﬂickers, blue
jays, orioles, meadow larks, catbirds, cow-
birds, wrens, crows, hawks, several kinds
of sparrows, grosbeaks, etc. The author
offers no hearsay or trite descriptions, but
gives the results of his own observations
and experiences with each species, often
obtained only after long hours of patient
waiting and watching.

Only persistent patience, also, enabled
Mr. Peterson to secure the more than 100
photographs which add so much to the value
of this book.

If you wish to know what makes the

J nne, 1940

cuckoo of special economic importance,
what bird is a grand opera singer, which
one specializes in musical comedy, and the
answers to many other such interesting
questions, read “Wild Bird Neighbors.”

283 pp. $2. The Bruce Publishing Com-
pany, Milwaukee.

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.
96 ~36 ~16 ~36 39

The management of our invested funds is

a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AlVIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS "S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,

Boston.
Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for. the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
In the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

l give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

P0416120
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIALI M. MO‘RRILL, Assistant

 

AUGUST, 1940

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Great Band of Mercy

S our readers have learned in former
A issues, the largest Band of Mercy ever
organized through the instrumentality of
the American Humane Education Society
is that known as the Philippine Common-
wealth Chapter, with a present member—
ship of more than 1,300—a large proportion
of these adults. The organizer of this Band
in the Philippines is Mr. Irving Hart.

In his application for the renewal of the
permit from the Director of Public Wel—
fare at Manila, he says:

“During the past six-month period a
great deal of effort has been made to
secure additional members, and, with this
end in View, and with the approval of the
Board of Directors, I have made several
trips to the Provinces, including Sorsogen,
Legaspi, Naga, Les Banes, Novaliches,
Malabon, Cavite, Iloilo, Capiz, Coron, and
the Culion Leper Colony, as well as to two
large Boy Scout Jamborees, and to several
church conventions. Therefore, as at prac—
tically all of these places, I was given an
opportunity of addressing the assemblages,
I told of the Band of Mercy, its aims and
its aspirations, as well as its accomplish-
ments, inculcating in the minds of all,
especially the little ones, the importance of
kindness, not only to animals, but to all
that live that are worthy of any consid-
eration. These remarks, very probably,
induced many to sign the Band of Mercy
cards and become active members, the
total secured numbering (as may be seen
by my Report of May 15), 614 paid, and
158 unpaid members.

In several places also, the Mayors, with
a desire to aid in the campaign for Humane
Education, requested the Superintendent of
Schools to assemble all the school children,
so that I, the Mayor, the Superintendent,
and some others might address them, the
largest one being at Dao, Capiz, where it
was estimated 1,500 persons were present.

I also visited several provincial hospitals,
convents, churches, Y. M. C. A.’s, and the
like, making addresses and securing mem-
bers, I, at all of these places securing prom-
ises of full co-operation.”

Join the Jack London Club and help stop
cruelty to animals on stage and screen.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dogs from England

RADIO broadcast from Chicago told
A the public that a great number of
high-bred dogs were to be shipped from
England to Boston to save them from what
the war might mean to them. The broad-
cast also said that anyone who wished to
adopt one of these dogs could obtain one
through Pets Magazine.

Immediately our Society and the New
York Society, and doubtless many others,
were ﬂooded with letters, telegrams and
telephone calls asking for a dog. Even from
Texas came a telegram asking for a dog of
a special breed.

We wrote at once to the Bureau of Ani-
mal Industry at Washington to know if
any information regarding the report had
come to them and the answer was “No.”
We called up the British Consul here and
he knew nothing about it. Then came word
from the American Society for the Preven—
tion of Cruelty to Animals, in New York,
saying that appeals for dogs were coming
in to them thick and fast. The Society
cabled to the Royal S. P. C. A. in London,
and the answer was, “No special evacua-
tion pure-bred dogs America; trade in such
dogs with States continues as before.” In-
formation from the American Kennel Club
was to the effect that some of the specialty
clubs had had some correspondence with
clubs here to send some of their dogs to
the United States, but if that were done it
would be only for the duration of the war,
and the dogs and their offspring were to be
returned to England.

Since writing the above, the British Em-
bassy in Washington has issued the fol-
lowing statement:

“The attention of the British Embassy
has been drawn to statements to the effect
that its co—operation has been obtained in
connection with the evacuation of pet dogs
from Great Britain to the U. S. A. There
is no truth in these statements.”

Whatever the Chicago broadcast accom-
plished, it certainly has caused no small
amount of annoyance to several humane
societies. Many people asking for informa-
tion of this sort, where the inquiry is of a
purely personal nature, generally fail to
enclose a postage stamp for reply.

P. S. A letter to Mr. Coleman, president
of the American Humane Association. dated
July 4, from Miss Phyllis Robson, editor of
Dog World, England, who is at present in
Toronto, Canada, says: “I am amazed to
hear of the scheme about evacuating dogs.
I know nothing whatever about it, and in
the last issue of my paper, June '7, no men-
tion was made of such a thing. On the con-
trary everyone in Great Britain is carrying
on in our traditional manner, and we are
even holding dog shows.”

The Annual Report of the
Turkish 8. P. C. A.

HIS report, received from the secre-

tary of the Turkish Society, Mrs. A.
W. Manning, tells us that the year 1939
was the most active in the history of the
organization. The constantly—growing work
done by the Society and the increasing in—
terest have ﬁnally brought it about that it
is now recognized as a genuine public util-

Aug. 191,0

ity. The number of animals brought to its
refuge, whether sick or found wounded in
the street or which have suffered from acts
of cruelty, has been greater than ever be-
fore ; and the response to the Society’s
many pleas for new municipal regulations
has been most satisfactory.

One of these regulations forbids the use
by children of what we would call, prob-
ably, slingshots, for shooting at birds or
for wounding cats or dogs and even little
children. The police have received an order
to conﬁscate these slingshots and to bring
them to the refuge, and the responsibility
for the use of these weapons is placed upon
the parents.

Another regulation forbids the use of
cruel prods in the handling of animals,
forcing them to a more rapid pace; and a
third forbids the use of birds or other small
animals for exhibitions in the streets, these
often carried around in small cages, often
exposed to long hours in the hot sun. Laws
also have been added to the penal code for
the protection of animals—laws which the
Minister of Agriculture has elaborated and
which have been approved and signed by
the different ministers of the government.
These laws are now being brought together
and it is hoped that they will be accepted in
the present session of the government rep-
resentatives. That would constitute the most
important event in the history of the So-
ciety and permit the extending of the
Society’s work in all the regions of Turkey.

Dogs humanely put to sleep, 2,814; cats,
5,446; horses, 12; asses, 2. Number of op-
erations, 53; wagons and trucks lightened
of their loads, 781; cages of bird dealers
taken and destroyed, 90; slingshots taken
and destroyed, 194; horses’ bits taken, 380;
animals furnished with food, 4,800.

All this shows splendid work and a work
that has rapidly progressed during recent
years through the untiring efforts of mem-
bers of the organization, and enough can-
not be said in praise of Mrs. Manning’s
long, faithful interest in the Society. What
she has done for animals in Turkey is more
than can be contained in any annual report
or statistics.

INVESTIGATIONS OF MASS. S. P. C. A.
OFFICERS IN JUNE, 1940

Abuse of Animals:

Beating, kicking or yanking horses . 5
Working when galled, lame or other-
wise unﬁt ...................... 17
Overworking, overdriving, or over-
loading ........................ 6
Not feeding or sheltering properly . 39
Working blindfolded horse ........ 1
Blindfolding cow ................. 1
Working horses poorly shod and un-
shod ........................... 4
Poorly ﬁtting muzzle used on horse. . 1
Injurious bits used ............... 1
Shooting dogs, mutilating and dock-
ing tails ....................... 6
Sick or injured, not being treated . . 4

Prosecutions Were for:

Shooting dogs ............... 3 cases
Underfeeding horses ......... 2 cases
Using galled horse ........... 1 case
Horse Auctions Attended ............ 13

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., when making your will.

 

 

 

 




 

 

    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
    
    
     
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
    
  
    
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
  

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 11,1;

Air Warning

HILLIARD FOLEY

HUMMY,” the little Airedale, barked
joyously as he leaped into the front
seat of his master’s car. Boy! He was a
big-shot, due for a nice long ride in the
country. He knew the joys of these rides.
He’d had them before. Pleasant pressmg
his nose against the windshield, or sticking
it out the window and breathing the cool
air pouring in. But—‘2
Shucks! This wasn’t much of a ride at
all! Already they’d passed through an en-
trance gate into a noisy amusement park,
and his master was parking the car in a
stuffy space amongst a thousand other cars.
Miserable place, it seemed. All din and
racket. Midway and that. Raucous-voiced
spielers rasping into metallic microphones.
—Oh, well, he’d hop out and frisk around
with his master—But, what is this? Sud—
denly his heart ﬁlls with dull, uneasing
pain. His master was pushing him into the
back seat of the car and speaking noncha—
lantly:

“No, Chummy, you can’t come with me
this time; you must stay and watch the car.
But I’ll be back after a while. So long,
Chummy!” Closing the windows and lock—
ing the car, the unthinking owner slipped
the key into his pocket and strolled off with
the crowd.

This thoughtless abandonment was enough
to break the heart of any dog, and perhaps
it broke the heart of little Chummy. But
its reaction on the owner came very near
to breaking his heart as well; for when he
returned a few hours later, he found his
car surrounded by an extremely indignant
crowd, including the present writer and a
couple of very angry policemen. Little
Chummy was dead; having suffocated in an
air-tight car, parked full under the merci-
less rays of a blazing August sun.

Yes, the owner’s grief for his pet was
intense, but what good is belated grief? He
was by no means a cruel or callous person;
just thoughtless, ignorant,—-dumb, if you
like.

Well, speaking from Ottawa, that can’t
happen here. All dumb creatures are en-
titled to God’s fresh air, and the Ottawa
Humane Society will see to it that no
thoughtless ignorance will deprive them of
it. The Society has arranged with police to
place warning notices in all cars contain-
ing pets. This should prove effective.

New Shelter at J ohnstown

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals of Cambria County, Pa., recent-
ly announced the opening of a shelter for
small animals at Johnstown. This new pub
lic service is receiving the support of city
ofﬁcials and citizens, and from new mem—
bers of the Society. The president of the
organization, Mrs. F. C. Kress, states that
the Society is steadily growing and many
homeless and suffering animals are receiv-
ing help and humane disposal. The new
shelter has facilities for the care of forty
dogs at one time. With increasing funds
it will not only mean much to the stray and
neglected animals but also it will be of
great educational value to the community
which it serves.

  

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Plans for Humane Meeting

HE American Humane Association an-

nounces that at its annual meeting, Sep—
tember 23 to 27, at Hotel Paxton, Omaha,
Nebraska, an added attraction will be an
address on “The City Dog Problem,” by Mr.
C. E. Harbison, kennel editor of Conde
Nast Publications, Inc.

In the exhibition of birds, animals and
reptiles killed by automobiles, owned by
Burlingham Schurr of Granby, Mass, there
will be an ample number of selected speci—
mens from the nearly 350 mounted subjects
which Mr. Schurr has so far obtained in
his unique collection.

It is understood that a large delegation
from the Paciﬁc Coast is planning to attend
this convention, and it is earnestly hoped
that the other sections of the country will
also be well represented. Mr. John W.
Welch, secretary of the Nebraska Humane
Society, and a large and enthusiastic com-
mittee representing the organization assure
everybody of a cordial welcome to Omaha
and a week that will long be remembered
for its outstanding hospitality.

Animals in China

From a letter written from Shanghai,
China, last May, we are permitted to quote
the following comment on the situation in
China in regard to animals:

“For the animals of this vast land, my
considered opinion is, after forty years in
the country, that the Chinese are not a
cruel people and that given peace and im-
proved standards of life, including a very
necessary knowledge of hygiene which is
still entirely lacking, the state of the
domestic animal will also improve. Religious
teaching, though not a very active factor
in Chinese life, does explicitly teach kind-
ness and non—molesting of animals (Bud-
dhism and Taoism) and in fact Christian
teachers have much to learn of this toler-
ance and sense of justice to all forms of
life. In the center and south of China man
is the beast of burden and the suffering of
dogs, cats, donkeys, etc., is usually the
result of ignorance, poverty and dirt, and
also because of the religious objection to
killing unwanted young or aged animals.”

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal HOSpital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a kennel
or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will insure
a suitable marker inscribed with donor’s
name. Write for terms of permanent en-
dowment of free stalls and kennels.

 

 

  

Sept. 1940
At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for

. advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.
as -x— * x- *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will

contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERDIS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en—
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE ALIERICAN HUDIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. I’. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

 

 

FORM OF B-EQUEST

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt Of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to the American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

COWPLTME3: :5; 0?“

THE HUDSQ33( 3 e. 333 3‘

34.

SGEi-ETY 3m Ti: :3 3'?" ’3 {33

CF33 3:; 3"”‘3’ m . : 3...:3
J. D. JACCAFED, Président
484 JOHNSTON AVENUE
JERSEY CITY. hi. «’9

 




 

 

 

Page 21;

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood.
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave—
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO’WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM l\I. MORRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

An Important Announce-
ment

UR two Societies—The Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and The American Humane Edu-
cation Society—receiving no aid from city
or state or the Community Fund, have now
on their staff Mr. Joseph Mooney as a kind
of assistant to the treasurer. Among Mr.
Mooney’s duties will be the soliciting of
new members, greatly needed in place of
many who have passed away, calling upon
those who have long been friends of the
Society, not to ask for a contribution but
to express our appreciation of their good
will and help in years gone by, and seeking
such ﬁnancial contributions as those not
familiar with our work may care to make.
We heartily commend Mr. Mooney as a
wholly trustworthy representative of our
two organizations.

An Appeal

A letter from Paris asks if we will not
insert in our magazine an appeal in behalf
of the “starving dogs and cats left in
Paris, many of which are still roaming the
streets since the great mass of the popu-
lation were evacuated.” The letter con—
tinues, “Many of these poor creatures were
well taken care of, but now that the cellars
are closed to them and used for shelters
for human beings, these animals are ne—
glected and starving.” It also says that
any money that can be sent to care for
these animals or to put them to sleep hu—
manely, where necessary, would be under
the direction of thoroughly competent peo—
ple who are trying to organize a movement
for the beneﬁt not only of these suffering
animals but of the animals and mules being
used in the war for which, according to the
letter, almost nothing is being done when
wounded or disabled.

Should any contributions for this pur-
pose come to us we shall see that they pass
into thoroughly trustworthy hands, or
otherwise the contributions will be returned
to those who have made them.

Twenty-sixth annual Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week, April 15 to 20, 1940.

OUR DUMB ANIllIALS

A Famous Fire-House Dog

R. LOWELL THOMAS has sent us,

at our request, the following from his
broadcast of November 10, 1939. It is a
rare story of a rare dog:

In New York, Engine Company Number
Two Hundred and Three is in sadness
tonight—in mourning for “Nig.” He was
the victim of a hit-and—run-driver—Nig,
the small mongrel pooch who for ten years
was the ﬁre-house dog. Every time the
alarm sounded for Engine Number Two
Hundred and Three, Nig would come
scampering and take one high jump all the
way up to the tall seat of the driver. Nig
always made it at a single bound. And at
the ﬁre Nig would take an active part,
dashing in among smoke and ﬂames, and
sometimes he saved lives.

He was decorated with three life—saving
medals and once received a dog magazine
diploma for valor.

The exploit which most endeared him to
the ﬁremen occurred three years ago. Nig
hated cats; had an acute dog’s dislike for
tabby. He was always chasing cats. But
in a tenement-house ﬁre Nig dashed into
the blaze and saved—a cat. He knew his
duty, and he came out dragging a badly
singed pussy. ‘

Today, the ﬁremen were telling about
Nig’s end. Hit by a car and badly injured,
he dragged himself into the station-house.
He crawled to Engine Number One Hun-
dred and Three. Fatally hurt, he crouched
and gathered all his strength and took a
leap for the driver’s seat, the leap he had
so often made. For the ﬁrst time he fell
short, couldn’t make it. He dropped back
to the pavement and died—the end of Nig,
the hero dog. ‘

The Traveling Toad

The following, taken" from Time maga—
zine, we cannot vouch for, for we cannot
discover who the Boston chiropodist is:

In Boston, ‘Mass., 30 years ago a chirop—
odist picked up a toad in his mother’s gar-
den, domesticated it, named it “Teddy.” To
ﬁnd out whether toads had a homing in—
stinct, the chiropodist took Teddy on longer
and longer trips, and turned him loose. Ted-
dy always came home—though from Dallas,
Texas, it took him a year. Last week Teddy
was set down at Oakland, Calif, began
hopping patiently along the railroad tracks
toward Boston. The chiropodist expects
Teddy home again by April, 1941.

Few there are, if the story is true, we
believe, who would subject even a lowly
creature like the toad to such an experi-
ence. The toad is a harmless and friendly
little fellow, and very useful to the farmer
and the gardener and the grower of ﬂowers.
He never says anything about it, never
asks for any wages, but he is constantly
busy heading off thousands of insect pests
on their destructive ways across farm and
garden.

Free illustrated lecture, “Friendly Folk
Who Run and Fly,” by Thornton W. Bur-
gess, on Humane Sunday, April 14, at 3:30
P. M., in lecture hall of Boston Public Li-
brary, Copley Square. Doors open at 2 P.

Feb. 1940

 

Cruelty to a Seeing-Eye Dog

UR Society, in December, was com-

pelled to take into court a blind man
because of his cruel treatment of a Seeing-
Eye dog obtained by him from the training
school for these dogs at Morristown, New
Jersey. It seems incredible that anyone, so
dependent upon one of these faithful crea—
tures as a blind owner must he, could be
guilty of such a deed. The man was con-
victed and the dog taken to one of our
shelters and treated for his injuries.

Meanwhile, hearing of the affair, The
Seeing-Eye, Inc., sent a crate to us with
the request that the dog be returned at
once to them. This was done. Perhaps it
should be said that drinking played its
part in this man’s treatment of his dog,
but should that be an excuse for cruelty or
for any other evil deed?

The following letter was received from
Morris S. Frank, Vice-president of the
Division for the Blind, The Seeing-Eye,
Inc.:

“ ‘Lad’ has just arrived here with his
harness and leash. Allow me once again to
express my sincere appreciation and that
of our entire organization for your co-
operation.

“I presume that you will make represen—
tation to the Court on the 11th in our be—
half, telling them of the dog’s return to us
here at Morristown.

“Today, Mr. Leger’s check for $30, reim—
bursing him for his payments on Lad, has
been mailed. Needless to say, he will not
be given another dog.

“My greetings and renewed thanks to
you.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page I 68

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 600 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Unlicensed Dog

UR readers will remember the editorial

in a former issue telling the sad story
of what roaming and unrestrained dogs are
doing, especially in the western part of
Massachusetts, in destroying deer and par-
ticularly fawns. The situation is a grave
one, and some remedy the humane people
of the state are hoping to ﬁnd.

There is no doubt that the unlicensed
dog is responsible for much of this, as well
as the people who may allow their licensed
dogs to run at liberty. Apparently there is
no law by which a warden or a police ofﬁcer
can shoot on sight any dog worrying or
destroying what are known as wild game,
though this power is" given them if the ani-
mals are worrying or injuring neat cattle,
sheep or other domestic animals.

The unlicensed dog is a problem. There
are issued in Massachusetts something over
200,000 dog licenses and, from the best
information that can be obtained, it is esti-
mated that there are as many more, prob-
ably, unlicensed dogs. It is up to the dog
ofﬁcer of the various towns and counties to
see that dogs are licensed, but many of
these officials are indifferent to the whole
matter and the law is not enforced. In
some, the majority of the dogs undoubtedly
are licensed. In certain of the other counties
the situation is far different.

Of course, something must be said for
some people who fail to obey the law which
insists that every dog have a license. Many
of these people love their dogs but feel they
cannot afford to pay the license fee, and so,
in some cases, resort to every possible
method to conceal the fact that they have
a dog and in other cases simply pay no
attention to it and the dog ofﬁcer never
makes any investigation,

In Massachusetts the dog tax is two dol-
lars for males and spayed females and ﬁve

dollars for females. This tax varies in dif-
ferent states.

C. E. Harbison, kennel editor of the
Conde Nast Publications, Inc., New York
City, says that there were 3,378,553 dogs
llcensed in 47 states last year, and that

there were several times that number of
unlicensed dogs.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Horse Still in War

HE following interesting editorial is
taken from The Boston Herald of Octo-
ber 3, 1940:

“In France and the low countries, the
German mechanized forces did the spectacu—
lar work, but the ﬁrst ﬁghting units to
enter Paris were heavy artillery and the
guns were drawn by horses. There will
never be another “Charge of the Light Bri-
gade,” but the future will provide its Sheri-
dans and its Stuarts.

“The horse can go where tanks cannot.
All depends on the work to be done and the
terrain. With its network of roads, North—
ern EurOpe offered a perfect ﬁeld for Hit—
ler’s war machines. But in wild and open
country, in heavily-wooded areas, in moun-
tainous regions, the horse is irreplaceable.

“Our War Department plans, therefore,
for the most powerful cavalry force in our
history. We are to have at the start two
divisions, each of 9,500 men and 600 ofﬁ-
cers, with 8,000 horses and 800 motor vehi-
cles. Each will have 715 machine-guns, and
more than 1,000 guns of various other
types, and 9,500 pistols and 4,000 riﬂes. The
cavalry may travel by truck to spots where
needed and, on arrival, go into action.”

From an ofﬁcial statement, made before
a committee of the House of Representa-
tives in March last, we ﬁnd the following:

“Mechanized cavalry is valuable and an
important adjunct but is not the main part
of the cavalry and cannot be. Our cavalry
is not the medieval cavalry of popular im-
agination but is cavalry which is modern-
ized and keeping pace with all develop—
ments. We are particularly fortunate in
having great resources both in horses and
motors. There are more than 10,000,000
horses in this country and the motor indus—
try is conceded to be the greatest in the
world.”

Of further interest is the following from
the Chicago Tribune, September 17:

“The United States army is to purchase
19,802 animals to augment the 17,000 now
in service. The increase is to be ﬁnanced
by a request for $3,396,340 under a bill
now pending before Congress.

“The decision to augment the horse cav-
alry was made after careful study of Nazi
tactics in Poland, the Low Countries and
France. In Poland the German forces used
large numbers of horse cavalry and horse-
drawn artillery to operate against the P01—
ish army, which was composed of 25 per
cent horse cavalry.

“In the invasion of Holland and Belgium
it has been estimated that the Germans em-
ployed from 10 to 15 regiments of horse
cavalry, or about 15,000 to 22,500 mounted
troops.

“The Germans rely heavily on the horse
for transport, even though the army is
highly mechanized. It has been estimated by
military experts that more than a million
horses were engaged in transport service in
the campaign against France.”

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a kennel
or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will insure
a suitable marker inscribed with donor’s
name. Write for terms of permanent en-
dowment of free stalls and kennels.

Nov. 1940

From England

LETTER from the assistant secretary

of the Royal Society for the Preven—
tion of Cruelty to Animals in London has
asked if we would reproduce in our maga-
zine the program of the broadcasts that
are being made daily from England. This
we are glad to do and here it is:

5.45 PM. E.S.T. News in English and
topical talks, “Canada Calls from London,”
including talks and newsletters in English
and French arranged by the Overseas Unit
of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.

7.45 P.M., E.S.T. News in French.

8 P.M., E.S.T. News in English.

8.15 P.M., E.S.T. “Starlight” (Stars of
the British stage and screen).

8.30 P.M., E.S.T. “Britain Speaks.”

8.45 P.M., E.S.T. Headline News and
Views.

10 P.M., E.S.T. “Within the Fortress.”

10.30 P.M., E.S.T. “Radio Newsreel.”

11.15 P.M., E.S.T. “Britain Speaks” re-
peat.

11.30 P.M., E.S.T. News summary in
English.

The program is well received in North
America on GSD, 11.750 kc/s, in the 25-
metre band, and on GSC 9.580 kc/s in the
31—metre band, and after 9.30 P.M., E.S.T.,
on GSL, 6.810 kc/s, in the 49-metre band.

Not for Love of Animals

There is a sect in India known as the
J ains. They number about 1,200,000 people,
and, in telling about them, John Gunther, in
his book entitled “Inside Asia,” says that
if one of these people should chance to kill
an animal, even a tiny bug of some sort,
he would turn, after death, into that bug
for several hundred generations. “Because
of this,” Mr. Gunther continues, “a Jain
may not eat before sunrise or after sunset
for fear of swallowing an insect in the dark;
they wear white gauze strips over their
mouths during the day as a similar precau-
tion. Most J ains carry a small brush with
which to dust places when they sit down, so
that they may not inadv‘ertently squash an
ant or other insect.”

Some such fear might be useful in the
rest of the world for the protection of ani-
mals, even if it was not done out of any
love for them.

Bugs and Beetles

There are more than 700,000 kinds of
insects known in the world, of which 75,000
kinds ﬂourish in North America and 6,500
kinds are injurious to agriculture. Insects
outnumber most, if not all, the living
groups of living organisms in species and
kinds and they directly and indirectly affect
people, animals and plants. It costs Ameri-
ca more than one and one-half billion
dollars annually to support the insects help-
ing themselves to our property. Man has
domesticated only two insects so far for his
own proﬁt—the honeybee and the silkworm.

Insects are man’s greatest competitor for
success, prosperity and health because they
kill our animals, spread disease germs and
destroy our crops and other property. Re—
search reveals that more people have been
killed by insects that distribute disease
germs than have been killed in all our wars.

—Nati0nal Nature News

 

 

 

 

 

 




  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 192

In London, Now—

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

In London, now, they stand at bay,
And lift brave faces to the day,

And brace against the harsh affright
Of the loud perils of the night.

We .thrill at tales of stout defense,
With all its stern magnificence;

But did it not take hearts as high

To give their dear dumb friends to die,
To sacrifice hearts warm and true
That man’s defense might have its due,
Unhampered by their helplessness,

In all the dreadful strain and stress,
Bewildered, dumb, their part to die?
Unquestioning! But why—oh why?

A cheeky person asked a minister, who
was gifted at repartee: “Can you tell me
the way to heaven?”

“Certainly,” replied the minister, “turn
to the right and keep going straight.”

——-The Christian

l

   
    

/

IN MEMORIAM

In Memory of “Friskie” Tingley.

Born March 28, 1933. Died August 15,
1940.

True Friend and Companion; beloved and
mourned by all who knew him. A cat of
rare intelligence.

He was a short-haired, red Tabby, with
large and expressive yellow eyes.

He weighed ﬁfteen and one-half pounds.

He guarded the home like a watchdog,
quick to investigate every strange sound and
answer every doorbell.

Always at the door to welcome and speed
the parting guest.

“But- 0 for the touch of a vanished paw,
And the sound of a mew and a purr that are still.”

“But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach them.”
Job XII; 7.
“God will finally redeem all his creatures."

”For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth
beasts; even one thing befalleth them; as the one
dieth so dieth the other; yea they have all one breath:
so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast.”

Ecclesiastes III; 19—20.

“Nature does not die. Nothing dies.
death, what seems so is transition.

Life may change its form, but it does not, it cannot
cease to be.” RABBI HARRY LEVI
Louisa Paine Tingley, M.D., dedicates
these few lines to Friskie’s memory.
Boston, Massachusetts. October, 1940.

There is no

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

__’____/_/—
IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

NOVEMBER GRASS, Judy Van der Veer.

For the third time, Miss Van der Veer,
whose contributions of verse and prose are
familiar to readers of Our Dumb Animals,
presents her message in the form of a book,
the previous titles being “River Pasture”
and “Brown Hills.” The earlier works were
in the form of essays, the present one 1s 1n
the form of a novel of which, the author
modestly says, “The only character taken
from life is the colt, Flaxie, and FlaXie is
dead.” Yet, anyone familiar with the ranch
life of this brilliant young writer, could
hardly fail to identify her as “the girl,”
around whom’ the story is written.

Here is a really intelligent animal lover
who has come to know her animal com-
panions as few people have ever known
them. Her understanding of simple people,
live-stock, and wild creatures knows no
limitation. Mares bearing their colts, cows
their calves, baby bulls ﬁrst struggling to
their feet, hunted wild life, domestic ani-
mals meant for slaughter, sunken-eyed
horses unaware that they are old, suckling
young dependent on their mothers stir her
sympathy.

There is touching pathos in the anecdote
of the skunk that was shot despite her pro-
tests, quiet humor in the story of “John
of the Wilderness,” and real sublimity when
“the girl felt she would like to take all the
sorrows and pains of the animals on her
shoulders, as Christ is said to take all the
sins and sorrows of mankind unto himself.”
The spirit of “the girl” is summed up in
one short sentence on the last page, “She
knew why she trembled for hunted deer,
why she grieved for calves and felt pity for
young foals.”

This volume will make the perfect Christ-
mas gift for a humane friend.

246 pp. $2. Longmans, Green & Co., New
York and Toronto.

 

 

New Style Humane Calendar
for 1941

The 1941 HUMANE CALENDAR is of
an entirely new design, with colored picture
of a boy and a dog, “Heroic Dreams of
Youth,” 8 X 10 inches, and a straight pad,
2% by 4% inches, all mounted on a light
green cardboard, 11 x 16 inches, mailed ﬂat.

It is the most attractive Calendar we have
ever put out, and is a product of the nation-
ally known Osborne Company.

Price, 15 cents each; six for 80 cents; 12
for $1.50, postpaid.

With Society’s imprint, $12.50 for 100;
$23.50 for 200; $35 for 300; transportation
extra. Orders with special imprint can be
ﬁlled only if sent at once.

Address: Secretary, AMERICAN
MANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

HU-
180

, Dec. 191,0

At Age Sixty-Five '.

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Corresp-onclingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,

No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies, ‘
No waste of your estate‘

by a _will contest.

9(- ee ~36 :1: :1:

Persons of comparatively
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will

contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals. .

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities. .

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

American Humane Education Society,

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Noer,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 'Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. 1’. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.7 5

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title Of
our Society , is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angeli
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

, FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to the American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

small means i i' ,.

 
   

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

M ay, 1940

”Fain".

I?

:

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting" Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
. Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. 8%. P. 0. A..—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAs-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S» P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

’- H_olyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

\Vinchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.
Miles traveled by humane officers . . 15 679

Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373
Animals examined ..... . ....... 5,592
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . 225
Lost animals restored to owners. . 54
Number of prosecutions. . . . . . . . . 2
Number of convictions. . . . . . . . . . 2
Horses taken from work ....... . 8
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 37

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1 580
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 51 063
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep....... ....... .. 58

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

. ROBERTSON, v.M.D.
. ARLEIN, D.V.M. -

. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

ngr'OHQFUb-j
r4 muf‘me’u

HARRY

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 731
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,669
Operations ...................... 379
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 168
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 514
Operations ...................... 157
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 70
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 181,104
Dispensary Cases ............... 454,627
Total .............. 635,731

Be Kind to Animals Week

Accounts of Be Kind to Animals Week
celebrations a p p e a r e d in newspapers
throughout the country. We are anxious to
have these for our report in the June issue,
but they must be received early in May.

 

“DUKE” AND “SKE EZIX”

Press Heald-Empress Photo

Page ’73
Almost Unbelievable

STORY appeared in the Portland

(Maine) Press Herald, March 4, with
a photograph of two dogs that certainly
should be recognized hereafter as Damon
and Pythias.

“Duke,” owned by a Mr. Galen Ward of
North Bath, Maine, was caught in a fox
trap, was missing from Sunday until the
following Friday during one of the intense
cold spells Of the recent winter. A neigh-
bor of Mr. Ward’s, Mr. Carroll D. Burn-
ham, the owner of the dog called “SkeeziX,”
according to the newspaper report, had
wondered at the strange conduct of Skeezix
who was much attached to the dog, Duke.
On the Friday above—mentioned, Mr. Burn—
ham’s wife heard a bark which she was
sure was from the dog, Duke, that had been
missing so long, inasmuch as Duke belonged
to her father. Mr. Burnham got up from
a sick bed, put on his snowshoes, took his
dog, Skeezix, and told him to ﬁnd Duke.
The dog led him to his entrapped compan-
Ion.

The strange thing about it was that for
days Skeezix had been eating only a part
of his regular meals, taking the rest in his
mouth and disappearing. Also, if he got
hold of a bone he would leave the premises
carrying it with him. His owner thought
that he was burying his food. Come to ﬁnd
out, Skeezix had been carrying a part of
his daily meals to the entrapped dog.

This story seemed so incredible that we
wrote to Mr. Burnham to discover if it
could be veriﬁed. We have now an inter-
esting letter from Mr. Burnham in which
he says, “Your letter Of March 27, in re-
gard to an article that was in the Portland
Press Herald, is absolutely true.” In addi-
tion to carrying part of his regular meals
and an occasional bone, Mr. Burnham says
that Skeezix also had been going down on
the ice, where the ﬁshermen had thrown
unmarketable ﬁsh outside of their smelt
shanty, and coming back with her mouth
full of the ﬁsh and going
where Duke was. Mr. Burn-
ham also says, “If she had not
fed him I think he would sure-
ly not have lived, or he would
have gnawed his foot Off.”

All lovers of dogs will ﬁnd
in this true story, a new evi-
dence of something in the
brains of these age-long com-
panions of man akin to some
of the ﬁner characteristics of
their masters.

Way to Happiness

“Be kinder than necessary,”
a suggestion spoken from a
New York pulpit, ought to be
put in neon lights on the foot
of every bed so it could be read
every morning, says the New
York Times. If all should de-
cide to follow this suggestion
for a day, one need not be sur-
prised if by midafternoon a
glance in a mirror would show
a smile. By Christmas time, if
faithful to the practice, be the
day ever so dismal, there will
be a bit of brightness.

 

 

 

 




 

 

JULY 1940

“BABY DUMPLING” (LARRY SIMMS) WITH “JERRY” AND “DAISY”

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS E7 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 




 

 

Aug. 1940

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES C. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street
Taunton Branch of Mass. 8.. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.
Northampton Branch of Mass. S» P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

\Vomen's Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A.., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-

BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 18,127
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424
Animals examined . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,095
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . 239
Lost animals restored to owners. . 66
Number of prosecutions . . . . . . . . . 6
Number of convictions. . . . . . . . . . 4
Horses taken from work. . . . . . . . 9
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 26
Small animals humanely put to sleep 3,052
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,837
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep................ 28

OUR DUMB ANIMALS PageZQI

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE

ANGELI— MEMORIAL ANIMAL At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

HOSPITAL

 

 

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 725
and Dispensary for Animals Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,869
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100 Operatlons ---------------------- 338
Veterinarians At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief 0f Staff Cases entered in Hospital ......... 152
R H- SCHNEIDER, V-M-D~ ASSt- Chief Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 532
G“ 3' SCHNELLE’ V'M'D' Operations ...................... 130

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
0- L- BLAKELY’ V-M-D° At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M. C t d 73

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent ases en ere ...................
Totals
5 ringﬁeld Branch . . .
p Hospital cases smce opening, Mar.
Telephone 4-7355
53_57 Bliss Street, SpringﬁEId, Mass. .1, 1915 ....................... 183,760
Dlspensary Cases ............... 462,001
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

Total .............. 645,761

 

 

 

 

 

New Type of Ward at Angell Hospital

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTSTANDING among the many improvements made in the plant and equipment

of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital during the past few months is a new

“glass ward” containing 34 cages for dogs. The room was originally a horse ward,
one of several needed when horse patients were much more numerous than at present. It
had fallen into disuse, and the increasing demands for small-animal space suggested the
remodeling of the ward to that purpose.

Translucent glass forms the side walls and backs of the cages, the idea being to
admit more light and make them easier to clean. The frames are of steel, aluminum
painted, with grill work in front and on top. Each cage is equipped with 'a covered dram
to carry off the water when it is ﬂushed. The ﬂoors are of cement. Wlth the patients
removed, the cages can readily be ﬂushed out with a hot water hose in much less time and
more effectively than with the older type of construction.

Sanitation, in fact, is one of the prime Objects attained in these “glass wards,” and
veterinarians declare they constitute the last word in that respect. Glass permlts prac—
tically no dirt to accumulate, and what little does can be easily removed.

The animal patients appear to be contented in the new cages, more so in the opinion
of several of the doctors than in the older type of cages. That is a point that has been
watched with a great deal of interest. The idea was original and it was not known just
how the dogs would take to it. So far the veterinarian staff, which worked out the
plans in consultation with Dr. Rowley, is satisﬁed it has hit upon a departure prom-
ising wide development.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

YYNY
TTAT
mucm
K OREO
. mSCMS
M ”SF
% “TOAW
a m WMNmn
m mSMTA
O HUT C
m mngU
mCVSD
T ABLE
mSRA
ASPME
AEIN
MMNA
ﬁRAm
O
_ TWTH

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Nov.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROVVLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation *
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulance-s) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED T. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
'1‘. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters Of M. S. I’. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

T'aunton Branch Of Mass. SL P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch, of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—

MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRs. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

SEPTEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR—
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 15,559
Cases investigated ............. 254
Animals examined ............. 6,407
Animals placed in homes ....... 217
Lost animals restored to owners. . 74
Number of prosecutions ......... 4
Number of convictions .......... 4
Horses taken from work ........ 19
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 43
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,363
Horse auctions attended ........ 12
Stock-yards and Ab-attoirs
Animals inspected ............. 63,480
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 20

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 822
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,990
Operations ...................... 354

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 201
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 620
Operations ...................... 119

At Attleboro’ Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered .................... 81
Totals

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

 

1, 1915 ...................... 186,902
Dispensary Cases ............... 470,424
Total .............. 657,326

Holyoke Branch, M. S. P. C. A.

Steady progress during the summer in
the work of the Holyoke Branch of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is indicated in
the report of the president, Mrs. Aaron C.
Bagg, for the period from May 1 to Octo-
ber 1. During this time Dr. Trudeau, vet-
erinarian for the Branch, handled more
than 900 dogs and cats in addition to tur-
tles, fowl, pigeons, squirrels, foxes and
many varieties of birds.

The work is growing and the local shelter
is ﬁlling a deﬁnite need. An urgent effort is
being made to double the membership in
order to extend the inﬂuence of the Branch
and to secure ﬁnancial help.

The cruel abandonment of a cat is a
criminal offense under Massachusetts law.
It is provided for in Chapter 272, Section
77 of the Revised Statutes.

Auxiliaries Of Mass. S. P. C. A.

VVOmen’s Auxiliary Of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-

BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

U |<—ii

Page 169

Dogs and the Law

THE question which follows regarding
the dog’s legal status in Massachusetts
is answered by Dr. Rudolph H. Schneider,
ass’t chief of staff of the Angel] Animal
Hospital:

Question:

My dog was hit by an automobile the
other day, was knocked down and had his
leg broken. The driver was going so fast
that he could hardly have stopped to avert
the accident, had he seemed to try, and it
was just a miracle that I, myself, escaped
being struck. The man continued right on
as though nothing had happened, without
stopping to inquire as to whether the dog
was hurt, or offering a helping hand, but
I got his number. I am well able to stand
the expense of having the dog properly
attended to, but I cannot understand any-
one’s being so inhuman as to run away after
striking an animal, and if they did why
they could not be punished. I would like
to know if such a person could be prose-
cuted for the offense.

Answer:

A dog, licensed or unlicensed, is property
in the eyes of the law. Consequently when
a hit-and—run driver injures one he is just
as liable to prosecution as though he were
to leave the scene of an accident after dam—
aging other property, Or injuring a person
for that matter, which is a situation some
automobile drivers do not appreciate. Al-
though the penalty inﬂicted may not be ex—
cessively severe, the court can impose a ﬁne
or imprisonment, or both. It is further to
be observed that any person convicted may
not be much embarrassed by the penalty
imposed, yet it might be a serious thing
when reminded of the fact that the driving
license can also be temporarily revoked for
such violation of traffic regulations.

This is as it should be when man’s deeds
do not reﬂect his intuitive sense of kind-
ness, justice and the observance of the gold-
en rule.

In Praise of Ourselves

From three letters, all written late in
August, 1940, representing three extreme
Sections of our country, we copy these brief
comments:

Maine

“I think this is one of the best magazines
in the United States. I can’t praise it too
highly. I’m a great reader too, so am ca—
pable Of judging. If your magazine were
read by all the people instead of so much
trash which they peruse, the inﬂuence on
humanity would be far better.

Florida (Periodical)

“We greatly appreciate your publication
coming to our table and ﬁnd it not only
interesting but instructive. Often there are
items that we can use in our publication
that could not be secured from any other
source.”

California

“I have greatly enjoyed every number of
your excellent magazine. I have saved them
all and will bind them into a book—not to
put away but to keep on my library table
for guests to read.”

 

 

 




 

JANUARY 1940

,....,...,.....,. WV

 

TWO GOOD FRIENDS

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS g? THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

   

 
 
  

GLORY T0
Goa

. PEACE ON EARTH,

'2 ,KaNDNess, JUSTICE o

\Q \ AND MERCY T0

\ EVERY LIVING
“549 ‘ CREATURE.

7
9
m
2

    
 
      
  

  
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................ Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe.. ........ Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MARCH, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

680
Number of addresses made, 317
Number of persons in audiences, 52,742

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

()llll ZDZJAIZ} A N’IAI.AILS

From the Orient

HERE is an Oriental Humane Educa-
tion Association, with headquarters in

Lebanon, Syria. This covers, to a greater
or lesser extent, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine
and Transjordan. At the head of this work
there has been for some years a young man
by the name of N. B. Matta. He has been
associated with our Humane Education
work for a number of years and we have
spoken of him often in our magazine. In
his last letter he says, after speaking of
the serious experiences through which so
many men and animals are passing at this
time in the regions spoken of above, that
fourteen cases were brought to court during
the month of February, and that some of
the offenders were sentenced and some
ﬁned. He says, “It is interesting to note
that the courts still give consideration and
concern to protect our dumb friends.”

During the month of February, twelve
dogs, eight cats and two donkeys were hu-
manely put to sleep; and three dogs, three
cats; six horses, four donkeys, three mules
and two rabbits were cared for; and four
dogs, four donkeys, two horses and one cow
were restored to their owners.

We shall have an annual report from Mr.
Matta to print later in the spring.

We have supplied Mr. Matta with Band
of Mercy buttons and literature since he
began his work.

Do You Know the Cost of It?

Years ago we published the following
statement:

“If an ofﬁcer of the government met each
workman and other toiler of the land, night
by night, as he returned home, and de—
manded, and obtained, a good per cent of
each day’s wage or salary, and said, ‘This
is for [battleships and armies and for ex-
penses connected with past wars’; and the
citizen thus held up, night after night,
looked at last squarely into the eyes of the
fact that 72 per cent of all the national
income was going year after year for this
purpose, it may be he would some day won—
der if it paid this land, unthreatened by
war, and at peace with all the world, to
leave itself only 28 per cent of its income
for all other government expenses, improve-
ments, public buildings, etc.”

The Treasury has stopped estimating the
cost of war, past and present, as it did for
years. We are wondering, with a budget of
about nine billion dollars this year, and the
Army and Navy taking approximately two
billion of that, what the present rate would
be.

An Appeal from Hungary

Many of our readers know of the desper—
ate struggle Mme. Camilla von Corbelar of
Szeged, Hungary, has been carrying on to
awaken some interest there where the suf-
fering among animals is so great. She has
spared nothing in the way of self-sacriﬁce
and devotion to this cause. The situation
is most serious. Any gifts we shall be glad
to transmit to her if sent to Our Dumb
Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

ﬁlay,1940
Would That My Wish

SALVATORE MARSIGLIA

I want to build a home, someday,
To which I can invite

All homeless, friendless animals
To spend each wintry night;

And I would feed each dog and cat
A feast ﬁt for a king,

And gloat in all the gratitude
Of every furry thing.

With blankets warm to cover them,
And water by their heads,
I’d make the rounds to say goodnight
By all the little beds.
And how my heart would swell with joy
At what my wish had brought . . .
Sweet happiness to make content
A life with sorrow fraught.

So many, many little paws,
Weary and cold and sore,

Seek love and comfort from a world
Immersed in hate and war.

So many, many little lives
Which science offers to

A grim, insatiable, senseless god,
Seek gratitude from you.

Therefore, a kindness in my heart
Condemns their futile death;

Would every furry vagabond
Might draw a happy breath.

But till their lives draw to a close,
A dog or cat may ﬁnd

That not all ears and eyes are closed,
And that most hearts are kind.

One Day’s Work at Fez

From Superintendent Delon’s report for
February we select that of a single day,
the 13th.

Tuesday 13th. 7.30 A.M. Usual work.
Two men inspecting pack-animals at Bab.
Ftouh. Sending 3 donkeys to Hospital, one
with the help of the French policeman.
Destroying one Arab bit. 10 A.M. Motor
lorry of Travaux Municipaux transporting
dung. Men cleaning stables. 12 Noon, sent
ambulance to Ville Nouvelle to transport
one lame donkey fallen by the way. 1.30
RM. to 3.30 PM. Vet. visit, Dr. Bouguer—
eau inspecting and treating many out-
patients, and 12 lame animals we have in
Hospital today for treatment. Numbering
many horses of public carriages sent by
Police Dept. Treating the dog of Mr. Mon-
sonego of the British Consulate. Animals in
Hospital, 57.

Fondouk Report for February—29 Days

Daily average large animals 51.6
Forage for same $ 31.96
Put to sleep 14 2.30
Transportation 1.40
Daily average dogs 5.9
Forage for same 2.30
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 61.64
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 17.13
Motor ambulance upkeep 4.48
Motor bicycles upkeep 1.04
Sundries 44.94
Actual operating expenses $267.19

Entries: 5 horses, 23 mules, 59 donkeys.
Exits: 3 horses, 27 mules, 42 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 204 horses, 35 mules, 37 don-
keys, 11 dogs, 1 goat.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
    
     

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

WORM '"7
CAPSU LES ,
EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE ‘- =
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS m DOGS
or ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE

Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal lnduslry Dept, Desk N-58-G

PARKE, DAVIS 8: 00., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

  

 

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF
“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers of
1939. 192 pages—150 illustrations.
Postpaid, One Dollar.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

         
    

. lbs DIIFEREI'I???

Fragrant, super-soft talc medicated ”f
with soothing balsamlc 0118. Buy 00,,“ 2
today—all druggists—only 25¢. .u

w - ”’5'”, g ..

    

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

.l. S. WATERMAN ‘& SONS, Inc.
Muoertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume 351-00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound -
volume ............................... .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in
the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61A; x 33/8 $10.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ..$0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ..................... .30 “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “

About the Dog

gggggg

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
DiStemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card..$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.0-0 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ "
\‘Vhat the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 " “
The Story of Barry ................... .3 " "
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 "

Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10' cts.
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “

............. .50 “ "
About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................... ' .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “
Mollie VVhitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 "
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . 0 “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “
Humane Education Leaflet, N0. 6, Animals .50 “

The Air-Gun and the Birds

Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 " "

The Jack London Club

\Vhat is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. ................................. $0.50 per 100
Do \Vild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............... .50 “ “

Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis II. Rowley .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 3‘ pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................... 10 cts each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 3‘2 pp. ........................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 49 pp. For first and second

each, 10 cts.

grades ............................... each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals" pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
"And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 1c. each
I'll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ ‘2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, \Vhat to Teach and

How to Teach it ..................... .50 "
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “

A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer" .. 1.00 “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ "
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons White star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.

 

“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 "

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood AVE» Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films for Rent or Sale

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem of that title

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital and Rest Farm

Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Low r

 

and

for Horses, two reels

entals for schools, churches, Humane Societies and other organizations.
Address, SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1940

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees Of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaint-s, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. 'HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal

Methuen

Shelter,

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Other Small Animal Shelters Of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-183 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE'BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. 8:. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres. ; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas. Second Thursday.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,332
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
Animals examined . . . ‘. . . .‘ . . . . . 3,043
Animals placed in homes . . . .p . . . 235
Lost animals restored to owners. . 66
Number of prosecutions. . . . . . . . . 5
Number of convictions. . . . . . . . . . 5
Horses taken from work. . . . . . . . 12
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 44
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,304
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45,175
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep................ 42

Berkshire '

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANG'ELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
SCHNElDER, v.M.D.
SCHNELLE. v.M.D.
MUNSON, v.M.D.
BLAKELY, v.M.D.
ROBERTSON, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

met-3.0.x.“
9‘???ij

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 808
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,045
Operations ...................... 475

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 155
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 563
Operations ...................... 144
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 56
Totals

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 178,436
Dispensary Cases ............... 447,767
Total .............. 626,203

The Warsaw Union, S. P. C. A., we are
told, is struggling with such means as it
can command, to carry on its work. It has
the sympathy of [all lovers Of animals the
world over.

The Steel Trap

HIS is what the steel

trap has meant and still
means to many an unfortu-
nate dog.

The steel trap, an instru-
ment of torture, was outlawed
a few years ago in Massachu—
setts. Later, the trappers and
dealers in furs were success-
ful in having the law amended
so that any town in the State
voting that trapping be per-
mitted in that town would
make its use legal. Out of the
365 towns, 226 have restored
to this cruel device its right

to catch and torment its
victims.
The picture s h o w S our

agent, Mr. Charles E. Brown
of Attleboro, who was with
the game warden, when the
warden took the trapper into
court and secured a conviction
on the ground of not visiting
the trap every twenty-four
hours, as required by law. The
ﬁne was $20. Out of the pub-
licity arising from this inci-
dent a movement is on foot to
stop the use of the steel trap
in the township.

Page 25

Work Horses’ Christmas

(See picture on front cover)

ANY Boston work horses had their

Christmas dinners brought to them
while on duty on Saturday before the holi-
day. This year’s treat marked the twenty—
fourth time that the service has been ren-
dered by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Bags of feed containing well-balanced
portions of oats, cut apples and carrots
were distributed from a horse-drawn van
stationed in India Square, from which a
smaller motor vehicle transferred the feed
to peddlers’ horses in the market district
and to the stables where others are hired.
Hot coffee and doughnuts were provided
for drivers.

In extending the spirit of Christmas to
the hard—working horses it has been proved
through all the years that far beyond the
mere giving to a limited number of horses
something delectable to eat is the humane
educational effect upon their drivers and
those who witness publicly a demonstration
of kindness to animals.

Welcome Words

From the publisher of a popular monthly:

“I congratulate you on continuing to
publish such an attractive and interesting
Our Dumb Animals. I don’t know of any-
thing that so effectively upholds the integ—
rity of our four—footed friends as your
publication.”

From a contributor:

“May I say that while Our Dumb Ani—
mals always has been an intensely interest-
ing magazine I think it grows better every
month. I always read everything in it.

The magazine serves a triple purpose: it
not only entertains and instructs but it
preaches the humane gospel in a power-
ful, effective way. It does a world of good.”

 

OFFICER BROWN WITH DOG WHOSE HIND LEG
WAS CAUGHT IN A STEEL TRAP

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

  

GLORY To
.1 GOD,

3' a PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusnce
_\© AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
     
     

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1 889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased

Foreign CorreSponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe.. ......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JUNE, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 113
Number of addresses made, 221
Number of persons in audiences, 48,020

For Retired Workers

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Work in the Schools

HE value of the American Humane

Education Society’s workers in the
schools of many of our states for a better
citizenship in the days to come is inesti-
mable. Read the following, which comes from
one of our workers in a Chicago school:

The principal of the school writes:
“Twenty-two nationalities are represented
in this school—among them Lithuanians,
Americans, Germans, Irish, Italians, Croa—
tians, Poles, Greeks, Bohemians, Canadians,
Latvians, Hungarians, etc.” For instance,
in that one special school, 29 % are Lithu-
anians, 17% Germans, 11% Irish. Only
20% of the entire number are Americans.

Our worker in the schools of Chicago
writes: When one realizes the many differ—
ences—which also mean hatred, antago-
nism, race prejudice—that come into the
schools with these various nationalities, it
is not difﬁcult to imagine what our schools
have to face for the future. Whatever is
happening in the world today there are
immediate repercussions in the schools. The
day following Italy’s entrance into the war,
I visited a school of the greatest per cent
Italian children. They were irrepressible.
There was talk in the ofﬁce of Fifth Col-
umn activities.

I sometimes feel the futility of a kind-
ness program, but when I hear thousands
of young voices reverently repeating the
“kindness pledge,” I am restored to the con—
viction that if only the children of all lands
could be subjected to kindness baths in-
stead of “blood baths,” then man would
prove himself worthy of the earth’s bless-
ings, and again I am stirred to carry on.

Humane Trap Contest

For the thirteenth season prizes totaling
over six hundred dollars were recently
awarded to inventors and trappers in the
contest sponsored by/the American Humane
Association, Albany, N. Y.

For traps holding animals alive and un-
hurt, ﬁve prizes aggregating $225, were
awarded. In the leg-hold class awards
amounting to $150 were made and for traps
which kill humanely $125 was paid.

W. E. Sanderson, the Association’s Wild
Life Director, says, “we have been making
a world—wide search for devices that will
trap animals witha minimum of suffering.
The years of research have brought us
nearer our goal in enlightening the world
concerning true conservation and the justice
due our wild life.” Another humane trap
contest will be announced later.

Rev. John W. Lemon, ﬁeld worker of the
American Humane Education Society, held
an exhibit of humane literature at the Sum-
mer School for Teachers and the Ministers’
Conference, at Hampton Institute, Virginia,
in June. Nearly 1,200 were in attendance.
The literature was very favorably received.

From a reader in Pasadena, California:

Dear Sir: I have been meaning to write
you for some time to tell you how much I
enjoy the magazine, particularly the space
and understanding given to cats. It seems
as though they are so often slighted. With
appreciation.

Aug. 1940
In Bible Lands

E are glad to have our readers

know something of what is being
done in lands made familiar to us by their
biblical names. There is the Oriental Hu-
mane Education Association for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty and the Promotion of
Kindness to Animals. This work is being
done in Syria, Lebanon, Palestine and
Transjordan, with headquarters at Merja—
youn, Lebanon. The organizer and presi—
dent of it is Mr. N. B. Matta. ._

We have been in correspondence with Mr.
Matta since. he began his work. As usual,
we were very careful to have him thor-
oughly vouched for and to be assured of
his honorable standing in these various
places, and of the public conﬁdence in him.
He has been doing a remarkable work. He
sends us the following report for the year
1939, and up to the date of his last letter,
May 10, 1940:

Animals put to sleep: 442 dogs, 228 cats,
30 mules, 24 asses, 22 horses.

Animals taken care of: 59 horses, 74
dogs, 31 cows, 4 geese, 3 rabbits.

Lost animals restored to their owners:
61 horses, 55 dogs, 52 cows, 36 donkeys, 31
mules.

He further says, “We are sorry to con-
fess that we are unable to build a hospi—
tal for animals, but we shall continue in
our determination until God enables us to
fulﬁll this great work.”

In addition to what it is possible for him
to raise toward this work in his own coun-
try, Mr. Matta has received from indi-
viduals and other societies in this country
and England only the small amount of
$218.25.

Mr. Matta is also doing Evangelistic
work and, wherever he goes, carries his
message of kindness, justice, compassion
to all life—surely a Christian message if
there ever were one. During the period
above mentioned, he visited some 252 vil-
lages and cities, reaching 18,970 people,
young and old; 64 branches of his Society
were formed in schools and among older
people. He says, “The children show by
their conduct that they are getting much
out of the new principles taught them.”
He further says, “We have organized a
competition in which more than 300 persons
took part, and prizes were given where it
seemed wise.”

Mr. Matta asks, for the beneﬁt of all
who might ever be inclined to help him in
his work, that all checks be mailed to Mr.
K. W. Moor, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York
City, and that they be drawn to the
American Mission, Beirut, Lebanon. It was
from this American Mission that we have
received our endorsement of Mr. Matta.

Our American Humane Education So-
ciety aided Mr. Matta with literature,
badges, posters, and a small amount of
ﬁnancial help given us for foreign work.

In the July issue of Our Dumb Animals
we inadvertently referred to the Humane
News as being the organ of the State Hu-
mane Association of California. Mr. Charles
W. Friedrichs, secretary of that organ-
ization, sends us a correction, which we are
glad to make. The only organ of the
Association is Our Animals, published by
the San Francisco S. P. C. A.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

Main Ofﬁce

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

 

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

 

 

 

 

' WORM

  
   
   
 

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
Send for free Nema booklet No. 652
Wnte to Anrmal Industry Dept , Desk N58K
PARKE, DAVIS & 00.. DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke~Davrs Products

* Free Booklet;

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

EIMPLES

XTERNALLY CAUSED pimples, , :
rashes, quickly relieved by

rumu
_ "HINTMENI

    

    

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and

Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Titles in bold—face type

O‘ur Dunlb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound

volume, each ......................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in

the set ................. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% X 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ............ 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc.....$0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ...................... .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow... .50 “‘ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 .......... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card—$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............. .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons .................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $01.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3‘ cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2. .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................... .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............. .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley... . Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, '2 pp. ..... 1.00 “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ....................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No 7, Farm
Animals ................................ .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? .......... $0.30 per 100;

Foreword from “Michael Brother ofJerry” .30. “ “

Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
are of books or booklets

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. .................................. $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ........................ .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,

Helen T'revelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.... Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................... 12. cents each; ten for $1.00

Care a d Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ........................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—C‘lub, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Friends of F’ur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ....................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... '2‘cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........... .50 “ “
A Great PropheCy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane SO-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

‘6

J. Eddy .............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ........ .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

comes this letter, dated July 12, 1940:

school year because of conﬂicts.

you can supply it.”

 

 

HUMANE FILMS IN PUBLIC
SCHOOLS

From the Secretary of one of the largest Humane Societies in the country

“We have a very favorable report from our public school librarian on the
demand for the ﬁlm, THE BELL OF ATRI. They now have eleven advance
bookings for next season, and had to refuse it forty—four times during the last

“We are interested in providing another copy. Let us know at what price

For terms of sale or rental of this ﬁlm, illustrating Longfellow’s popular
poem, also for the two-reel ﬁlm, ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS, showing the
practical work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital, address,

Secretary, 180 LONGWOOD AVENUE, BOSTON

 

 

 

 

.,. 4‘.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 170

 
 

,_\

GLORY TO
GO D,

PEACE ON EARTH,

     

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Rev.
Rev.

Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

78
Number of addresses made, 166
Number of persons in audiences, 26,526

For Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Education in India

An Extraordinary Band of Mercy

N 1937 we received a letter from an un-

usually ﬁne young man in India, greatly
interested in animal welfare. His name was
S. C. Batra. He was vouched for by a Yale
professor who had spent some weeks with
him in that far-off country. In this same
year Mr. Batra founded what was known
as the Band of Mercy Council. That the
work has grown with unusual rapidity is
evidenced by the following letter just re-
ceived from him and which he sent out
widely over certain sections of India:

Egerton Road, Amritsar
8th June, 1940
Dear B. M. Friends,

At this time when the world is trembling
under the boom of guns, the ideals of Band
of Mercy, which stand for justice, kindness,
good will and peace are facing a perilous
ordeal. The victory of the ruthless force
means the death-signal of our creed, which
we believe is dearer than our lives. In this
grave hour an inward call of duty comes
and urges us to uphold the torch of light in
the darkness.

How Can You Help?

(a) By the strength of your prayers,
ﬁrmness of your will, and conﬁdence in
those who are ﬁghting for us.

(b) By checking the alarm and panic
that comes in a surge in the minds of
masses by peaceful means.

(c) By enrolling yourself and others in
the Band of Mercy Volunteers Corps, which
is going to be raised up for Active Service
in India.

May I appeal to all the Presidents of our
Bands to hold Band of Mercy prayer meet-
ings on the 15th June exact at 7:30 A.M.
and let our ﬁve thousand members pray as
one body at the same time. The copies of
the prescribed prayers are enclosed here-
with. It has been arranged to hold a special
prayer meeting at Amritsar in the evening
of the same day at 6:30 P.M. at the Clark
Memorial Hall on the Post Ofﬁce road.

Yours sincerely,
S. C. BATRA

The prayer, to which Mr. Batra refers,
has been sent us both in English and in
Hindustani, the English of which we re-
produce:

0 God, the Father of all mankind who
has drawn us together in a great bond of
fellowship known as “Band of Mercy,” give
us, we beseech Thee, a heart full of mercy
towards all creatures that we may have the
Vision of a world without war and of man-
kind at peace. And at this time of war be
now and ever more our defense, and grant
us Victory, if it be Thy will. Hasten, 0
Father, the time when war shall cease in
all the world and we, as children of one
Father, may love one another as brethren
in one home. Amen.

A Question for Today

Ah! when shall all men’s good
Be each man’s rule, and universal Peace
Lie like a shaft of light across the land,
And like a lane of beams athwart the sea,
Thro’ all the circle of the golden year.

TENNYSON

Nov. 1940

The F ondouk at Fez

LL of the readers of this magazine, who
have been interested in the work of the
American Fondouk in Fez, will be glad to
know that this work is still going on with-
out interruption, though we have at the
moment no report for the last few weeks of
the daily service rendered. The ﬁnancial
need is the same as it has been, and our
hope is that the generous friends of that
work will continue their annual contribu-
tions.
Any further news that may come from
Fez we shall gladly give our readers in fol-
lowing issues of the magazine.

To Be a Jew in Germany

In a sermon delivered by Rabbi Aaron
H. Lefkowitz of Cumberland, Maryland, he
stated that the day following November 7,
1938, the date when the seventeen-year-old
young Polish Jewish emigre shot the 3rd
Secretary of the German Embassy in Paris,
that pogroms throughout the Reich, lasting
from 2 A.M. to 4 P.M., resulted in the
destruction of 520 synagogues, the arrest-
ing of thousands of Jews who were sent to
concentration camps, and damage to Jew-
ish property in Berlin estimated at some
$5,000,000; and an atonement fee put upon
the Jewish population of Germany of one
billion marks. ‘

Over against this, one must place the
statements of great Christian preachers
like Holmes, Fosdick, Niebuhr and others
who have said that Christianity must ﬁght
anti—Semitism if it expects to save itself
from Paganism.

The Lowly Mole

A writer in The Kind Deeds Messenger
has a good word for the often-maligned
little mole. We are told that the gardener
who tramples on the tiny raised place
through which the mole, underground, has
been passing, is killing a creature that is
actually his friend—that instead of eating
the roots of his plants the mole eats the
grubs and worms that attack the roots of
the plants, so that he should be protected
rather than destroyed. It seems that in
France there is a ﬁne imposed for killing
even one of these small creatures.

As we all know, the fur of the mole is
exquisitely beautiful and they are slaugh-
tered in great numbers to provide a coat
for milady. It takes over three hundred
of these little creatures to make one mole-
skin coat.

Four Hundred Years Ago

Nearly four hundred years before the
ﬁrst society for the prevention of cruelty
to animals was formed, the famous French
writer, Montaigne, wrote the following:

“For my own part I cannot without grief
see so much as an innocent beast pursued
and killed that has no defense, and from
which we have received no offense at all;
and that which frequently happens that the
stag we hunt, ﬁnding himself weak and out
of breath and, seeing no other remedy, sur-
renders himself to us who pursue him, im-
ploring mercy by his tears.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APRIL 1940

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

TELLING THE STORY OF‘ BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK, APRIL 15-20,

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELT Y

TO ANIMALS g THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1940
The Maiden

MARION H. ADDINGTON

May is like a maiden,
Full of winsome grace,

Walking flower-laden
Every lovely place;

Where a shadow passes
From the purple hills,

Over springing grasses
Bright with daffodils;

Where the lilac showers
Petals in the rain,

And the maple flowers
Fall along the lane;

Where the dew is lying
Wet upon the thorn,
And the bluebirds flying

Through the rosy morn.

May is like a maiden,
Young and eager-eyed,
Walking flower-laden
Through the country-side.
Although the beaver has been known to
reach a weight of 68 pounds, he belongs to
the same family as the squirrel and the
mouse. There once was a prehistoric form
of the animal which weighed about 400
pounds, judging from fossil remains. There
are thousands of places in the United
States and Canada which bear the beaver’s
name, and, although he has been extinct in
England since the thirteenth century, there
are at least a dozen places on the Island—
such as Beverly, Beverstone and Bevers-
brook—which still bear Witness to his
former habitat.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ’7 5

How Aquatic Birds Keep House

ALETHA M. BONNER

OYCE KILMER’S famous tree that

“wore a nest of robins in her hair,”

must have been a cherry, or perhaps
a mulberry, since it is a well—known fact
that the robin redlbreast family prefer
tree—apartments with a cafeteria on the
premises!

There are many birds, however, which do
not build “in the hair” of any tree, but
choose rather to “set up housekeeping” on
terra ﬁrma. Aquatic birds, in particular,
have this ground—ﬂoor complex; and this
seems odd in View of their abiding predilec-
tion for water. Yet, after all, this may :be
the reason—for when one is a bird and
has paddled around in water all day, good
earth underfoot does feel comfortable; and
to have a cozy nest, within walking dis—
tance of a beach or branch or brook, is
“ducky” indeed!

At least, the mallards and the canvas—
back ducks seem to think so, for they build
their nests on marshy ground, hidden away
in a thicket of rushes and reeds. Mrs. C-B
Duck really prefers a semi-ﬂoating nest-
boat, and builds a deep basket-like affair
of sticks and reeds, anchoring it in a clump
of water—grown plants; and here Master
Donald and little sister Daisy can swim in
the backyard to their hearts’ content.

Their ﬁrst cousin (and an “ugly duck—
ling”), the shy, pied-billed, bobbed-tailed
grebe, has a ﬂoating palace of grass and
reeds. When baby grebes ﬁrst leave the
nest, it is aboard the back of their father
or mother, but they soon “take to water,”
as does every duck.

According to legendary lore the halcyon

 

Courtesy of U. S. Recruiting News

THE WATERFOWL ALWAYS HAVE A WELCOME FOR VISI-
TORS OFFERING FOOD AT FORT SNELLING SANCTUARY,
MINNESOTA

birds (better known today as kingﬁshers)
were said to build ﬂoating nests on the
ocean and were thought to “possess mys—
terious power to calm troubled waters dur-
ing the nesting season”—hence the origin
of the term “halcyon days,” meaning, days
of fair weather.

Apropos of other signiﬁcant bird-terms,
it is interesting to know that the petrel,
which forms its nest in the sand in locali-
ties adjoining the sea, derives its name
from a Bible character—Peter, the Apostle
who walked on the waves, for this reason;
when the birds are in pursuit of food, they
extend their wings, and appear to walk on
the surface of the water. And in direct con—
trast to the fair-weather halcyons, seamen
predict “poor sailing weather,” when the
water-walkers take to the air and circle
around a ship, this is why the birds are
often called “stormy petrels."

Continuing the census of ground-nesting
water-birds, the huge-billed brown and
white pelicans should be mentioned. The
former chooses a sandy setting for their
nesting home, which is a substantial struc-
ture of twigs and leaves and weeds, usually
located on small islands in the sea but
never far from the mainland. The latter
pelican folk have for their [building site
ﬂoating islands of massed drift-wood and
vegetation. Easily disturbed, the seemingly
ever-smiling birds will desert their eggs
and young on the slightest provocation;
despite this desertion, pelican colonies are
on the increase. In more recent years they
have been set apart on Federal wild-bird
reservations where they can build nests
and live unmolested lives.

Another 'bird receiving Government pro-
tection is the «common tern, a graceful
water-fowl with forked {but feathery tail,
and needle—sharp (bill, whose “Home Sweet
Home” is a scooped-out, saucer-like hole in
the sand on some treasure island of the
sea. Noisy and restless in nature, they
have gained the name of “Wide-awake;”
and in his day Audubon—the World’s great—
est bird-lover, described a visit to a tern
rookery: “Rising in swarms like those of
bees in their hives, with cries that deafen
one . . . I felt as if the [birds would raise
me from the ground, so thick were they all
around and so quick the motion of their
wings.”

Among the feathered architects who
build more imposing nests on the ground
are the long-legged, and longer-necked
ﬂamingoes. If looking on during the ‘build-
ing process, one might fancy these colorful
(rosy-pink) creatures were making “mud
pies;” but after much scraping and patting
into shape with bill and feet, a foot-high
nest is formed out of the muddy mass.
When completed and somewhat dried out,
one or two chalkyawhite eggs are deposited
therein; Mater Flamingo attends to the
incubation, and soon there are the web-
footed stilt-like legs of young Master Flam,
stepping from the nest.

If sky-scraper effects in straw and reeds
are desired, engage a swan to do the work!
Both the Mister and the Madam (mated
for life) toil indefatigably when building—-
a coastline or an island site is chosen, then

 

 




 

 

Q

0. T- ANGE

\1

LL IN 1868,AND FOR FORTY~QNE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
-—COWPER

U. S.Trade Mark.Registe,.ed \ n 1

 
    

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

    
  
 

  

AND MERCY 'r'o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
   

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Office at Norwood, Mass, under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 73

July, 1940

No. 7

 

The United States Government has given
a mile-square area at the New Jersey Naval
Air Station for a game bird sanctuary—-
pheasants, quail, mallard ducks, Canada
geese and other wild life are to ﬁnd here
a shelter from the shotgun and the riﬂe.

The ﬁve hundredth anniversary of print-
ing is celebrated the world over. Fifteen
years later the famous Gutenberg Bible ap—
peared. There are now a thousand different
languages in which the Bible may be read.
No other book has ever equaled the Bible
in the number of copies printed.

Our readers will be glad to know there
is a Hollywood Humane Society, that Be
Kind to Animals Week was observed by it,
and that several leading stars, members of
it, took part in the ceremonies. Accounts
were made of children and others for spe-
cial deeds of kindness to animals.

A rarely beautiful and instructive quar—
terly publication, issued by The Humane
Society of Baltimore County, Maryland,
has made its appearance. That Society is
doing an unusually ﬁne work for the com-
mon cause, and just to see its headquarters
at Pikesville is worth far more than the
journey costs.

The Royal S. P. C. A. (London) learns
through the Finnish Ministry of Defence
that there are some 12,000 wounded and
sick horses in that heroic war-stricken
little country that are requiring veterinary
aid. How many other victims of the animal
world of that ruthless assault upon Fin—
land, no man can say.

We know nothing about the ﬁlm “Vir—
ginia City,” except what we have read. The
Humane News, published by the State Hu-
mane Association, California, says, how-
ever, that no actual cruelty to animals
occurred in making the picture. “No actual
cruelty”; we hope that means not even
the semblance of cruelty.

Two of Many Letters

From a Chicago School Teacher

Dear Dr. Rowley:

I should like to take this opportunity to
personally thank you for the splendid hu-
mane education services being afforded the
children of our Chicago public schools
through your Society. As the teacher of
one of the groups that entered your recent
humane education contest, I know that it
was an excellent stimulus and an inspira-
tion for creative English work as well as
direction of serious thought and attention
to the humane work itself.

How happy four of the youngsters in my
room were to receive their lovely camera
prizes and honorable mention certiﬁcates!
Surely you must derive great enjoyment
from your work when you spread so much
happiness and good!

For all of these services—the contest, the
good literature and magazines, and your
representative’s enjoyable talks and visits,
we all (pupils and teacher alike) wish to
thank you.

My pupils join me in sending every good
wish for the furtherance of this work and
its success.

May 27, 1940

From Our Worker in a Large Group of
Colored Schools in the South

My dear Dr. Rowley:

I have been speaking in many of the
schools and have already been given a place
in the closing exercises of as many as I
shall be able to reach. Many of the children
have bird—houses in their yards at home and
are studying the birds. Some of the schools
have bird-houses on their grounds. The
children see now as never before what
birds mean for us all. They say that they
do not now rob their nests.

Next month at Hampton I am having a
humane exhibit in connection with the sum-
mer school for teachers and shall be reach-
ing many sections of our country.

May 27,. 1940

The U. F. A. W.

. HE United States isnot the only coun—
try in the world where the alphabet is
being given unusual prominence in public

affairs. The U. F. A. W. stands; for what?
The Universities’ Federation for Animal
Welfare.

This movement, starting thirteen years
ago as The U. L. A. W. S. (The University
of London Animal Welfare Society), has at
last realized its early ambition and has
been extended from London to Oxford and
Cambridge. Eventually it is hoped to in-
clude all British universities in the Feder-
ation, and those of foreign countries as
well.

This great cause of animal welfare,
recognized in England’s universities, and,
as hoped, ﬁnding a place in other centers
of higher education, is one of the outstand—
ing evidences of the growth of the humane
movement throughout the world.

The new publication of The Universities’
Federation for Animal Welfare, known as
the UFAW Quarterly Journal, is a valuable
contribution to the literature dealing with
humane organizations. We take from it the
following paragraph:

“It would not be appropriate to its spe-
cial character as a University organization
if UFAW failed to take advantage of its
unique opportunities of co-operating with
scientists who are mindful of the needs and
rights of animals. The contents of the ﬁve
volumes of the Animal Year Book show not
only the success with which this policy has
been pursued in the past, but that a large
number of men and women, in various ﬁelds
of scientiﬁc research, is fully alive and
sympathetic to the aims and objects of
the Federation.”

Someone in the San Francisco Call-Bulle-
tin tells us that all dogs are color—blind.
Even this is said of the Seeing-Eye dogs.
They cannot distinguish between. the red
and green, yet can tell the difference in
color by gradations of shade. The red stop—
light does mean “stop” for them and the
green means “go.”

 




 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

0&0

mb

u_ S.Trade Mark,Registered
1 ANGELL ‘N 1868.AND FOR FoRTY‘ONE

\l

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet Wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD, ,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY To
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of po

stage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vﬁﬂ.73

January,l940

lQo.l

 

If every American reader of this maga-
zine were to write to his Congressman be-
fore the next session in January, asking
whether he would do everything in his
power to prevent the United States’ being
drawn into this war, and calling for a reply
“Yes” or “No,” it would count for much in
the future policy of this country.

The Animal Defence Society, London, has
compiled a register of homes in the country
where pets of poor people may be sent,
free of charge, during the war. At the
outbreak of the war, The AnimaZVPictorial
says that many thousands of domestic ani-
mals were destroyed at the order of their
owners who had no means of providing for
their proper protection or care.

Dogs are being used by the French
Army. The dogs seek the wounded in thick
forests and high grass and then go back
and lead stretcher-bearers to the places.

This is told us in an English humane
publication. Some of the best messenger
dogs, it is said, are Airedale, Irish and
Welsh terriers, and collies, but greyhounds
and hounds are practically useless.

The open season on deer has come
and gone, and hundreds of these beautiful
creatures have been killed or wounded and
left to suffer and die. We have seen the
body of more than one deer lashed to the
automobile of some gunner, thinking by
thus displaying his kill he would be envied
by the general public; instead, he has been
condemned by the general public.

It is devoutly to be hoped that among the
presents for children that hang upon the
Christmas tree or are placed about it, par-
ents will more and more forbear making
gifts which awaken the thought of war in
the heart .of youth, such as toy guns, toy
pistols, toy soldiers, toy cannons. May the
day come when our children will no longer
even want such playthings. The training
for such a day must begin close to the
cradle.

.What Is Fundamental in

Education P

THERE is no doubt that many an edu-
cator looks upon what is called “Hu-
mane Education” as a more or less trivial
affair. Throughout our schools and colleges
at the present day there runs primarily the
idea that the training of the intellect is the
chief thing to be sought. It needs but a
slight knowledge of history to be aware of
the fact that the advantages that come to
one as a result of education in the higher
branches of learning are no guarantee of
moral character or of good citizenship.
Some of the greatest crimes of history have
been committed by men of keen intellectual
power and wide knowledge.

It may be doubted if any thoughtful
man will deny the assertion that the
springs of action and the forces that deter-
mine conduct are to be found in what may
justly be called “man’s emotional nature.”
All the things that make for character have
their seat there. Justice, compassion,
friendship, goodwill, the spirit that binds
man to man, that works for peace, and
stands over against what seems to be
nature’s law of the survival of the ﬁttest,
come to us out of that realm that humanity
has ever spoken of as “the heart.” Wher-
ever, therefore, the chief aim of the edu-
cator has been to train the intellect, neglect-
ing this other side of man’s being, he has
missed the supreme goal that should have
been the aim of his calling.

Humane Education, while recognizing
the value of scientiﬁc, literary, and philo-
sophical training, seeks to go deep enough
into the life of the younger generations to
reach the home of those emotions and im~
pulses which are the determining factors in
the development of human character.

Unless back of all that our schools and
colleges are so largely seeking there is an
awakened sense of justice and kindness,
those who issue from these institutions
may use what they have acquired only for
the destruction of the highest social and
industrial welfare of their state and nation.

Teacher after teacher has borne witness to
the truth that the child trained to deal
with the animal world about him according
to the teaching of the Golden Rule inevi-
tably grows into manhood constantly moved
to apply this same law in determining "his
relations to his human fellows.

The Horse that Didn’t
D1e 1n Vain

ONNIE FARCEUR” was a beautiful

young Belgian mare, born in Indiana.
She was subjected to the cruel operation
of docking—cutting her tail oﬂ" within a
few inches of her body. As a result of this
operation she died. Learning of the story,
Mrs. Ernest Martin was so aroused by the
cruelties inﬂicted upon this ﬁne animal and
other cruelties common in that section of
her State, that she was led to found what
is now known as The Indiana Humane~ Edu-
cation Society, Inc. Mrs. Martin is both
founder and president of that most worthy
organization. Through her personal efforts
she has gathered about her a group of
people determined to do everything in their
power to put an end to some, at least, of
the worst forms of cruelty that prevail in
that Commonwealth. The aim of the organ-
ization is “Kindness, Justice and Mercy to
every living creature.” Mrs. Martin says
this Society was founded and dedicated in
loving and perpetual memory of Bonnie
Farceur.

In carrying out these aims of the organ-
ization, this new Society is endeavoring, up
to the limit of its power, to promote and .
encourage legislation for the good and wel-
fare of all living creatures, and by all legal
means to try to educate the public to ob—
serve every legislative enactment now in
force or hereafter to become in force.

J. Edgar Hoover’s book, “Persons in
Hiding,” should be read in every home.
The story of crime in the United States he
tells is appalling. The greater part of it
begins in the home. Youth cannot learn too
soon that crime does not pay.

 




 

Aug. 1940

Where Cows Come Up
My Lane

MINA M. TITUS

The sun sinks low behind the hills,
The hush of evening falls,
The night hawks and the whip-poor-wills
Commence their drowsy calls.
Nor guns nor gas nor battle’s slain
Intrude, where cows come up my lane.

A thin, white mist is hanging low
Above the dew-drenched ﬁelds.
A pungent odor, clover-sweet,
The pregnant earth now yields.
Nor guns nor gas nor battle’s slain
Intrude, where cows come up my lane.

And far across the pasture brook
The long, dark shadows creep,

As one by one all things turn home
At dusk for rest and sleep.

Nor guns nor gas nor battle’s slain

Intrude, where cows come up my lane.

To humble hearts at close of day
Life brings a sweet content.

And I am glad God’s road for me
Down country byways went.

Nor guns nor gas nor battle’s slain

Intrude, where cows come up my lane.

The Mule Who Closed a
Cathedral Door

DOROTHY L. PILLSBURY

HE great vaulted arches of the cathe-

dral in Guadalajara, Mexico, are out-
lined in gold leaf. The statues of the
apostles are of Carrara marble, and a
real Murillo virgin smiles benignly from
the ancient wall. But the great front doors
are opened only once a year, in Holy Week,
because a mule is buried in the entrance.
All other times, saint and sinner must use
a side door.

The mule belonged to the archbishop.
Hundreds of years ago, When Mexico was
a colony of Spain, the archbishop rode the
mule all over his vast diocese. One rainy
cold night in Holy Week, when the arch-
bishop was returning from an especially
arduous trip, the good Father became very
ill but the mule kept steadily on toward
Guadalajara and the cathedral, even while
the ﬁgure on his back slumped in the saddle
and the hands relaxed on the reins. Right
up to the great hand-carved doors of the
cathedral came the mule. When the attend-
ants rushed out to help the archbishop to
alight, they found to their horror that he
was dead. Shortly afterwards, the mule
died, too. It was a miracle, as any one
could see. For that reason, the mule was
buried under the great front door which
has been kept closed to this day. All the
world uses another entrance that the grave
of a faithful mule may not feel the spat of
braided sandals nor the heel of the gaping
tourist.

O O
O

Cruel treatment of animals is against
man’s duty to himself, because through it
his compassion for the suffering of men is
weakened.

IMMANUEL KANT

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 123

In Search of a Family Cow

ALFRED S.

 

F all the many families who move from
©the city to the country to live, most of
them- plan to own what is called a “family
cow;” that is, a gentle, quiet cow which
will supply them with enough good milk for
their own needs. It sounds like a very
simple problem to solve; this search for a
home-owned dairy, but if the truth were
known it is one of the most diﬂicult quests
in the world.

The crux of the whole matter is this;
cows by nature run in herds, and a cow
away from her bovine companions is un—
happy and restless, loses her appetite and
shows a tendency to break through fences
and run away on frequent occasions. On
the other hand, a cow which has been
brought up from early calfhood as a family
pet will not miss the companionship which
she has never had; but her owner will be
so fond of her that he will be unwilling to
sell her.

Often, in country newspapers, we ﬁnd ad-
vertised for sale what are called “family
cows,” but we usually discover that these
animals are simply cows which do not pro-
duce enough milk to pay for their keep in
a dairy herd. That is the only “family”
characteristic they have, and so the pur-
chaser has the same problem of constant
supervision with a very few quarts of milk
as a reward.

All of this is not so hopeless as it sounds.
It is quite possible to make any cow except
a vicious one into a very satisfactory fam—
ily cow, if you like animals, are observant
and have a great deal of patience. A recent
personal experience may serve to illustrate
a method which I have employed on many
occasions, and which has always been suc-
cessful.

Last fall we disposed of our family cow,
because she had had two sets of twins in
succession and had for that reason gone
down in milk production to almost zero. I
went to a herd which was accredited by the
state as being entirely free from tubercu-

CAMBELL

 

M

losis and which I knew from examination
and by checking with a local veterinarian
to be free from Bang’s disease and mastitis.

I chose a ten-year—old cow which I had
seen milked several times. The milk was
plentiful, of ﬁne ﬂavor and rich in butter-
fat. The age of the cow would be against
her except that her udder was still in ﬁrst-
class shape. I also watched her eat, and
noted with satisfaction that she had an
excellent.- appetite.

When I brought her home, that was the
ﬁrst time that she had left the farm where
she had been born and had grown up. As
the oldest animal in a herd of about twenty--
ﬁve, she had been self-appointed “herd
leader.” As soon as I put her in the barn
she looked anxiously around for her com-
panions, and then bellowed plaintively. She
refused to eat or drink at ﬁrst.

Then I brushed her from head to foot and
stroked her until she grew quiet. After
awhile she began to eat, and drank a bucket
of water. For a few days she never ate
unless one of us was present, talking to
her. When we left she would bellow con-
stantly. To offset her loneliness I bought
a small calf which I put in an adjoining
stall. It wasn’t hers but it served the pur—
pose. She quieted down at once.

The next problem was to teach her to
lead. She had always been driven to and
from the barn, but in order to take her
from barn to pasture without her running
away or trampling the gardens I had to
lead her. I put a broad leather strap
around her neck, with an iron ring through
it. To the ring I could snap a lead rope
easily. At ﬁrst it was necessary to coax
her along a foot at a time, pulling the rope
gently. Whenever she would stop and pull
back I would say gently “come along.” In
no time she knew the meaning of those
words, and would follow at my heels with
no more than a bit of string holding her.

In the same way I taught her to back
from her stall, by pushing gently against
her forehead and repeating the word

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




:.... A... ._..... '1..sz ' r _. 1.1.: «a: -: .,

 

 

 

 

 

UNION TRUST
COMPANY

O F
Springfield, Massachusetts
Complete

BANKING AND TRUST
FACILITIES

I I I
COMMERCIAL BANKING
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES

INDIVIDUAL
A N D

CORPORATE TRUSTS
STOCK TRANSFER

M E M B E R
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
CORPORATION

 

 

 

 

  

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

N E MFA
WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE ,
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N—58—A

PARKE, DAVIS & C0., DETROIT, M ICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

     
  

    
 

 

 
 
   

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 

 

BlAC __

— EXTERNALLY CAUSED
Also pimples and rashes of external ' ‘
origin relieved with usually effective

EUTIEUHA ﬁﬂIﬂé‘II "7

  

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
ﬁlmmakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1938, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1937, bound volume .721
Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six 111 .
the set ............................... $1.00

Humane Calendar for 1940 .............. each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, (11A; x 33/8 $0.50per1001

About the Horse

50(ts

Black Beauty (English), cloth ..........
“$0. 60 pe1 100‘
50

The Horse—T1 eatment of Sor es, etc
Humane Education Leaflet, NO. 5 ......
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30

t t

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small,50»cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider F1ee
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post— —ca1d. .$1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ ‘

Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ............................. .00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ......... . 50 “ “
The Story Of Barry ................... .30 “ ‘
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ......................... .50 ” “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 41 .......... Free

Boots’ Day, play, for two bloys and three

girls ..................... Sets. each, five for 10 cts.
About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp. ., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3cts. ea. ;12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2.50 :: “
HOW the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 H ..
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease. $0. 60 per 100'

Surplus Cats ............................ .5‘0‘ .. H
The Cat in Literature .................. :10 ..
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... 50 :‘ ..
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 H ‘
“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .90 .. ‘
I Knew She Was a Lady .............. .210

About 0th er Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. , special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, (.1 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp .. 1.00
HOW to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00

(‘ (6

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, NO. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? ...... $0.30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. ................................. .50 per 100
DO Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. .............. .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Edmation, An A1ti1ity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. FIaIlCiS H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, ’29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 15 cents each, seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.,15 cts. ; seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
”Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Sunday ....................... lc. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address,2cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
HOW to Teach it ......................
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or C1uelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk With the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each, 1. 00 “ ”
Bookmark, With “A Humane Prayer” . 1. 00 “ "
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... 50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ............ .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane SO—

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................. $1.00 per 100

Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ ”

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant .............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50*cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................. $3. 00 per 100
Band Of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50
HOW to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY. 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films
for Rent or Sale——

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem

and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital,

two reels

Both available in 16 and 35 mm.

Address
SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“THEY KNOW NOT”

An impressive novel with a New England set-
ting, by DR. GEORGE SANFORD FOSTER,
a well-known surgeon. From every sale the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will derive a sub-
stantial proﬁt. Price, $2.50 per copy, postpaid
to any address. Use this form in ordering:

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Please send
Not” to

copies of “They Know

......................................
....................................

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Check or money order for $ ........ enclosed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
under the Act of March 3, 1879

080

u {(113341 Mark, Registered \

NOELL m 1868.AND FOR FormaoNE
,1. A

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Octo

Boston Oﬂ‘ice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Vol. 73

October, 1940

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY To
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

her 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919
Mass.

No. 10

 

Eastern fairs and other gatherings de-
siring to attract public attention are still,
from time to time, bringing into our New
England states the so—called rodeo. These
exhibitions, born in the West and brought
East, are, as a rule, very tame affairs com-
pared with what some of them have meant
in earlier days. In Massachusetts the pro-
prietors are warned that any violation of
the anti-cruelty law will be followed im-
mediately by prosecution. Without the thrill
they fall rather ﬂat.

Much criticism in the past has been
raised because of what has seemed like the
cruel treatment of horses in what are
known as pulling contests. Undoubtedly
the criticism too often has been just. In
this Commonwealth We are carefully watch-
ing these contests at every fair that is held,
and this year are giving six very attractive
bronze plaques to those owners of the
horses who handle them without any ill—
treatment or evidence of putting them to
what might be considered a cruel strain.

In spite of the reports that come to us
about there being no cruelty in the movies,
we are repeatedly seeing, especially in pic-
tures where horses are being used, such
handling of them as cannot help but cause
them more or less of suffering. It is true
the camera can perform many tricks that
misrepresent the real facts; still the day
has not yet come when one need no longer
be distressed at scenes of cruelty in the
moving-picture industry.

It may have escaped our attention, but
we do not remember having seen in the
accounts of this unspeakable war being
waged now in Europe, anything with re—
gard to the wounding and killing of horses.
That these faithful servants of man may
suffer for lack of proper care and feeding
is true enough, but wounded and dying
horses and mules on the ﬁeld of battle at
least in such numbers as formerly, seems
to be a thing of the past. Here is some—
thing indeed to be grateful for.

A Scientist Speaks

W E talk much today about living in a
scientiﬁc age. Over and over again
we are also told that the hope for the future
lies in an ever-enlarged education. Little is
heard from the lips even of the heads of
American educational institutions of what
might be called the profounder needs of our
present civilization of those moral and
spiritual values without which no nation
ever was or ever can be great. True, we
owe much to science, and we owe much to
those educational forces which have given
America a place in the world of intellect.

But if ever this land in which we live
needed to realize that something more than
science and something more than the train—
ing of the human intellect was needed, it
is today.

It is long since we have read wiser words
than those among the last that fell from
the lips of Charles P. Steinmetz, and words
which both scientist and educator and politi-
cal leader as well should ponder. He was
no preacher, no professor of moral phi—
losophy, but one of America’s leading scien-
tists, a marvel of his day as a student of
some of the mightiest forces that rule in
our physical world—and this is what he
said:

“Here is a force which history clearly
teaches has been the greatest power in the
development of men and history. i‘ i“ * Some
day people will learn that material things
do not bring happiness and are of little use
in making men and women creative and
powerful. Then the scientists of the world
will turn their laboratories over to the
study of God and prayer and the spiritual
forces which as yet have hardly been
touched. When this day comes, the world
will see more advancement in one genera-
tion than it has in the past four.”

Sympathy for the lower animals is one of
the noblest virtues with which man is en-
dowed. DARWIN

The Mystery of Animal
Suffering

MONG life’s unsolved mysteries, and
Athere are many of them, is that which
the age-long, unrequited sufferings of ani-
mals raises. If what the world of animal
life, since man began, has endured from the
brutal cruelties of overloading, beating,
neglect, starvation, slaughtering methods
without thought of mercy or effort to save
needless pain—if this combined mass of
eons of misery and woe could be piled into
one gigantic mound, it would blot out the
sky for a thousand miles.

And these sufferings have fallen upon
them not because of any conscious act of
evil or wilful violation of law. They have
simply lived out their lives as Naturemade
them, free from obligation to any law save
that of their being. Innocent of guilt they
have suffered like the guilty. What man
sows he must reap, the harvest bringing so
often shame and woe to the innocent bound
up with him in the bundle of life. There is
little mystery about that. But this age-long
burden of suffering endured by beast and
bird—how shall we reconcile it with a moral
order of the world based upon justice and
mercy?

Is there ground for us to believe that the
nervous organism of the animal is such that
its sensitiveness to pain is so much less
than our own that it cannot know suffering
as we know it? Sometimes it has seemed as
though this might be true, and many have
hoped it might be so. But who can tell? Or
is there something beyond death for them
which may mean a recompense for what
they have suffered at the hand of man?
Many have found comfort in such a hope.
Even the great Apostle Paul seemed to
have had something of the sort in mind
when he wrote of the whole creation groan-
ing and traveling in pain, waiting for a
future good.

Can we say more than that unless some-
where and sometimes and in some way the
scales of justice swing to an even balance
for these lowlier children of life, how can
justice be satisﬁed?

 

 

 




 

 

 

Nov. 1940

A Little Dog Wonders

MYRTLE BLASSING

Why did they bob my tail? God gave
A little dog a tail to wag.

That was the way I said “Hello,”
And told folks that I loved them so.

I wonder why they cut my ears?

God gave me ears to talk with, too:
Now I can’t drop them when I’m sad,
Nor lift them when I’m feeling glad.

I love my folks just as they are,

But they, I guess, found flaws in me,
For they have changed me from the way
God meant a little dog to be.

Bird and Animal Migration

M. H. MORGAN

HILE there seems to be an as yet
unknown primal urge back of the

migration of birds and animals, other than
that of food, yet the movement of large
bodies of ﬁnny, furred and feathered tribes
is mainly that of safety and provision. Men
build homes and stock pantries and base-
ments when possible; some animals do the
same, while others hibernate during bitter
Winters; but there still remain vast hordes
of birds and beasts which do none of these
things, and these creatures must follow the
clock—south in fall; north in spring.

The caribou leave their Arctic Ocean
“stamping grounds” and move down into
Hudson Bay country, where it is still pos-
sible to uncover the life-giving moss. Moun—
tain sheep, goats and other grass or grain
feeders seek lower levels when the snows
come, where at least a modicum of shelter
and food still exist; and just as the herbiv—
orous creatures leave mountain-top re-
treats in their food quests, so the carniv-
orous, desiring the warm life-blood of such
animals, follow them down for meat.

Certain routes are of course observed in
these passages of both animals and birds,
and the speed of travel‘ in the fall, particu-
larly, must not exceed the ability of the
young to maintain it. However, the old
birds are more or less worn out with the
summer’s care of their nestlings, and it is
probably necessary to restrain rather than
encourage the young birds. They are drilled
beforehand, captains are selected, each
with his aides, and the unit is divided into
groups, each of which is responsible to the
older and leading males in front, who have
been over the route before.

With the majority of the birds, their
organization is systematized, and they fol-
low well-established “trunk-lines”—moun-
tain ranges and rivers that run north and
south; the sea coast, etc., but there are a
few classes of happy—go-luckies that travel
as the spirit moves them, stopping to eat
wherever they ﬁnd provision, and reaching
destination after awhile. And there are
certain families of birds that ﬂy the ocean,
out of sight of land. What guides them is
not yet known.

However, most birds follow a clear-cut
route, reaching a destination suited to them,
thousands of miles, perhaps, from summer
feeding grounds. Up and down the coasts
of Central and South America they range,
even as far south as the Falkland Islands.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
A Dog’s Life in War

E. R. YARHAM, F.

THE use of dogs in war is not new.
Modern weapons have rendered them
useless as ﬁghters, but in Greek and Roman
days they were armed with spiked collars
as auxiliary armaments to teeth and jaws,
and trained to attack soldiers and the
enemy’s chariot horses, as well as acting as
defensive bodyguards. They were used for
offensive purposes till the invention of ﬁre-
arms, when their function became defen-
sive. As sentries they were unsurpassed—o
and they still are—their keen senses mak—
ing them invaluable to the human watcher.

Frederick the Great of Prussia trained
dogs for that purpose and so did Napoleon.
In the Crimean War Russian guards were
aided by dogs, and both sides in the Ameri-
can Civil War used them for protection.
France and Italy found them valuable in
North Africa and they were employed by
both belligerents in the Russo-Japanese
War. In 1914 Russia had a considerable
number of dogs and France had some
trained for ambulance work.

It was left to Germany to prove dogs had
war capabilities beyond those of sentry and
guard duties. Its army trained them for
ambulance, ammunition, and despatch work
(the dogs carried special pouches and were
taught to keep close to the ground in shelled
areas), and when the World War broke out
it had a decided advantage over its oppo-
nents. In Britain the man who constantly
urged the value of war dogs was Colonel
Richardson, a noted trainer of police dogs.
He was led to take an interest in the sub-
ject when he accidentally overheard part of
a conversation on a Scottish moor.

The speakers were a shepherd and a well-
set-up stranger. The latter was a German
ofﬁcer over in Britain buying dogs for his
Government, who remembered the value
Frederick the Great placed on Scottish col-
lies. Later Colonel Richardson visited war
dog training schools in Berlin, Leningrad,
Istanbul, etc. But it was not until the war
was half over, and as the outcome of urgent
representations from British ofﬁcers in
France, that a war dog training school was

Page 171

R. G. S.

 

set up at Shoeburyness. There large num-
bers of dogs of many breeds were put
through their paces, taught to ignore lines
of ﬁring infantry, to negotiate shell-holes,
and to pass through gas. Five weeks was
the average time taken to train a dog of
good intelligence.

The French found dogs could replace sol-
diers for liaison and revictualing purposes,
and that they were invaluable when tele-
phonic and telegraphic communication broke
down. A society formed to train dogs for
war was under the patronage of General
Mordacq, who was responsible for the for-
mation of the “Dogs’ Company” during the
World War. In charge of Commandant
Malric, this company rendered signal ser—
vices, but unfortunately was later dis-
banded, and the military kennels at Satory
fell into disuse.

When in training, dogs are ﬁrst taught to
run direct to their kennels after release,
over unencumbered ground. They are made
much of and given tid—bits. Gradually the
distance is increased and obstacles are in-
troduced—but the aim is the same, to get the
dogs to make a bee-line for home. A dog
can be taught to run miles at top speed,
taking all obstacles along the way. The dogs
get to know their trainer intimately, and
he takes them to the front. Even their
kennels are collapsible, for the dogs get
greatly attached to them, and when taken
to the scene of the ﬁghting the kennels go
too. Each dog has a service sheet, whereon
is recorded any outstanding feat and also
any lapses from duty or discipline. Thus the
ﬁtness of a dog for any particular task is
at once obvious.

In France the dogs performed number-
less heroic deeds, and it was found they
were far more certain of getting through a
danger area than a man, and were many
times as quick. Tests were made and these
proved a dog took on the average 25 min-
utes for a journey which took a man 150
minutes. Often they struggled on, badly
wounded. One dog brought news of the cap-
ture of Vimy Ridge, and more than once

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 26

PEACE ON EARTH,

ZKINDNESS, JUSTICE a 1
' AND MERCY TO 3»
EVERY LiVING

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

('UY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Trustees

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .............. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams . . . . . . France
Leonard T. Hawksiey .......... Italy
C. Batra . .......... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nif-ohe Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E Hrughton Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ......... ‘. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR DECEMBER, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

1,149
Number of addresses made, 235
Number of persons in audiences, 40,938

Fund for Field Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Feb. 19.40

 

Rest at Last for His Remaining Days

TRUGGLING with a heavy load at
S the point of exhaustion, beaten by a

merciless driver, an aged, toilworn
equine veteran at long last meets a kind
friend, Ann Vogt Barnett, who brings him
quick relief and retirement to a horse In—
ﬁrmary. We are permitted to reprint the
following vivid account as told by his res-
cuer to a reporter of the Philadelphia
Inquirer :

“While I was begging the man not to
strike him again the horse turned his head
and looked back at me. Something passed
between us in that look. I knew I couldn’t
let him down.

“I made the peddler go with me to the
stable where he had rented the horse, and
I told the proprietor to keep him until the
next day and I would buy him.

“Then I called the Pennsylvania Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
and they assigned Thomas Flanagan to in-
vestigate the case.

“When he went to the stable, at 417
Montrose Street, Samuel Leskowitz, the
proprietor, said he had sold the horse as
‘killer.’ ‘Killer’ means horse meat.

 

Washington’s Prayer

After his inauguration as President,
General Washington offered this prayer,
which is taken from a copy in his pew, St.
Paul’s chapel, New York:

“Almighty God, we make our earnest
prayer that Thou wilt keep the United
States in Thy holy protection; that Thou
wilt incline the hearts of the citizens to
cultivate a spirit of subordination and
obedience to government; to entertain a
brotherly affection and love for one an-
other and for their fellow-citizens of the
United States at large.”

 

“Mr. Flanagan tracked the horse from
stable to stable and found it after two
days. Leskowitz hadn’t sold it at all. He
just was afraid he would be taken to court
if he was caught.

“Then we had a veterinarian inspect the
horse. He said it was about 25 years old.
It was just a skeleton with skin sagging
over the bones.

“I asked the man how much he wanted
for the horse. He said $15. Mr. Flanagan
told him that ‘killers’ sold for anywhere
from $2.50 to $8 at the most, but he said
if I didn’t pay $15 the horse would be
killed and sold for meat.

“Well, he got his $15.

“Then I went to see Samuel J. Hender—
son, who is president of the Ryerss’ Inﬁrm—
ary for Dumb Animals and arranged to
have the horse spend his last days out at
the farm.

“The day after ‘Luckee’ (whom I so
named) was admitted his shoes came off
forever—signifying rest at last—surely. If
only I might do as much for every deserv-
ing horse!”

 

Washington and Lincoln

When President Theodore Roosevelt on
February 12, 1909, laid the cornerstone
of the memorial hall near Hodgenville,
Kentucky, in which are the remains of the
log cabin in which Lincoln was born, he
linked together the names of Washington
and Lincoln in a memorable address, in
which he said:

“There have been other men as great and
other men as good; but in all the history
of mankind there are no other two great
men as good as these, no other two good
men as great.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 100

The Homeless and Voiceless

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

In all the crushed and war—racked lands
They wander, frightened and forlorn,

Bereft of warm and friendly hands,
From all they loved, who loved them, torn.

0h, piteous questing, when the hearts
They trusted since they drew their breath,
So tender of their slightest smarts,
Are hailed afar—or cold in death!

Thou who dost heed the sparrow’s fall,
0h, make these agonies to cease;
Still these lone hearts that mutely call

Since only death can give them peace.

There must be heavenly recompense,
Aye, even for “the least of these,”

Beyond the bounds of time and sense,
Beyond war’s baffling agonies!

Nature Did It First

Man’s Instruments and Methods of Warfare
Represented in the Seas

EWEN K. PATTERSON

HE old adage, “There’s nothing new

under the sun,” is well illustrated by
the fact that in the seas are many creatures
that have long used the instruments and
methods of warfare which modern man
regards as his own peculiar creations. For
instance, smoke-screens, barbed-wire en-
tanglements, bayonets, torpedoes, bombs,
poisoned stilettos, camouﬂage, and even
anti-aircraft guns have all been represented
in the seas (in underlying principles, at
any rate) for millions of years—long be—
fore man had begun to fabricate his ﬁrst
weapons from ﬂint and stone, before he had
even begun to exist.

Smoke-screens, which modern armies put
up by means of tanks on land and warships
at sea, are used by various sea-creatures,
the most widely-known precursor of the
idea being the cuttle-ﬁsh. When disturbed
it emits a black ﬂuid which provides a
smoke-screen under cover of which it
escapes from its enemies.

Barbed-wire entanglements, with which
modern armies protect their trenches, are
also employed, in the sea—by the cotton-
ﬁsh, a large, purplish-black beche—de-mer
of the Paciﬁc. When disturbed it invari—
ably saves itself with “barbed-wire entan-
glement,” a mass of whitish material, like
tangled threads of cotton, ejected from the
mouth. This mass is an assemblage of thin
tubes from the creature’s internal organs;
the tubes are sticky; they swell out into a
tangled, ﬂoating skein upon contact with
the water, and the attacker (ﬁsh, crab, or
lobster) invariably becomes enmeshed with-
in the threads to be rendered helpless for
a time. Meanwhile, the cotton-ﬁsh makes
good its escape and goes into hiding to
regrow the whole of its internals in proper
functioning order.

Anti-aircraft guns have been evolved by
modern armies to deal with enemies in the
sky. On the same principle, but to obtain
food, the archer-ﬁsh shoots spurts of water
to bring down ﬂies and other insect prey,
indulging in ﬂying shots with most accu-
rate results.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

July, 1940

 

MOUNTAIN SHEEP IN BANFF NATIONAL PARK, CANADA

 

The sea also has its bomb—thrower—a
giant deep-sea prawn of the Paciﬁc. When
attacked by an enemy it releases a “bomb,”
a spot of substance from a gland near the
head, and on touching the water this bursts
into a strong white light, which so blinds
the enemy that the prawn is able to escape.

No man-made bayonet could be better
constructed or more effectual than the
powerful, spear-like sword of the marlin
swordﬁsh. Its long, hard-bone “bayonet” is
a formidable weapon that has been known
to penetrate the hull of a ship to a depth
of 27 inches, passing through two inches of
metal and nine inches of solid wood. Only
at about the beginning of this century did
man develop the streamlined modern tor-
pedo, imitating the body of the swordﬁsh.
It is Nature’s ﬁnest example of stream—
lining—a perfect torpedo, attaining a speed
that no man has yet been able to compute,
but which must exceed 100 miles per hour.

Camouﬂage also plays an important part
in modern warfare. Gun emplacements and
aeroplane h a n g a r s are covered with
branches, etc., so as to be indistinguishable
from the'air, while battleships are painted
in such a manner that it is diﬂicult to tell
in which direction they are going. Similarly
many sea-creatures dress themselves so as
to be in complete harmony with their sur-
roundings, and thus deceive their enemies.

Portable electric batteries, other articles
essential in the conduct of a war, are also
represented in the sea, where there are
several electric ﬁsh, which not only grow
their own “batteries,” but are able to re-
charge them in some mysterious manner.

The well-known hermit crab also liter—
ally presents the extraordinary spectacle of
a heavily—armed soldier with a sentry-box
upon its back, while the seas also contain
several experts in the infernal employment
of the poisoned stiletto—ﬁsh equipped with
poisonous spines.

Last, but not least, is the sea-gull. Modern
aeroplanes are generally built with retract-
able carriage, drawing up the wheels when
ﬂying, to reduce air resistance. Sea-gulls,
however, have always retracted their feet
on precisely the same principle—another
example of Nature beating man.

Mountaineer Immigrants
W. J . BAN K S

HE mountains of northern New Mexico

have three new inhabitants in a trio of
Rocky Mountain sheep which were shipped
from Banﬂ" National Park in Alberta. The
Canadian immigrants are expected to help
restock a district wherein the Bighorn
sheep were plentiful at one time, but were
killed off through the ruthlessness of
hunters whose one thought was to excel
each other in bringing home majestic tro-
phies of the chase.

Rocky Mountain sheep, as well as bison
and other dwellers of the northwest, have
been shipped by Canada’s national parks
to many parts of the world where conserva-
tion efforts have had less success. The sheep
are caught for transport by means of box
traps designed not to injure the temporary
captives. Many of the sheep are used to
seeing tourists and rangers in the national
parks, and are half tame though as free
as the wind to roam at will in their lofty
pastures.

It is to be hoped that New Mexico’s
restocking venture is a success and that
huntsmen will not be allowed again to
decimate the ranks of these dwellers in the
mountain tops. There is no more noble
sight in nature than a graceful Bighorn
ram in his home environment, and the
trophy of the camera hunter is much more
satisfying than that of the gun-toter.

It will probably ere long be recognized
that even from, a selﬁsh point of View, kill-
ing animals is not the way to get the great-
est enjoyment from them. How much more
interesting would every walk in the country
be, if Man would but treat other animals
with kindness, so that they might approach
us without fear, and we might have the
constant pleasure of watching their win-
ning ways. Their origin and history, struc-
ture and habits, senses and intelligence,
offer an endless ﬁeld of interest and wonder.

SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, 1887

Join the Jack London Club and help stop

cruelty to animals on stage and screen.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 121;

“back.” She learned to come to the pasture
bars when I called her, because when I took
her in to be milked I always fed her some
dairy ration.

Now she is the ideal “family cow.” She
never so much as moves when she is milked,
and allows herself to be conﬁned by the
pasture fence. The calf is in another pas-
ture, but the foster-mother does not bellow
for its society. She eats and drinks regu-
larly, and still produces plenty of ﬁne milk.

In return, I brush her often, spray her
several times a day during the summer to
keep off ﬂies and occasionally go over to
her and scratch her head in places which
she can’t reach by herself. From time to
time I take her along the roadsides on a
lead-rope, for there is nice clover and ten-
der grass to be found. I avoid any quick
movements or loud noises in her vicinity,
and when coming up behind her always
speak so that she is not startled.

If she steps on my foot, as she some-
times does in her awkwardness, I refrain
from a blow or any punishment, for it is
an accident. Striking a cow, even if she
should kick over the milk pail, only makes
her jumpy and nervous. A cow that kicks
does so because her udder is sore, because
the milker is too rough or because she has
been abused in the past at milking-time.

The whole secret of having a satisfactory
family cow is in making the cow the family
pet. She responds to good treatment, even
to the extent of giving more milk for you
than she would in a dairy herd. It is the
kind of good treatment which is based upon
common sense, and it pays dividends in
time saved and in the satisfaction that we
all have in the possession of a contented,
well cared-for animal.

“Oscar” the Beaver

MABEL-RUTH JACKSON

SCAR” may feel quite conﬁdent of

always keeping his soft brown fur on
his own back. He is too useful in the
particular forest preserve to which he has
been transplanted to ever be allowed to
pander to the vanity of any woman. Up
to date he is the only member of his family
in the whole Coronado National Forest of
Arizona. He was brought there by order
of forest ofﬁcials and it was intended that
he should found a family. This was mostly
because the ofﬁcials wanted him to feel at
home and remain. But Oscar has been
apparently content to remain a bachelor
and pursue his vocation in lonely freedom.
Bachelor Beaver of the Chiricahuas he is
called and he is distinguished above all
other beavers in that he has been placed on
social security. This is because of the ﬁne
work he has been doing in ﬂood control by
building check dams along Cave Creek.
“Hereafter,” ofﬁcials say, “he Will be duly
shown on our books as a member of the
forest service soil conservation division
with a special title of ‘Executive vice-
president in charge of ﬂood control, soil
erosion, dam building and tree culture.’ ”

Oscar’s social security number is painted
on a huge rock alongside one of the dams
he has built, where he can plainly see it

and be inspired to continue in his patriotic
work.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 19.4.0

A Comedian’s Canines
LOUISE PRICE BELL

VERY cinema-lover knows Hugh Her—

bert and his funny and now famous

“Woo. . .Woo,” but few people realize
what a dog-lover this fun-provoking gen-
tleman is. Yet there is probably no greater
humanitarian in all Hollywood than this
comedian who,—when you actually know
him, is a serious down-to—earth person with
just enough sense of humor to make him
likeable.

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert live in a delight-
ful but unpretentious home in the San Fer—
nando Valley and have been happy together
for twenty—ﬁve years. They hold no elab-
orate parties but live simply, with their
dogs, their gardening and their small circle
of friends as sufﬁcient outside interests.

Not long ago I met Mr. Herbert just
after he ﬁnished making “La Conga Nights”
at Universal Studios. In this picture he
takes the part of himself, his mother, and
four maiden aunts—a feat which has never
been attempted on the screen before. I
wanted to talk with him about his dogs,
but after watching him go through some
rather grilling “takes” I hesitated to bother
him lest he feel too tired to chat. But I
was wrong. For as soon as I mentioned his
canine pals, the tired look fell from his

HUGH, IN HIS OLD CLOTHES, TAKES TIME TO
HIS DOGS. HE CAN’T TELL
WHICH IS HIS FAVORITE; HE LIKES THEM ALL

FEED THREE OF

 

face, his eyes took on a new light . . . and
he was off on a long and interesting dis-
sertation about his many pooches.

“Right now I only have eleven,” he grin-
ned. “But I’ll have more soon as one of
these is soon to have a litter of pups.”

“Will you keep them all?” I questioned.

“I dont know . . don’t know . . never
can tell,” he answered evasively, going on
to tell me of larger numbers than that
which he has had from time to time, then
adding that of course he believed in the
old saw that a man loves his own dog best.

Herbert has always been actively inter-
ested in the Hollywood Tailwagger Foun-
dation and recently when Bette Davis re-
signed from the presidency, he was elected
to succeed her, and a good president he is
proving to be. This foundation sponsors the
Dog Guide Institute where German Shep-
herd dogs are taught to guide the blind and
to this project, Herbert has promised his
loyal support.

At his home in the valley, the comedian
is happiest when in old clothes he wanders
about with his dogs, sometimes romping
with them, sometimes” resting, but always
enjoying them as only a true dog-lover
can do.

Poor Little Puppy

LEONA HAHN

Poor little Puppy,
Kicked in the street;
Mangey and suﬂering,
Nothing to eat.
All pulling closer
Their skirts as they pass,
Poor little Puppy,
Poor little lass,
Watching so eagerly
Each passer’s eye,
Hoping that friendliness
Copies by and by.
What if the Master
Could see you today
Hungry and suﬂering—
What would He say?

Mankind has learned that
there is one true friend who
will cling to him in every hour
of adversity, says the News,
Springﬁeld, Mass. He is only
a dog, but man has discovered
that in the animal kingdom is
a companion who never stops
to think of his shortcomings,
who looks with compassion
and a never-ending friendli—
ness to the one he regards
with greatest f a v o r among
men.

And man owes a great debt
to the dog. The very nature
of this most friendly of ani-
mals teaches him that faith
and love are among the great-
est of virtues, that nowhere in
the ﬁeld of useful endeavor is
there anything to equal the
virtue of clinging steadfastly
to those we love.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148

Deer
STANTON A. COBLENTZ

There comes a crashing in the spiky brush,

And I turn, startled, staring up the hill;

And from the shadows, with a leap and
rush,

A ﬁgure darts—then suddenly is still.

And I behold a tawny, antlered head,

And two round, liquid, questioning child—like
eyes

That scan me half in wonder, half in dread,

Through the deep thickets where the dark
moss lies.

A heavier crashing, and the creature’s gone,

And dry twigs crackle from its rash escape.

But in my mind the picture lingers on

Of a soft furry face, 00 bounding shape;

For when you stood a-gaze, 0 Wild and
Free!

It seemed a fellow soul looked out at me.

Peace with Nature
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

ECENTLY I spent three weeks in an
Risolated section of New York State. I
was stopping with two friends at a small
cabin some seventeen miles from the near-
est large town. There were no modern con-
veniences such as we had always taken for
granted in the city we had left behind us.
Our drinking and washing water had to be
pumped up from the earth of mother na—
ture. Kerosene lamps and a cooking stove
furnished our light and cooking facilities.
Gas and electricity were not to be had in
this section where we were located. We had
no radio and newspapers could only be pur-
chased by traveling seventeen miles into
town. The ﬁrst few days we felt a little
homesick for the city. The nights were as
quiet as they were cool and the only sounds
to reach our ears were those of the many
types of insects that infested the woods
near by. At ﬁrst we though we would not
even be able to ﬁnish out one of the three
weeks. But suddenly it dawned on us how
different our surroundings were from the
noisy hot city we had left behind us. There
were no rushng automobiles and noisy
horns to be tolerated. There were no near-by
neighbors whose blaring radio or loud voices
could disturb us. Our nerves were not taut
by listening to both newspaper and radio
reports of the European conﬂict across the
seas. We realized that we, like all the wild
life around us, had been taken under the
protection of mother nature. We were
awakened each morning by the music of
many wild songbirds. We watched the
rabbits, chipmunks and squirrels scurry
through the woods in search of food for
the present as well as for the coming win-
ter. A hot sun supplied our bodies with a
deep tan as well as a good quantity of
ultra-violet rays. When our three weeks
had drawn to a close we left all of mother
nature behind us and returned to the city
with a much greater understanding of peace
and contentment than we had ever known in
our lives before.

Join the Jack London Club and thus help
to stop cruelty in training animals for
stage or screen.

OUR DUlllB ANIMALS

Oct. 1940

 

“THEN ONE DAY HE PROBABLY REDISCOVERED THOSE OF
HIS OWN KIND”

Mothering a Moose

PAUL HIDEY

(NOTE: These facts were related to the writer by
Vernon Forbes of Sudberry, Ontario, as his personal
experiences) .

H T was up in northern Ontario in the

brush country of the mining section that
they found him—a baby moose. Doubtless
his mother had been shot down by the
Indians for food. Anyhow he was alone
and helpless in a dense thicket so one of
the mining prospectors took him to his
camp, never dreaming at the time what a
pet this three-weeks—old calf was likely
to become.

Feeding him proved easy compared to
the problem of giving him a drink of water.
For although the camp was on a lake shore
the young moose absolutely refused to drink
unless water was Ibrought to him in a pail.
And no matter how thirsty he was, he
whined and cried until he got what he
wanted. Another thing he refused to do was
to sleep outside the tent. No place suited
him quite so well as being stretched out
along side his master’s bunk close enough
so he could be touched.

As he grew older he was given free run
of the camp to go and come as he pleased.
However far the young moose might roam,
when night came he was always ready for
the coveted place by his master’s side. And
no matter where he was when he heard his
master’s whistle he always came home on
the run. A moose does not jump or gallop
like a deer, but has a curious ambling gait
which he can speed up in an astonishing
manner.

None of the men in camp were quite
sure what his reactions would be towards
a dog, so they were all amused to witness
the ﬁrst encounter. At sight of the dog the
young moose immediately reared up on his
hind legs, and brought the weight of his
heavy body down through his stiffened fore-
lees upon the luckless dog who quickly
withdrew to pleasanter and safer play-
mates.

One day, when his master was leaving
camp, the moose put up great objections.
He kept running back and forth between

the tent and his master, crying and whining
as he kept biting at his leggings to attract
attention. The man went back to see what
could be wrong. He found the ﬂap of the
tent tied shut so the moose could not get in.
He untied it and then was able to leave
without any objection from his pet.

But ﬁnally came the time when the young
bull must have heard the call of the wild.
It would still be two or three years yet
before he would wander off to seek a mate,
but he was probably lonesome for his mas-
ter who had been obliged to leave camp for
a couple of weeks. Anyhow he doubtless
took to roaming the forest, and then one
day he probably rediscovered those of his
own kind. He must have liked their massive
antlers, their monstrous muzzles, their un-
gainly bulk. At any rate he has never been
seen again, but his master is absolutely
certain that should they ever meet, no mat—
ter how remote the time, the full-grown
bull moose will recognize the sound of the
whistle which as a calf he jumped to obey.

Kind-Hearted Drivers

HILLIARD FOLEY

ECENTLY two youths in a large,
speedy truck came hurrying along a
wooded driveway. Rounding the bend, they
were speeding up a bit when a frisky black
squirrel dashed out from a tree into the
roadway. The little fellow was half-way
across when he saw that the truck was
almost upon him. He turned, hesitated,
made to race back, and became panicky.
A man looking on held his breath. The
squirrel was caught; too late to escape.
But the boys in the truck had seen as
well. The brakes screeched on, the truck
stopped, the squirrel scampered away, chat-
tering vociferously. The boys drove off,
grinning. The man looking on grinned as
well. But the man did more than grin. He
described the “small happening” in a
touching letter to the Ottawa Citizen, ex-
pressing deep thankfulness for having seen
this act of kindness and offering the belief
that “the cause of freedom would be safe
in the hands of just such lads.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 172

messages brought by dogs enabled help to
be sent to hard—pressed soldiers.

A famous war dog. was “Rags,” attached
to the 1st Division, U. S. Expeditionary
Force. He was given a soldier’s funeral at
Washington in 1936. Rags went through
the Meuse-Argonne campaign, carrying
messages through shell-torn and gas-hung
sectors until he and his master, Private
.Donovan, were wounded and gassed to-
gether, and the dog lost the sight of one
eye. A footprint of Rags in ink appears in
a copy of his biography which the Division
sent to the Imperial War Museum, London,
to lie beside the records of other war heroes.

About 7,000 war dogs lost their lives be-
tween 1914 and 1918, and a monument to
”them stands in the Hartsdale Canine Ceme-
tery, New York. There is a huge block of
granite surmounted by a lone ﬁgure of an
Alsatian, which bears the simple inscrip-
tion: “To the memory of the War Dog . . .
Man’s Most Faithful Friend—for Valiant
Services Rendered in the World War.”

Dogs of Turkey
S. LOUISE STOCKWELL

As I visited in Turkey I was much im-
pressed by the number and value of Turk—
ish dogs. Every city and village has its
horde of yellowish, shaggy-haired dogs,
about the size of our collies. They lie out-
:side of stone houses and mud huts, ready
to devour the refuse that is thrown out
into the gutters. Without these dogs sani-
tary conditions would be much more haz-
ardous than they are. It has been said that
these dogs are without names and without
masters, but recognize their own exclusive
right to their own village or precinct. A dog
that ventured to intrude into a territory not
his own would fare ill indeed. As in my
travels I approached a village I found the
barking of the many village dogs a fright-
ening sound. But I learned that these. dogs
of Turkey bark merely to announce the ap-
proach of strangers and will not attack
them.

Don’t accept the view that any dog should
have clipped ears. Clipping ears is illegal
in Massachusetts and some other states.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

GCJerry??
M. D. W.

There are no black hairs on the tablecloth
nor

Salt and pepper spilled on the floor

Because Jerry is dead.

I don’t have to be careful where I walk

Because you used to wind yourself

Between my legs.

I can read in peace now because there is no

Little tiger kitten forever climbing

In my lap.

Your playful claws have made their mark

Deep in my heart, where no Human

Has ever been.

I don’t blame the car so much; my little
black baby

Was so dark, and the road at night——

Oh “Jerry,” if I hadn’t put you out!

You were so warm and sleepy in my lap

And I picked you up and put you outside

Because it was easier.

And now I miss you so, that home seems
unbearable

Without you, and it seems that I must ﬁnd
you

Just around the corner

Or waiting at the screen door and crying.

Wherever you are, little Jerry, I want you
to know

That I loved you, miss you and want you so.

To the Dog

In time of grief and care he is an incom—
parable companion; in peril of ﬁre or theft,
ﬂood and drowning, as guardian of youth
and the aged, leader of the blind, helpmate
to the halt, the lame and the palsied, he is
unfailingly reliable. The lives he has saved,
and the calamities he has averted present
a glowing record of heroism which is all too
frequently saddened by the sacriﬁce of his
own life in standing ﬁrmly by his high
ideals. In poverty and plenty, in joy and
grief, in every relationship of life, he is
constant, faithful and true.

WILLIAM HOSTER

Please remember the Massachusetts 5. P.
C. A. when making your will.

 

A THOROUGHBRED IN PENSIVE POSE

.-;-._;1-._ «.r'. .v w-

Nov. 1940

Turkey Gossip — Mostly
Friendly

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

NLY those of us who are fortunate

enough to have wild turkey for our
Thanksgiving dinners will know What the
turkey our Pilgrim Fathers ate at their
famous Plymouth dinner, was like.

In their day the wild birds were legion
in the densely wooded New England coun-
try. So were they clear down in Porto Rico
and its neighboring islands and in Mexico.

Columbus and his crew must have had
many. a wild turkey feast, and the Spanish
invaders who followed them sent the wild
birds to Europe as early as the seventeenth
century. In 1555 Archbishop Cranmer, in
England, had two turkeys as part of a ban-
quet he tells of. He even tells of their price,
which was not high, and so proves that wild
turkeys were plentiful in English markets
that long ago. In 1566 we get mention of
them in French chronicles.

I wonder how many readers have had a
chance to see these beautiful creatures. I
have seen them a good many times in the
mountains of West Virginia, and there are
a few yet to be found in my native Penn—
sylvania, but Arizona is now the best place
in our land to see them in all their regal
splendor. Protected well by the wild moun-
tain reaches in this state the birds have a
good chance there to survive for a good
while to come.

They display their wonderful colorings
best in bright sunlight. This brings out fully
their prevailing tint, bronze green, and
their other conspicuous colors, dull gold,
deep black, chestnut and dazzling red, and
white. The female birds are smaller than
the males and their plumage lacks the lus-
ter of the latter.

All the species known are descended from
our North American species with the scien-
tiﬁc name, Meleagris gallopavo, whose re-
mains have been traced back to the Qua-
ternary age. Thus these American birds
were waiting the coming of our Pilgrim
Fathers for tens of thousands of years.

The domestic turkey which most of us eat
we owe to Europe, and we now have six
varieties to choose from for our tables, the
Bronze, the Narragansett, the White, the
Buff, the Slate, and the Black. Of these the
ﬁrst two named are the largest birds, and
the Black is the least popular.

The domestic turkeys, many of which are
grown all round where I live in southeast-
ern Pennsylvania, move in bands. They can
ﬂy very well for their size and they are
very swift runners. They like best to roost
in trees, but they are now too valuable for
their growers to give them this enjoyment.
These characteristics are all survivals of
the habits of the wild species from which
the tame birds have been developed.

The only unfriendly gossip I shall in-
dulge in concerns turkey mentality. This is
not nearly up to this bird’s beauty. Turkeys
are easily lured into traps by imitation
calls. The Pilgrims soon found this out and
resorted to trapping instead of shooting.

Owing to the many and great hardships
of their pioneer life which the Pilgrims had
to endure I am sure none of us will envy
them for having had Thanksgiving turkeys
superior to the ones we enjoy so much.

“"13”“!

“-324

 




 

 

 

.Page.h
The New Year

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

“The New Year! The New Year!”
How beautiful they sound—
Those words of buoyant hope and cheer!
And yet—with clouded eyes men peer
Beyond the Old Year’s bound.

So strong the powers of darkness stand,
So rough the way appears,

For those who strive with deed and pen

To bring the blest “Good Will to men”
That echoes down the years!

Yet there is strength in dauntless hope,
And courage in a song,
And only coward hearts will say:
“Why think to see a happier day?
Why hope to vanquish wrong?”

“In all my holy mountain”———thus
The ancient words record—
“They shall not hurt, shall not destroy;
Earth shall be filled with that pure joy,
The knowledge of the Lord!”

Amen! Amen! We labor on!
All hearts compassionate
That love God’s children, human, dumb,
Hold pledge of glorious days to come!
High hearts can work—and wait!

Arrows Versus Bullets
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

N recent years the hunting and killing

of our wild animal life by means of bows
and arrows has increased at an alarming
rate. At the present time there are more
than half a million registered archers in
the United States. While not all of these
archers are using their skill in the slaugh-
ter of helpless animals, a good percentage
of them have come to prefer hunting ani-
mals instead of just shooting at targets.

There are now several states that allow
these archers to enter the forests to hunt
a few weeks before riﬂe carrying hunters
are permitted. However, the archers are not
permitted to carry riﬂes while hunting with
their bows and arrows. This would lead us
to believe that if an archer ﬁred an arrow
into a deer and did not strike a vital spot
either the deer would be left to suffer till
death ended its misery, or perhaps the
archer would be merciful enough to ﬁre
another arrow into the deer’s already suf-
fering body. Only an expert archer can
ﬁre an arrow with any degree of real
accuracy and even he is apt to miss the
vital spot he has aimed at.

Just how soon will our young boys
and girls follow in the footsteps of the
archers? What will be the result when
these children begin to make their home-
made bows and arrows? How much suffer-
ing will result from their amateur methods
of archery as they, too, go forth to hunt
for animal life? Immediate laws are neces-
sary to prevent this new and inhuman form
of hunting. If we must allow our hunters
to invade our forests each year and kill
our animal life, then let it be done by
bullets that are more humane than arrows
which inﬂict unnecessary pain on dumb
animals.

(llllt I)I7All?

ﬁllvllﬂd'leLS

Jan.1940

Lioness at Leisure
EPSY COLLING

 

sure. She lives in Kruger National
Park in the Transvaal and is now pro-
tected from the guns of hunters so long as
she remains within the safe conﬁnes of the
Park. She and her cubs are very important
denizens here in the world’s greatest game
preserve, because they sustain the balance
of nature, a very necessary thing if all
wild animals are to live in a natural state.
Lions never murder for sport and are satis-
ﬁed with one or two kills a week for food.
The grazing animals they eat are generally
the old, the weak, or the diseased which
may well be eliminated if the gazelles,
antelopes, and zebras are to be strong and
healthy enough to survive. V
Before the brown plains, green jungles,
blue mountains, and golden-green brush
land south of the Limpopo river were set
aside as a perpetual sanctuary for all the
wild animals of Africa, the tommies, gnus,
koodoos, and frisky, coltish zebras were all
in danger of extinction at the hands of the
indefatigable and foolish human hunter.
The lions were starving and beginning to

T HIS is a portrait of a lioness at lei-

menace the safety of, both natives and,

white settlers.

Today the lions are beautiful, tawny, and
well fed and at the same time the grazing
animals are rapidly increasing in numbers.
Kruger Park, where people may watch and
photograph the most beautiful creatures in
the world in their natural surroundings, is
coming to be a most popular tourist resort
with excellent highways and many camps

and rest houses where visitors may enjoy
a vacation.

The lions, according to Colonel James
Stevenson-Hamilton, chief warden, are now
convinced that automobiles, ‘while they
smell something terrible, are harmless, so
photographers often get excellent snap-
shots of the king and queen of beasts and
their playful children. The smell of gaso-
line keeps the lions from noticing any hu-
man odor so long as the tourist stays in
his car; thus visitors are warned about
getting out in the open, which would be a
foolish procedure anyhow, as nobody is
allowed to carry a gun into the Park.

It is not unusual for several cars to be
parked in a semi-circle while their occu—
pants watch young lions play. Lions always
keep company for two or three years as
the lioness does not have cubs much oftener
than once in thirty months. Young lions
are clumsy and awkward, as well as too
full of play and nonsense, to hunt; so the
parents have to provide for them until they
have settled down and learned to stalk
their own food.

An Idle Fancy

NIXON WATERMAN

It may be but a whim, at best,
But it occurs to me

The mourning claim should build her nest
In a weeping-willow tree.

 




 

Jan.1940

trenches in the last World War

speaks emotionally of the battalions
of trained dogs used in that shambles. In
the hearts of all dog lovers such emotion
always ﬁnds a responsive chord. One won~
ders, however, how many of us give sufﬁci—
ently deep thought to the effects of war on
other animals besides dogs, and whether
there is anything we can do about it.

Whence, for instance, that grisly name,
“Dead Horse. Corner?” How many noble
beasts were sacriﬁced there? Were they
killed instantly and without pain, or did
they die with great suffering? The truth,
if written, would make very repellent read-
ing. And who recalls the blind swans at
White Swan Chateau? And the tame Gold
Fish at Court Drieves? And the geese test-
ing for gas in No Man’s Land? What of
that carrier pigeon—“Poor wounded dove
with pinion broken?” In the present war,
who can read calmly of the pigs exploding
the land mines between the opposing lines?

Here is an eye-witness account by J. R.
Pecheral, writing in the Toronto Star
Weekly, of the elephants’ part in Ethiopia.
“The planes came back. I was sneaking
off to an over-hanging rock when Kerville”
(the Galla Chief) “caught me by the arm.
‘Come quickly with me,’ he shouted, and
led me up to the top of the mountain. One
word explained his strategy. Gas. As soon
as the Italian planes let loose their gas
and had ﬂown away, an immense tumult
rose in the depths of the valley.

‘It was the elephants. They were under—
neath us by the dozen, and the hyperite
gas drove them mad. Shrieking with rage
and pain, falling down and rising again
with a mighty effort, they rushed on like
a hurricane.”

God’s creatures! Their fate seems as
pitiful as our helplessness to prevent it.
Yet we can do something. We can make
their suffering a vicarious beneﬁt through
our mercy and love to others of their kind,
whether in Ethiopia or in Massachusetts.
Indeed this vicarious beneﬁt has already
revealed itself in the building of special dog
hospitals by eX-soldiers who had witnessed
the dog’s part in the war.

We conclude with a pretty incident of the
front line in which the dog-lover in both
friend and enemy rises above the soldier.
It concerns a little white terrier that had
been running about in No Man’s Land. For
several days we had been trying to capture
the little fellow, believing that he was
carrying messages for the enemy. The Ger-
mans, too, were after him it seemed; they
suspecting him of doing spy work for us.
Yet no riﬂe was leveled upon him from
either trench, nor was any attempt made
to poison him. Later, it transpired that
he was merely a civilian dog that had got
lost out there somehow and was too fearful
of the queer beings that hemmed him in to
come close to either one or the other. How
he lived out there was a mystery, for there
was no water in that sector and no food.

At length, one dark night, between the
intermittent spurts of machine-gun ﬁr-
ing there came to our ears a series of
distressed yelping and whining from a

S WRITER who frequently visited the

(ll/It [)17A113 .AZV.IAI.41LS

Animals and War

HILLIARD FOLEY

point somewhere a hun-
dred yards or so off to
our right. We solved the
situation at once. The
terrier had, through weak-
ness, perhaps, slipped into
one of the well-like cra-
ters out there and was
unable to climb out. We
formed a party and went
out to investigate—Yes,
he was there. A pleading
blob of white at the bottom
of a deep shell hole. Soon
the rescue was effected
and the little panting
body was enfolded in the
arms of a Canadian dog-
lover. Then the sudden
light of a descending ﬂare
revealed something else:
a party of steel helmeted
German soldiers standing
immovable only a dozen
yards away. They, too,
had come out to rescue the
terrier. No shots were
exchanged, but when the
light went out and we
started back towards our
trench, a deep, concerned
voice called to us:

“Tommy!”

“Yes?”

“You would not hurt
him?”

“N0.,,

“Goot!”

It was the touch of
Nature that makes ene-
mies kin.

 

“ESPRIT DES BOIS.”
DEER FAWN

ROCKY MOUNTAIN MULE

Photograph by H. H. Sheldon awarded ﬁrst prize at
exhibition of New York State Nature Association, 1939

 

Bees in Winter
LOIS BOYD

UMBLEBEES, yellow jackets, hornets

and wasps die at the ﬁrst frosts, leav—
ing only the young mated queens who
emerge in the spring to lay their eggs and
hatch new broods.

Among honey bees it is only the drones
who die in the fall. Bees will die from the
effects of cold before the temperature
reaches freezing; in fact, they seldom ﬂy
when the thermometer is below 45 degrees.
Activities within the hive cease early in
the fall; the queen lays no more eggs, the
rearing of the brood is ended.

Food for the winter has been stored dur-
ing the spring and summer. Adult bees live
on honey which is made from the nectar
gathered from the ﬂowers. Because the
nectar contains a great deal of water when
it is collected which would cause fermenta-
tion, if it were stored in this condition, this
excess moisture is removed by a well or-
ganized system of fanning. Nectar is often
reduced one-fourth in volume before the
bees add the enzymes which change the raw
nectar into simple sugar. An average bee
colony will consume from 30 to 50 pounds
of honey during their dormant season.
When you realize that a bee travels 43,770
miles to gather enough nectar to make one

pound of honey, you will see the “little
busy bee” has not been misnamed.

During the summer the bees use the
whole hive for their various activities, but
in the winter they gather in a spherical,
compact cluster with the queen in the cen—
ter. Those on the outside are crowded so
closely together as to make an insulating
shell and thus prevent the loss of heat.
Those on the inside of the ball are not so
crowded and maintain enough muscular
activity to keep the entire group comfort-
ably warm. The bees on the outside of the
cluster are constantly changing places with
those inside. At no time do the bees allow
the temperature on the outside of the clus-
ter to fall below 57 degrees.

Because of the warmth of their hives and
the presence of food, mice often enter the
hives and make themselves at home, eating
the wax and honey and making their nests
on the ﬂoor. The bees pay no attention to
them until warm weather comes and then
they promptly sting them to death. The
bees are not strong enough to carry away
their dead enemies so they cover them with
a sticky secretion which hardens like ce-
ment, thus forming an airtight coffin.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

VISUAL
HUMANE
EDUCATION

New Series, 17 as 22 inches

ALL ATTRACTIVE COLORED
PICTURE POSTERS
5 cents each; full set of eight, 35 cents
Address, SECRETARY
AM.ERIC'AN HUMANE
EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

    
   
    
 
   
   

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

NEM'A

WORM

CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE .
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N-58-D

PARKE, DAVIS & CO., DETROIT, M ICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 
 

 

 

 

 

NEW HUMANE POSTER
FOR 1940

10c. each; 3 for 25c.; 8 for 50c.; 20 for $1.00

American Humane Education Society

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

BIOTCIIY SKIN '

6X
Itimauy caused

. 81
blemishes 'iﬂex-

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Glutertakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINil—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

pmane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 15—20
and Humane Sunday, April 14, 1940

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound _
volume ............................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in
the set .................. 5 cts. each; eight for 35c.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ...$0 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ...... .50

The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “
The Bell of Atri, poem by L.ongfellow.. 50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ sma11,50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card..$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —- A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. . .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ......................... .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .......... . . . . . . . . . .3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $01.45:
Trial Of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ;12 for

25 cts. ............................... $32 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 5.0 “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease. $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats ............ . . . 50

............

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp... 1.00

HOW to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .50 “' “

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ..................... . ........ . .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ..... . ..... . ............... .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? ...... $0. 30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “

Films, I)Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4: .................................
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp.

.50 per 100

.50 ‘6 l‘

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each, ten for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ,seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them, ”
play . . . .................. 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ...................... 1c. each
I’ 11 Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “

A Talk With the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So—
C A.

ciety, or S. P. . ................. $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant .............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy .............................. 500ts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy 3.0 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

TO ENSURE THE USE OF OUR HUMANE FILMS DURING

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 15-20
and Humane Sunday, April 14, 1940

APPLICATIONS MUST BE RECEIVED AT ONCE
“THE BELL OF ATRI,” illustrating Longfellow’s poem, and
“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS,” showing work of the Mass. S. P. C. A. and its
Animal Hospital —- Both available in 16 and 35 mm.

Address, SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Aug. 19.40

The First Flight

JOHN RITCHEY

Deep in the forest on a wooded stream
I saw the feathered cygnet of the swan
Sail out of leaf-dark water like a dream
Into my sight; I watched till it was gone.
At last the v-shaped ripples reached my
hand
And died about my ﬁngers. I was there,
The only human in the forest’s secret land
To see those new wings climb the level air.

The Friendly and Helpful
Bluebird

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

HERE is no bird more willing to set

up housekeeping in a dwelling made
and provided for him than the bluebird.
And for the bird-lover who wishes to have
birds around, it is a good plan to put out
boxes or bluebird homes on the premises,
as these little friendly birds are only too
anxious to occupy them.

It is also a good plan for the wise or-
chardist to encourage the tenancy of these
birds by supplying a number of bluebird
homes in his orchard. The birds do not
injure his crop in any way, but they pay
their rent many times over by destroying
injurious worms and insects.

The bluebird is one of the best-known
and beloved birds. It divides with the robin
the mission of heralding the welcome mes-
sage that spring is here, as it is one of the
earliest birds to appear.

This little singer is about seven inches
long, with a delicate blue black and red
bosom. Its song is sweet.

The nest is built in a discarded wood-

 

ONE OF OUR BEST BELOVED
' BIRDS

pecker hole, or other hollow in a decaying
tree, where its eggs and nest will be shel—
tered from the rain. Usually there are from
four to six pale blue eggs laid in a grassy
cradle in the tree-trunk.

The bluebirds are very devoted to each
other and are much concerned about the
care of their young. These birds are found
in the United States and Southern Canada
east of the Rocky Mountains.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

WHOOPING CRANES

 

A Vanishing Race

MYRTLE J. BROLEY

T is a tragedy that as certain species of
ﬂour birds become scarcer their value to
collectors rises so that the few survivors
have such a price on their heads they are
no longer safe.

Our largest North American bird, the
whooping crane, is on the list of birds prac—
tically extinct, for only a very, very few of
them remain. Its great size and pure white
color made this bird an easy mark on our
wide prairies and with the advent of the
high-powered riﬂe it was doomed.

I well remember the one and only time
on which I had the joy of seeing a whoop-
ing crane. He was a magniﬁcent big fel-
low, leading a ﬂock of twenty-six sandhill
cranes. As he passed directly above I could
see the black tips to his strong wings and
it was easy to realize that the wing spread
would be about ninety inches.

We watched them ﬂy across a small lake
to descend easily on to the stubble ﬁeld
beyond. The white crane fed a little apart
from his lowlier relatives, raising his head
often as he kept guard.

We have looked for him in these regions
since but have not been fortunate enough
to see him. Perhaps he was shot that fall—
his skin was worth ﬁve hundred dollars.
At any rate we did not tell people just
where we had seen him. We did not want
him harried and hunted. We hoped he might
ﬁnd a mate somewhere in the South and
nest in safety with the few pairs known to
reside in the Texas area. If no one dis-
covers the two large, grayish cream eggs
and they hatch safely into golden plumaged
babies a small ﬂock may grow from these
few, serving to remind us of the wondrous
bands which years ago used to ﬁll the
spring and autumn air with the booming
chorus of their migration trumpeting.

x.

Page 125

Protection at Last

LAURA A. BOYD

AFTER waiting 158 years Congress
took time early in June to pass a law
protecting the American bald eagle, the
bird whose ﬁgure stands on the Great Seal
of the United States. An authority on
eagles, Representative Charles R. Clason of
Massachusetts, sponsored the legislation.
Representative Clason felt that something
should be done by the federal government
to supplement the laws which have been
passed by more than forty of the states to
protect this bird from extinction. A ﬁne of
$500 and six months’ imprisonment is the
penalty for molesting the eagle.

The choice of a symbol to represent the
new nation after the signing of the Declara-~
tion of Independence in 1776 was slow and
rather difﬁcult. Three times Congress ap-
pointed committees to choose a design for
such a seal. The ﬁrst committee consisted
of, “Dr. Franklin, Mr. J. Adams and Mr.
Jefferson.” They could not agree on a de-
sign because each one had a different idea.
Franklin wanted Moses shown drowning
Pharoah in the Red Sea; Jefferson wished
to show Moses leading the Children of Is-
rael through the wilderness while John
Adams wanted Hercules between Virtue
and Sloth. None of these plans pleased
Congress and the report was “laid on the
table.”

A second committee appointed the fol~
lowing year fared no better. In 1780 Fran-
cis Hopkinson suggested a design of 13
stripes and 13 stars with some allegorical
ﬁgures. This met with congressional ap-
proval until the cost was discovered and
again the idea was dropped. Two years
later another committee consulted with the
artist William Barton, who suggested the
crested eagle as the central ﬁgure in the
design. Charles Thomson, chairman of the
committee, suggested that the American
bald eagle be used but when he read his
report to Congress he left out the word bald.

Franklin, who was in France at the time,
was disappointed at the choice and even
went so far as to say that the American
eagle was a “lousy bird” and he thought the
turkey would have been far more appro--
priate because it was a native American
bird and the eagle had been the symbol of
many ancient nations.

Hummingbird Carnival
HELEN FIELD VVATSON

The Morning Glory’s blue is on your breast.

The lichens and the mosses of your nest

Have caught upon your wings. Your
shoulders’ green

Is that of shadows, and your brilliant sheen

Reflects from waterfalls where you have
dipped

Your beak. The sweetness that you sipped

From long corollas is much more than
food—

It is your joy to press a fragrant hood

Upon your tiny head, then drink the health

Of garden fairies whom you court by
stealth.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 19.40
This Is the Hour

HARRY ELMORE HURD

This is the season, day and hour
When pyramided gold trees shower

Green-sheathed fruit upon the ground.
There is music in the sound

Of ripe nuts thudding on dry leaves:
Who will call the squirrels thieves

When they store the kerneled meat?
Let the humble hoard and eat——

Let the least of them be fed——
Beauty is a ﬁner bread.

He whose hunger is denied
May be amply satisﬁed

If he learns to gather fruit
Whose nourishment is absolute.

Monument to a Mule

FRANK A. DICKSON

INCE the early part of 1909 one of the
most interesting attractions of Roys-
ton, Georgia, has been a monument which
was erected by W. M. Bowers, a leading
resident of that section, to “Old Fly,” an
old family mule. In this manner the Georg-
ian paid tribute to an animal who, approxi-
mately four decades previously, pulled a
home-made wooden plow stock through cot-
ton ﬁelds where the progressive town of
Royston now stands.
On one side of the marble “tombstone”
Mr. Bowers put these words:

OLD FLY
Mrs. S. C. Berryman’s
Buggy Mule
Hence this monument

There was carved on the reverse side of
the monument the following lettering:

“She was 40 years and 5 days old when
she died.

“Proverbs 12-10: ‘A righteous man re-
gardeth the life of his beast, but the mer-
cies of the wicked are cruel.’ ”

Old Fly, beloved for her extreme gentle-
ness and harmless disposition, was pur-
chased at the age of ﬁve years by Mrs. S.
C. Berryman, who in her younger days used
the animal as a buggy mule. The owner
gave her the name of Old Fly because of
her ﬂeetness of foot.

So much did Mrs. Berryman think of
Old Fly that her children kept the vener-
able animal after the death of the kind
lady. For several years the mule was in
the possession of Marion Berryman, also
of Royston. Old Fly served her day and
time well and faithfully; but up to three
years before her passing away, harness was
never applied to her.

Why did Mr. Bowers establish a memorial
to Old Fly? In his own words, “I think it
meet and proper and that it proves a noble
spirit in mankind to be kind to animals,
especially in their declining and helpless
days. For this reason we decided to place
a monument over the last resting place of
Old Fly. Another reason for it was because
Mother thought so much of the old mule,
who in turn, it seemed, to a certain extent,
reciprocated her feelings.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

, ,-.. .7..7~_._._..__...ﬂ- ,

Page 149

Leadership among Animals

W. J. BANKS

EADERSHIP is as marked in the
Lanimal kingdom as in the realm of

human life. Among groups of people
a few achieve authority while the rest fol-
low; so, too, the stronger personalities
assert themselves among animals and birds.
Superior strength, experience or intelli-
gence may be the dictator’s secret of power.
But in the animal world it is wielded wisely,
as a rule. Perhaps one reason is the fact
that so many animal bosses are of the
gentler sex.

The elephant line in the circus is almost
always ruled by a wise old female, and
though they may excel her in brute strength
the bulls and younger cows submit meekly
to her chastisements. The bull boss, being
a puny human, would be hard put to main—
tain discipline among the great pachyderms
were it not for the leader through whom
he enforces his commands. Any offense
against the common good will be punished
promptly (by a blow from her pile-driver
trunk.

Likewise in the wild state the elephant
herd is bossed by an elderly cow upon whose
knowledge of local geography the followers
depend for their safety and welfare. She
decides the course of the day’s march by
tossing a trunkful of dust in the air to
determine the wind direction. The lazy, cow-
ardly or unﬁt she chases from the herd,
especially in the breeding season. Perhaps
many of the dangerous, lone “rogue” ele-
phants thus have been ostracized from their
community.

Among most species of antelope, deer and
sheep the female boss seems to be the rule
rather than the exception. And she takes
her duties seriously. One or two matrons
will stand guard while the giraffe herd
rests. The great caribou herds, which mi—
grate twice a year in a well-ordered march
of staggering proportions, apparently fol-
low the same procedure. If the sentinel
takes a rest a lady lieutenant assumes the

 

watch and when danger threatens she prods
the tardy risers into action.

Among the deer and elk people the lordly
stag may annex a number of wives in sea-
son but when the dangers and hardships of
winter arrive the herds gather and the
proud males submit meekly to the leader-
ship of an experienced female. She seems to
know the location of the salt licks and the
best grasses under the snow. Similarly the
mountain sheep accept the authority of a
wise matriarch who leads them from range
to range and scans the possible approaches
of danger from a high crag while the others
feed.

The Norwegian farmers, whose herds
seek the scant pasturage of the lofty moun-
tain sides, make a bell-cow of the one who
wins the spring ﬁghts, conﬁdent that where
she goes the others will follow. The bell—
wethers of the North American sheep ranch
are an exception to this rule of female
mastery in the realm of the grass-eaters.
They seldom have to ﬁght for their author-
ity, an orphaned lamb raised in the home
often assuming command. Judas-like, he
leads his fellows into the market-bound
truck, then leaps out at a whistle.

Among the more manlike monkeys the
leader is usually a male. The baboon dic-
tator is a real boss while the job lasts, but
like a gang leader he is likely to be “bumped
off” if his rivals detect anyweakness. How—
ever, to give him credit, he takes his work
seriously. First to attack and last to leave
the scene of battle, he safeguards the weak
and succors the stragglers in ﬂight. One
dog baboon watches while the pack feeds
or drinks, and natives declare that he is
killed if he shirks his duty.

The gorillas usually travel in small fam—
ily groups but various families live at peace
together, something humans ﬁnd most diffi-
cult. The father is the boss, at least osten-
sibly, sending mate and offspring to fetch
him fruit and boxing the ears of the lag-

 

THE EWES ARE THE LEADERS OF THE WILD SHEEP FLOCKS

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1940

Butterﬂies

FRANCES G. BROMLEY

Butterflies wear velvet gowns
When swaying on the reeds,
Gowns trimmed with brilliant spangles
And rows of jet-black beads.

Butterflies are touched with gold
Upon their gauzy wings

That gleam like sparkling sunbeams
On their airy journeyings.

Butterflies sip honeyed tea
From Canterbury cup.

They taste of clover nectar,
And stop to drink and sup.

Butterflies then go to sleep
On dainty mignonettes,

They dream of courting daisies,
The velvet clad coquettes.

Napoleon and Animals
H . O . S T E C H A N

N all your long career as a soldier, Sire,

what was the most memorable experi-
ence?” General Bertrand asked Napoleon
Bonaparte one evening, as the noted French
exiles gathered for a social hour at Long-
wood on St. Helena, shortly before his
death.

“After we defeated the Austrians at
Marengo, twenty odd years ago,” the Corsi-
can replied promptly. “I was riding across
the corpse-covered battleﬁeld with an aide,
as I always did following each engagement,
to survey the carnage and destruction.

“It was a balmy Italian moonlit night.
Suddenly, we came upon a small dog,
mourning over the body of his dead master
in an enemy uniform. The animal moaned
broken-heartedly, as I have never heard a
human—being grieve, before or since.

“As we drew nearer, the little tyke
crawled toward us and then dashed back
to lick the soldier’s cold face lovingly. In
the next moment, he returned with a spine-
chilling howl and looked up with the sad-
dest eyes I have ever beheld, as if beseech—
ing me to avenge his master’s death. He
begged unmistakably for help.”

L’Empereur emphasized, his Memoirs
record, that no incident in any campaign
ever made so deep an impression on him—
the man who had fought sixty major
battles, countless minor ones, and had had
nineteen horses shot and killed under him
in action.

“I could not help thinking,” Napoleon
mused, “here lies this poor fellow, forsaken
by all but his dog. What a profound lesson
Nature presents therein, through the medi-
um of a bereft animal! In his great love,
I’m sure that dog exceeded anything I ever
felt or did.

“Yet, such is man and what a secret his
moods enfold! With tearless eyes I have
viewed calmly vast military operations by
which thousands of my countrymen were
sacriﬁced. But only the whimpering of a
pitiful, lonesome pup stirred my feelings
unforgettably”——and that was not his own
loved pet, just a strange, grieving little
mongrel. Mystiﬁedly, the fallen leader
shook his head.

Unknown to most people, Napoleon took

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

a deep interest in all members of the ani-
mal kingdom. In later years, after man
had proved faithless, he gave much time to
studying the conduct and actions of birds
and beasts, even ﬁshes and insects. On Solo-
mon’s advice: “Go to the ant, thou slug-
gard; consider her ways and be wise!” the
would-be world conqueror of the last cen-
tury observed intently the communal life
of these tiny, indefatigable workers.

“Their persistence is more than an in-
stinct,” he declared. “It manifests real
intelligence, and their social co-operation
is an example of model statesmanship.”

“Oh, were men only as united for the
common good,” Napoleon sighed. “The wis-
dom of ants and that little dog lamenting
over his dead master at Marengo convince
me that what we so patronizingly call ‘the
lower animals’ are much closer to their
Creator than human beings. We can learn
a great deal from them, if we only will.”

A Good Spring Worker

W. M.

The Bonaparte or rosy gull is perhaps
the smallest of the gull family. Its head and
throat are slate-colored and neck and parts
of tail are slate—colored. Back and wings
gray. Wings are marked with black and
white, legs and feet red and bill black. It
roams over the eastern half of the United
States and nests in Canada, migrates to the
south but sometimes winters in the north.
I have seen it skim over plowed ﬁelds in
the early spring morning, catching grubs,
beetles and sometimes small mice with its
long, strong bill, and I could not see that it
even touched. the ground. For this reason
although it does not stay with us long, it
is of great value to the farmer. Its nest is
usually in bushes and low trees. It lays
three or four olive-colored eggs, spotted with
dark splashes, which are seldom found by
humans. It is one of the most interesting
of birds and deserves protection as well as
respect.

A Nebraska correspondent writes of Our
Dumb Animals: “It is a most wonderful
paper, and through its splendid work is
doing great good for God’s helpless crea-
tures——an opportunity presented to children
to learn how to care for their dumb friends
and playmates.”

 

as

POTENT PRODU

 

Page 173‘

\
IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

\‘x‘
CARE OF THE DOG, Will Judy.

One of the best known authorities on all

matters relating to the dog, author of many
popular books and editor of Dog World,
Magazine, presents another small but meaty
volume of great value, especially to the
layman dog owner.
A great many well-meaning but inex-
perienced possessors of dogs have felt the
need of just such information and advice
as this latest book contains. It tells in plain
and practical language not only the kind of
dog best suited to the individual owner,
but also where purchased, how reared,
housed, trained, exercised and kept healthy
and happy.

How important is the matter of foods
and feeding too few of the dogs’ owners
realize or understand. Over-indulgence is a
common mistake, which, though prompted
by the spirit of kindness, results in much
harm to the dog. Along this line the author-
says: “As long as there are dogs, particu-
larly doting owners and overly-kind own--
ers, there will be constant need of books
on the care, health and handling of dogs.”

In presenting this helpful book with its.
thirty-eight chapters and some seventy-odd:
interesting pen sketches, Captain Judy has
rendered another ﬁne service in behalf of
the dog world.

i 96 pp. $1. Judy Publishing Co., Chicago.

UNDER THE CAPSTONE, A TALE OF
THE CHANNEL ISLANDS, Alfred S.
Campbell.

This delightful story takes the reader to
the fascinating island of Guernsey in the-
English Channel, which Mr. Campbell, a,
frequent contributor to Our Dumb Animals,
knows so well. Here two boys and a girl
have many exciting adventures searching
among the ancient ruins for buried treas-
ure. It is not deﬁnitely an animal story al-
though an occasional horse and cow wander“
into its pages, and the dog “Dodo” is im-
portant enough to have an entire chapter
devoted to him. For the early teen age this
tale will prove both exciting and education--
al. There are illustrations by Frank Dobias.

234 pp. $2. D. Appleton—Century Com--
pany, New York. and London.

The Jack LondOn Club, with 783,544-
members, was organized to try to stop cru-
elties in connection with trained animal
acts. Write to 180 Longwood Ave., Boston,
for information.

  

CERS OF LIFE-SUSTAINING FOOD

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 191,0
Old Matt and “Buddy”

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

HERE are many, even among lovers

of both dogs and cats, who are of the
opinion that it is not in the feline character
to be as truly affectionate or as constant as
the canine. But this story, which I heard
recently, provides a touching contradiction
of the usual opinion.

To the people in the neighborhood where
he lived for years, he was known simply as
Old Matt. Whatever his last name, no one
ever seemed to use it. Crippled from arth—
ritis, Old Matt, an elderly bachelor without
kin, was unable to work for a long period.
But carefully budgeted savings from his
previous earnings kept him in humble com-
fort and provided for the care of “Buddy,”
his beloved cat.

For ﬁve years, Buddy, who had come to
live with Old Matt when little more than a
kitten, was the crippled man’s inseparable
companion. Where Matt hobbled, there
Buddy followed, as solicitously and faith-
fully as any loyal dog. The cat’s singular
devotion was commented on for blocks
around.

Then came the day when one of the banks
where Old Matt’s savings were, failed, and
his already dwindling resources were cut
suddenly in less than half. Not being able
to work complicated the tragic circum—
stances. Old Matt, however, did not mind
nearly as much for himself as he did for
Buddy. He could no longer afford to keep
his pet. The only right thing to do, the old
man told himself, was to ﬁnd a good home
for Buddy.

So he inserted an advertisement in the
Personal Column of the newspaper, offering
Buddy to the one who would take good care
of him for the rest of his life.

There were several answers to his ad,
and the big, quiet gray cat was ﬁnally en—
trusted to a friendly family who lived in the
suburbs. There would be children to play
with and large grounds to explore and the
best of meat and drink and personal care.

“He won’t miss me so much out there,”
Old Matt told the new owners in a voice he
tried to make sound casual, but failed.

Buddy went to his new home on a Friday
and Old Matt got through a dreary week-
end without the familiar gray ﬁgure. On
Monday morning Old Matt’s astonished
gaze showed him Buddy plodding, weary
and footsore, along the gravel path to the
side door.

The next-door neighbor said Old Matt
hugged the cat, and brushed his dusty coat,
and shared his breakfast with him, laugh-
ing and crying the while.

Buddy slept at Old Matt’s feet that night
and was allowed to stay until the following
afternoon when a scribbled postal card sent
by the old man brought the new owners in
their car to get the cat.

The next Sunday, in a heavy downpour
of rain, Buddy was back again at the door
of his old home, asking plaintively to be
let in.

Five times more in all, in the ensuing
weeks, Buddy tramped long, tedious miles
to visit his old master, to implore, with all
the pathos in his large, expressive eyes, not
to be sent back ever again.

But each time, Old Matt, feeling the
wrench of parting more and more, yet

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

thinking of Buddy’s ultimate
welfare and knowing how
kind the new owners really
were, sent word conscienti-
ously to them to come for
him.

That is, each time but the
last Old Matt did so. The
last time, the good natured,
understanding people who
had taken Buddy, came with-
out waiting for the antici—
pated postal card message,
only to ﬁnd Buddy crying
piteously beside Old Matt’s
lifeless body. The old man
had been stricken with a
sudden heart attack.

Old Matt died without
knowing that Buddy’s new
owners had been going to
give the cat back to him that
day and provide the money
for his keep into the bar—
gain, so that they need not
be separated.

After Matt’s death, no one
could pry the disconsolate
feline from the room where
the old man lay. The big,
usually placid cat had little
interest in food or drink
and became a veritable claw-
ing, scratching antagonist if
anyone so much as attempted
to remove him from the
presence of his dead master.

 

Page 27'

 

“NOW, CATCH ME—IF YOU DARE”

 

But after the funeral,
Buddy was his docile self
once more, and with a gentle apathy that
was more like a human’s reasoning resig-
nation, he went back with his new friends
and remained with them until his own
passing two years later.

American Fondouk, Fez

We have not received a detailed report
of the work at Fez for the month of No-
vember, but here is a summary:

Animals in hospital, November 15: 62.

Outpatients treated: 82 horses, 37 mules,
22 donkeys, 2 dogs. Total, 143.

Superintendent Delon is still in Fez and
having general oversight of the work. He
reports, for example, one day’s work, as
follows:

MONDAY, Sept. 6, 8 A.M. Usual work.
two men to inspect Souk e1 Khemis and native
Fondouks at Fes Jedid. Bringing 1 mule. 1 mare,
and 6 donkeys to Hospital. P. M. Visit of two
French ladies, Mme. Desbois, of Ville Nouvelle and
Mlle. Fournier, of Paris (the latter has been em-
ployed at the ofﬁce of the Hotel Mamounia, Mar-
rakech.) Men gardening. 6 P. M. At request of
a native went to Place Baghdadi (Bou Jeloud) to
inspect a mule which had fallen by the road. Stated
right hind leg broken. With the consent of the
owner put to sleep this animal, after having called
the French policeman for report. Sent a horse of
public carriage injured by hot irons to Hospital.
French policeman on duty at Bab Ftouh sent 3
donkeys to Hospital. Animals in Hospital, 70.

Sent

G. DELON, Supt.

We have recently heard a deﬁnition of
statesmanship so good that we want to
pass it on:

“Statesmanship is knowing which way
God is going, and getting things out of
his way.”

Under this deﬁnition, how many states—
men in the world may be said to qualify?

——Unity

 

To a Cat Who is Missed

MARJORIE KADOW WOODRUFF

My house, these days, is haunted by a little
golden ghost——

When twilight creeps inside the walls I
feel his presence most,

For while I cut the crusty loaf and spread
the cloth for tea,

Daintily, on velvet pads, he follows after
me.

Topaz eyes and lifted paws implore me for
a scrap;

Then he selects a cushioned seat to start
his evening nap.

Busily a coral tongue tidies silken hair,—

But, looking too intently, I ﬁnd an empty
chair!

Later, dreaming by myself, with all the
household still,

An importunate golden ghost comes tapping
at my sill.

Though I throw the shutters wide, and
peer, and call and call—

Just the lonely dark stares
nothing else at all!

in; there’s

Walking in the garden before the world’s
astir,

Behind the dewy marigolds I hear a joyful
purr,

And I shut my eyes and see him, graceful
and remote,

With his proud gold plume a-waving and
the sunlight on his coat.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126
@112 Zﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pre51-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the preSIdent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Three hundred and fourteen new Bands
of Mercy were organized during June. Of
these, 200 were in Rhode Island, 40 in
New York, 30 in Massachusetts, 29 in
Texas, six in Virginia, ﬁve in Florida, three
in Pennsylvania and one in Illinois.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 251,436.

Birdland Tragedy

INEZ CLARK THORSON

Four wee eggs

Under mother’s breast—
Four baby birds

Chirping in, the nest.

One small boy
Aimed his gun——
Mother bird was singing;
Now her song is done.

Four baby birds
Died—Poor things;

Never sang a song—
Never tried their wings.

Birds and the Blazing Sun

CONRAD O. PETERSON

T HE August sun blazed down with all its
fury. The hot rays seemed to have ab-
sorbed the moisture from soil and plant life.

But there was a ﬂuttering turmoil in a
shaded corner behind the granary. There,
I had placed a temporary table. On this I
had placed sliced cucumbersJ and watermel-
ons, the surplus from our garden. This was
garden produce that could not be sold.

These slices were full of seeds and mois-
ture. This fact attracted the attention of
the birds, and they ﬂuttered noisily around
the table.

I placed this table as far as possible
from our garden of fruit and vegetables.
I found this to be sound strategy, because
the birds could feast on something other
than our garden. It saved depredation,
especially in our strawberry patch.

Birds, especially the cedar waxwing,
crave something in the line of succulent
fruit or vegetables during the hot months.
If they cannot satisfy that craving, they
will take their own initiative with corre-
sponding results in your garden. A little
strategy, plus some gifts of garden sur-
plus, will please the birds, and further
cement your friendship with them.

When you feel hot and thirsty during
these blazing days, remember the birds.
They, too, feel the heat!

OUR

 

DUMB ANIMALS

 

   

JANE WITHERS FEEDING HER FAVORITE DOGS—“WHISKERS,”

“SUSIE Q,” “PRINCESS,” AND “REX”

 

Vain Search
ADA ROSE DENIEREST

OR several years I traveled, Visiting

and speaking in schools. I was assigned
to a town in eastern Kentucky to speak be-
fore the upper grades of a private academy
which carried pupils through the high
school.

As I walked into the assembly hall before
the students trooped in, a large black dog,
half wolf and half collie, came stalking
through. “I hope they get that dog out be-
fore assembly time,” I said to my compan—
ion. “There’s nothing more sure to upset
a group of young people than a stray
animal.”

The dog passed out, and I forgot him.
When the students were assembled, I was
introduced. I stood up and began to talk.
Suddenly my heart missed a beat, for down
the center aisle came that dog. He marched
with stately tread and continued right
down to the very front. But, wonder of
wonders! no one paid any attention to him.
He stood with raised head, his eyes regard-
ing me earnestly for a minute, then he sat
down. During the whole time of my talk,
he sat quietly, apparently my most inter-
ested listener.

After the assembly, the room was used
as a study hall. I saw the dog go from one
to another of the pupils and nose against
their knees. Without lifting their eyes from
their books, the pupils would reach down
and pat him on the head. Then he would
pass on.

To the "principal I said, “I was panic-
stricken when I saw that dog come in. I
had visions of a disrupted assembly.”

“Oh, no,” the principal said. “He’s the
school dog. He always attends assembly.
You see, his young master, a fourteen—year-
old lad, was a pupil here in the school. The
dog always came with him. Sometimes he
would wait on the porch during an entire
session. At other times he would go home
and come back in time to escort the lad
home. Last year the young master died.
The dog would not stay home after that.
He insisted on remaining here. So we let

him stay. The children take turns bringing
food. He goes and comes as he pleases;
sleeps in the basement at night. He is part
of the school life and his presence never
distracts. Every day he noses from seat to
seat. Maybe in his dog mind he hopes some
day to ﬁnd his young master in one of those
seats.”

The Truck Driver’s
Christmas

DOROTHY DAY

One of the saddest and yet most beau-
tiful sights I have ever beheld took place
on a snowy Christmas Day on a heavily
traveled highway. My family and I were
in the usual gay, holiday mood, anticipat-
ing the joys of a feast to come and think—
ing back over the turkey, pudding, candy,
and other Christmas delicacies, the delights
of which had been tasted and enjoyed to
the fullest extent. The car in which I was
riding was coming toward a large truck
going in the opposite direction, and an
emaciated—looking, dirty white, mongrel
puppy ran in front of the truck, made no
attempt to avoid it, [but hungrily plunged
his teeth into something that lay in the
way of the oncoming vehicle. The dog was
so devoid of all sense but his utter hunger
that the sight was heart-breaking.

I began to shudder, Visioning the catas-
trophe that would surely befall the animal.
There was a loud screeching of brakes. The
truck driver stopped short of the puppy
and waited. A can of salmon had fallen
into the road. Passing cars had broken it
open. The dog was trying ravenously to
tear the salmon from the can.

It was a very cold day. The truck driver
was none too warmly clad. After a few
minutes of waiting, the rough-looking fel—
low stepped from his truck, walked out
into the snow to the little homeless, far
from attractive dog, and stooped down to
pick up the puppy and what was left of
the can of salmon. Tears were in his eyes.
He walked back to his truck, wrapped the
dog in an old bag, on the seat beside him,
and drove off.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

gard. Thus male vanity is appeased; yet
who knows but that in her quiet way
mother gorilla may have a lot to say in the
real management of the household.

Among birds the brighter plumaged male
also commonly holds sway. An old gander
may establish his rule in the barnyard,
watching for danger and herding the fowl
to shelter. One 40-year-old grandfather of
many goslings would knock on his master’s
back door when it was time to shut up the
ﬂocks for the night. Occasionally a wild
fowl, adopting the domestic ways of his
relatives, will assume the farmyard leader—
ship, perhaps admired as a man of the
world.

Each resident of the hen-house has estab-
lished her privilege to peck the ones below
her in the scale of authority. And the vio-
lence of the blows generally bears an
inverse ratio to the rank of the pecker.
Thus the pecker-in-chief, doubtless feeling
secure in her lofty station, seldom bothers
with the humbler fry and merely admin-
isters an occasional tap to the heads of
her immediate subordinates.

These in turn chastise those below them
in the barnyard’s list of precedence some—
what more severely and often. And, exhibit-
ing very human traits, the social climbers
who have barely managed to reach the low-
est rung of the ladder most viciously dem—
onstrate their precarious superiority over
the humblest members of the community.
The inferior hen may revolt at any moment,
the ensuing battle maintaining or reversing
the previous order.

In mixed and wild» ﬂocks, however, the
male bird usually holds the leadership. The
old cock who leads a covey of partridges
keeps a constant vigil and remains upright
while the others crouch from danger. He is
the ﬁrst in the air and often dies while giv-
ing the alarm. Thus among the lesser of
nature’s children, as well as in the world of
men, leadership involves work and sacriﬁce.
Those who are not willing to assume its
responsibilities are not worthy of its privi-
leges.

Canadian ornithologists were worried
over the establishment of bombing and gun-
nery ranges throughout the country. But
the safety of birds was considered by the
defense department. No live bombs will be
used, and machine gun ﬁre from the air
will be practised far from bird sanctuaries.

In These Times

JUDY VAN DER VEER

On this day I like to see
Cattle grazing peacefully,
Very much I like to hear
Cowbells ringing silver clear.

I look at kittens in the sun,

And little goats that leap and run,
The kind-eyed dog, the browsing sheep,
And horses standing half asleep.

The barnyard is a quiet place——

Across the world’s vast troubled face
There still is peace where cattle eat

The pasture grass grown tall and sweet.

I cannot look enough these days
At morning sun and evening haze,
But more than anything I see

The grazing cattle comfort me.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Poachers: a Growing Menace
to Wild Life

CHARLES R. DUTTON

HE deep woods of Maine offer a

secluded haven for those heartless de-
stroyers of ﬁsh, birds, and animals, the
poachers. Despite the constant vigil of
many game wardens these outlaws are
actually thriving, not only in Maine but in
every state in the Union. This writer uses
the Pine Tree State only as an example——
there are dozens more of them.

In a recent visit into the heavily wooded
forests of central Maine I spent three days
at a lumber camp which was occupied by
an old man who lived there alone the year
around. During that brief stay many “tricks
of the trade” were disclosed to myself and
my companion and we were mutually sick—
ened by them. I am convinced that the
number of animals, notably deer, that are
illegally killed in the state of Maine alone
during one year would be staggering.

At about eight o’clock in the evening the
ﬁrst night of our stay one of the old man’s
sons came to visit him. Together they went
off in the woods carrying with them a
powerful electric lantern and armed with
30-30 riﬂes. Later on we heard two shots
and at about midnight they returned empty
handed and disgruntled. Obviously they
had not been out target practising.

Stored in one corner of the camp were
three small sacks of salt and during our
second day there I discovered a “salt lick”
where a quantity of coarse salt had been
poured on the ground in various places so
that deer might be attracted there. Many
porcupine were noticed in the trees near the
“lick” also. Near by, in a tall ﬁr tree, a rude
platform had been constructed and strewn
about on the ground under the tree were
many cartridge shells. It was on this plat-
form that the poachers waited for their vic-
tims to appear, while shielded from sight by
the broad ﬁr branches. On my return to
camp I ran across the body of a small doe
partly eaten. It had been shot in the abdo-
men (and possibly elsewhere although I
could not determine as some of the carcass

was gone) and had run here to die. That

is another damnable point about poach-
ing. AlmOst as many animals are fatally
wounded and die in the woods as are taken
for food.

During our brief stay at the camp we
found that the old man, whom we shall call
John Bragdon, had six grown sons and
numerous sons-in—law, all of whom made fre—
quent visits to his camp. It is apparent
that a great deal of “jacking,” that is to
say, using the bright beams of large elec-
tric lanterns to attract the deer at night so
that they may be seen and shot, was going
on. They did not need the meat and much
of that taken was sold. The old man him—
self was afﬂicted with indigestion and ate
only the hearts and livers. He preferred
shooting yearlings and boasted that on one
day he killed four of them. Much of the
venison he procured went to the maggots
and ﬂies.

Incidentally, just previous to my stay at
the camp, one of his sOns-in-law was
arrested and jailed: when he tried to collect
bounty on three false porcupine noses which
he had constructed out of rubber from an

Oct. 191,0

old automobile tire. Such are the lengths
to which they will go!

The deer, as previously mentioned, are
being slaughtered with greater rapidity
than are the other animals. God knows too
many animals are already being destroyed
by so-called sportsmen" during the open
season. When laws are contemptuously dis-
regarded an actual danger is presented,
namely, that our ﬁnest animals may become
extinct. My mere words are fruitless!
Action is necessary!

as as

 

To Save Wild Life

RAN TERSEN

N order to materially reduce the num-

ber of wild life mortalities resulting
from the carelessness of thoughtless motor-
ists who will not give pheasants, grouse,
quail and other small game their right to
cross the highway in safety, the Provincial
Game Department of British Columbia in
co-operation with the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has erected
a number of strategically-placed signs in
areas where the roadside casualties have
been particularly numerous.

These signs, similar to the one shown in
the accompanying photograph which was
erected on the scenic Malahat Drive of
Lower Vancouver Island, will do much
toward encouraging the tourist and the Is-
land motorist to change the privilege of
“right of way” into one of “right of wait”
for wild life conservation.

We’ve been told of a pair of criminals
being chased by bloodhounds. One of them
had a certain powder to throw the dogs off
the scent. But when the other man learned
that the powder would cause the dog’s nose
to bleed for several days, he fought with
his mate to stop him from using it. How is
that for the inﬂuence of humane education!




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’74

6112 43mm of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-oﬂice address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and thirty-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during Septem-
ber. Of these, 78 were in Florida, 84 in
Illinois, 54 in North Carolina, 12 in Georgia,
and one each in California, Minnesota,
Philippine Islands and South Carolina.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 252,655.

Thanksgiving
MARY AGNES COLVILLE

For every welcoming canine bark;

For bird songs ﬁlled with hope and cheer;
For cozy purrs and friendly mews

0f feline creatures small and dear;

For rabbits with their gentle eyes;

For squirrels frisking at their play;
And for the trust which they inspire—
We all should give our thanks today.

The Boy who Loved Birds

KATHLEEN BLAKE

' AS he French,—was he American,
this John Audubon Whose book on
birds now sells for ﬁve thousand dollars a
copy? For his mother was Spanish, his
father an ofﬁcer in the French navy. He
was born in Louisiana while it was part
of France, then he moved to the West In-
dies, then to France.

From boyhood he escaped school at every
chance to gather queer stones in the woods,
and moss, and to draw pictures of the birds.
Because he thought his work poor, he called
the drawings, “cripples,” and every birth-
day made a big bonﬁre of the past year’s
cripples, immediately setting to work to
paint better ones.

When John was seventeen, his father
despairing of his success in either army or
navy sent him to the Audubon farm in
America, near Philadelphia. Here with
rents sufﬁcient to support him, John hunted,
ﬁshed, rode horseback, and drew and drew.
He also married his neighbor’s daughter,
Lucy Bakewell. At his father-in-law’s in-
sistence, he went into business in New
York and failed. He started a store in
Kentucky and failed, as with a steamboat,
a mill.

“The forest calls me,” he told Lucy. “I
want to make the woodpecker, the gorgeous
rose-breasted grosbeak live for others, under
my brush.”

“You will, John,” she declared with a
faith that never failed even though, at
times, she had to support herself and their
boys.

To earn money for the engraving of his
drawings, Audubon stuffed animals for a
Cincinnati museum, taught drawing, painted

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov. 191,0

 

PEACE, HAPPINESS, CONTENTMENT!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

portraits. At last he and Lucy had earned
ﬁve thousand dollars. But, alas, they found
no American engraver competent to do the
work. Audubon must go to England. He
laboriously collected a hundred and ﬁfty
subscribers to ﬁnance the hundred thousand
dollar work, and then found no publisher
would touch it. He must publish it himself.

He worked from dawn to dusk, then ped-
dled still-wet canvases to get money for his
undertaking. Back in America he left his
family and disappeared into the wilds for
months, following birds into swamps, in
scorching heat, in soaking rain, in bitter
cold. Once he lay on his back for three
weeks watching a pair of warblers. It took
him four years to get a specimen of the
splendid Washington eagle ﬁrst seen from
a Mississippi river boat.

He ﬁnished each exhausting day with a
journal entry,—colorful bits about dark
forests, matted canebrakes, gloomy swamps,
mighty rivers, ﬂood and earthquake and
storm; about backwoodsmen and “lumber—
jacks,” Labrador ﬁshermen and Indians.
These became the text for his “Birds of
America,” after a century, still the world’s
ﬁnest.

Hardships lay not only in collecting his
material. Once on a Mississippi steamer,
exploding gunpowder ruined his box of
sketches. Another box, left with a friend,
was ruined by rats. It took Audubon three
years to duplicate them.

They call it “elephant folio,” this book
of one thousand and sixty-ﬁve life-size
birds. In it we see birds swooping on their
prey, hunting food, cuddled in nests, caring
for young. A complete set now sells for ﬁve
thousand dollars.

Better times came to the Audubons. They
got out later successful books. They built
the house they’d dreamed of in the little
triangle between Riverside Drive and the
Hudson. And their work goes on. There are
over a hundred Audubon societies today
which teach young people to hunt with
cameras and not with slings and guns.

Remember the free illustrated lecture on
animals by Thornton W Burgess at Bos-
ton Public Library, Sunday, April 20, 1941,
at 3:30 P. M.

 

Autumn Flight

BURNHAM EATON

Red-winged blackbirds winging
Through the autumn chill,
Empty nests are clinging
In rushes lone and still.

Frosty brooks and rivers
WhiSper, “It grows late.”

Not a marsh-reed quivers
With a red-wing’s weight.

Friends, enjoy your play-day
On southern shore and lea.
We’ll hear again next May-Day

Your hearty “kong—quereee!”

Homeless Cats in England
R A N T E R S E N

LMOST dwarfed by the colossal prob-
Alem of caring for evacuees and refu-
gees, the plight of deserted household pets
has passed almost unnoticed in war-torn
Europe. But the needs of thousands of
wandering cats who were abandoned when
the war started and people were evacuated
from their homes, have not gone unheeded
by one cat-lover, Mrs. Ruby Morgan of
Godolphan Road, Sloughs, England. This
humanely inclined woman has been a real
friend to these four-footed war refugees by
opening a “casual ward” to care for their
comfort.

By day, the door of her home is open and
they can enter, get a drink and a meal and
sleep on the warm sacking provided for
their rest. At night, a garden shed is open
to the late-comers and serves as a dormi-
tory. The cats know they can get free board
and lodging and they come regularly to the
sanctuary, resting, eating and then depart-
ing. Some even return with new “members”
to this odd war-haven.

Such true devotion to the cause of hu-
mane treatment for abandoned animals
should not go unmentioned even in times
when greater events seem to overshadow
all else.

 




. ’4)

Oct. 191,0

“Old Ma” and “Old Pa”

CHARLOTTE MILLER TEMPLE

M A” and “Pa” are just two ordinary
cats—mutt cats they might be called—
but they are very unusual cats at that, for
Ma and Pa are on the regular pay roll at
William Kelly Milling Company at Hutch-
inson, Kansas. This seemed to be one of the
new things under the sun, so, to be certain,
I queried the Mill.

“Sure, they’re on the pay roll,” replied
P. H. Baum, secretary-treasurer, who ought
to know, explaining that ﬁve cats are sup-
plied about $20 worth of milk yearly, for
their rat-catching activity. Every two
weeks a voucher is made out for 85 cents
for “milk for Ma and Pa,” and, in addition,
a bill is turned in regularly by watchmen
at A—Mill or B-Mill for cat-food, which
means for liver or kidneys purchased at
the meat market.

For a time the auditors were a little
puzzled and hard to convince, but they
eventually agreed with the Kelly company
that the cats. were worth it, for they keep
the premises clear of rats and mice, in
addition to supplying the neighborhood kids
with kittens.

“Once, when the cat population declined,
a man with a couple of ferrets was engaged
to effect a slaughter of the rats,” said Mr.
Baum. “The ferrets killed a few but the
rest scampered away, only to return when
the ferrets departed.”

At another time poison was spread about
but Old Ma lost a whole family of her
babies that feasted upon poisoned rat; and
since that time the Kellys and their em-
ployees at the Mill, including the night
watchmen who ﬁnd the cats good company
during what would otherwise prove to be
long lonesome nights, encourage Ma and Pa
to live and love and replenish their kind.

“How about when the cats are off duty?”
was asked. “Oh, yes, Saturdays are Old
Pa’s nights to howl, and what he does on
his nights out is nobody’s business,” was
the reply, so long as the rat—catching trade
continues down the long line of a lineage
that can be traced back to when the mill
was built in 1906, and that’s a creditable
story to hang on any feline family tree.

It’s a sure thing that Ma and Pa are ﬁled
for social security and old age pensions,
too.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

All Cats

AGNES KENDRICK GRAY

I love all cats . . . from alley stray

In some forlorn backyard, at bay
Before a dog that harries her,

Claws out, back up, with bristling fur——
To pampered Persian, with her claws
Sheathed softly in her velvet paws.

A tawny, trichsy, tiger cat;

A Maltese mouser, grown too fat

For mousing now, or climbing trees;

An inky witch’s-pet, a gray

And purring Manx I pass each day—
These are my friends—nor only these . .
I love all cats!

I saw once, in a London flat,

The Royal One, a Siamese cat,
With ﬁerce, mysterious, sooty face,
Rich fur and air of ancient race.
Its stranger beauty stays with me
In fascinated memory,

More than all other feline grace.

And yet I like them every one!

The black, the tortoise—shell, the dun,
The Persian, yellow as the sun.

They are my friends—from alley stray
To great Angora, silver-gray . . .

I love all cats!

 

A House Cat’s Instinct

RALPH FENWICK

BELIEVE instinct in animals is one of

the most remarkable things I know of.
It seems that this belongs to every lower
order of animal and insect. It is their
guidance instead of the power to talk.

I remember an incident about a soft gray
cat in one of the early families who lived
in Illinois at the time. They decided to go
to Oregon and took every belonging with
them even to old tabby that didn’t seem to
want to go very much.

She was deeply attached to a baby in a
son’s family who had remained in the old

Page 151

 

home. The baby boy was two years old at
the time. He hugged the cat until the last
moment of starting on the trip. The pio—
neering family said the 'at showed a dis-
position to return several times and was
ﬁnally put in a sort of cage to restrain her.

This family passed along the trail just
three days before the Indians committed
the terrible Mountain Meadow massacre
that took the lives of several wagon trains
of people together and their stock was driv-
en away. It was afterward related that this
attack on the travelers had been delayed
several days, so the cat may have divined
the coming trouble if this particular wagon
train had been three days later.

Within three months the big gray cat
was back mewing to be let in the house of
the family where the baby boy lay sick.
Being let in, after the greatest surprise
from all the family, the cat, now thin and
weak from long travel and exposure and
hunger, rushed straight for the bedside of
the baby boy and, jumping on the bed, ex-
hibited the most intense joy at seeing the
child. The family had the certain knowledge
that the cat had run away and endured the
greatest hardships in ﬁnding its way back
home but that it had been unerring in its
homing instinct, even though it had been
taken across the country in a cage in a
closed wagon.

This cat lived to be fourteen years old
and went to school many times with 'the
boy when he had grown to school age. Ibe
boy became a county judge and then a
Superior Court judge but hecalways had a
penchant for a big gray eat like the one fox
which he had carved out a headstone many.
many years before. This incidenth'as re-
lated to me by a descendant .of this Judi!“-
I pass it on for the thought it may aroure
as to the characteristics in the lower ordei
of animals. . _ .

Please remember the Massachusetts 5. P.

C. A., when making your will.

 

 

 




 

 

Nov. 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

  

:“ . .
..-:‘:('£*%"*‘\
a. =‘

.._. .- 21327
A h-l ifs-1'5}: _

 

INTERRUPTED AT DINNER-TIME

By Francis H. Stevens, Waverley, Mass.
Prize winner in recent contest of Our Dumb Animals

 

Squirrel Song
E. HOPE KERR

I heard a little squirrel chirr
A song of autumn leaves;

Of many loathsome butternuts,—
And grain in golden sheaves.

He sang of bubbles in a brook;
Of autumn’s golden sun;

And once I overheard him say
That life is such good fun.

He chirred his little tuneless song
As back and forth he trod,—
A song of “squirrel-thanhfulness”

Unto his Forest God.

Answers to “Hidden Birds” puzzle last month: 1. Condor.
2. Stork. 3. Crane. 4. Thrush. 5. Wren. 6. Grouse. 7. Heron.

8. Linnet. 9. Albatross.

 
 

 

  

)...l )\k\\m..u.-.....

   

' )UL:. ..lk

“Betty” the Mischievous Coon
c. H. H U E Y

BETTY” is a pet coon belonging to Frank Pate of Way-
cross, Georgia. Her mother was killed by some dogs, so
Betty and two other orphans were brought to Frank’s
home. He gave the little coons to a mother dog to care for.
They at once became friendly with the puppies but as their
claws were sharp the mother dog resented their presence.

So Frank taught them to drink from a bottle like a baby.

Betty grew up to be outstanding in intelligence among the
other coon-s, so Frank turned the others loose and kept her
for a pet. She is mischievous and will pull bottles and other
things down from shelves. A, hole was cut in the door for
her and she goes in and out as she pleases. Frank had to
put a wire in place of string on the latch to his door for
Betty would break the string. Some nights, if she gets cold
during the night, she will crawl into bed and curl up beside
some member of the family. Usually, she sleeps in her box.

Betty likes to romp and play with the dogs. One night the
dogs went off and Betty strayed off with them. Frank won-
dered if she were lost. Far into the night the dogs came
home. Betty came with them, came into the house and
crawled into her box.

She will answer to a whistle call from :her master. She
could leave if she wanted to do so but she loves her master.
Once, when Betty was with the dogs they treed another coon.
Frank looked up the tree. There was Betty out on a limb
playing with the wild coon. Frank ‘whistled and she came
down.

Betty is still ﬁnicky and likes to wash the meat she is
going to eat. This is a natural habit with all coons.

The Queer Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HIS is not an inventory, but a list of bird names. The

letters in each name have been jumbled up, but if you can
get them back into proper order, you will know what birds
they are. Can you?

1. ONE PIG 10. NINE L T

2. ONE DIG W 11. TEN RAG A

3. TWO DIG 12. TEN RIB T

4. TWO HE BIB 13. TEN HAS PA

5. THREE COY CARTS 14. SOME DARK LAW

6. THREE AS RAW 15. SOME WELL HAY MR
7. SIX WAG N W 16. NO CARROT M

8. EIGHT LAG IN N 17. NO BILL SOP

9. NINE UP G 18. NO CORD

‘C-orrect answers will be found on this page next month.

Don’t tie a dog to his kennel. If you must conﬁne him, have
the end of the leash secured to a long wire, where he can have the
run of at least twenty or thirty feet.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

11

9.

mb

U_ S.Trade Mark, Registered

ANGELL \N 1868.AND FOR FORW‘ONE
.1-

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
———COWPER

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Octo

Boston Oﬂ‘ice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

    
 

GLORY TO
GO D,
PEACE on EARTH,

    
  
 

  

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

    

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ber 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Mass.

 

Vol. 73

“Peace in military mouths today,” said
William James years ago, “is a synonym
for ‘war expected.’ ”

If every teacher in the public schools of
this country would, just once a week, call
the attention of his or her pupils to the
claims of the animal world for just and
kind treatment, more than twenty-six mil-
lions (that is the number of pupils enrolled
in the schools of the United States) would
hear the plea every week of the school
year. Three, yes, two, minutes out of some
class—room hour, would do it.

Immediately after the outbreak of the
present war between the Allies and Ger-
many, the British Army Council oﬁﬁcially
recognized the Royal S. P. C. A. as the sole
channel through which voluntary assist-
ance for Veterinary Service may be ren—
dered to the Forces of the Crown. Heavy
motor-driven, turn-table horse ambulances
and other needed material have been sup-
plied by the Society.

Mention has been made in earlier issues
of an extraordinary Band of Mercy formed
in Manila, Philippine Islands, by Irving
Hart, national representative of all leper
colonies of the Campﬁre Girls, Inc. The
latest letter from Mr. Hart tells of nearly
a thousand members already in that Band,
practically all of them grown people. This,
we are sure, is the largest Band of Mercy
in the world.

It matters little whether you are a peace
man or, at heart, on the side of the most
avowed militarism, you cannot deny the
statement that this peace idea is the great-
est “moral issue now confronting this as
well as other nations of the earth.” If
Victor Hugo was right when he wrote,
“Peace is the virtue, and war the crime of
civilization”; if one-half the things said
about war even by warriors themselves are
true, then nothing morally and spiritually
concerns civilization more vitally today
than this movement in the interests of
peace.

April, 1940

The Extremist

W E must admit that behind many a
reform, behind many a movement
that has sent this old world of ours for-
ward at a pace that belied its years, has
stood pretty nearly always the extremist—
the man, or woman, who has refused to
grant for an instant that there could be
two sides to a question. There was only
one side—their side; with them the right,
against them the wrong. This seems to be
the way some are made; the capacity to
see the other side is absent.

In the end, however, the long campaign
against the speciﬁc evil, be it what it
may,——child labor, intemperance, slavery,
cruelty to the animal world,—~is fought out
by the rank and ﬁle of those who have
never taken the extreme view, but who, at
last, when the issue was fairly joined, have
cast their inﬂuence on the side of what has
seemed to them the right. That the issue
came ﬁnally to be joined, this no doubt has
been due to the few unrelenting and un-
compromising agitators.

Among the humane workers of the world
there are these two classesz—the smaller
number who will give or take no quarter
in the battle against what to them is cruel-
ty; the larger number, kind, earnest, hon—
est men and women who would not injure
unnecessarily the least of God’s lowlier
creatures, but who yet do not and cannot
rank all life as of the same sacred value,
and who cannot bring themselves to believe
that all scientiﬁc men are heartless, cruel,
unscrupulous.

The Blue Cross

Is a quarterly magazine dedicated to jus-
tice to animals and published by the Shang-
hai S. P. C. A. of China. It is among the
most attractive of the humane publications
that come to us. It is really an interna—
tional magazine afﬁliated with the Royal
S. P. C. A. of Great Britain. That through
the years of war this Society should have
been able to carry on so faithfully its
splendid work merits for it universal praise.
It seeks membership from interested people
in all lands.

No. 4
Of One Blood

ITERALLY, absolutely of one blood did

He make us, whatever our race. Cauca-
sian, Mongolian or Negro. No microscope
has yet been made, no chemic test has yet
been found, that can tell whether this given
drop of blood came from the white man or
the black man, from the red man or the
yellow. It is human blood. “One hundred
and twenty-eight black,” said the court.
Her great—great-grandfather on her fath-
er’s side married an octoroon. The rest of
her forbears on that side and all her
ancestors on her mother’s side have been
white. Therefore was she turned out of the
Sunday school of a so-called Christian
church, then out of the public school for
white children, and from the decision there
is no appeal. Call this bitter, inhuman race
prejudice by what term you will, only, in
Heaven’s name, let it not ﬁnd any justiﬁca-
tion by sheltering its hateful head within
the pale of Christianity.

Take the Stones Out of the
Road

Alas, how we forget to do it. We go
stumbling, hurting ourselves over things,
never thinking of those who must also come
over the same hard way, perhaps bearing
weary burdens, perhaps in the dark. On we
go, glad that we are past the rocky, uneven
road. Isn’t it worth while to stop long
enough to throw out by the wayside now
and then the thing which injured us, or
over which we fell, or which nearly tripped
us up? The traveler who comes after us
will never know we did it, never realize the
way is that much easier, but he will reach
his goal with stronger heart and less tired
spirit. That will be our reward. “Take the
stones out of the road.”

A billion dollars! How long would it take
to count it a dollar at a time? Well, if you
had lived since Christ was born till now
and put away a dollar a minute, if you had
had it, or could have got it, you would only
have just about a billion now. Our national
debt is already close to forty—ﬁve billion.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

J an. 191,0

A Tribute to Birds

GARDNER L. GREEN

Upon feeding the birds on Boston Common

Little neighbors from the sky,
Cheering every passer-by,

God forbid that I should harm
Or frighten you with base alarm,

Lest your beauty cease to give
My nobler self the breath to, live,
Or the tonic of your song

Fail to keep my spirit strong.

Creatures of My Father’s care;

His own singers on the air;

How rich is life because He sends
Sweet birds like you to be my friends.

A Bird Lover’s Paradise

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

NE of the most ideal places for a study
of birds in their natural habitat is the
Indiana Dunes State Park, built by the
elements through the centuries, and stretch-
ing for three miles along the southern tip
of Lake Michigan. Here, in a tract of more
than 2,200 acres, with numerous sand dunes
rising to a height of 200 feet above the lake
level, sandy beaches, many acres of dense
forest, an extensive marsh, small mea-
dows, open ﬁelds, an annual rainfall of 33
inches, ample sunshine and freezing winter
weather, and a sheltered belt providing
protection from the gales of Lake Michi-
gan, nature and the elements have given
ornithologists, botanists, zoologists, geogra-
phers, and nature lovers of all types an
incomparable setting for study of wild life.
This most fascinating area, pronounced
by scientists one of the most remarkable
sand dune regions in the world, has
attracted thousands of students and bird
lovers annually for many years. The dunes
act as a buffer for winter valleys that lie
quiet and peaceful with no wind or chilling
cold. The birds found these sheltered places
many years ago and thrive there. In Feb—
ruary and March the chilly lake winds
drive over the tops of the dunes but in the
depressions the sun’s warmth is held as in
a pocket. The temperature does not change
greatly after sundown. Here one may ﬁnd
myriads of winter birds, protected there in
the heart of nature.

In such an environment one would expect
to ﬁnd an increasing number of people
interested in the feeding of birds when
natural food supplies were exhausted or
buried under snow and ice. A typical
example is that of Miss Edith M. Briddel]
of Chicago, who established a bird feeding
station following a study of the birds there
and visited it regularly during the winter
taking suet, seed, and other food for the
birds. She began in November and soon
had the black-capped Chickadee, the tufted
titmouse, the white-breasted nuthatch, the
downy woodpecker, and the junco eating
from her feeding station which was made
by her own hands from coarse wire netting
for the suet and an old drainage trough
found in the vicinity. Here she served
rolled oats, peanut butter, bread crumbs,
mixed seeds, and suet. She found the
Chickadee the most friendly, many eating

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

from her hand. In the spring many of the
migratory birds came to her feeding sta-
tion to partake of her hospitality. The ﬁrst
from the south were the brown creeper and
the golden crowned kinglet. Then followed
towhees, phoebes, robins, water thrushes
and hermit thrushes all eager to be her
guests.

Fall and winter migrations are very in-
teresting here as a majority of the species
of bird found in the United States inhabit
or pass through this area. One may explore
undisturbed the haunts of thousands of
birds and observe their daily habits and
activities in proper setting.

A typical example of the many bird and
nature students who know and enjoy the
area is Roy E. Hawkinson. He found early
one May morning, while tramping through
woods, swamp, ﬁeld, and meadows in a
four—hour period, no less than ninety dif—
ferent species of bird.

Like all state parks there is guide service
free. Nature guides report age is no bar.
Elderly gray-haired men and women follow
the guides with deep interest, boys and
girls are eager participants, all peeping at
birds’ nests, learning to identify the birds
by their calls, learning when certain birds
ﬁrst appear, when they nest, when they
stop their singing, and asking scores of
questions which are provoked by their curi—
osity and interest in the region and its
wild life. They have found that early morn-
ing is the best time to study the birds,
consequently the bird hikes take place at
that time.

All the jays (members of the crow fam-
ily), and the yellow-billed cuckoo, often
called “rain crow,” need large worms for
a meal and if the insects are small they
will eat three hundred. Many of these are
mosquitoes that carry fever in their bite.

Page ’7

The Laughing Loon

L. E. EUBANKS

HE word luny comes from la lune,

the moon; and there is no etymologi-
cal justiﬁcation for the expression, “crazy
as a loon.” I know but little about the
moon, but I’m sure that the loon is far
from crazy.

On land, the loon is very awkward, and
doubtless this clumsiness has been taken
by some observers as an indication of
dumbness—“craziness.” Really, that means
nothing; in the air or the water the loon is
graceful and speedy. It’s a champion at
underwater swimming, using both wings
and feet, and enjoys the very coldest water.
No bird gets keener pleasure from catch-
ing ﬁsh.

The loon’s call is most interesting.
Though I never considered it “crazy,” it
certainly is weird, “unearthly,” as Celia
Thaxter termed it in one of her poems. It
carries a long distance, and the loon is
expert in using it to deceive any person
who would approach too near.

Even in a motorboat it is hard to get
near a loon; his red eye is upon you before
you see him—and he’s ready for a little
sport. You head your boat in the direction
of the yodeling cry; but before you get
there the bird has dived; then the cry
comes again, as far away as before—and
this time it’s a laugh. The “crazy” loon is
enjoying your discomfiture.

This may be repeated several times.
Maybe the loon fears that you’ll give up,
so occasionally he makes the call mournful
instead of mirthful. But he’s gone just as
before when you arrive. Then he laughs
again. Possibly he thinks you “1oony;” he’s
having a lot of fun at your expense. And
if he does think that, he’s as near right as
you are, if you think him “crazy”!

 

THE PROVINCETOWN GULLS ARE ALWAYS PICTURESQUE

When they don’t know where their next
meal is coming from, the gulls at Province-
town, Cape Cod, rob ﬁshing boats, drop
clams from aloft to crack them open, beg
handouts at kitchen doors. Here, a ﬁsher-
man discovers that a bucket of ﬁsh he had
left alone for a few minutes has been over-

turned and half the contents gulped down
by the keen-eyed birds. The gulls seem
loath to leave as the owner raises his arms
to shoo them off. Note that one of the
thieving birds is perched on top of the
tipped—over pail.

JACK JOHNSON

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 176

The Red Fox

JUDY VAN DER VEER

We rode up the river trail,
The trees were all aglow,
We rode up the river trail
When the sun was low.

The purple mountains looked not far,
The near ﬁelds held the light,

We rode up the river trail

When all the land was bright.

So bright it was that when we saw
A red for on the trail,

His coat was vivid as a flame,
His tail a comet’s tail.

He moved across the river trail
Unafraid and slow,

He was descended from the sun,
He was the sun’s hot glow.

He stepped into a tangled growth
Beside the river’s shore,
The shadows took him then and he
Was like a ﬁre no more.

Humane Forces at Omaha

ESTERN hospitality at its best was

demonstrated at Omaha, Nebraska,
during the ﬁve-day sessions of the sixty-
fourth annual meeting of the American Hu-
mane Association, at Hotel Paxton, Sep—
tember 23-27. Ofﬁcers and directors of the
Nebraska Humane Society did all in their
power to make the occasion a memorable
one for the delegates who represented all
sections of the country. On the sight-seeing
trip, Tuesday afternoon, a visit was made
to the headquarters and splendid shelter
of the local Society, followed by an inspec-
tion of the J oss Memorial, one of the hand-
somest buildings of its kind in the country,
and then by a tour to Boys’ Town where
Father Flanagan met the visitors who were
shown over this justly famous institution.
Then came the “tea” at the luxurious home
of President Gould Dietz, which proved to
be a royal reception indeed. At a Confer-
ence luncheon, Thursday, many of the dele-
gates had the pleasure of listening to
Father Flanagan who spoke of his own

work and of the deplorable situation in

many of the reform schools.

At the sessions devoted to children’s
work, Monday and Tuesday, a variety of
subjects were presented by experts. On
Monday evening a dinner meeting was held,
with an inspiring address by Cullen Wright,
Sand-hill philosopher from Nebraska, and a
demonstration of folk dances by a group
from the South Side Social Settlement.

Wednesday, Thursday and Friday were
devoted to work for animals, Much enthusi-
asm was aroused in behalf of lessening the
cruelties to animals in moving pictures,
when Mr. Richard C. Craven, Western
regional director of the Association, told of
his experiences in Hollywood in working to
secure the good will of the producers. Sev-
eral of the largest companies have agreed
to stop the use of the cruel “running-W,”
a device to throw horses suddenly. Much
progress has been made already as to a
better understanding with the producers
and the humane societies.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

C. E. Harbison, kennel editor of the
Conde Nast Publications, New York, dis-
cussed dog control in all its aspects and
advocated restraint of dogs as the surest
remedy to prevent rabies. R. A. Frew, of
the King County Humane Society, Seattle,
Wash., told of the workings of the ordi-
nance for licensing cats in that city. About
7,000 cats out of a total of several times
that number are now licensed through the
Society. On Wednesday evening there was
a dinner meeting, with an illustrated lec-
ture on “Western Wonderlands,” by Dr. J.
Richard Olson.

Papers on meeting the public, community
animal organizations, and the preparation
of an annual report, were given, respective-
ly, by Miss Vera Gieseker, of the Humane
Society of Missouri, St. Louis; President
August Orthmann, of the Wisconsin Hu-
mane Society, Milwaukee; and Dr. W. A.
Young, of the Anti-Cruelty Society, Chi-
cago.

Thursday afternoon Was devoted to live—
stock problems, with a series of addresses
by representatives of the National Live-
stock Loss Prevention Board. Films were
shown, and there was a demonstration by
a ﬁrst prize winning team of 4—H Club
boys. In the evening Edward N. Skipper of
the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., Philadelphia,
gave an address on Humane Education and
exhibited sample ﬁlms used in his work
in the schools. An original ﬁlm, showing
kind treatment of dogs and produced by the
King County Humane Society of Seattle,
was also shown.

On Friday Red Star reports were pre-
sented by Arnold M. Amundsen of the Hu-
mane Society of Missouri, and “Standards
for Animal Protection Societies” by Eric
H. Hansen of the American Humane Asso—
ciation. The ﬁnal session was an open
forum conducted by Charles W. Fried-
richs, secretary of the San Francisco S. P.
C. A., where a variety of animal problems
were discussed.

By vote of the directors it was decided
to hold the next meeting in Hollywood,
California, in the fall of 1941.

New Leaﬂet by Dr. Rowley

President Francis H. Rowley has written
a new leaﬂet, under the title, “Humane
Education and Spiritual Values,” which was
suggested by the announced ideals of the
Parent—Teacher Association. This is for
free distribution and it is hoped that all
connected with the work of the Parent-
Teachers will receive a copy. Send to 180
Longwood Ave., Boston, stating the number
you can use to advantage.

Nov. 19.40

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,

There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
N-o commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,

No waste of your estate

by a will contest.
as * *-

* *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Dumb Animals

Our

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERhIS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

FORM OF REQUEST

of .......... dollars (or, if other property,

 

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title Of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to the American Humane Education Society), the sum

describe the property) .

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 6

To anliEnglish Sparrow
JANE KECK

0h, tuneless, plain, and least beloved of
birds,
Swinging so lightly on the leafless bough;
Thy feathers fluffed against the icy blast,
A symbol, eloquent, of courage, thou!

I smile to hear on snowy Winter morn,
From hedge and icy twig, thy cheerful
twitter,
And later, over grudgingly shared crumbs,
To watch thee with thy brown compan—
ions bicker.

With hops and bobs, and flirts of tail and
head,
Thou pluckst the withered berries from
the vine; .
Present necessity thy only care.
I would thy faith and fortitude were
mine!

Chirp on, oh feathered mite, thy bright
Unvarying cheerfulness a lesson to us all.
Not without purpose is thy destiny.
For there is One who marks the sparrow’s
fall!

Our European Starling
DORIS GALE

HE common English sparrow was the

ﬁrst European bird to be introduced in
our country. The rapidly multiplying star-
ling is the second on the list of adaptable
importations.

About ﬁfty years ago, a group of star-
lings were released in Central Park, New
York City. From this beginning, the species
has since spread over all the Eastern
States, and Southern Canada; and it is
expected that the starling will one day be
found living in almost every part of North
America.

Starlings are strong, bold birds, and they
ﬂy with great speed. Like the purple mar-
tin species, they can ﬂy for great distances
with wings ﬁxed straight. They walk rap-
idly, too, in a curious zigzag manner, when
searching for food.

More than half their food is made up of
insects, spiders, cutworms, weevils, grass-
hoppers, and other animal matter. They are
also fond of many kinds of fruits and vege-
tables. In fact, the starling’s appetite is
so easily tickled, that he even relishes
poison ivy!

This bird’s personal song is not me—
lodious or distinctive, but he can imitate
many others to perfection. The wood
pewee, the bluebird, the bobwhite, the
grackle, ﬂicker, blue jay, English sparrow,
and red-winged blackbird are among those
whose various tones the starling has been
heard mimicking with great ﬁdelity.

Starlings like to live in well populated
areas and can be found nesting in almost
any type of building or tree holes and shel—
ters, and in plain open boxes. Inside, the
starling likes dry grass and green leaves,
as well as straw, string, chicken feathers,
and cloth. He is, indeed, a very adaptable
creature.

Elm and maple trees form one of the
starling’s favorite nesting—sites, but some-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

times large g r o u p s of
these birds gather to live
together in an amazing
manner. Tens of thou—
sands of them will come
together nightly, regu-
larly, in a given area,
crowding the ledges and
crevices of buildings for
blocks in a row. On one
particular b u i 1 din g, a
church to w e r, approxi—
mately t h r e e thousand
starlings were sheltered
at one time, as many as a
hundred being huddled to-
gether in cavities two feet
wide, three feet deep, and
but a few inches high.
Nest boxes should be
furnished by all bird lov-
ers wherever possible, for
it is the sad truth that all
hole—nesting species are
pressed with an ever-
growing scarcity of
nesting-sites.

EDITOR’S NOTE: The
late Edward Howe For—
bush, ornithologist, in
“Birds of Massachusetts”
says of the starling: “If
it becomes unduly abun—
dant and seriously harm-
ful, we may hope that in

 

 

Jan.1940

STARLING CARRYING MAY BEETLES TO YOUNG

 

time, like the formerly

pestilential ‘English sparrow,’ it will be
reduced by the forces of nature, or by some
fortunate combination of circumstances to
a condition of comparatively ‘innocuous

7”

desuetude .

A Linnet Hitchhiker

DOROTHY L. PILLSBURY

E were out in a little thirty-foot

motor boat, lost in the worst fog‘ we
had ever seen in the Catalina Channel.
According to our compass and time reck-
oning we were about mid—channel, ten
miles from the California mainland. The
ocean was empty, just a big gray bowl,
spilling over with a soupy vapor. We
chugged along cautiously hoping to hit
Avalon Harbor, twelve miles distant by
compass steering. The Captain kept his
eyes on the course. I lolled in the cockpit,
straining my ears for the engine drone of
any passing boat and a possible collision.
It was tough going.

Suddenly up over the mast, a tiny ﬁgure
materialized. It circled, dropping lower and
lower toward the deck. Its wing beats were
weary and feeble. It was a linnet, no
longer than my ﬁnger, lost and exhausted
in the vast Paciﬁc. The tired wings stopped
beating endless space. The bird dropped
to the deck.

“It will rest a little and then ﬂy on,”
I thought. It did rest and then eyeing me
hopped down into the cockpit. The engine
room door stood open. It was nice and
warm down there. Into the engine room
hopped the linnet as if he owned the boat.
There was a warm rod extending from the
engine. Straight to this rod he ﬂew, curl-
ing his freezing toes about it cosily. A ﬁlm
came over his eyes. He slept. There never

was a more bedraggled bird.

In about half an hour he opened ras—
cally bright, rested eyes and made a thor—
ough toilet, giving especial attention to his
red neckerchief. Then, jaunty and self-
assured, hopped over to the galley where
he dined with evident gusto on a discarded
sandwich. Some water had been spilled on
the ﬂoor. He washed down his dinner with
drinks from this puddle, making a great
to-do about it, ﬂapping his wings and tilt-
ing back his head with the comical air of a
world weary connoisseur.

With great importance he hopped back
into the cockpit. “Now he will surely ﬂy
away,” I thought, crossing my ankles and
stretching out my legs for the remainder
of a tiresome voyage. But he was not ready
to leave. Who knows how long he had been
ﬂying, lost in that endless fog over an
ocean that went on and on to China?

Keeping his eyes ﬁxed on me he hopped
to my crossed ankles, jumped on and
settled down for a comfortable journey. I
could have vowed one toe made a familiar
thumb wagging gesture. It was not until
the hills of Avalon reared dimly through
the fog, that he showed the slightest in-
clination to leave. Then he was off with a
swoop toward a green bay tree on the
Marine Drive. He really should go down
in history as the only seagoing, hitch-
hiking linnet on record.

The starling, says the Biological Survey,
is only one of 17 bird species in whose
stomachs Japanese beetles have been found.
The other birds are the ring—necked pheas-
ant, bobwhite, kingbird, crested ﬂycatcher,
crow, catbird, brown thrasher, robin, wood
thI'USh, English sparrow, meadowlark, red-
winged blackbird, purple grackle, cardinal,
VESper sparrow and song sparrow.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’7 6

begins the huge building project.

When completed the nest reaches a
height of some three feet, and is some ﬁve
or six feet in diameter. “High and dry
from possible ﬂoods,” seems a slogan of
the swans when they start erecting their
down-lined nests of reeds and grass, of
sticks and straw.

If aquatic birds could speak they might
have this to say: “Feathered land-lubbers
may build on bush and bough, and sing
‘rock-a—bye-baby, on the tree-top,’

But as for us, we think it best
To have a land, or water, nest!”

Partly Propaganda
WILLIS MEHAN NA

During the severe snowstorms and bliz-
zards of the winter of 1940 the usual story
was heralded by sportsmen and hunters
that quails and other birds were frozen
and starved by scores and the attempt was
made to give the impression that such an
agency had much more to do with causing
a scarcity of birds than the onslaughts of
the hunting gentry.

Having lived all my life in a region of
blizzards and birds I can testify that no
deaths of birds by blizzards have ever come
under my observation. I believe such sto-
ries are much exaggerated in an attempt to
minimize the good results of strict game
laws.

During this same winter a few days
after a record-breaking snowstorm and
blizzard I was out in a cornﬁeld and saw a
covey of about twenty quails which seemed
to have come through the rigors of the
storm and were none the worse for it.
Horned larks, meadowlarks and juncos
came into the barnyard and ate with the
livestock right along and so did quails but
not so much. If not molested, wild life will
usually take care of itself. I do not claim
that birds are never lost in blizzards or
frozen to death, for perhaps some are, but
I have never seen any. I often put out

coarse ground corn and meat scraps for the
birds.

The caw of the common crow is well
known, but its love notes and its conversa-
tional abilities when ministering to its
young are seldom recognized. In early
spring or late winter the crow often gives
forth quite musical sounds.

Song After Sorrow
BUENA SOWEL L

Out of injustice,

Out of a wrong,

Out of your suffering
Comes a sweet song.
Two careless urchins
Robbed your new nest,
Stilled all the gladness
In your glad breast.
Sweeter your carol,
Fuller each note,
Purer staccato

From your wee throat.
I, too, have suffered,

I have known wrong;
Teach me your courage,
Teach me your song.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

May, 191,0

The Screech Owl

ALVIN M.

PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

T is likely to be August or even Sep-

tember before you hear the peculiar

quavering, wailing notes that tell you a
pair of screech owls is in the neighborhood,
the birds ﬂitting about in the dusk or
perching in a tree or on the ridge of the
house. The notes also have a crooning,
tender quality, and sometimes one hears
clucking notes as well as others harder to
describe. Because of the tremulous quality
of the notes, the screech owl is also known
as the shivering owl.

I ﬁrst heard the queer nocturnal notes
of this bird while walking along a street
of a small town in southeastern Minnesota.
I chanced to meet an acquaintance, who
also was interested in and listening to the
notes. The man said he had been told the
notes were made by a rabbit. Just what a
rabbit could be doing among the branches
of a tree he did not explain.

A few evenings later I heard the notes
coming from the ridge of the roof of my
home and discovered the author of the
music, a small gray owl. The screech owl
is ten inches in length, about as large as
the robin, though it ﬂuﬁ‘s out its soft
feathers and looks larger. A small owl is
likely to be a screech owl, though it also
may be a saw-whet or Acadian owl. I see
and hear screech owls yearly, but have
heard and seen saw-whet owls but once.
The latter is slightly the smaller, being
about eight inches in length, brownish, and
has no ear-tufts. Its notes are quite un-
like the quavering or shivering notes of a
screech owl, having a scraping or rasp‘ing
quality, not unlike that made when a ﬁle
is drawn across the teeth of a large saw.

The screech owl is also known as the
little horned owl because of its prominent
ear-tufts, commonly called horns. We have
two other common owls that have prom-
inent ear-tufts or horns, the long—eared owl
and the great—horned owl. There is little
danger of confusing the little screech o-wl
with either of these, for the long-eared owl
is sixteen inches in length, the great horned
owl twenty-four. The latter also has wide
crescent-shaped patches of reddish—brown
about the eyes. The screech owl is also
known as the red owl and gray owl, a
paradox apparently, but easily explained
by saying this owl may .be either red or
gray in color. This is known as “dichro-
matism.” Sometimes a gray screech owl is
found mated with a red one, their offspring
being all gray, all red, or one red, the next
gray. Or both parents {may be gray and
several of their young red, or vice versa.
Sometimes a red bird changes in color and
becomes gray without shedding its feathers.
Scientists are unable to explain what
causes the variation in color, though this
bird is also known as the mottled owl as
a consequence.

Screech owls often make their homes in
old neglected orchards, since there they are
able to ﬁnd food and nesting-places in
abundance. They usually mate for life, and
the same pair may live in a given place for
years, until one dies or they are forced by
circumstances to seek a new home. They
are highly useful because of the insects and

 

   

YOUNG SCREECH OWL WITH ITS
EAR-ITUFTS ERECT

mice they destroy, being especially fond of
grasshoppers, crickets, beetles, cutworms,
meadow mice, white-footed mice, and house
mice. The contents of the stomachs of 255
of these birds were examined by scientists
at Washington. Ninety-one ‘of the stomachs
held mice and one hundred of the re-
mainder insects. Fifty grasshoppers were
found in one stomach, eighteen May abeetles
in another, and thirteen cutworms in a
third. One stomach contained poultry, while
38 held the remains of birds. This owl
sometimes kills (and feeds small birds to its
young, many of them being English spar-
rows.

The young screech owl shown in the pic-
ture lived on our back porch for about ten
days. It got separated from its parents and
found its way into the home of a friend in
some way. It was fed earthworms, beef
suet, cottage cheese, and the like, taking
these freely from our ﬁngers and swallow-
ing them at a gulp. It usually found a
dark corner and there quietly spent the
day, but was restless at night and ﬂew
about considerably. So long as we made no
attempt to pick it up it was peaceable
enough, but the moment we touched it or
got our empty hands too near it, it began
to back up, rolled over on its back, struck
at us with its feet, clawed, and even grab-
bed our hands and hung on with great
die-termination. Sometimes we had to loosen
the claws carefully one by one to make it
let go. It is a good idea to handle an owl
with care, for a large one can do consider-
able mischief with its claws if given the
chance.

The sixty-fourth annual meeting of the
American Humane Association will be held
in Omaha, Nebraska, from Monday, Sept.
23, to Friday, Sept. 27, 1940. The conven-
tion headquarters will be at Hotel Paxton.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




vlwmﬁﬁl‘i .“I‘S’ivﬁ i'Uin-f-ifﬂ'ﬁ '7 ' I{--§R‘.'?léiq'vatki

 

DECEMBER 1940 I «a

OUR

 

 

{9.2%, .E E‘ ’
”ya; "'
‘4‘1‘39?:l‘-

‘1 fmﬂﬁgi
‘ ’ :{g'

p
o.-
4 T;

h‘ .
I,“
.‘E’rz.
A Ma‘sz’N-Z

v:
’4‘
q

 

 

Margaret T'arrant Hale, Cushman and Flint ‘; Ru

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY ,,
TO ANIMALS E7 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

' L

.c”

.4 1‘4- {f

I
!

..,V
.., .-

a." ,1? "r,
. Auvf‘. , .

n9

 

" ‘ ‘ ’wu INS-Immamwmkw ~ “ ;' ' ,

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As a present for

the entire family—

GREAT WINGS
AND SMALL

by Frances E. Clarke

“An excellent selection of ‘bird
stories of our day’ compiled by the
well-known author, editor and con-
tributor in the realm of humane litera-
ture. It will make a strong appeal to
readers of all ages.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

$2.50 all bookstores

THE MACMILLAN COMf’ANJY
60 Fifth Ave. " New York

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
Send for free Nema booklet No. 652
Wnte to Animal Industry Dept , Desk N58M
PARKE, DAVIS & (20., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davns Products * Free Booklet

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Relieve fitter-sally Caused

PIMPLES

TRY MILDLV MEDICATED

llfl‘llRA

SOAP W0! NTME NT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & sons, lnc.
Entertainers

BOSTON~BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR
1941

“Animals in War” ‘

Consists of twelve photographic studies graphically depicting dogs of
many breeds “doing their bit in the war.”

The 1941 Calendar photographs are authentic reproductions of Canadian
Regimental animal mascots, British dogs taking part in Red Cross and various
military duties and as A. R. P. assistants.

The Calendar has a specially designed patriotic cover in full red, white
and blue color scheme, and each picture “framed” in: the same striking effect.

It Will make a charming and inexpensive Christmas Gift and will be

mailed by us postage prepaid. A gift card bearing your name will be enclosed
if desired.

PRICE 50c.
THE TORONTO HUMANE SOCIETY

11 St. Albans St.
TORONTO ONTARIO CANADA

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING . '
ASSOCIATION, mc. Compliments Of
6 BEACON ST., BOSTON, MASS. GALLUP and HADLEY
“We compliment the M. S. P. c. A. on its Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law
noble lwprk to prevent cruelty to racing DAVID T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST., ’
anlma S.
, EDWIN W, HADLEY, president EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ FOR QUALITY AND SERVICE MARGARET TARRANT’S WORK

 

FEDERAL EN"'RAVING C6. reams... ..
-i

   

 

. H DAYand NIGH'T ~=, “|_ For Print, Chﬁstmzasrgzd;oltirtltday Catalogues
Phone LIBereq 24-95 — 249'} a1 lint Inc.
'5 EAST ST. H e, Cushman & F ,

BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

Dept. D, 116 Ne-Wbury Street, Boston, Mass.

 

 

ﬁtment literature for thtistmas @itts

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets
Humane Calendar for 1941

. , less than six, each, 15 cts. What is the Jack London Club? .......... $0.30 per 100
BSDIICder 80 cts., twelve for $1.50. Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30. “ “
e 1n to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 33/8 $0.50 per 100 Films, Fakes and Facts,~He1en T'revelyan .50 “ “
Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound Humane Education
volume, each ......................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in Humane Education, All Activity of the
the set ................. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts. National Congress 0f Parents and
Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
About the Horse Th; Relation of the Home to Character
Bl a c B a . , ormation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
The kHofsclih‘r(eEi1§eili)b fCICStdlresuetc ----- $060 50 CtS- Humane Education and Spiritual Values,
, , . . . . . . per 100 Dr. OWle Free
The Horse s Prayer ................ “ “ The HuﬁaneyBu-lletinnf """"" .“mh”i
The Bel ,, ------ - .. .. . . ~ -, or use in so 005
1 0f Atrl. poem by Longfellow..- .50 96 pp. ................... 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
About the Dog Carr:i aligd gitndness for Our Animal
. _ en , ‘ pp., pa er covers, man
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 .......... small, 50 cts. illus. ............... 1.)..10 cts. each; tvilrelve fOI‘ $1-0'0
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
Rables vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free. cation, 32 pp. ........................ each, 10 cts.
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card—$1.00 per 100 An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F-
The Dog—Its Care 1n Health and Disease .60 “ “ Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr. grades ......................... each, 10 cts.
Schnelder ........................... 2.00 “ “ “Be Kind to AnimaIS” pennants ....... each. 25 as
Important Adv1ce on Feeding the Dag The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
and the Cat — A. Supplement by Dr. Rowley .............................. cloth, 35 cts.
RUdOIDh H. Schnelder ................. 1.00 “ “ Friends and Helpers (selections for
. , school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
The Bird About ﬁfe Bird The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
_ s of Cod, 318 pp., lllUS. ........ cloth, $0.45 “And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
Tr215a1 3th the B1rds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.

H , ...... _ .......................... $2.00 per 100 Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
umane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “ 3 CtS- each; ten for 25 CtS-

About the Cat Band of Mercy

r'glm Cat—.Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100 “Be Kind to Animals” Buttons ......... $1.00 per 100
e TCat in Literature ................... .5 “ “ Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
Do I\ot Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “ “Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 35 cts.
The Beggar Cat, ’ post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “ Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
About h , J. Eddy ......... ' ..................... 5 0 cts.
Th St _ ‘ ’ 0t er Ammals Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
F0: P'tlke q11:1{Shanta s, cloth, 3O cts. . paper, 7 cts. only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
_ ly’s t. e ........................ paper,5cts. Band of Mercy Membership Card ........ '0 “ “
Mlchael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. 0

How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood AVE» 30815011, Mass.

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100

 

L / —4V"

 




OUR DUZIIB ANIMALS

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel
Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First

Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

. Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-183 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. 8:. 1’. C. A.—
COUNTESS CARDELLI, Pres.; MRS. DONALD U. WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

W’omen’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. 1’. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

W‘inchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas. Second Thursday.

 

MRS.

 

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,510
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392
Animals examined . . . . . . ....... 4,674
Animals placed in homes ....... 162
Lost animals restored to owners. . 61
Number of prosecutions. . . . . . . . . 3
Number of convictions. . . . . . . . . . 3
Horses taken from work ...... . . 1]
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 60
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,174
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ . 52,432
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep. . ............. . 23

19.?

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D.
SCHNELLE v.M.D.
MUNSON, v.M.D.
BLAKELY, v.M.D.
ROBERTSON, v.M.D.
. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

SPOT]???
F‘F‘demftj

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 799
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,979
Operations ....................... 756
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 151
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 557
Operations ...................... 133

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ................... 83
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 177,473
Dispensary Cases ............... 445,103
Total .............. 622,576

The Perennial Pigeons

THE problem of how to deal humanely
with the pigeons or doves that in ever-
increasing numbers infest the streets and
parks of our cities is a most serious and
disturbing one. It is undoubtedly true that
in many places ﬂocks have reached un-
desirable proportions, making it almost
necessary to adopt measures to protect our
churches, public buildings and private resi-
dences from deﬁlement by these birds
which have long lived and thrived in
human companionship.

A highly interesting and valuable Bulle-
tin has been prepared by the Bureau of
Biological Survey which is available to
anyone upon application. It treats of the
origin and status of these historic birds
and offers suggestions as to their control
and the prevention of damage by them.
The following quotations are from the
Bulletin:

“It is evident that the urban pigeon
will continue to be a close associate of man
and his works for years to come. Reasons
for this are not hard to ﬁnd. Observe the
food being offered by kind—hearted indi-
viduals on snOWy winter days or by inter-
ested children on sunny mornings, and Ob—
serve also that other essentials for avian
existence, as shelter and places to breed,
are abundant. These factors and a sympa—
thetic or at least tolerant attitude towards
the birds by a large part of the populace
assure them a continuing livelihood.

“The factors that favor their existence
and increase their abundance, however,

Page 9

also aggravate certain problems connected
with their presence under modern metro-
politan conditions. Those who daily have
had to contend with the litter and disturb-
ance of large numbers of roosting or nest-
ing pigeons—including custodians of public
buildings, dwellers in apartment houses,
and even private-home owners have at times
been called upon in self-defense to take
action to curb their numbers. Under such
conditions, the pleasure and fascination of
one individual may become the bane of .
another.”

Suggestions for the control of objection-
able ﬂocks and means for the prevention of
damage by them are offered as follows:

“Church towers, lofts, and belfries can

be screened with rust-proof wire. Indi-
vidual crannies used as nesting sites can
often be blocked so as to prevent the en-
trance of birds. Although the cost of
screening may at ﬁrst seem excessive, the
results are practically permanent. . . .
Where many birds are involved, the city
ﬁre department may be induced to co-
operate. Turning a stream of water from
a ﬁre hose on the roosts for several suc-
cessive nights may lead the birds to decide
that conditions are not to their liking.
. . . Pigeons may be readily trapped when
food is not overly abundant. Objectionable
small groups of these birds can soon be
removed with a little ingenuity, patience
and time. For such operations a trap of
the “ash-Sifter” type, 4 or 5 feet square
and with a frame about 6 inches deep, will
sufﬁce. Such a frame, with 1—inch poultry
wire forming the “Sieve,” Should be propped
up on one edge by a stick 10 to 12 inches
long to which a pullcord is attached.”

Shooting, poisoning, and gassing are not
recommended for the general public. Such
methods should be employed only by ex—
perts and under legal sanction of police or
other municipal authority.

Once More, Mr. Burgess

For the last three years, on Humane
Sunday, the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has
presented, in the lecture hall of the Boston
Public Library, the popular writer and
lecturer, Mr. Thornton W. Burgess. Always
the hall has been ﬁlled with eager audi—
ences, composed of young and Old, and not
yet have they been disappointed or failed
to Show enthusiastic interest in the pictures
and stories of animals presented by this
master of animal lore. Again this year the
Society has asked Mr. Burgess to give an-
other of his delightful talks, “Friendly
Folk Who Run and Fly.” Of course there
will be slides and movies. The date is
Humane Sunday, April 14, 1940. The hour,
3:30 PM. (Doors open at 2 PM.) The
place, the lecture hall of the Boston Public
Library, Copley Square. Admission, free
to all.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angel] Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Treasurer.

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Winter Comedy

ALVIN M. PETERSON

Page 28
Our Winter Stand-bys

NIXON WATERMAN

Feb. 1940

 

 

Here’s a word for the bluebird, the robin,
the lark
And the rest of that eloquent throng
Which, when winter is gone with skies
frosty and dark,
In springtime, returns with its song.
But I’m certain the warmest of praise
which in words
We can truthfully oﬂer is due
To that bevy of brave, weather-challenging
birds
That is with us the long winter through.

There’s the chickadee,—what were the
winter without
That brave little blessing of light?
And the blue jays whose blue coats and wel-
coming shout
Put the gloom of old winter to flight?
And the woodpeckers, juncos, nuthatches
and crows,—
Though it’s too cold to ask them to sing,—
Cheer the winter till robins and larks and
all those

Summer songsters return in the Spring.

A Friend of Birds

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HT is a ﬁne thing to be able to inspire a
sense of comradeship and trust in those
around us. It is still ﬁner to inspire this
same feeling of companionship and faith
in the dumb creatures of Nature.

In this respect an interesting story is
told about the late Lord Grey of England.
Upon retiring to the quiet of his country
home at Falloden, Lord Grey’s chief joy in
life was a deep concern for the birds of the
ﬁelds and woods. .

Forty years ago he established here a
refuge for wild fowl. It is said that he
knew every one of his ducks by sight as he
walked around the ponds. It would seem
that the ducks all knew him, too, for they
splashed across the water and waddled up
the duckbpards to meet him morning and
night. Some even perched on his shoulders
while he fed them.

He himself declared that the ducks did
not really know him. It was simply that
they recognized in him someone they could
trust; someone who would do them no
harm. And yet, strangely enough, they
would not approach anyone else with the
same freedom as they did their friend.

To this refuge at Falloden came the birds
of the ﬁeld and the woodland. Here they
came to feed and build their nests. They
also seemed to sense that here was a man
they could trust at all times. A man at
whose footsteps they need not spread their
wings in hurried ﬂight.

During his last summer at Falloden,
Lord Grey spent much of his time walking
around his ponds and in the ﬁelds. His
eyes grew dim, but he could still listen
eagerly to all the familiar sounds of the
birds. The songs of the robin, the thrush,
the skylark and all the rest were old fa-
miliar tunes to him. ,

His very last request «was that his win-
dows should be kept wide open, day and

night, that he might hear the cheery songs
of his feathered friends.

AVE you a food tray and do you feed

the birds in winter? If so, you have

noticed certain characteristics of your
bird neighbors; how they always are on
guard, eating a bite and looking to make
sure no lurking enemies are near; how they
wage war upon one another, driving birds
of the same species away as well as any
others that come along; how thrifty some
are, carrying off and hiding food for future
needs; and that they mind the cold, being
sluggish on the colder days.

Birds eat in turn, the ﬁrst at

One day the male cardinal was perching
in the grape vine and acting as if he were
waiting for me to throw some corn out—
side. This I did, directly beneath the win-
dow so I could see what happened. I had

hardly regained my station near the win-
dow before he came; at once being joined
by a couple of sparrows. He tested the ker-
nels in some way, picking them up and re-
jecting some but eating others. He pressed
upon the kernels, worked his bill slightly
as if chewing, and gradually reduced them

 

the tray being the ﬁrst served,
though the ﬁrst often is driven
off by a larger bird of another
species. You will sometimes ﬁnd
two birds of the same species
eating at once, one on one side,
the other opposite, usually as far
apart as possible. Let one leave
his place and the other darts,
forcing him to keep his distance.
However, birds, are not cruel and
rough, making harmless darts,
gentle hints that things do not
exactly suit them.

We fed scores of tree sparrows,
some juncos, a pair of cardinals,
and more than thirty bob whites
from a bare spot in the yard the
winter of 1937-38, offering our
guests corn, screenings, crumbs,
and table scraps. The blue jays,
cardinals, and bob whites liked
the corn best, but the tree spar—
rows and juncos preferred the
screenings.

One day I scattered some shriv-
eled cranberries about the bare spot to see
whether the birds would eat them or not.
The ﬁrst birds to come were the jays, the
pretty birds eating much corn but disdain-
ing the berries. Next came the cardinals,
and they, too, ate corn but did not so much
as look at the fruit.

The blue jays carried the corn away so
fast I was obliged to throw it into the snow
at the edge of the cleared patch to keep
them from getting it all and robbing the
bob whites of their share. The bob whites
ran about the bare spot as soon as they
arrived, then began to scratch at the edge
of the snow and found one kernel after
another. Seeing the bob whites feeding, the
jays also came to make sure they did not
miss anything. The bob whites were boss,
however, forcing the jays to keep their dis-
tance, running towards them, ﬂuﬁ'ing out
their feathers, and driving them off a short
distance. The cardinals and English spar-
rows also came, though the cardinals usu-
ally waited at a distance until the jays and
bob whites had departed.

Sometimes the cardinals were the ﬁrst
to come, closely followed by two or three
English sparrows. The cardinals picked
kernels from the ground, held them in their
bills, and seemed to press upon them. Some-
how the pressure they exerted seemed hope-
lessly inadequate, and I thought they must
gradually reduce the kernel to pulp and
then eat it. However, by watching them
closely, I learned this was not true.

 

 

 

 

 

 

to bits, crumbs falling to the snow from
the sides of his beak meanwhile. Finally,
he had the kernel reduced to the proper
size and swallowed it, then picked up the
fallen crumbs.

The shrewd English sparrows knew how
to get an easy meal. A kernel of corn is too
large for them, at least unless it is very
small, so they hopped about the cardinal,
often within six or eight inches of him,
waited for the crumbs to fall, then closed
in and secured them, keeping the snow
clean and forcing the larger bird to be
content with what he could keep in his
beak. Sometimes ,the cardinal would stop
eating, hop towards the sparrows, and
drive them off a foot or two, but the rascals
came right back, ready to grab the next
morsel that fell. Thus things dragged along
for several days, the sparrows getting
bolder and following the cardinal every-
where. Eventually, some of the sparrows
got so bold they took crumbs from the sides
of the cardinal’s beak, not waiting for them
to fall to the ground.

It is such little incidents that make the
feeding of birds in winter such an inter-
esting and instructive undertaking. How
much one can learn about the characters
and dispositions of birds by watching them
closely, for some are bold, others timid,
some sly, others gentle and easily imposed
upon.

 




 

 

 

 

_ LLW-

”3—-.5da‘1—7u ’ »‘ '

.Pageé?
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO'WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JANUARY, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The English Animal

Societies

HE humane societies of England are
facing a very serious problem about
which we know nothing in this country.
Multitudes of people, facing the possible
horrors and destructions of war, have felt
unable to keep their family pets, particu-
larly dogs and cats, and a large number of
these have been destroyed. Even many
breeders of dogs have reduced the number
in their kennels by giving them away, if
they could ﬁnd proper homes for them, to
save expense. Humane societies have ﬁ-
nally become unable to respond to calls to
take animals away and put them humanely
to sleep. They are doing everything in
their power, however, to provide a painless
death for those that are brought either to
their clinics or to their inspectors.
Heretofore we have thought of war as
bringing suffering and death chieﬂy to
horses and mules, but this present war-
scare has struck close into many a home
where some favorite animal has had to be
given up.

A Prayer

THOU God of tender love for all that

Thou hast created, and hast made them
sensitive to fear and pain as humankind,
wilt Thou so control all circumstances so
that radio, ﬁlm, story, platform and pulpit
may play a greater part in softening the
hearts of those responsible for any needless
cruelty to Thy birds and animals: and
enlighten the Governments of the responsi-
bility they should assume in bringing about
a juster and more humane treatment, and
be pleased to bless all persons and societies
who, in any way, seek to bring about a
happier living for all Thy helpless crea-
tures. Grant them wisdom with endurance
and ﬁnancial aid required to prosper their
undertakings.

And we pray that Thou, who art inter-
ested even in the sparrow, wilt bring it to
pass that all mothers, teachers, and such as
oversee children instil into their small
minds a love for and knowledge of the
right, fair treatment not only of their pets
but of all animals. Amen.

C)L7It l)l]ﬂll? zl]V.Iﬂl.AILS

The Jew as Patriot and
Soldier

HAT the Hebrew race, through the

greater part of its long history, has been
seeking peace and not war will not be dis-
puted. During the great World War there
were 250,000 Jews in the armed forces of
the nation—that is, nearly ﬁve per cent of
the total number of men under arms in the
United States; whereas the Jews consti-
tuted then only three per cent of the popu-
lation. Major General Clarence R. Edwards
said, “I want to tell you that the Jews
made an enviable record. I remember in-
stances where formerly intolerant Gentiles
asked that the Jews be made ofﬁcers in
order that they might be leaders. Forty
per cent of the eulogized “Lost Battalion”
consisted of Jews. Of the 42,000,000 of the
Allied forces in the World War, 1,055,600
were Jews.

In the Civil War in this country, some
10,000 Jews fought on both sides of the
conﬂict. Among these were nine generals,
eighteen colonels, forty majors and two
hundred captains.

In the German army during the Great
War every sixth Jew was enlisted, 12,000
gave their lives, 37,000 received decorations.

Slaughter-House Reform

Among the very active humane workers
in Chicago is Mrs. E. C. Dow, president of
the Chicago Humane Education Society,
Inc. Mrs. Dow is a member of the Chicago
and Cook County Federation of Women.
She has been unfailing in her efforts to
bring about humaner methods in the
slaughter of our food animals, and to inter—
est the Federation in this subject. This
organization of women numbers something
like sixty thousand. Of course, to arouse
the interest of such a large group of
potential meat buyers is a well worth-while
endeavor. Mrs. Dow’s correspondence with
the Institute of American Meat Packers
has brought a note from a professor in
Northwestern University Medical School to
the effect that investigations are being
made, at the expense of the Institute of
American Meat Packers, to discover why
the electric method of stunning by causing
certain lesions in the carcass seriously
affects the value of the meat.

In certain foreign 'countries where this
electric method is used, it is claimed that
far less trouble is caused than is the case
here.

Cruelty to a Goldfish

A man has been ﬁned in England for
cruelty to a goldﬁsh. The man went away
for a week’s holiday and forgot all about
the ﬁsh. The Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals inspector
saw the goldﬁsh lying in the bottom of a
pool of stagnant water. He forced a win-
dow, entered the house, gave the ﬁsh food
and fresh water. A magistrate ordered the
conﬁscation of the ﬁsh, and the defendant
was ﬁned, also, ﬁve shillings for cruelty
to three canaries that had been left to die
of starvation.

Jan.1940

The Destruction of the
Buffalo

ANY have been disturbed by the

newspaper reports relative to the
slaughter of large numbers of buffalo in
Western Canada. The real facts are that
these great creatures that used to roam in
such hordes over the plains of this country
were years ago threatened with extinction
because of the ruthless methods by which
they were hunted down. To prevent this, a
certain number of them were transferred
to sections where they could sufﬁciently in-
crease in number to escape ultimate dis-
appearance. Today they have so multiplied
that it has become necessary, in Canada, at
least, to reduce the number, as proper care
can be given only to part of them. They
are put to sleep by trained riﬁemen who
know their business, and the hides and
meat obtained by competitive bidding are
carefully cared for and no unnecessary
suffering is caused.

We are indebted to the Toronto, Canada,
Humane Society for this information. The
destruction of the buffalo killed is all done
under Government supervision.

Alice Brady

Our Animals, the organ of the San Fran-
cisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, pays a beautiful tribute to
Alice Brady, whom it speaks of as one of
Hollywood’s kindliest hearts. She was
known far and wide as a great lover of
animals, and endeared herself to thousands
of people all over the United States. She
was opposed, the article says, to all forms
of cruelty, and once chased a truck driver,
who had struck a dog and failed to stop,
forcing him to the curb and then making
him take the animal to the hospital. Many
other tales, we are told, of her kindnesses
are known and often repeated. Alas, that
she might not have been spared to the
world for many years to come.

Coolidge’s Table Manners

A breakfast guest at the White House
during the Coolidge administration, was
astonished to see the President pour his
coﬁee from cup to saucer, says an Ex-
change. Not to be outdone, the guest fol-
lowed suit. The President added cream and
sugar in the saucer, and tasted the mixture
with his spoon. The guest was about to do
likewise when Mr. Coolidge set the saucer
on the ﬂoor for the dog.

Frederic J. Haskin says that although
there are now only about half as many
horses and mules as there are motor vehi-
cles in the United States, it is an interest-
ing thought for the city dweller who seldom
sees a horse that there still is a horse or
mule for every two families in the country.

Put up again thy sword into his place,
for all they that take the sword shall
perish‘ with the sword. Matthew 26:52

The last great war—1914-1918—ten mil-
lion soldiers killed, thirty million helP'
1essly wounded and maimed.

 




 

 

 

 

ﬁlay,1940
The Persian Cat

MURRAY SKINNER

I think she is a princess in disguise—

Her priceless robes of fur, her opaque eyes,

Her cool indiﬁerenCe and her haughty mien,

Her sudden gracious ways—this cat, I ween

Has seen strange sights in other, ancient
days;

Has held a royal court, known fulsome
praise.

She poses, struts and preens, grows much
distraught,

Seems lost in some deep maze of regal
thought—

Visions of prancing steeds, of coats of mail,

Of knights who venture for the Holy Grail,

0f jousts, with buvgles’ blare and challenge
ﬂuna

0f banquet halls with quaint, sweet ballads
sung

To harp or either, while the circling cup

Bids man and maid to laugh, to love, to sup

The wine of life e’er morning’s sudden rout

Wakes men to deeds of death midst clam-
orous shout,

And life grows dark, hopes die in one short
hour—

This cat, with eyes agleam and pupils slit,

How can she see so much, yet calmly sit

Content beside my. hearth-fire’s humble
glow,

And share my life that is so staid and slow?

Can one grow weary of so much of strife

And relish a more peaceful round of life?

The Face of His Cat

In a case concerning the disputed owner—
ship of a white Persian cat, named
“Snowy,” District Judge Woodley awarded
the animal to those claimants whose son
testiﬁed that he identiﬁed his lost pet “by
her face,” says an editorial in The Oregon-
ian, Portland, Oregon. There were other
evidences of ownership but the judge de-
clared that the testimony of the boy im-
pressed him most of all. Thus it was that
the possession of a face, a, countenance, by
a cat, as apart from other cats, received
judicial recognition.

Those who have cats for friends are well
aware that their cats have faces, in that
sense of evident personality we usually re-
serve for ourselves, and that the face of a
friendly cat, long tutored in affection, is as
mobile of feature and expression as that of
any dog. Sadness, mirth, affection, distrust,
adroitness and amiability somehow mani-
fest themselves so clearly that there can
be no mistake. The average of these is
character, as with us, and character is
written on the face of any intelligent cat
that has a home and friends. And char-
acter so written is the evidence of person-
ality. The face is more than the face of a
eat. It is the face of an individual pilgrim
in life.

Ours is a gift so precious, given to us
alone, that it is gravely to our shame we
sometimes abuse or neglect it. No animal
but man has the strange gift of awakening
something of spirituality in the counte-
nance of other animals, such as cats, and
dogs, and horses, so that these truly have
faces. No other one.

Clbllt .lebhlli zllV.lﬂd Allis

The Royal Siamese Cats

MYRTES-MARIE PLUMMER

AVE you heard the legend of how

these blue—eyed oriental beauties ac-

quired the slight knot that all have
near the end of their tails? The story goes
that a queen of ancient times was taking a
bath and had forgotten to remove her rings.
She called the Siamese cat, slipped the
rings over its tail and tied a'knot in it to
keep the rings from falling off. Ever since
the cats have had knots in their tails.

Another story is that a Buddhist priest
tied a knot in a cat’s tail to remind him of
something, and all the Siamese cats since
that day have carried on the knot idea.

The Sacred Siamese is the most intelli-
gent and affectionate of all cats. It can be
taught like a dog to do tricks, guard your
home and even walk from a leash. These
animals originally came from the royal city
of Bangkok, Siam, and were ﬁrst possessed
only by the Royal families, so they are
sometimes called “Palace Cats.”

The seal point Siamese has a cream-col-
ored body of short hair, with legs, tail and
ears a deep brown. The head is wedge—
shaped. There are more legends told of this
species of cat than about any animal that
I know of. The eyes are a beautiful sapphire
blue, which they are supposed to have
acquired on their way through heaven. The
eyes do not change as they get older, but
at night they look like balls of ﬁre. They
are truly orientals for their eyes slant
toward the nose.

GLENDA FARRELL AND HER TWO SIAMESE CATS,
“FRANKIE” AND “JOHNNIE”

 

There is a rare strain that has blue
markings instead of the chocolate brown,
but it is not common in this country..

You can recognize the cry of the Siam-
ese from that of any other cat as it is a
little weird, which becomes more so when
danger is near. They seem to have intuitive
powers and will warn you much the same
as a dog. They will remember your friends’
faces and are friendly to everyone.

The kittens are pure white at birth and
you may feel disappointed, thinking they
will never change. However, after a short
time dark smudges will begin to show up,
and soon the kittens will develop the same
markings as the parents. Their hind legs
are slightly longer than the front ones and
they have the grace of a panther in every
movement. They are great jumpers but
have a keen sense of balance.

Many of this breed are a bit squint-eyed.
The reason given for this is that once a cat
was set to watch over a dead king so long
that his eyes got tired and he squinted.

These cats are not afraid of anything,
and are excellent for catching rats. It is
claimed when two are eating from the same
dish, one will eat but half the food even
though he has had ﬁrst chance at it. When
there is a family, the kittens are allowed
to eat their ﬁll ﬁrst, next comes the mother
and the father takes what is left. I do not
know whether it would always work out
that way or not, but I do know that they
are polite, seeming never
to forget that they are
of royal blood.

The Siamese do not
like cold weather and
will select a protected
box for a bed whenever
possible. Often you will
ﬁnd one lying ﬂat on his
back with his p aws
curled up, but with one
spring he can be several
feet away.

His Royal Highness
always looks the cream
of perfection in his fawn-
colored coat, brown vel-
vet shoes, stockings and
ear-muffs. You cannot
argue him into anything
as he will have his way.
He enjoys sitting up in
an automobile and look-
ing out the window.

One cannot be lone-
some with a Royal Siam-
ese around, for he will
reply to everything you
say to him and seems to
know what it is all about.

It is said that the
camel is the only animal
that can not swim. Di-
rectly this valuable beast
of burden loses its foot-
ing when passing
through water, it turns
on its side, making no ef-
fort to escape drowning.

 

 




 

 

 

““' _,_. gs; I. 1.421%:..‘:_.¢,,~.‘.'_Li. vi."_‘.,";;...,.~7. a sure-.7 -

Page 10

GLORY TQ
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

,KaNDNEss, JUSTICE
‘ AND MERCY 'ro

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley. . . . ., ....... Italy

S. C. Batra ..................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR NOVEMBER, 1939

Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

1,367
Number of“ addresses made, 393
Number of persons in audiences, 88,816

For Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tlon to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for October —— 31 Days

 

Daily average large animals 51.4
Forage for same 3% 51.45
Put to sleep 23 4.90
Transportation 2.05
Daily average dogs 7.8
Forage for same 3.22
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 52.51
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 10.28
Motor ambulance upkeep 9.01
Motor bicycles upkeep 0.91
Sundries 34.27
Actual operating expenses $268.60

Entries: 6 horses, 17 mules, 79 donkeys.

Exits: 7 horses, 13 mules, 64 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 223 horses, 112 mules, 150
donkeys, 3 dogs.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Cases investi-
gated, 140; animals seen, 4,122; animals treated.
1,039; animals hospitalized by us from above, 62;
pack-saddles (infected) destroyed, 23; Arab bits
destroyed, 25; animals transported in ambulance, 1;
animals sent by Police Dept., 24.

One Day’s Work

THURSDAY, 26th. 8 am. Usual work. Engaged
for a few days a gardener to clean the land and
prepare ground for planting trees. 9 am. sent two
men to inspect native Fondouks of Fes Jedid, Souk
e1 Khemis and pack animals at Bab Mahrouk, bring—
ing in to Hospital 8 donkeys and 2 mules, destroying
2 infected pack-saddles and 7 Arab bits. One mule
and one donkey treated as outpatients. One mule
hospitalized with the help of the French police on
duty at Bou Jeloud. Owner sent to Pacha for ﬁne.
Bought two donkeys to put to sleep. Spent after—
noon on new land with the gardener and two of our
men, cleaning and gardening. Treated some out-
patients (one mule badly wounded at right hind leg).
Animals in Hospital, 70.

G. DELON, Superinten dent

A Fine Chance to Help

Again we wish to call attention to the
fact that one of our very faithful workers
in Texas, the Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, who
has been for many years doing a large
work among the colored school children of
that state, meeting many teachers and
other groups of inﬂuential leaders, is won—
dering if there is not someone among our
readers who would be glad to furnish a
moving-picture apparatus for his use.
There is no doubt that this would be of
very great value to him. The cost of such
a device would be in the neighborhood of
$250.

If any reader would like to help in this,
we should be glad to receive his gift. If a
sufﬁcient amount is not raised, the money

- would be returned.

A Consistent (P) Hunter

Mrs. M. W. Baldwin, executive secretary
of the Humane Society of Sioux City, Iowa,
tells this anecdote in the local newspaper:

A hunter on his way to shoot pheasants,
stopped at the shelter to leave a big maltese
cat that he carried in a grain sack. When
asked his reason for giving up such a ﬁne
cat, the hunter said, “Well, she’s a great
pet, but has the bad habit of killing birds,
so we don’t care to keep her.”

The cat was placed in a cage, and of
course could make no comment, but a Vis-

itor murmured, “O, consistency, thou art
a Jewel.”

Anger is like
A full-hot horse; who being allowed his
way,

Self-mettle tires him. SHAKESPEARE

Jan.1940

Animals in War-Time Eng-
land

CHRIS SEWELL

NE of the most heartbreaking by-

products of war is its effect upon the
lesser creation—more especially upon do-
mestic pets whose lines have been cast in
pleasant places, and to whom even a bat-
tering wind or heavy thunder is sheer
terror.

Early in September, when big air raids
over London seemed imminent, about 10,000
of these unfortunates were put to sleep,
because their devoted owners feared for
them torture or death.

Time has proved this to have been too
precipitate a move; though one can under-
stand the agony of devotion which prompted
it.

It will interest and cheer all readers of
this magazine to know that order and
method have succeeded the ﬁrst bewilder—
ment, and that inﬁnite thought has been
taken to ensure the minimum of pain for
such as cannot take thought for them-
selves.

The anguish of gassing has been for-
seen, and, just as in the case of men and
women, to a great measure guarded against.

Special kennels are spoken of in which
dogs may be put when a “warning” is
sounded. They are automatically ventilated
by a wheel which the animal.must turn
when it moves.

In some cases (one presumes only when
docile dogs are in question) a kind of gas
mask can be worn.

Numerous booklets and pamphlets on the
prevention of ﬁre have been issued to Brit—
ish householders, in which the right treat-
ment of the badly-wounded and so on is
given.

It is perhaps a typically English gesture
that the sub—humans have their own special
booklet entitled “Air-Raid Precaution for
Animals.”

Nor has the evacuation scheme been left
for children and invalids alone: the Duchess
of Hamilton (well known for her splendid
championship of bird and beast) has or-
ganized a scheme whereby household pets,
if their owners so wish, may be sent from
big towns into safety areas, and looked
after by kindly folk willing to give them
hospitality. . . .

And last, but perhaps most surprismg, 1s
this paragraph which appeared recently in
a daily paper (I cannot vouch for its accu-
racy but it is worth recording): “Evacu-
ated animals will be registered from their
billet. M ongrels and pedigreed animals will
be treated alike. All will be treated and
registered, from the address they slept at
the night before; ofﬁcers collect their forms.
Each animal will be issued with a num-
bered identity disk which it must wear.”

Imagine the enormity of the task.

Furthermore the National Canine De-
fence League is asking people to offer
refuge in their private air-raid shelters to
evacuated animals and their owners, who
may be in the streets when the sirens
sound.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 




 

 

 

 

Page 52

OUR DUMB

A Famous Lion Passes
MARY MCMILLAN

 

THE AUTHOR, “TAWNY” AND HIS CAT COMPANION

N the spring of 1918, I acquired the
HAfrican lion, “Tawny.” In an issue of
Our Dumb Animals, during that year, and
another during 1925, data was published
regarding my saving and rearing this little
dying cub, in order that there might be
living proof of the power of love, and a
challenge to those who used force and
cruelty in training wild animals.

During the early years of Tawny’s
domestication, I had a great deal of un-
avoidable publicity and, as a result, was
bombarded with requests from all points
of the compass, to answer questions about
the famous lion. This became too much of
a burden, physically and ﬁnancially, and
the obvious solution of the problem seemed
to be that I write an account of the color-
ful events that had occurred in the interim
of his growing from a helpless cub to al-
most full-grown maturity as a household
pet.

The early years of Tawny’s life were
spent in San Francisco, Calif., and during
the time I was writing this manuscript,
Mrs. Charmian London was a visitor at
my home. She was enchanted with the
adorable antics of the boisterously playful
Tawny, and was utterly fearless of him.
She very graciously expressed a willingness
to write a preface to the story when it was
ready for publication.

Unfortunately, before the course of many
days, my life :became so precarious, that
the manuscript had to be left unﬁnished,
and all my efforts were required in a
struggle for the very existence of myself
and Tawny. Days, months, then years
elapsed, with the struggle abating little—
and as the years piled up, so likewise did
the accumulated experiences which they
had brought; and I ﬁnally decided that I
would not take up the story until I had
said farewell to my beloved lion and could
literally write “The End,” to the story of
Tawny’s life.

Tawny began to fail last Spring. He
showed no signs of suffering and was per-
fectly content to lie on a deep, clean bed
of rice straw, in his screened and sunny
living quarters; resigning himself to my

care just as he did as a helpless little cub.
The great, gentle heart .beat on and on dur-
ing the months that followed—until he
passed quietly into his ﬁnal sleep, with my
arms around him, February 7 of this year.

Tawny was buried at the Los Angeles
Pet Cemetery, at Calabasas, Calif., about a
half hour drive from Hollywood. His ﬂower
covered box was accompanied there by a
group of friends who loved him, and who
accorded him the simple dignity he so richly
deserved. He lies on a sunny slope, over—
looking a host of loved pets who lie buried
there in the “Valley of Quiet.” He was
granted a truly royal space with the expec-
tation that a suitable memorial would be
erected there in the near future.

The Los Angeles Pet Cemetery attracts
thousands of visitors. Many are going
there now to see where Tawny lies buried,
and no doubt many more will journey
there in the months to come. So, I believe
that if a simple, digniﬁed memorial were
erected thereon, symbolic of the cause to
which his whole life was dedicated—it
would serve as an ever present and silent
reminder to all who visited this peaceful
spot amid the rolling hills of California.

Several volunteer offerings have already
been sent to me, and I have thought that
other animal lovers would favor this pro-
posed tribute; and that they might wish to
bear some part, however small of the cost
of this memorial, to the cause of humane
treatment of all our dumb animals.

Many letters of condolence and requests
for information are pouring in on me
again, so sometime in the near future I
hope to complete the writing of the life
story of Tawny.

JACK LONDON SAID:

“Let all humans inform themselves of
the inevitable and eternal cruelty by the
means of which only can animals be com-
pelled to perform before revenue-paying
audiences. Show the management that
such turns are unpopular, and in a day,
in an instant, the management will cease
catering such turns to its audiences.”

ANIMALS

Apr. 191,0

Judgment
GEO. C. ALBORN
What do they think concerning us, I
wonder——

These animals that we so much despise;
Whose names we use in slandering each
other,
Too careless how the epithet applies.

What do they think of all our cruel
dealings,
The way we hunt them, lash them, kill
and maim?
Grant that some animals are ﬁerce and
cruel,
Can we to nobler actions make good
claim?

Our brothers they, by every nerve and
muscle,
By every pulsing throb of joy or pain;
Why should we treat them‘as of alien
nature,
Exploiting them for our own selfish
gain?

The patient 096, and horse, the loyal canine,

With eyes of patient trust reproach our
deeds,

Our cruelty to them so grim and callous,

The product of our passions and ﬁerce
greeds.

“Timberline Guardians”

MOSELLE MARTIN

' ‘ HE two ﬁne St. Bernards on the front

l cover are “Breuhl” and “Lady.” They
have an air of Switzerland, but their home is
in Oregon. Perhaps their instinctive love of
snowy mountains and ice ﬁelds is satisﬁed
in their home at Timberline Lodge. Tim-
berline is Oregon’s new mile-high play-
ground on Mount Hood.

There are many thrilling stories in the
make-up of Timberline Lodge. It is built
entirely of Oregon products. Its decora-
tions and furnishings are all designed and
handmade by Oregon craftsmen. Its ar-
chitecture establishes a new type. Each of
these make an American saga.

But, beyond a doubt, Breuhl and Lady
are the special feature that attracts more
people. Visitors from all parts of the na-
tion lavish attention upon these “Timber-
line Guardians.” Breuhl is the ofﬁcial
greeter. This genial giant is everybody’s
friend. He is glad you came, and is ever
ready to extend his huge paw in welcome.
He will gladly accompany you on your
mountain jaunts, if invited. Posing for a
picture is always a pleasure to Breuhl. He
has had pictures made with numerous visit-
ing celebrities. His digniﬁed image must
adorn thousands of snap-shot books and
bring happy recollections to their pos-
sessors.

Lady is not so affable. She isn’t un-
friendly, but just indifferent to visitors.
She has a life of her own to lead, so she
just leaves this greeting business to
Breuhl; besides, he does it so well, no one
can hope to compete with him.

The Timberline Guardians have won a
secure place in the hearts of thousands, and
added much pleasure to an already pleas-
ant experience.

 




 

Feb. 19.40

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Winter Birds at Green Bay Sanctuary

EDWARD W.

STLUKA

 

HIS sanctuary covers 243 acres inside

the city limits of Green Bay. Started

as a project of the National Youth
Administration three years ago, it will be
another two and a half years before it is
completed. Still, the NYA has accomplished
much during those three years. An average
of ﬁfty youths have been regularly em-
ployed and have already built a 30-foot
bridge, a shelter house, and an ofﬁce, as
well as having planted every tree and shrub
common to Wisconsin.

The NYA youths even tackled and solved
the problem of keeping water open the
year round for the waterfowl. Pipes were
laid on the bottom of the largest of the

three lagoons and live steam turned into
them. Now the ducks, geese and swans
have a steam-heatedl pool in which to paddle
around no matter to what depths the mer-
cury sinks.

Mr. John H. Lasher, Wisconsin admin—
istrator for the NYA, has high regard for
the project. He says: “In addition to being
in accord with Wisconsin’s well recognized
conservation policies, this sanctuary gives
the youths working on it ﬁrst-hand infor-
mation on bird life and instills within them
a life-long love and understanding of na-
ture’s wild life.” Here, it appears, is one of
the most useful and satisfactory projects
now in operation.

 

Charles Dickens—Friend of Animals

ALETI—IA M. BONNER

HARLES DICKENS, whose one hun—

dred and twenty-eighth anniversary

we celebrate on the seventh of Febru-
ary, was a great lover of animals—a fact
that ﬁnds expression in all of his writings.
While kind treatment is not always given
his pets of ﬁction yet their various char-
acteristics are well portrayed.

Three impressive examples of the faith-
ful devotion of dogs are to be found in
“Jip,” the pampered pet of “David Cop—
perﬁeld’s” invalid wife, Dora; the ill-treated
white cur of the rufﬁan, Bill Sikes, of
“Oliver 'Twist” fame; and Dr. Blimber’s
gruff “Diogenes,” who though often “snap-
pish” to others, proved an affectionate
canine friend to Paul Dombey and his sister.

Turning from “Dombey and Son” to
“Bleak House,” one reads of a dingy-den
warehouse of the notorious Krooks, who
has for his pet “Lady Jane,” a large gray
cat, as canny as her miserly master.

Here, too, are to be found the larks, lin-
nets, and gold-ﬁnches—the captive birds of
the queer little Miss Flite, who liberated
her pets upon the settlement of the long-
drawn-out “J arndyce and J arndyce” case.

“Whiskers,” the fat but obstinate pony
of the Garlands, ever provokes a smile, as
he jogs along, at his own pace, through the
pages of “Old Curiosity Shop.” Again the
reader laughs, as he notes the amusing ex—

perience of four famous, but helpless gen-
tlemen, with two harmless, but headstrong
horses, in “Pickwick Papers.” The members
of the celebrated club-clan go to Manor
Farm, Dingley Dell, as is recalled, in a
small post—chaise, drawn by a large brown
horse.

As the story goes, at the last moment it
was found that only three of the portly
Pickwickians could squeeze into the chaise
(“a curious little green box on four
wheels”), so a tall animal was provided as
a saddle-horse for the fourth member of the
group, namely, Mr. Winkle; who proved to
be as inexperienced an equestrian as Mr.
Pickwick was a post-chaise driver!

Other episodes in which animals take
part in the tales of the English master of
the pen, may be itemized brieﬂy in certain
familiar sayings: such as —-“Janet, Don—
keysl,” this being Betsy Trotwood’s outcry
upon seeing donkey-boys, or other intrud—
ers, driving their animals over her small
lawn.

“The pigs is well, the cows is well, and
the boys is bobbish,” comes from the pen
of Mrs. Squeers, who writes her husband,
in “Nicholas Nickleby;” and in “Martin
Chuzzlewit,” the inimitable Sairey Gamp, in
a Violent outburst of feeling is often heard
to exclaim: “Lambs could not forgive, nor
worms forget”! Whatever that means.

Page 2.9

To the Sparrow
JOHN VILKAS

You cannot match the robin
When summer comes along,

Yet winter would be empty
Without your brisk, bright song.

Your wings hold naught of color
Which makes the oriole glow,

But courage lends you beauty
To shine against the snow.

Sometimes, when I feel lonely,
I listen as you sing:

And then the bare, bleak winter
Seems like another spring.

Airmail Before Airplanes
ROSE WHITNEY SMITH

VERYONE thinks the ﬁrst airmail

was carried by airplane, but really it
was ﬁrst carried by pigeons. And the ﬁrst
airmail was made possible entirely through
the use of pigeons.

For centuries pigeons have carried mes-
sages, but the ﬁrst ofﬁcially recognized
pigeon mail service was established ﬁfty
years ago between Auckland, New Zealand,
and Great Barrier Island, sixty miles north.

At that time the only means of communi-
cation between the bleak and almost in-
accessible island and the mainland, was by
a weekly steamer. In case of emergency of
any kind, this was a bad situation.

On the island there lived a man deeply
interested in pigeons. He believed they
could be trained to carry letters and de-
cided to start training some of his own
birds. He built their home loft in Auckland,
and had a crate of pigeons shipped back to
the island each week, which he kept in a
temporary loft, liberating one at a time as
needed. When a bird carrying mail reached
the Auckland loft, he entered through a
trap which rang a bell as the trap door
fell and conﬁned him in a small ante—loft
until an attendant came and removed the
letter and placed him with his mates.

Messages were written on thin tough
paper, sealed and stamped with a pigeon-
stamp, then wrapped about the bird’s leg.
Leggings protected the letters from weather
and the bird’s picking.

In the beginning, each message cost ﬁfty
cents, but three years later,‘when pigeon-
mail service was established on regular
schedule, and each bird could carry four
letters at a time, the cost was reduced to
twelve cents from the island to Auckland,
and twenty-ﬁve cents for the rougher re-
turn journey.

Later, pigeongram service was regularly
established and operated by two different
companies between Auckland on the main-
land, and three principal ports on Great
Barrier Island and Port Charles on the
Coromandel Peninsula. Different kinds of
pigeon stamps were used, forgeries of the
ﬁrst issue of which are known to exist.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 19.40

Sap-Camp Refuge
MINA M. TITUS

Along its mossy ridgepole squirrels running
With nut-ﬁlled cheeks to cache their
winter’s store.
A speckled brood of partridge babies
sunning
Beside the earthy threshold of its door.
A spotted fawn, concealed with artful

cunning,
Sleeps, unafraid, upon the leaf-strewn
floor.
0, let no man, for sport with thoughts of
gunning, -

This camp explore.

0n web-hung rafters woodland doves are
resting.
Along the beams chase tiny mice at play.
Through rustling leaves a rabbit’s paws
come questing.
A white-tailed deer leaps out where
branches sway.
Low overhead gray geese fly south for

nesting.
Wild ducks down on the marsh tonight
will stay.
Thou God of helpless things, hear my
requesting——

Keep man away.

The Deer Among the Cattle
HENRY H. GRAHAM

NIMALS sometimes choose strange
friends.

Last October W. W. Kelley, foreman of
the Thousand Springs cattle ranch of Mrs.
Minnie Miller, in southern Idaho, saw a
strange animal grazing with the herds of
blooded stock on the place. Interested at
once, he moved closer for investigation. He
could hardly believe what he saw. For
there, feeding contentedly on the lush grass
in the pasture and seemingly paying no
attention to his comrades was a two-point,
white-tail buck deer, a beautiful creature.

Mr. Kelley wondered whence the deer
had come. The answer came when he saw
the deer vanish one day into a near-by box
canyon. It was the ﬁrst he knew that any
wild deer lived in the vicinity.

Day after day the lovely deer came to
feed with the cattle in the deep canyon
pasture, ﬁnally becoming so tame that visi-
tors could approach within ﬁfty feet of the
animal if they were cautious. Anyhow, Mr.
White Tail used good judgment in his
choice of friends for the blooded stock
found on the Miller ranch is nationally-
known. Their ancestors were imported to
this country from the isle of Guernsey;
they give good rich milk and are the pride
of their owner.

Not content with grazing on the green
grass found in this beautiful valley of the
Snake river, the deer helps himself to the
cured hay on the ranch and even has access
to the salt block in the pasture. Everyone
on the ranch loves him and he is free to
come and go whenever he chooses. Kind
treatment has dissipated his early fears of
human beings and he grows tamer every
day, proving that wild animals do respond
to acts of kindness.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Last of the Longhorns

LUDWIG CAMINITA, Jr.

 

Texas longhorn cattle in existence,

though in the days preceding the Civil
War these cattle ranged from the Gulf of
Mexico to the Canadian border. The larg-
est herd of these picturesque plains’ ani-
mals is at the Wichita Mountains Wildlife
Refuge, near Cache, Okla., where 145 long-
horns roam the lush pastures of the Bu-
reau of Biological Survey sanctuary. Eight-
een of the animals are on the Fort Nio—
brara Game Preserve, near Moiese, Mont.,
and the others are in private ownership.

The story of the longhorn was recalled
once more when word was recently received
that “Buttercup,” a 20—year-old cow,
mother of 12 members of the present Wich-
ita herd, went to the Valhalla where all
longhorns go. Lone survivor of the original
Texas longhorns brought to the Wichita
Refuge in August, 1927, is “Old Red,” a
gaunt, feeble cow more than 20 years old.

“Old Red” is the last of 30 longhorns
brought to the area when it was admin-
istered by the Forest Service. John Hatton,
of the Forest Service, and the late Will
Barnes, one-time cowman, author and pub-
lic ofﬁcial, traveled more than 5,000 miles
and examined more than 30,000 head of
Texas cattle before they collected a herd
of suitable specimens of the longhorn type.

Longhorns are hardy, active animals
with sharp-pointed horns and an aggres-
sive disposition. Their color ranges from
black, brindle, dun, spotted, buckskin, roan,
red, and white to various combinations of
these colors. Coarse hairs about the fore-
head and in the ears, and a ﬁsh-shaped
prominence of the bone along the top of
the rump, just back of a line across the hip
bones, are special characteristics.

A longhorn usually reaches maturity in
two or three years and may keep growing
until seven or eight years old. As long as
the animal grows, the horns continue grow-
ing. On record are horns that spread six,
seven, and even eight feet from tip to tip.

T ODAY there are only about 250 real

Photo from U. S. Bureau of Biological Survey

LONGHORN CATTLE ON WICHITA MTS. WILDLIFE REFUGE, OKLA.

Old-timers who recall the days of the
Chisholm trail, the Goodnight Ranch, and
the longhorn roundups of the old South-
west, remember when great herds were
driven many miles to railroad terminals
for shipment to the East. The longhorn
was king of the plains—pushing back the
buffalo and the Indian.

From 1521, when the ﬁrst cattle were
brought to American shores by Gregorio
Villalobos, until after the Civil War, the
longhorn reigned on the Texas ranches.
Then the breed began to disappear as
Hindu, or Brahma, cattle were introduced
and crossed with the longhorns because
Brahma were resistant to mosquitoes, ﬂies,
and the dread Texas-fever tick.

Now only some 250 longhorns are left.
“Old Red,” a reminder of a great era in
American history, waits for the ﬁnal mo—
ment—not on a ranch bustling with activ-
ity but on a quiet refuge of the Biological
Survey. Though her descendants may never
rule the plains again, at least they will be
maintained for future generations to see
and remember.

Medals Awarded

During February the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. awarded medals to two young men,
Rolland Couture and John Siedel, for their
humane and heroic efforts in rescuing a
160-lb St. Bernard dog from the icy waters
of Chicopee River. It was a very difﬁcult
and dangerous feat, heroically performed.
A silver medal was attached to the collar
of a cocker spaniel in Stockbridge, whose
furious barking aroused the household
when a ﬁre had started. The dog’s vigilance
prevented possible loss of life and great
damage to the home of Mr. Harold French.

A medal was also presented to Vincent
C. McLaughlin of Jamaica Plain, Mass.,
who risked his life in saving that of a
puppy which was not his own.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1940
A Defense of the Skunk

From a Letter in the Louisville
C ourier-J ournal

T last the once-despised skunk is com-

ing into his own. Farm journals and
secular magazines alike carry articles
praising him as the Great American Insect
Eater, destroyer of harmful insects nine
months in the year, and of small rodents
the other three.

He is the only creature who can smell a
grub down in the ground, and dig it up
before it can change and come up to breed
and multiply maybe 1000-fold. Though birds
are highly valuable insect eaters, they
catch these only after they are up and have
possibly already laid their eggs.

The skunk is the chief enemy of the
army worm, that pest that lays bare Whole
ﬁelds of small grains, corn and grasses.

In an eight—acre ﬁeld recently examined
by biologists in Manitoba, Canada, skunks
were found to be destroying 14,200 white
grubs to the acre. As every farmer knows,
the white grub lives as long as three years
underground, voraciously devouring the
roots of grasses, grains, legumes, straw—
berries and the tubers of potatoes. It will
leave large patches of pasture bare.

To the skunk the tobacco worm is a de-
licious morsel. He is the only creature that
will eat it except the turkey, which is not
often available. In the late spring and
early summer he catches the tobacco worm
moth when it comes up to lay its eggs;
when the worms appear upon the leaves he
and his wife and family( for he has a ﬁne
family by then) march up and down the
rows picking the worms off the leaves just
as high up as their arms can reach. And
after the worm goes down in the ground
they continue to dig it, in its pupae stage,
until a hard freeze comes.

The hop-growers of New York State
found out as far back as in the nineties the
value of the skunk against the hop—worm,
and had it protected by law. It also eats
large numbers of cutworms and other
harmful grubs, and catches quantities of
locusts, grasshoppers, caterpillars, May
beetles, June bugs, crickets, sphynx moths,
and, last but not least, the potato bug,
hated by other creatures.

The skunk is not and never was a pole—
cat. The early settlers had never seen any-
thing like him, but had smelled something
like him, and for this sole reason named
him for the European polecat or ﬁtchet-
weasel, a vicious little beast that lives upon
poultry and birds. But the skunk’s natural
food is not poultry and birds. He is too
heavy and clumsy to climb to a roost or
tree, and must get all his food from the
ground. When found in a henhouse, say
the biologists, he is there to ﬁnish up the
kill of some other animal, usually a rat,
having smelled the fresh blood and come in.

In rare instances, after such a taste of
chicken meat, he becomes demoralized and
will thereafter chase chickens in broad day—
light, in which case he should be shot. But
this happens to probably not more than one
skunk in 50. In a recent examination of
1,700 skunk stomachs and viscera at the
University of Michigan, during a period of
two years, it was found that the combined
yearly ration of all these skunks contained

, a. <*

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

but 2 per cent of birds
and poultry, and in all
the lot there was not a
trace of a game bird’s
egg.

Under the barn in win-
ter a pair of skunks will
keep the premises clear
of rats and mice, and will
never throw their scent
unless attacked by dogs
or other foes. The skunk
is the gentlest and friend—
liest of wild creatures,
and loves the neighbor-
hood of men.

Is it sensible or just to
permit the skunks on your
land to be cruelly taken
and tortured in the steel
trap when they are serv-
ing you as no other living
creature is, and when
their pelts will bring only
40 to 50 cents, whereas,
living, they are worth at
least ten times that much
to you?

Kentucky farmers
should not only forbid all
trapping of skunks on
their land, they should do

 

I think I could turn and live with animals, they are so
placid and self-contain’d,
I stand and look at them long and long.

WALT WHITMAN

 

as the hop-growers of

New York did—have the skunk taken from
the fur list, and put on the farm protec-
tive list, along with the birds.

A Beautiful Summer Bird

WILLIS MEHANNA

DOUBT if there is a bird in any clime

that is more beautiful than the scarlet
tanager. He comes north sometime in May
and nests pretty much over the eastern half
of the United States and on into eastern
Canada. He does not care for human com—
pany for he makes his summer home in the
deep recesses of the forest and builds his
nest on the horizontal branch of some
sturdy oak tree. The nest is a frail-looking
structure but it stays. The eggs are four
or ﬁve in number, dark blue, spotted with
purple. The mother tanager shows great
devotion to her young and carefully guards
them. Even the male helps in their care,
often catching insects and feeding them to
the little ones.

In creating the scarlet tanager Nature
recognized the harmony of colors as well
as popular styles, for the male is a glowing
red with black wings and tail. The female
is less conspicuous, having clear olive green
above, greenish yellow below, with both
wings and tail dusky, glossed with green.
The tanagers feed on the insects found in
the forests where they roam.

On account of the great range of his
habitat and people’s awakened sense of the
beautiful, the scarlet tanager should con—
tinue to be with us.

Mr. C. Russell Mason, for the last three
years president of the Florida Audubon
Society, has been elected secretary-treas—
urer of the Massachusetts Audubon Society,
to succeed Mr. Carl W. Buchheister. Mr.
Buchheister has become assistant executive
director of the National Association of Au-
dubon Societies in New York City.

The End of the Hunt

ALOYSIUS COLL

When ﬁrst I saw you bending down a
spangled laurel plume
My silk was in the riffle and a trout had
struck the hook;
But all my wit turned wonder at your face
above the bloom——
The trout, a leaping rainbow, flashed to
freedom in the brook!

Your hair the tinted rainbow of my quarry
in the water,
Your eyes the eyes I saw when once a
silver-throated deer
Had turned her eyes upon me where I
wounded her and caught her,
And slew her in the sweetness of her
melting gaze of fear.

So, reeling in the feathered barb, I hid it
in my dream!
I loosed the catch of graylings from the
willow in their gills;
And, begging absolution of your shadow on
the stream,
Took up my gun and tackle and went
home across the hills.

0 still I hear the whirr of wings, the
drumming of the pheasant;
And still the thicket rustles with the
silver—throated deer;
And April waters leaping to a fancy that
is pleasant
Keep calling to the hunger of my hand
and eye and ear;

But though I whip the waters by the laurel
where you stood,
No more I strike the hackle home to barb
the bleeding gill;
And though my booming powders flush the
pheasant and her brood,
Your hand is on the trigger—and I
cannot shoot to kill!

 




 

 

Page 12

Man and Dog

HARRY ELMORE HURD

The world in which my hound-dog lives
Is hardly wider than my hand:

A gentle word, a gesture, gives
Him passport to the rabbitland
That lies beyond the pasture wall.

It is a fearful fact to be
A despot at whose beck and call
A will must turn, obediently,
As though the speaker were all—wise.

My heart is humbled by the sight

0f worship in my greyhound’s eyes:
He ﬁnds life’s reason and delight

In comradeship and warmth and meat
And then to stretch upon the floor

In troubled slumber at my feet.

It is an awesome thing to be,
To him, so like a deity.

Picture Pets
MARIE WAGNER

HERE is one thing that no one has
Tever done,” murmured the blond young
man jokingly, “and that is to draw two
things at once!”

The little group around the hearth stir-
red, for so far the conversation had been a
serious discussion of art. Then, from the
corner, came a cheerful voice.

“Oh, I can do that!”

“You, Landseer?” The blond man looked
half amazed, half amused. “Oh, come now!
You are an artist, not a trickster!”

“Lend me two pencils and I will show
you,” Landseer insisted.

The assembly closed around the young
artist curiously as he placed the large sheet
of paper on the table before him. They
watched eagerly as he took up the two
pencils, one in each hand. And presently,
their expressions of doubt changed to de-
light and surprise.

Before their eyes, a deer’s proﬁle, antlers
included, crept into view on the left side of
the page. Simultaneously, appeared the
head of a horse done by the other hand on
the right side of the page. There was no
uncertainty in the artist’s movements. With
perfect conﬁdence, the pencil outlined the
forms, shaded them. Soon they were com-
pleted. More remarkable—the drawing
made by the left hand was fully as ﬁnished,
as masterly, as that made by the right!

A little parlor game, perhaps, of no con--
sequence. Yet how many artists could have
performed it? It was an example of Edwin
Landseer’s control of his pencil, his extra-
ordinary knowledge of his art. He was an
animal lover, so he drew animals. But he
knew his subject so well that he could draw
two at once!

But painting with two hands was not
Landseer’s only ability. He worked also
with extreme rapidity, a strange thing,
since his animal characters were always
arrestingly portrayed. Once he did a group
of rabbits in only forty—ﬁve minutes!

He loved animals, and wanted to put
them on canvas so that all the world might
love them. Therefore, he studied his mod—
els—not only in the ﬁelds, but in the lab-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

oratory. He learned
their anatomy. He
watched their reac—
tions. He credited them
with intelligence and
affection almost human.
As a result, we have
such pictures as “The
Highland Shepherd’s
Chief Mourner.”

This picture is sim-
plicity itself—yet what
simplicity! The High-
land Shepherd is dead,
and in his cold, rustic
room, his dog keeps
guard over his cofﬁn.
There have been few
such touching and
beautiful paintings of
dogs. Here is one to
move the heart of all
true dog-lovers. Such
silent tragedy, such
rigid woe, too deep for
tears! The spirit of the
dog seems dead with
his master. For Land—
seer sympathizes with
his animals, and makes
us through the skill of
his brush, sympathize

Jan.1940

 

A FEARLESS BUT TRACTABLE BOXER

 

also.

More famous is Landseer for his pictures
of deer. Into such paintings as “The Sanc-
tuary” and “The Challenge” have crept his
deep understanding of this free, wild ani-
mal, timid yet haughty, at its best in soli-
tary majestic surroundings. In these two
pictures there are mountain ranges in the
background, aloof and strong. In the fore-
ground are the deer, timid and somehow
fragile. Yet the mighty mountains are not
more aloof or proud than the delicate
animals.

Landseer began his training when he was
barely ﬁve. He took long walks in the open
ﬁelds with his father, when he was still
so small that he could not climb the stiles
over the fences, but had to be lifted over
them. Yet even at this early age, he
sketched the dogs, horses, cows, sheep that
he saw, and his father corrected his mis—
takes. At thirteen he had painted a St.
Bernard dog so masterly that one writer
called it “one of the ﬁnest drawings of a
dog that has ever been produced!”

Landseer’s animals were :so realistically
done that they were used widely as illus—
trations for children’s books. His name
became a common English household word.
He opened the ﬁeld of animal painting to
the English world, and set a high standard
of work, based on actual experience.

As a result, there have been few paint-
ers so popular or well—loved. He put his
pets on canvas, and they are now the pic—
ture pets of the world.

The most loyal thing in the world is
your dog. Whether you come home from
Congress or from jail, whether you have lost
your fortune or made a million, whether you
return dressed in fashion’s height or in
rags, whether you have been hailed hero or
condemned as criminal, your dog is waiting
for you with a welcoming bark of delight,
a wagging tail and a heart that knows no
guile.

WILL JUDY

A Canine Friendship

PETER BOGGS in Quincy Patriot Ledger

FEW years ago, “Fluffy,” a Pomer-

anian owned by Alfred Briggs of New
Salem, Mass., disappeared. The dog had
wandered away from home before but
always he had returned within a few hours.
When two days had passed without Fluffy,
Mr. Briggs decided that the dog had been
stolen. Two weeks later, three boys, who
lived in a near-by farmhouse, were sur-
prised at the actions of a neighbor’s hound
dog who persistently barked at them each
day as they returned from school.

The dog knew the children well and had
played with them since puppyhood. One
afternoon the boys noticed that the hound
not only was barking at them, but seemed
to be trying to lead them into the woods.

Leaving their schoolbooks on the road,
the youngsters followed the hound. After
walking for almost a mile, the boys came
upon a sad sight. There in the deep woods
was Fluffy, the lost Pomeranian, with one
foot caught in a steel trap. The boys re-
leased the dog and carried him to the
Briggs’ home. The dog was in a pitiful con-
dition, unable to stand, but under expert
care he recovered, though his leg had to be
amputated.

How did the dog live for two weeks in
that trap? Slowly certain events of the
past two weeks were clariﬁed to those inter-
ested in the case. It was remembered that
the hound dog had. been seen, on numerous
occasions, going into the woods with good-
sized bones in his mouth. At the time, the
conclusion was that he was burying them
for future use. But they were found, with
other particles of food, around the trap
where Fluffy had been imprisoned. The
hound had discovered Fluﬁy’s plight and
had each day brought it something to eat
and ﬁnally had succeeded in bringing
human aid.

 




*H ‘..,.
.. L-Iw‘ *-.
'T' ‘,v .J'u. ’ ..
J “g... 1’
4 . 3‘“ _:’"t‘:,,.,

572.2513-A'rw l’ 16'! i":
.2; , -. ,

u'l‘j ’

'.'7“’r',

‘Fl‘ﬁ"f 5’

. . l

H:"7"*-: ".13; ’3‘
’ .1'0' ._ ,- .

I
-l , ,‘z.

. 1,1215
1 ‘ :1 (I

’3fo

wwewzut-zhwtﬁm
.‘3‘..(,..‘-,..».- ‘ _ . . _ .1
1%....“7 _ '.

3.5m»)

.
'2.

(-9
0w

4 ; iuL , "5"yr-av’ ‘
I 4‘?) f- -k}"" C’
. .
7:. (and: "‘1‘; 4

I.

 

 

 

I- "v
" I
S.

J. ,-

I‘» 'I

”ﬁx. I
IKE \‘m. 7. r‘ _ ’\ ‘ '3“ ‘Cl

. -‘m&I‘:‘: .‘l'
\ , c " .I

f

 

Page ’78
Tithe Zﬁanh of mercy

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

he American Humane Education Society will send
torivery person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-oﬂice address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, spec1a1 Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pre51dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One thousand, one hundred and ﬁfty new
Bands of Mercy were organized during
March. Of these, 504 were in Illinois, 368
in Rhode Island, 78 in Massachusetts, 56
in Florida, 47 in Georgia, 37 in South Caro-
lina, 31 in Virginia, 26 in Pennsylvania and
three in India.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent—American Society, 249,527.

Junior Branch in Holyoke

The ﬁrst junior branch of the Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals in Western Massachusetts was
completed late in March, when pupils of
grades 5 and 6 of the Springdale school in
Holyoke paid unit membership to Mrs.
Aaron Clark Bagg. Mrs. Bagg is a former
director of the Auxiliary to the Springﬁeld
Branch of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
The membership fee was contributed by the
various pupils, and Mrs. Bagg expressed
appreciation for the interest shown by them.

A program of humane education was giv-
en by the class, relating various incidents
in the animal world. William E. Peck, sup-
erintendent of schools in Holyoke, was
present, together with Miss Grace Lynn,
supervisor of art, and Miss Jean Craig,
assistant supervisor. Miss Marcia Kelley,
principal of the school, was in charge of the
program.

Bird Wisdom

MARION H. ADDINGTON

Over the saffron sky
Bright in the west,

Two snow-white pigeons fly
Home to their nest.

Golden the gleaming light
Tipping their wings;
Lower the circling flight:

Slow spiralings.

Some wiser Power sends
Each to its goal,

Straight as the needle wends
Back to the pole.

Here we a truth may learn
(Bird lore is best):

Flight-weary hearts must turn
Home to their Rest.

“Betty” is said to be the only cat in
Pittsburgh who holds down a job with a
weekly salary attached. She draws 85 cents
in the form of milk and salmon from the
proprietors of the Park Building.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ARE THE BOY WITH THE GUN AND THE BOY WITH THE SLINGSHOT

M ay, 19.40

WISHING THAT THEY, TOO, HAD ONLY A CAMERA?

 

Animals as Postmen
EWEN K. PATTERSON

N spite of the rapid increase in air—mail

services in all countries, as a result of
which our letters are carried half—way
round the globe in a week, there are still
many parts of the world where four-footed
animals cannot be dispensed with for carry-
ing mails and it is a fact that the longest
individual mail routes in the world are
those covered by “animal-postmen.”

For instance, in the far north of Aus-
tralia is the longest pack—horse mail service
in the world. This service is maintained in
the wilds of the lonely Cape York Penin-
sula, where two faithful horses cover nearly
500 miles every month, delivering mails to
isolated farmers, prospectors and mission-
aries. For six years, without a break, the
two horses, “Sally” and “Darky,” have trav—
eled over 36,000 miles with the mails—
12,000 miles farther than the distance
round the earth at the Equator. An
example of the dangers of the country
through which the horses travel may be
gained from a recent experience of Sally’s.
One day when drinking at a creek in the
jungle, she was seized by the nose by a
crocodile. Swift as lightning the horse
swung her right leg and jabbed her hoof
into the crocodile’s eye, compelling the
beast to immediately relinquish its hold.

Camels are used for carrying mails in
Australia and several other countries, the
world’s longest camel-mail service being in
Africa, where camels are employed on a
mail route across the waterless Kalahari
Desert. Once a month the animals cover a

distance of 562 miles in 19 days. On the
journey the camels receive no water, as
none is available along the route, and they,
as well as their driver, live chieﬂy on
“tsama,” a wild and juicy melon that grows
profusely in parts of the treacherous desert.
Africa also has the longest bull-mail
service in the world. This unusual service
operates in the Sudan, between El Obeid,
the capital of the Kordofan Province, and
Talodi, a distance of 207 miles. This ser-
vice is used for only ﬁve months of the
year—between June and November (the
wet season), when heavy rains make the
roads impassable for motor cars which are
used during the dry months of the year.
The bulls employed. for carrying the mails
are the famous Kordofan bulls, very docile
but strong and powerful animals. The
mail-bags are loaded on their :backs, and,
accompanied by their driver who sits
astride the leading animal’s neck, the bulls
cover the 207-mile journey in eight days.
Another unusual animal mail service is
in the Northern Territory of Australia;
this is the longest louckboard mail in the
world. In this case eight hardy horses
draw a buckboard loaded with mail over
a distance of 450 miles every three weeks,
journeying through some of the wildest and
most inhospitable country in the world.

India is another country where animals
are extensively used for carrying mails;
and in a series of new postage stamps
recently issued in that country are two de-
picting animals used for carrying mails.
These interesting stamps Ibear pictures of
a horse-drawn tonga (a light two—wheeled
vehicle) loaded with mail-bags and a bul-
lock cart also carrying mails.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 30

Ellie Earth at merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all livingr creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

1,314 New Bands of Mercy

in December

One thousand, three hundred and four-
teen new Bands of Mercy were organized
during December. Of these, 592 were in
Illinois, 194 in Texas, 96 in South Caro-
lina, 95 in Rhode Island, 94 in Massachu-
setts, 70 in Maine, 54 in Florida, 38 in Vir-
ginia, 29 in Pennsylvania, 19 in New
Brunswick, 17 in Georgia, 12 in North
Carolina, two in the Philippine Islands, and
one each in California and Newfoundland.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent-American Society, 246,945.

The Tibetan Yak

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

F you lived in Tibet you would not own

horses, cows, oxen, sheep or goats, to pro—
vide meat, milk, wool, butter, and help in
the farm work. You would own a herd of
yaks and they would give you all of these
things.

Tibet‘ is the highest country in the
world—"mountainous, cruel and wild. No
other animal could withstand the hardships
of a country as rigorous as this. It is a
cold country, too. Often the thermometer
refuses to register because it is so cold.

In spite of all this the sturdy, faithful
yak scrambles along the steep, perilous,
frozen tracks, where no other animal could
tread, carrying its heavy load and doing
the work required of several different kinds
of animals in other countries.

The yak somewhat resembles the ox, al-
though it is not so tall and is more stoutly
built. There is a hump on its shoulders

 

  

THE STURDY, FAIT'HFUL YAK

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

which consists of a bunch of soft, ﬁne fur.
It has a shaggy coat of black; the hair
of which hangs like a trailing fringe down
its sides. The tail is like a thick tassel,
and its horns are large, black and: massive.

These animals often weigh more than
twelve hundred pounds. Their main food is
dry, coarse grass, a food on which possibly
no other animal could long exist. Think
of it! This very useful animal costs its
owner nothing at all for feed.

In the milder regions the yaks are used
for ploughing. The hair of the yak is spun
into ropes and the soft fur is woven into
cloth. The milk of the yak is used by the
Tibetans for making butter and cheese.
And so it follows that a man with/a herd
of yaks is wealthy indeed.

The Value of the Goat

GLADYS JORDAN

ROBABLY no domestic animal has

been the object of greater ridicule,
more verbal abuse and open scorn than
the humble goat. And, yet, no animal
gives more to aid mankind than does it,
and at last America seems to be waking
up to this fact.

In New England, especially, the goat
seems to be ﬁnding a place for itself within
the family circle. It makes a delightful
pet for the children as it is naturally affec-
tionate, playful and fond of being petted.

Goats’ milk is very rich and it is said to
contain ten times as much iron as cows’
milk. It is also very rich in phosphorus
and there are other minerals found in it
that are entirely lacking in cows’ milk.
More and more physicians are recommend—
ing it for undernourished children and for
adults who have weak stomachs. The
cream can be used like any other cream
for cheese, ice—cream and desserts.

Half a dozen goats can be kept on what
it costs to keep one cow. The milk sells
for from twenty-ﬁve cents to ﬁfty cents
per quart. One hundred and ﬁfty goats
can ﬁnd forage on less than twenty acres
of pasturage. And they can be milked
much quicker and easier than cows.

Contrary to common belief, the goat is
the cleanest of all live stock. Neither is it
the ﬁerce “butting creature” that many a
person believes it to be. For no animal
more quickly responds to hu-
man kindness or affection
than the goat. It is not un-
usual to see one come to its
keeper, stand up on its hind
legs and put its face up
against his. And they will
play and gambol together
much like kittens.

The value of the goat has
been long recognized in other
lands. Our domesticated
goats are descended from the
wild goats of an earlier day.
As they became domestic
they began to give great
value for all that was done
for them.

The. Cashmere and the An-
gora goats had valuable hair
that was woven into ﬁne fab-
rics. The Angora has a beau-
tiful silky ﬂeece that covers

 

Feb. 19.40

 

“I’M ONLY THE KID NOW BUT SOME
DAY I’LL BE THE GOAT”

its whole body and part of its legs, in close
matted ringlets. Its average spring yield
is about two and one-half pounds of wool
from which is made lustrous mohair.

The wool of the Cashmere goat varies in
color and length. It is soft and silky as
down and it will fall off itself if the ani-
mals are not sheared in the early spring.
But it’s far too valuable to lose so the
goats are combed and combed again so that
every bit of the most valuable undercoat
may be saved. .

The beautiful shawls made from this
wool have been sold all over the world and
today they are kept as precious heirlooms
in many families. Thousands upon thou-
sands of looms have been kept busy in their
weaving, and more thousands of people
have earned a livelihood in this work.

The skins of goats are very valuable as
they are made into very beautiful bags,
gloves and shoes. They are soft and pliable
and take a ﬁne ﬁnish and color. Recently
goat skin accessories have become most
popular in America as well as abroad.

People who have the care of goats seem
to get very fond of them and make pets
of the little ones. One Maine man who
cares for over a hundred goats has each
one named. His entire family, including
the cat and dog, have learned to like goats’
milk and now prefer it to any other. In
fact, the cat and dog no longer will accept
cows’ milk.

The goat has come to hold an honorable
place in New England life. Children of a
future generation will, no doubt, wonder
why we ever looked askance at these de—
lightful and valuable creatures.

To My Son

MARY WILDVER PEASE

You can make a slingshot
With a bit of wood and string,
But not a craftsman in the land
Can make a robin’s wing.

You can wound the furry folk
That nest in wood and lane,

But nothing that your hand can do
Will make them whole again.

Have you seen the new Humane Calen—
dar for .1940? _It shows General Washington
and his aides .mounted on beautiful horses.
Price 20 cents, postpaid, two for 35 cents.

 




 

 

at". :" _

g»

 

 

s1

.- £3

gi
9"
$615

a

1‘ at"
’68“?

‘E
7 'a . _ ‘
.".__-a, _‘.L-.‘~M-."

 

 

 

 

k.<

. t .
.‘V a; 3")

‘ ~‘ ~o|-“?I-:l 3.:V"‘ ‘.\ "\. . _ u‘.. . ,‘n
\ - . x g . .
.| _
-9:’;...*{'.;.... :r- L -.-

ﬁat"?

 

 

 

Page 102

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1940

The Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

.Dr. G. B. SCHNELLE of the ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL

Reprinted, with illustrations, by special permission of the North American Veterinarian

UILT as a memorial to that
Bgreat humanitarian, George

Thorndike Angell, the building
which bears his name was opened to
the public in Boston in February,
1915, to serve as headquarters for
the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
the American Humane Education So-
ciety; to house a clinic principally for
horses; to hospitalize city pets and to
provide ambulance service for the
many horses which were stricken on
the streets in those days. Under the
guidance of Dr. Francis H. Rowley,
who has served as president of both
societies from that day to this, the
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital has
kept pace with the changing times
by modernizing both the internal
structure and the service which the
institution renders.

Equipment and Staff

Some of the features of the hospital are:
an isolated distemper ward on the third
ﬂoor of the building, which will care for 45
dogs; a bird room for both monkeys and
birds; four large wards devoted entirely to
cats; operating rooms for both large and
small animals; separate wards for mange
and rabies cases, and a ward for stray
animals. The hospital will accommodate 67
cats, 21 horses or other large animals, and
has ten wards for dogs, including isolation
wards for infectious skin diseases and
rabies. There are cages for 211 dogs which
are medical or surgical patients. No ani—
mals are admitted for boarding.

There is a diagnostic laboratory with a

 

 

THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL AT 180 LONGWOOD
AVENUE, BOSTON, MASS.

veterinarian in charge, where routine
physical, chemical and bacteriological tests
are made. In this room is a monel metal
autopsy table which has forced ventilation
and running hot and cold water. Autopsies
are performed whenever permitted by the

'client, provided it is expected that some-

thing can thus be learned. Histopathologi-
cal studies of biopsy or autopsy material
are made by pathologists connected with
the neighboring Harvard Medical School
when such microscopic examination would
be of present or future clinical value.
There are seven veterinarians who devote
their full time to the hospital in Boston
and two who staff a branch in Springﬁeld,
Massachusetts. The veterinarians have no

THE HOWARD A. CROSSMAN MEMORIAL DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORY

private practice and do not visit patients
outside the hospital.

Functions

The benevolent guidance of President
Rowley has been to the end that the hospi-

tal shall give only the best of veterinary

service to anyone who asks for it, whether
he is able to pay all, only part, or none of
the costs of the service. This rule applies to
operations, special services and hospital-
ization, as well as to the clinic. Judgment
is left entirely to the veterinarian in charge
of the case as to what part of the cost is to
be borne by the owner of the animal. Twen-
ty-ﬁve years of operation and growth of
this charitable institution have given con-
vincing evidence of the soundness of
this procedure against that of the en-
tirely free clinic. There is evidence to
support the accusation that many such
free clinics are “pill” clinics, in which
only the cheapest of therapeutic meas-
ures are used, that animals are
“herded” through, and that clients
able to pay are promptly singled out
and sent to the veterinarian’s own
private ofﬁce for his personal gain.

Another function of the hospital is
to render ambulance service and medi-
cal or surgical care to any animal
injured on the street. These and other
stray animals found by the police or
by private citizens are called for by
the hospital ambulance, given all
necessary medical or surgical atten-
tion and held a sufﬁcient time to
allow the owners to reclaim them. If
not called for, an attempt is made to
place the stray in a suitable home,
provided the veterinarian in charge
of the department deems the animal
suitable for adoption. The hospital is
not the city pound and receives no
ﬁnancial aid from the city, state, or
from the Community Fund for the
care which it renders injured or other
stray animals. The annual deﬁcit of
the hospital proper averages more

 

 

 




Jan. 1 91,0

 

A horse misused upon the road
Calls to Heaven for human blood.

WILLIAM BLAKE

ing, they had given
their best in all kinds
of weather, and when-
ever we had asked for
their assistance.

That green machine
sitting there by the
barn—it would never
nuzzle its nose into
your hand and beg so
quietly or so touching—
ly for that apple you
were eating. Nor when
the day’s work was
through, would it
whinny for its oats,
and stand in grateful
quietness as you cur-
ried its sweaty body
7’and brushed its hair
until it shone.

As the truck strug-
gled out of the yard,
back past the church
and over the hill the
way it had come, old
Babe, looking longing-
ly back towards her
home, whinnied once
more, then passed for-

 

 

The Passing of the Old

A True Story

C. E. SECOR

T was a sunny morning in early fall. I

had hurried through the chores and had
just returned from putting the cows into
pasture. My father and I stood in front of
the barn waiting expectantly. Today was
the day.

Finally over the hill and past the big
White church came a truck, chugging and
pulling until it stopped at our road gate.
There on its platform stood the green ma-
chine that my heart had coveted for many
months. With a sudden roar its motor
started, and it was backed down the in-
clined planks from the truck to the ground.
At last we had a tractor.

How proud I was! Now I would be en-
vied by every farmer’s son in the neigh-
borhood! How I would laugh and chaff
whenever I saw them walking behind their
father’s old-fashioned horse-drawn tools.

Slowly I walked around it, marveling at
every little detail and asking the salesman
innumerable questions (which, I fear, were
childish and rather absurd) about its care,
the power it had, and many other things
I thought would be helpful to know when
I was driving it all day in the ﬁeld.

Suddenly I realized I was alone at the
new machine. Where had my father and
the tractor salesman gone? Then I saw
them coming from the barn, lea ding the old
black horses. Relief rose and ﬂooded over
me. I would never have to walk slowly
behind them through hot summer days
again.

But as they were loaded into the truck I
felt a curious lump come into my throat.
Fight against it as I would, it kept com—
ing back, until ﬁnally I realized I wasn’t
glad to see our old servants go after all.
“Babe” and “Trix”! How many times we
had crossed the dusty ﬁelds together! How
they had worked for me! Never complaln-

ever from my sight. I
turned and walked
swiftly away, throwing one hateful glance
at the tractor, bright and shiny in its coat
of paint, to be alone and grieve over the
passing of the two most understanding
friends I had ever known.

Soldier Horse

BLANCHE FEWSTER

NE of the two only known war horse

veterans to survive the last war is
“Jeanne d’Arc.” She served with the A. E.
F. The other veteran is “Kidron,” age 30,
a thoroughbred race horse ridden by Gen—
eral Pershing.

Jeanne d’Arc is a coal-black mare with
streaks of gray now appearing on her nose
and temples. She was born in French
Morocco of Anglo-Arab breed and taken to
the war by the Colonial troops.

She was one of about 25 horses that
were sent to this country at the close of the
world war. The army sold most of its ani-
mals in France. Jeanne d’Arc is the prop-
erty of Lt. Col. John Dilworth von Holtzen-
dorff and is stationed in, New York until
spring.

This soldier horse’s stall is decorated
with a plaque that has six combat stars, a
wound chevron, three overseas service bars,
an Indian head on a white star, the insig—
nia of the 2nd Division of the A. E. F.,
and a ﬂeur-de-lis for the French army.

The old mare is mild-tempered and gets
about remarkably well for her age. She
shows a slight stiffness in the forelegs in
the morning, but works it out easily. She is
round and well-ﬂeshed; eats twelve pounds
of hay and six quarts of oats per day.

Jeanne d’Arc is now thirty. A horse
aged thirty is equivalent to a human aged
100, so three cheers for this grand old-lady
soldier horse.

Please remember the Massachusetts 5. P.
C. A. when making your will.

Page 13

“Jake” and “Jerry”
STILLMAN J. ELWELL

It isn’t their lot to thunder down
The track, as the judge cries, “Go,”

To hear the cheers of the mighty throng
In the stands that overflow.

It isn’t their lot to take a part
In the cavalry’s fearsome dash,
To hear the roar of the heavy guns
Or see their lurid flash.

It isn’t their lot to gallop oﬂ
O’er the far-flung western plain,

Nor to push pell-mell through city streets
At the head of the ﬁre train.

But it is their lot to plow my ﬁelds,
To turn the furrows deep,

To sow my grain at the call of spring,
At harvest time to reap.

Yes, horses have charged at the battle
front,
Have galloped o’er the plain,
Have hurried to answer the ﬁre call,
Have felt the jockey’s rein.

But ne’er were horses prouder,

Though they carried plume and crest
And none were e’er more willing

To do their very best!

7

Just a Mule

L. H. HOUCK

Just a mule.

Yet he is the partner of Man.

All his days he has labored under the
hot sun. He has made the cotton grow in
the deep South. He has turned the cane
mill as it crushed the nectar from the juicy
stalks.

Just a mule—the partner of man.

The Man got the juice—the Man got
the cotton—the Mule got the work, and the
pleasure of laboring for his partner—~Man.

Time passed on as time will and the
Mule grew older and older. No longer
young, as his days lengthened, his ribs
showed plainer and his gait became slower.

The Mule was afraid his partnership
with Man would be dissolved. The labors
of the Mule had made the Man fat and
the Mule thin.

As the Mule pondered on his unhappy
lot, he suddenly remembered. Man was
made in the image of God—God wouldn’t
let an old mule starve.

Let’s not let the old mule down—let’s
feed him. Let’s surprise him with a lump
of sugar and a rub on his soft nose. But
don’t let him down—he thinks we’re swell.

Give every other animal a chance and a

"reason to love his human friends—who

were made in the image of God, and re-
member God said something about “Even
as ye have done unto the least of these . . .”

Congratulations to the Wisconsin Hu-
mane Society for laying the cornerstone of
a new memorial animal shelter at Mil-
waukee on November 24, last. The building
will cost $40,000. The society was organ-
ized in 1879. Since the ﬁrst shelter was
built in 1926, more than 200,000 animals
have been cared for. '

 




 

 

 

 

Page 54
The Truth About the Cuckoo

ANN C. MORITIS

EW birds are so castigated as the fa-

miliar cuckoo. Blindly following Na-
ture’s dictates the poor fellow has built up
for himself an unsavory reputation among
many bird lovers. An original chap, some—
thing of a non-conformist, he reacts im-
perturbably to his critics, blandly treading
the paths of his ancestors and harkening
not to the diatribes against him. _

There is some basis for the ill-repute in
which cuckoos are held. That they possess
parasitical tendencies is generally admitted,
particularly the European species who in-
variably deposit their eggs in the nests of
the hedge warbler, meadow pipit and other
small birds to be hatched. Our own yellow
and black—billed cuckoos are less guilty on
this count. They have nests of their own,
a mat of twigs crudely constructed which
affords little protection to the eggs or
young.

The intelligence, perverted if you will,
displayed by the cuckoo acting as a para-
site should be noted. The egg is deposited
on the ground and carried in the preda-
cious bill to the nest selected. The eggs of
the future foster-parents will be of the
same general size and color to prevent dis-
covery of the imposition. Sometimes the
original contents of the nests are cleverly
backed out over the edge, the cuckoo using
its long wedge-shaped tail for the purpose.
The slangy use of the word “cuckoo” mean—
ing brainless or insane thus seems most
inappropriate. Museum authorities, too,
consider the cuckoo the most intelligent of
birds, capable of learning to count and per-
form other ingenious stunts.

A long-standing indictment against cuck-
oos has been now generally quashed. They
had been adjudged guilty of deliber-
ately deserting their young, leaving them
under the sole protection of the foster—
parents. Seemingly this happens, but if you
closely scan the leafy trees in the vicinity
of the nest you will discover the mother
cuckoo keeping a critical eye on the foster-

 

YELLOW-BILLED CUCKOO

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Two Viewpoints
STILLMAN J. ELWELL

There came a distant honking,
An old familiar cry,

A V-like chain appearing
From out the northern sky.

I spoke of how it thrilled me,
The wonder of it all;

“That’s nothing,” said my comrade,
“Geese migrate every fall.”

I saw that old gray gander,
His eyes alert and keen,

A bold and dauntless leader,
The monarch of the scene.

I saw those far-flung waters,
The Gulf of Mexico;

The mighty, frozen northland,
Its leagues of swirling snow.

The springtime and the autumn
Spread out before me there;

The years of life rolled by me,
From youth to: silver hair.

I saw the God who made them,
The God of Hope, and peace,

And yet my friend beside me
Just saw a flock of geese.

 

parents, to note their care of her offspring.
Not very maternal to be sure, yet not as
cruel or heartless as she was formerly
considered.

In appearance the cuckoo is a vulturish
looking bird. His beak is thick and strongly
curved; he has raking black wings and a
wedge-shaped tail, also black, tipped boldly
in some species with broad white markings.
The body is a grayish bronze except for the
white underpart, and he possesses a pair of
large claw-like feet that add to his vultur-
ish aspect.

The cuckoo’s habits, however, are not of
the vulture. His are retiring tastes, and he
seldom deserts the neighborhood of well-
leafed trees. In fact he is more often
heard than seen, uttering his unmusical
but—in Spring—welcome cry which gives
him his name. His cry frequently repeated
is said to forecast rain and in some locali—
ties he has been dubbed the “rain crow.”
As the summer progresses the cry evolves
into a weak, unpleasant rasp.

He feeds chieﬂy on hairy caterpillars
which other birds disdainfully pass up. As
a result the cuckoo has proved of inesti-
mable value to man, particularly in our ﬁght
against the gypsy moth. Without him we
would be facing a more serious problem.
He also eats other destructive insects, and
some fruits which, however, are but a mi-
nor part of his diet.

If we are to judge birds by their value to
mankind, as in the ﬁnal analysis we must,
then the cuckoo must be placed well up in
the front. Admittedly he has his faults
which may or may not jar our moral or
ethical sensibilities, but if he can make the
world a better place in which to live he
justiﬁes his existence and deserves our
charitable consideration at all times.

Grasshoppers will not take to the air un-
til the temperature approaches 85 degrees.

Apr. 1940
To Bird Lovers

FLORENCE STEVENS CUMMINGS

AST spring it happened that I was

' unable to make even one of my usual
visits to the woods to welcome the birds
who had been my friends for years.

In the midst of my disappointment, I
suddenly realized that although a great
city held me prisoner, its huge library did
make it possible for me to read the poems
that other bird lovers have written; and
so in my spare time, I began to copy into
a note book all the bits of poetry about
birds which seemed to me especially lovely.

Of course, Shelley’s “Skylark,” and
Keats’ “Nightingale” headed the list. I
thought of them at once. As I reread
them, their beauty appealed to ,me as much
as ever, but they did not bring to me
visions of the New England wood birds
which I love. So I began an eager search
for any-thing that would be purely New
England.

I found far more than I ever dreamed
existed, as I read our American poems
from William Cullen Bryant’s “Water-
fowl” and “Wild Geese” to a tiny verse to
a Chickadee by Hilda Conkling. Many an-
thologies and collections of verse like
Louis Untermeyer’s “This Singing World”
held poems not to be found elsewhere.

But the two that fully repaid me for the
time I spent were Amy Lowell’s “Grackles”
and Celia. Thaxter’s “Sandpiper.”

Of course the grackles are autumn birds,
but as my collection of poems was to cover
all the birds I knew, I eagerly copied this
jolly poem, and I liked the way Miss Lowell
describes the grackles as pirates—free—
booters—stealing her last bit of summer?
I don’t think anyone has ever pictured more
vividly that lusty, overbearing bird.

But for sheer beauty, I found nothing to
compare with Celia Thaxter’s “Sandpiper.”
As you read it, you are transported to her
home on the Isles of Shoals; you can hear
the surf, and feel the sting of the salt
spray, until you yourself become the writer
walking down the lonely beach, just “one
little sandpiper and me.”

If you really love wild birds, a search
among the poets for their interpretations
will enrich your memories fully as much as
a stroll along the grass-ribbed country
road.

The First Friend

Soon after the Creation a chasm broke
open across the earth. Man was left on one
side of it, the animal world on the other.
The animals seemed undisturbed by this
separation from Man—all except the dog.
He whined and ran up and down, seeking
a way across. At last Man saw him and
noticed the pleading look in his eyes.

“Come!” he cried.

The dog sprang, but the chasm was too
wide for him. He reached the opposite side
only with his front paws, and hung there
struggling vainly to get up.

Then Man put out his hand and pulled
the dog up to safety beside him.

“You shall be my comrade for ever and
ever,” he said.

-——0ld Legend

 




 

July, 191,0
The Sea Gull

MARY WILDER PEASE

He knows the ways of winds and ships,
The pools where ﬁshes hide;

The place to build his scanty nest
Above the rising tide.

He knows the strength of his two wings
More beautiful by far

Than any sail our eyes can trace
Beyond the harbor bar.

J

He knows that he can ride a wave
And on its silvery crest

Remain secure as lark or wren
Upon a feathered nest.

He knows that for his daily food
He has a debt to pay,

And so with thousands of his kin
He tidies up the bay.

Quail sometimes throw straw or grass on
their backs to hide under in times of pos-
sible danger.

Falcons, eagles and other high-ﬂying
birds seek the cool upper regions when the
weather is hot down below.

The carnivora are said to be not only
more pugnacious, but more intelligent than
the herbivorous mammalia.

Apes, if possible, carry away their
wounded or dead, and have been seen to
apply poultices made of leaves, to stop
bleeding.

HARMLESS PLANES OF SKY AND SEA

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 101

Barn Swallows Live Above the Light

ALVIN M. PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

E are fortunate in our choice of a
milkman, feel kindly toward him
and think of him often. Why? Be-
cause he h‘as barn swallows nesting in his
barn. We are sure of two things in regard
to him: he is kind to and loves his animals
and the birds; and he keeps his barn clean
and has less insects about than he surely

would, did he not encourage the birds to 7

nest where they do. .

He knew of my interest in birds and told
me a pair of barn swallows was nesting
above an electric-light socket over the broad
driveway that runs the length of the stable,
between two long rows of sleek cows.

I paid him a visit to secure pictures of
the nest, the young birds it held, and, per-
haps, the adult birds. In a roomy box stall,
only a few feet from the nest, were three
Guernsey heifers. They were sisters, the
same size, and looked almost exactly alike.
They were, in fact, triplets, something quite
unusual in the bovine world.

The young swallows were quite large.
Soon they would be leaving their safe, snug
cradle above the light socket. I set the tri-
pod and camera on the barn ﬂoor and
waited, hoping the parent birds would visit
the nest and enable me to get a picture of
them. This they were reluctant to do,
though they frequently entered the wide-
open west door, circled about, chattered,
scolded, no doubt because they saw I was a
stranger. Then, too, I was not sitting
quietly beside a cow, milking, or doing any
of the other things they were accustomed
to seeing folks doing. They
alighted upon the electric
wires, two or three feet from
the nest, or a crosspiece near
the ceiling, lowered their heads
the better to see what was go—
ing on, then ﬂew away again.
No, though I waited a long
time, I was obliged to take a
picture of the nest and young
birds and be satisﬁed with
that.

The barn swallow is about
seven inches in length and
easily recognized by its deeply
forked tail which is bright—
ened with white. It is steel-
blue above and has a chest-
nut forehead and throat.

Barn swallows formerly
nested in caves and other simi-
lar places, but now they build
about barns, sheds and other
buildings. I once found several
pairs nesting about the beams
and rafters of some old, dilapi—
dated box cars that stood year
in, year out on a long railroad
siding just outside the city
limits of a city of half a mil-
lion inhabitants.

The barn swallow is a won-
derful ﬂyer and it is a pleas—
ure to watch it when it is on
the wing, as it nearly always
is when you see it. It often
turns abruptly, shooting oﬂ" at
an angle perhaps, dips grace-

 

 

THE NEST AND YOUNG OF BARN
SWALLOWS ABOVE ELECTRIC-LIGHT
SOCKET

fully and ﬂies near the ground when cross-
ing valleys and other depressions but rises
sharply when across and confronted by the
opposite slopes. It arrives from its winter
haunts about the middle of April and re-
mains until September.

Barn swallows are not as gregarious as
bank and cliff swallows, which usually nest
in colonies, but are more like the white—
breasted tree swallows, which usually are
found a pair here, another there when
nesting. In the spring, when migrating, one
also is likely to see a lone bird ﬂying north-
ward, not a ﬂock; although, when nesting
cares are over, they congregate in ﬂocks,
perch in long rows on wires and roost in a
marsh or piece of woods.

The nests are bracket-shaped and made
of mud pellets. They are anchored to beams
and rafters and often are located where
they have some support from below, like
the electric-light socket shown in the photo-
graph. A new nest looks dark and wet like
that of the cliff swallow, though it soon
dries out and makes a snug cradle when
lined with soft feathers. The bird looks
small and awkward when on the ground
gathering mud and grass for its nest, but
is the poetry of motion when on the wing.
The eggs are white, spotted with brown.

Like its useful relatives, practically all
the food of the barn swallow consists of
insects. The United States Department of
Agriculture examined the contents of 467
stomachs and found that about 16 per cent
of it consisted of beetles, 10 per cent, ants;
13 per cent, bees and wasps; 15 per cent,
bugs; and 40 per cent, ﬂies. In March, ﬂies
make up 82 per cent of the food. Like the
cliff swallow, this bird does not take many
moths, butterﬂies, crickets and grasshop-
pers.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

May, 191,0

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

  

Kind Deeds

MARY WEST

I found a little kitten
So hungry, cold‘ and wet;
I warmed it and I fed it
And it is with me yet.

I found a tiny robin;
With badly broken leg;
With strips of gauze I set it
And bound it to a peg.

The robin is so thankful—
In sunshine, rain or chill,

He comes with bright eyes shining
And sits upon my sill!

Robin Feeds Bluebird Babies

EDNA FAITH CONNELL

FRIEND of mine had a six-year—old son who was greatly

interested in watching birds and trying to make bird
houses. Being too young to get right measurements, he com-
pleted his ﬁrst house for bluebirds with an opening two inches
high and over an inch wide.

He attached the house to a large limb of an apple tree about
a rod from the house, and was delighted to soon discover that
bluebirds were occupying it.

Shortly after the mother bluebird began to set, a pair of
robins started their nest about three inches higher, and
directly over the roof of the bird-house which the bluebirds
were inhabiting.

By the time the robins’ nest was completed, the small blue‘
birds had hatched and were making considerable noise. It is
assumed that it disturbed the mother robin, for Mr. Robin
immediately attacked the parent bluebirds whenever they
went in or out of their door, and succeeded in frightening
them sufﬁciently so that they left or entered the house only
when he was away.

However, he did not intend the neighbors’ children to starve
for he brought them food many, many times each day, which
kept them more quiet. He carried the food into the house as
if it were his own baby robins that he was feeding, and con—
tinued this until the baby bluebirds were large enough to
leave their nest.

My friends moved away before the next spring, and we
have no way of knowing whether Mr. Robin moved his own
home the next spring, or whether the affair was repeated.

Travel Troubles

NIXON WATERMAN

The elephant with his long, long nose
Must carry his trunh where’er he goes.
The snail fares even worse, alack!

He carries his house upon his back.

 

  

, ll ll\k\\ﬁll-.u_..

 

v1 ' lULz. “(L

 

“LADDIE” MUST HAVE HIS BATH WILLY-NILLY

 

Bird Scrapbook

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

0U will derive much pleasure and learn many interest-

ing nature facts by keeping a bird scrapbook. At the dime
store you will ﬁnd a suitable scrapbook which will meet your
needs. In it keep clippings from the daily papers, also such
pictures, drawings, and other materials as you may be able to
ﬁnd from any other source. Divide the book in sections as
Tragedy, Intelligence, Conservation, Poems, Records, Nests,
Foods, Houses, Calls, Identiﬁcation, Hikes, etc. You may wish
to make some original drawings or sketches in charcoal; you
will certainly ﬁnd need for your paints. It is better to buy a
rather large book than a small one because you will ﬁnd a
wealth of material for it. Don’t overlook the importance of
keeping correct dates. Be accurate in your observations and
when possible check with some recognized authority. If you
have a kodak you will want to ﬁle your snapshots under an—
other section headed accordingly. If your book grows quite
rapidly you will‘need a book for each of the four seasons. No
matter how much attention you give to the matter, the
chances are that you will ﬁnd your bird scrap’lbooks among
the most interesting things you have ever attempted.

I
Q...

Answers to “The Strange Animals” puzzle in last month’s
issue: Merino, antelopes, porcupines, rhinoceros, wombats,
wolverenes, kittens, martens, elephants, panthers.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 80

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Prizes for Photographs of Wild Life

Seventy Dollars, Cash, and Ten Subscriptions to “Our Dumb Animals”
Offered in Contest Closing June 30, 1940

N connection with the recent Be Kind to Animals Week, Our Dumb Animals is con-
“ ducting a photographic prize contest. This year cash prizes amountingto $70, and .10
annual subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals, are offered for the best pictures of Wild

animals and wild birds.

The contest is open to everybody, everywhere. Only the photographs must be orig-
inal and never before published in any periodical or in post-card form.

Here are the conditions, which are absolute:

1. Twenty-three prizes in all are offered, as follows:

First, $30, cash; second, $15, cash; third, $5, cash.

Fourth to thirteenth, $2, cash, each.

Fourteenth to twenty-third, one year’s subscription to Our Dumb Animals (value,

$1, each.)

2. The subjects must be either live wild animals or live wild birds.

(No circus or

hunting pictures or those showing cruelty, considered).
3. The contest is open to all, but entries will be accepted only from those who actu—

ally have taken the photographs.

4. Only strictly original, hitherto unpublished photographs may be entered.

5. There is no limit as to size, but we suggest approximately 3 X 4 to 4 X 6 inches,
and no limit to the number that may be sent by one person.

6. Send no negatives, only good, clear prints, preferably glossy ﬁnish. Size of the

ﬁgures is always considered.

7. Photographs winning prizes become the exclusive property of Our Dumb Ani-
mals; those not winning a prize will be returned only if full postage is provided.

8. All photographs must be marked plainly on the back with the full name and
address of the sender. (Notes of explanation are deﬁnitely not wanted).

9. The contest will close June 30, 1940. No entries will be received after that date.

10. All photographs intended for the contest must be addressed, Contest Editor, Our
Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

If the words “Contest Editor” do not appear on the address, any photographs re-
ceived for Our Dumb Animals will be considered in the usual way and, if accepted, will

be paid for only at the regular rates.

 

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Payments of thirty—ﬁve dollars for a kennel
or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will insure
a suitable marker inscribed with donor’s
name. Terms of permanent endowment
of free stalls and kennels will be given upon
application to the Treasurer, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE BOXER, Dan M. Gordon, MD.

The popularity of this breed of dog has
increased remarkably in the past few years.
It might be ﬁttingly said that the boxer has
come to the front “by leaps and bounds.”

The author is a noted Detroit breeder
and exhibitor, which fact gives his work
the best guaranty of authenticity. This
attractive volume is a complete presenta-
tion of the origin and development of the
boxer, including both German and Ameri—
can backgrounds, the oﬂicial standard and
its interpretation, the boxer from breeding
and show standpoints, mating and whelp-
ing, anatomy of, training, feeding, care in
health and sickness—plus kennel manage-
ment, sales, records, laws and shipping.

Of the forty-nine chapters in the book
the ﬁrst twenty-four are written by Dr.
Gordon and the rest are by Capt. Will Judy.

The dog-loving public, and especially the
boxer fancy, will ﬁnd this exhaustive work
of great service and value. There are 118
illustrations which represent many of the
outstanding individuals of the boxer breed.

159 pp. $2.50. Judy Publishing Com-
pany, Chicago.

Why Kill the Useful Badger?

The lingering tendency of the old semi-
civilized age of the fang and the claw still
is inherent in man, says the Pueblo Indi-
cator. He wants to kill something and gets
a low down satisfaction out of it.

As for instance, he will kill a badger by
shooting or clubbing, when he should know
that it is a very inoffensive little animal
and harms no one. It lives principally on
small rodents that burrow in the ground.

The badger has powerful claws and is a
very fast digger in the earth, mostly noc-
turnal in its habits and aids in riddin‘g a
community of destructive pests.

Wonder if the time ever will come when
mankind will forsake his caveman savagery
of wanting to maim .and kill everything in
wild life that he comes across!

M ay, 1940

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No com-.missions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.
as * 9(- ae -x-

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

MOTHER!

You’ll be happy to see the surprising way
Cuticura helps keep baby’s skin in A-l con-
ditlon. Cuticura Soap to bathe. Cuticura
Olntment to help relieve diaper rash. Cuticura
Talcum to soothe and refresh. Sold at all drug-
glsts, 25¢ each. For FREE sample, write Cuti-
cura, Dept. M, Malden, Mass.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

Postage free to any part of

 

 

 

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Soc1eties.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. I’. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 OO

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital Is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 14

Elm Zﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

1,737 New Bands of Mercy
in November

One thousand, seven hundred and thirty-
seven new Bands of Mercy were formed
during November. Of these, 514 were in
Illinois, 256 in Texas, 238 in Massachusetts,
204 in Pennsylvania, 143 in Rhode Island,
127 in Maine, 104 in Georgia, 64 in Florida,
46 in South Carolina, and 41 in Virginia.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 245,631.

Be Kind

SUSIE WOOD

“I will be kind to every living Creature.”
This is the pledge we strive to keep each

day.
No other thing will banish wrong and
sadness
Than simple kindness all along life’s
way.

Be kind, dear child, in thought, in word, in

action;
At home, in school, at play, you’ll always
ﬁnd
No other thing will bring more joy and
gladness.

To this old world than simply being kind.

Be kind to animals, be kind to people;
Be kind to birds and every living thing.
Be kind, dear child; whatever else is
needed,
This, you will ﬁnd, the greatest good will
bring.

Catford’s Clever Cat

Even cats, it seems, are becoming “mod-
ern,” says the English Tit-Bits.

No longer do they sit outside the window
and meow, when they want to be admitted.
They knock at the door!

At least, that is the example being set by
“Tiger,” who lives at Catford, England.
A dark tabby, Tiger holds decided views
on cat treatment. When he wants to be
admitted to the house he rests his hind legs
on the handle of the letter box, stretches
himself out, puts his front paw beneath the
heavy iron knocker, and after hanging on
for a moment, jumps away, allowing the
knocker to fall back with a resounding
bang.

If the door is not opened promptly, he
repeats the performance. He has also
found that he can open the inside door by
gently turning the handle with both paws.

There is some talk of giving Tiger a
latch—key!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan. 191,0

 

“TIGER-BOY” AND “BRIGHT—EYES”

 

“S H

pot

The True Story of a Cat
A. W. BIVANS

NEVER shall forget that cold, rainy

morning in March, many years ago, for
it was the beginning of a companionship
that lasted for more than thirteen years.
A bedraggled, spotted kitten peeked timidly
from beneath the hog-shed and when our
eyes met it was a case of love at ﬁrst sight.

We named her “Spot,” a name well chos-
en for she soon laid claim to several spots
—on the rug beside the wood stove, close
to the stool when I milked, and beside me
when I drove to the ﬁeld for fodder on
Saturdays. She knew as well as I when
that old bob-sled appeared, that fodder was
to be hauled and that under those shocks of
fodder were ﬁeld mice, for above all other
activities she loved to catch them. As fast
as they were caught she would lay them
in a pile, and when we were ready to
depart for home she saw to it that the
entire morning’s catch was exhibited to the
family.

Spot had many unusual and interesting
traits, marking her as much of an indi-
vidualist as any human I ever knew. When
displeased she would carry her tail erect
and give it several decisive and impressive
jerks. One day, upon being gently pushed
from the house at the end of a broom in
the hands of my mother, she gave the usual
sign of disgust and disappeared for more
than a week, when we learned that she had
taken up her abode with a neighbor several
doors away until her pout should subside.
This became a regular procedure thereafter
on occasions of injured feelings.

When my mother would call her she knew
that some special service was expected of
her, most likely that mice had been dis-
covered in the house and without any hesi-
tation she would immediately begin a
search under tables, desks, beds, etc., and
seldom did she fail to earn her reward of
special attention lasting for several days,
for she was a valuable and dependable
assistant at such times and she was well
aware of the fact and capitalized upon it.

Motherhood to her was a very serious
matter. She was lavish in her bestowal of
affection and vicious in her defense against
attacks by males of murderous dispositions.
The size of her opponent meant little to
her and she generally came off victorious.

A striking peculiarity in regard to food
was her fondness for unground coffee and
fresh yeast cakes. The sound of that old
coffee mill in action was sure to bring her
into View should she be within hearing
distance.

For more than thirteen years she was an
important part of the family circle, sharing
in our joys and troubles with a proper show
of understanding. When we children had
measles she had measles also, which affected
her eyesight and no doubt cut short many
of her activities and brought her useful
career to a close before its normal time.
When the end came she was laid to rest
in a private cat cemetery with all the so-
lemnities due to one of her standing.

A Mother Cat’s Heroism

This is a true story of the love and devo—
tion, and also of the amazing presence of
mind, of a mother cat. The incident took
place in the city of Fredericton, New
Brunswick. Pussy was moving her family
of kittens across the street, and as the
kittens were partly grown, they were quite
heavy for her to carry. Half way across
the street, she dropped one, just as an auto-
mobile was approaching. There was no time
to pick up the baby and go on with it,
neither would she leave it to its fate, so she
quickly lay down in the street herself,
covering the kitten with her body, to pro-
tect it. The driver of the car passed her
by not much more than a hand’s breadth,
whereupon Mother Puss arose, picked up
her baby and went on her way. Of course,
if the kitten had been left there alone, the
driver might easily have gone over it with-
out ever seeing it at all, but the body of
the cat in the street was quite noticeable,
and he went past it without touching the
courageous little creature.

ETHEL CROSSLEY

 




 

Jan. 1940

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

‘5' 5"
i1.

. $933, [L k h3~f1§£ _- i I

‘N
3

 

 

Sparrows in Winter
CLARA RADER

Little friends that flock together,
Dauntless in the winter weather,
You remain to cheer my heart

When other feathered friends depart,
Brightening up the gloomy days
With your energetic ways,

Taking things as they may come,
Thankful for the smallest crumb.

Always busy, never weary,

Through the months so cold and dreary.
Nestling nights in housetop eaves

Or perched on branches bare of leaves.
Little friends, you never preach

But by your actions daily teach,

“Take things calmly as they come,

Be thankful for the smallest crumb.”

The Give-away Bill

BERNICE OGDEN

IRDS can tell you many things although they cannot

speak a word! Some can tell you where they live. Others
may inform you what kinds of food they like and where they
ﬁnd it. If you wish to understand what they say, you have to
learn to read their bills.

An unusually long bill often means that the bird lives near
the water and probes the mud or sand for its food, as does
the snipe or the heron. If the beak is very short and stout,
the bird is probably a seed-eater, such as a sparrow. If it is
wide and ﬂattened, it makes a good insect trap such as that of
the ﬂycatcher.

But what if the beak is large and strong with a hook on
the end? That is the sure sign of the villain among birds.
It shows that he is a bird of prey. He may live upon mice or
ﬁsh or even smaller birds. However, we must not be too harsh
with him as that is his nature and he does destroy animals
that do us harm.

Birds’ beaks are considered so important that a bird is often
named after his bill. For example, the crossbill has his upper
and lower bills crossed. Thus he has a pair of pliers which he
can use in opening cones for the seeds he likes. The spoonbill
has a long beak shaped like a spoon at the end. It is used for
scooping food from the mud. And the shoebill is an odd-
looking creature indeed! Although he lives in Egypt on the
Nile River, you might think he had sent to Holland for a
wooden shoe. He uses his shoe—shaped bill to scoop up a large
quantity of water. The water drains out at the sides leaving
small ﬁsh, insects, or other water animals.

By looking at the pictures in a bird book, you can ﬁnd many
other types of bills. Can you read their secrets?

Good-bye to the Old Year! as it bows to the New,

A subject so loyal, so brave and so true,

Remember its pleasures, forget all its pain,

For Joys, the sole monarch hereafter shall reign.
JAMES M. ADAMS

 

Mary’s Little Lamb

HOWN in the picture, which I myself took and know to be

authentic, is a little girl, actually named Mary, with a
little lamb, “Betty,” that actually follows Mary to school at
Robinson, a small community in Kansas. Here Mary is sprint-
ing up the steps with Betty in close pursuit. Naturally, the
lamb isn’t allowed in school, except for special occasions.

The girl is Mary Kern, 13, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jess
Kern, of Robinson, and the lamb was given Mary by friends
in the country. Betty also accompanies Mary downtown to the
post ofﬁce, the grocery stores, and other places. Everyone in
Robinson is kind to Betty and the lamb is unafraid. Last
summer Mary and her lamb made a trip to New York to
appear on a radio program. VIRG HILL

Page 15

v‘.,....:_—
_. - . - _, .
V ‘. f"): ~..*"P‘

_ v “an; . =_- -_
it. ,~:'3~:."'.~'\:-"‘

o

\
' 4- .. I
.355. 59;. mu;-

1:9

”A:
‘ ., .‘,

:‘
Q."
$5 -

.-
V ‘7
3:: rug» ”Eur. ‘-

Y"

. we; var ‘
ﬁx». was.

- W“. .‘szr-m‘ ..

w"; . 3-217" J
wwwmv:

-. ""W 41 ’
‘ Igg'g‘it’yr-s ~33}.
-‘ -.-..~ .-- _.. '-_e ‘
ﬁvaaa-ﬁi‘rnm

.
.
“v

.{V‘ .314
.u-a- ‘
_ - !- "I:‘—‘

x ski-2‘ ”3'

au’ﬂ’aw 2' ‘

€34-36Qf-ﬂ s‘

. .
, 13‘1c

(I - vl'

aria-'3 1.2-?

yr}

8‘ .
.‘Ir

“I”. .. .
_ ,v "f?! ._)
a whk .. v0. Iii-ha

 




 

 

Aug.1940 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page127

 

 

 

 

 

To My Puppy
RAMONA ROBERTS

You’re a playful little puppy,
Chasing round and round, in glee;
Sprawling, rolling, tumbling, growling,
Just as dear as you can be.

You’re a darling little puppy,
Fat, and comical to see;

As you chew up my old slipper,
Heedless, naughty, as can be.

You’re a loving little puppy,
Tired, now, as you can be;

While your rough tongue licks my ﬁngers,
And your eyes just worship me.

“A Big Goose”

ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

T HERE is no doubt in anyone’s mind as to what is meant
if he is addressed as a “big goose.” If there should be,
deﬁnition number two in the dictionary will settle it. It means
a simpleton.

Yet very few of our expressions are less appropriate. A
goose is anything but a simpleton in bird life. Indeed, one of
our ﬁnest nature study writers has classed it as probably the
most intelligent of birds, not even excepting the crow, whose
canniness is well known.

In the ﬁrst place, the goose has a well—ordered family life.
Goose and gander mate for life, are devoted to one another,
take evident pride in their offspring and discipline their broods
with ﬁrmness and kindness.

Watch the stately procession as it marches from the barn-
yard to a near-by brook. Mother Goose takes the lead, fol-
lowed by the goslings, the gander coming on behind to see
that no harm befalls his family.

 

THREE WISE GRAY GEESE

 

Mother Goat and Quintuplets

BERNARD L. KOBEL

NOWBALL,” the pet goat owned by Gus S. Tringos of

Hutchinson, Kansas, recently did something very rare
in the goat kind by giving birth to quintuplets. It is regarded
as rare in the species as it is in the human kind and hence, in
goat circles, Snowball and her babies have been a sensation.

Mr. Stringos and Virginia, his 13—year-old daughter, ﬁnd it
hard to keep from petting the quints which, incidentally, they
have named after the Dionne quintuplets. In other words,
they are “Cecile,” “Marie,” “Yvonne,” “Annette,” and
“Emilie.” Doesn’t the mother goat stand up proudly, seem-
ing to say, “Not many mothers have as nice a family as mine.”

Let a small boy, or indeed a large one, undertake to catch
a gosling and see what will happen. With an angry hiss, the
gander will dart forward, probably seize him by the trouser
leg and hold him fast while he beats him with his wings, and
this beating is no joke. The wings are strong enough to lash
one black and blue.

On account of their intelligence, geese are easily trained and
quickly learn to respond to different calls directing them where
to go or come. They are very obedient.

Many persons have made. pets of geese and they are devoted
and loyal. Mrs. Comstock, in her book on nature study, tells
an interesting story of a little boy who had a pet goose as his
constant companion. The boy fell ill and the goose moped and
refused its food. When all coaxing failed to lighten its de—
spondency, it was put beneath the window of the boy’s room.
He was wheeled to the window so he could look out and call
to the goose. At once the bird cheered up and began to eat,
but it refused to leave the place beneath the window till its
young master had recovered enough to play with his pet again.
We think of such loyalty as characteristic mainly of dogs.

Intelligence, a ﬁne sense of responsibility to family, obedi-
ence to authority, loyalty and devotion in friendship—the wise-
acres who dubbed the “big goose” a simpleton, might'stop and
think and proﬁt by its example. /

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1940

Welcome to the Birds

RENA STOTENBURGH TRAVAIS

Welcome back to lawn and park,
Robin, blackbird, meadowlark,
Let my garden be your goal,
Warbler, sparrow, oriole,

Seek your trellis nest again,
Titmouse, pipit, chat and wren,
Sing your song at break of day,
Yellowhammer, bunting, jay,
Swing where cherry blossoms drift.
Catbird, grosbeak, flicker, swift,
Send your song across the dale,
Linnet, woodthrush, nightingale.

Welcome back, the sun is bright,
Skylark, skimmer, swallow, kite,
You were not by miles deterred,
Sora, skua, hummingbird.

At no visitor I balk,

Jaeger, wryneck, wheatear, hawk,
Now the time for song is ripe,
Stonechat, woodpecker and snipe,
Come to houses I have built,
Flycatcher and ﬁnch and stilt.

Glimpses of the Seed-Eaters

ALVIN M. PETERSON

THOUSANDS of birds of six species—
junco, tree sparrow, English sparrow,
goldﬁnch, cardinal and bob white—consti-
tute the main host of a vast weed-seed-
eating army that is busy early and late all
winter long, eating and destroying unbe-
lievable numbers of weed seeds and saving
farmers and gardeners much work, worry
and expense.

The snowﬂake is a noted weed-seed eater,
but some winters it is to be seen, others
not. When snowﬂakes are in evidence, they
are to be found about ﬁelds and meadows
near tall weeds, feasting upon their seeds.
The birds are found in ﬂocks and fre-
quently take to their wings and wheel while
in close formation, ﬂying rapidly and giv—
ing one an interesting exhibition. By Feb-
ruary, too, the horned lark usually is back.
Horned larks, however, are not found in
ﬂocks. Sometimes all one sees is a lone bird
that spends most of its time in ﬁelds where
weeds are numerous. More often there are
two of the birds, and they ﬂit from one
bare spot to another, or one patch of tall
weeds to the next, the male meanwhile
singing snatches of his “chip, chip-a-chee-
chee” song.

The cardinal is to be seen all winter long.
Cardinals are to be seen singly or in pairs
during the spring, summer and autumn,
but, in winter, they often are found in
small ﬂocks. They live to a considerable
extent upon wild berries in winter, fre-
quently visiting us and feeding upon the
dark-blue berries that Cling to our ﬁve-
leaved ivy vines, or upon the frozen and
withered grapes of some wild-grape vines
near the yard. There are a number of
stately hackberry trees a short distance oﬂ",
which uusally are well stocked with berries
in winter and hence a favorite rendezvous
for cardinals and other birds such as rob-
ins, evening grosbeak, cedar waxwings and
others. Aside from berries, however, the chief
winter food of the cardinal is weed seeds.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

WEED-SEED EATERS

We frequently see companies of cardinals
in patches of tall weeds, feasting upon their
seeds, during periods of severe winter
weather. Sometimes the birds are alone,
but more often one ﬁnds them associating
with juncos, goldﬁnches, English and tree
sparrows.

The bob white also is a famous weed-
seed eater, though it varies this diet with
waste grain, some wild berries, and acorns.
Frequently, during the long winter months,
I glance across the ﬁelds and catch sight
of a ﬂock of these birds, walking or run-
ning briskly from one patch of weeds to
another and feasting upon weed seeds. We
have long fed bob whites corn from a bare
patch of ground east of the house. But no
matter how well we have kept them sup-
plied with corn, they have occasionally wan-
dered off into the garden and eaten weed
seeds, or stopped to glean wild grapes from
a grape vine near their feeding-place.

The goldﬁnch, junco, tree and English
sparrows, however, are the most consistent
seed eaters, living almost wholly upon weed
seeds in winter. I often pass an old weedy
ﬁeld when on my way to town, where gold-
ﬁnches love to forage. The little birds cling
to the weeds, peck vigorously at their seed
heads, and utter their “swee-eet” notes.
Occasionally one takes to its wings, ﬂies off
a short distance in graceful arcs, and there
resumes its feeding, punctuating its brief
ﬂight with a snatch of its “per-chic-o-ree.”
These glimpses of the goldﬁnch always
prove a delight. But the glimpse I like
best is the one I so often catch on a winter
morning, when one ﬂies over in a wavy way
and calls “per-chic-o-ree,” as much as to
say: “Good morning! How are you? Here
I go. I’m on my way to a patch of weeds
to have breakfast.”

With the goldﬁnches may be slate-colored
juncos, tree sparrows and English spar-
rows. The juncos often utter their con-
tented “cheu, cheu” notes when feeding,

 

THE SNOWBUNTINGS ARE NOTED

Page 55

and sometimes one hears sharp,
clicking notes, either because they
are angry or alarmed. They are
to be seen almost daily, on the
snow b e n e a t h weeds, in waste
places, and about thickets. Tree
sparrows usually are to be seen in
scattered ﬂocks in places similar
to those frequented by juncos. On
bright days one hears much of
their pleasant “too-lay-it,” sweet,
tinkling notes that have been lik-
ened to “sparkling frost crystals
turned to music.”

That brings us to the English
sparrow. This bird does much good
in rural areas in winter, doing its
full share to destroy the countless
weed seeds to be found every-
where. Almost daily, in mid-winter,
I see large ﬂocks of these birds in
patches of weeds, eating weed
seeds. Last winter, after a particu-
larly heavy snow, I found a great
ﬂock on a near-by hillside over-
grown with weeds. The birds made
a pretty sight as they settled upon
the snow, sat in a compact com-
pany, picked up weed seeds, and
feasted in spite of the bitter
cold.

Two New Birds

LAURA ALICE BOYD

HE Academy of Natural Science in

Philadelphia announces that one of
their collectors has found a new turkey-like
bird in the jungles of Bolivia. This new bird
weighs between eight and ten pounds and
has a three-inch horn growing out of its
forehead. This horn which is grayish-blue
in color, has given the bird its name, uni-
corn bird.

In speaking of this discovery Rodolphe
Meyer de Schauensee, one of the curators
of birds at the Academy says, “The mys-
tery surrounding this turkey-like bird 1s
great, particularly in View of the fact that
it is edible. Few edible lblI’dS escape the
natives of a South American jungle. That
it should have remained unknown in a rela-
tively well-explored portion of the country
is additionally strange.” .

It has been twenty-one years s1nce a new
species of bird has been discovered in the
United States but recently Mr. Karl W.
Haller, ornithologist at Bethany College,
has announced such a ﬁnd in the “pan-
handle” of West Virginia. Both male and
female 'birds were found but at some d1s-
tance from each other. The 1bird is a war-
bler whose song resembles that of the Par-
ula warbler but whose color is more like
the yellow-throated wanbler. It has an olive
yellow patch on the back, a bit of wh1te
on the tail and a trace of :brown on the
ﬂanks. Its song is described as “a rapid
buzzing trill, ascending the scale and drop-
ping oﬂ' at the end, repeated quickly tw1ce
in succession.” The new comer has been
named Sutton’s warbler.

 

An owl’s eggs are as round as a billiard
ball.

A crow, supposed to be the farmer’s
enemy, actually eats 100 grasshoppers at
a meal, and eats several tlmes a day.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page56
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Fined for Cropping Dogs’
Ears

URING the early days of February the

Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals secured two con-
victions for cropping of dogs’ ears, under
the Massachusetts law making that illegal.
Two ﬁnes—one of twenty-ﬁve dollars and
one of ten dollars—were imposed by the
court. The following editorial appeared in
The Christian Science Monitor after the
trial:

“Humane men and women will applaud
Agents Fred T. Vickers and Charles E.
Brown of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
whose alertness resulted in the discovery
that fraudulent veterinary certiﬁcates had
been issued by a man who was doing a
large business in cropping dogs’ ears illeg-
ally. The man was ﬁned in two courts.
The Massachusetts law does not permit the
cruel practice of cutting dogs’ ears to suit
owners’ fancy, and forbids the exhibiting
of dogs so mutilated, unless a veterinarian
certiﬁes that such cropping was ‘reason—
ably necessary.’ A few states commendably
have followed Massachusetts’ example.
Others would elevate their standards and
do a kindness to man’s faithful friend in
taking a similar step.”

From Tennyson’s “Becket”

A beggar, once having brought to Thom-
as Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury, his
suffering dog whose paws had been cut off
by one of the King’s verdurers, said, ‘ I ha’
carried him ever so many miles in my
arms, and he licks my face and moans and
cries out against the King.” Here is the
Archbishop’s reply:

“Better thy dog than thee. The King’s
courts would use thee worse than thy dog
—they are too bloody. Were the Church
king, it would be otherwise. Poor beast,
poor beast! set him down. I will bind up
his wounds with my napkin. Give him a
bone, give him a bone! Who misuses a dog
would misuse a child—they cannot speak
for themselves. Past help! his paws are
past help. God help him!”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

No Grand National Here

ORSE-RACING is one of man’s most

ancient sports. Homer writes about it,
the Far East has left its story carved in
stone, Greeks and Romans cheered and
shouted as the chariots and horses thun-
dered down the course.

But what about the horse? How far is
the horse the victim of cruel treatment at
the race track? Cruelty in one form or
another has been more or less a feature of
nearly all horse-racing, particularly where
races are run for money. Much always
has and always will depend upon the
nature of the race and upon the men who
own and handle the horses.

One celebrated horse—race stands out
above all others for the appalling cruelty
associated with it and involved in its very
character. It is the steeple-chase race
known as the Grand National at Aintree,
England. This is a race occurring annu-
ally in which the horse, to say nothing of
the rider, is subjected at once to an ex-
hausting physical and mental strain and to
jump over water and other hazards which
may, and often do, mean death or fatal
injury. The course is a little over four and
one—half miles in length. The jumps are so
perilous that we know hardened horsemen
who cannot witness it and will not even
watch its reproduction upon the screen
because of the horses and the riders that
go down in crash after crash at some of
the jumps.

We have taken it for granted that the
Royal S. P. C. A. would have stopped the
cruelties connected with this Grand Na—
tional if it had been possible, lbut imagine
that this sport is too popular in English
life to have its special features curtailed.

Shall this type of horse-race be planned
for in this country? It is being discussed
among a certain class of horse-racing
people. What will the humane societies of
this land say about it should an attempt
be made to introduce it here? We are con-
ﬁdent we speak for them all when we say
that it would be opposed by every means
in our power. Furthermore, we believe
the anti-cruelty laws of this country should
forbid it, for we have such laws, one of
which says, “He who overdrives, overworks,
or procures an animal to be overdriven or
overworked, or who wilfully authorizes or
permits it to be subjected to unnecessary
suffering or cruelty of any kind, shall be
punished by imprisonment for not more
than one year or by a ﬁne of not more than
Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars, or by both
such ﬁne and imprisonment.”

If subjecting a horse to its utmost speed
for four and one-half miles and to the
possibility of injury or death is not a
violation of such a law, we are certainly
mistaken.

Remember the free lecture by Thornton
W. Burgess, famous writer of bedtime ani-
mal stories, at the lecture hall of the Bos-
ton Public Library, Copley Square, at 3:30
P. M. on Humane Sunday, April 14, 1940.
Subject, “Friendly Folks Who Run. and Fly,”
illustrated with stereopticon slides and
moving pictures taken by Mr. Burgess. This
will be a leading feature inaugurating “Be

Kind to Animals Week,” April 15 to 20.

Apr. 191,0
“ Ducks Unlimited”

ORMER Governor Percival P. Baxter

of Maine received an invitation from
“Ducks Unlimited” to become a member
of that organization. His reply declining
membership was as follows:—

Jan. 30, 1940

Ducks Unlimited, Inc.
500 Fifth Avenue, New York City

I thank you for the literature you sent
me relating to “Ducks Unlimited” in which
you suggest that I become a member of
your organization. After reading that docu-
ment I write to say that I am not in sym-
pathy with your project. It seems to me
that about all you seek to accomplish is to
raise more ducks so that you may slaughter
them later on. To my mind that is far from
being a worthy purpose.

The “grand old sport of duck hunting”
as you term it, and as now quite generally
practiced, seems to me to lack all the quali-
ﬁcations of real sport. You call for “longer
open seasons,” “larger bag limits,” you
advocate decoys, batteries and feeding
grounds to entice the ducks near the guns.
That cannot properly be called sport, it is
pot-hunting. Those who indulge in such
practice are killers, not sportsmen.

I do not object if a man goes out as a
true sportsman and kills ﬁve or six ducks
for his own use, provided he gives the birds
a sporting chance to escape. But when I
hear of what so many of your “grand old”
duck hunters do, I am ashamed of them.
It would be well to incorporate such per-
sons into “Pot Hunters Unlimited.”

Many men I know pride themselves on
being conservationists, while all they seek
to do is to propagate game birds and ani-
mals so they may murder them later on.
Such persons do not know the meaning of
the word conservation.

Here in Portland, Maine, right within the
city limits, we have a Duck Sanctuary.
Thousands of these interesting creatures
come here and- enjoy protection. They are
so tame that countless automobiles r011 by
within one hundred feet of these ﬂocks
without disturbing them and people stop to
watch and study these waterfowl, they are
so fascinating. All over the world this
little sanctuary is known.

Recently I was in Australia and a man
who lives there, twelve thousand miles from
Portland, spoke of our Back Bay refuge.
That is Conservation.

The people who want only to kill, will do
well to remember that probably those of us
who enjoy seeing and studying our wild
life alive, far outnumber those who like to
kill and who take pride in having their
pictures taken surrounded by dead deer,
ducks and pheasants. We are organizing
too, but not under the banner of “Ducks
Unlimited.”

(Signed) PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

From the Blue Cross, the humane maga-
zine Of Shanghai, China, we take the fol-
lowing: “A gentleman would not stand the
killing of birds and animals if he could
hear their voices.” Thus says Confucius.
This is perhaps the only reference, it is
said, 'he ever made concerning man’s rela-
tion to animals.

 




um

z.»

 

 

mmeC>W< EBB

mam ‘
mg “mg gag
. .ng 3....mmmwww

. HIM IOWm—mm. Ow:ﬁmd<_>m =4 wOmHOZ. umwm Amwm umwm nmv

Em Z>mm>EmmmEm 82m:
mow Em mmm<mzdoz cm mwcmmﬁ.
E >z§>mm m Em >ZmEo>z
Ecz>2m mmco>doz monE

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 152

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should he addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

OCTOBER, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

There is one race—track, at least, in New
England which is doing what it can to pre-
vent the entering into races those crippled
and unﬁt runners that have either served
their day or are so broken down that, no
matter how temporarily ﬁtted for the track,
they should never run again.

Letters still continue to come to us as the
result of the unfounded report of Eng—
land’s purpose to send to this country thou-
sands of valuable dogs for which homes
should be found during the war. We have
already stated in former issues of the
magazine that there was no truth in the
much—advertised plan.

In states where the law prohibits the
showing of horses with docked or set-up
tails, where these tails are mutilated since
our law forbidding the practice went into
effect six years ago, horse shows need con-
stant watching. This our agents are doing
here in Massachusetts. The exhibitor of a
horse with docked or set-up tail must carry
with him a certiﬁcate from the State House
to the effect that the operation was per-
formed more than six years ago.

A letter, written August 21, 1940, by that
widely-known humanitarian, Miss Lind—af-
Hageby, founder and president of The Ani-
mal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society,
with headquarters in London, says, “It is
a great joy to us here in England to know
of the thoughts and the sympathy which
are being given us by so many friends in
the United States. There is no despondency
here; we have intense belief in the right—

eousness of our cause and in coming Vic-
tory.”

In England the other day a group of
Canadian soldiers were clearing some rough
ground for making camp when they came
upon a weather-beaten grave slab. The
epitaph on the slab was for eight dogs,
buried years ago by a loving master. It
read in part: “Good-bye. May he who next
shall own my garden spare this tiny stone

. You sleep and dream, perchance, of
me.” The boys replaced the stone, cleared
away the weeds, graded up the plot, and
planted fresh ﬂowers upon it.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Be Kind to Animals Week

T was ﬁrst observed in 1915, at the sug—
ngstion of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Few movements in the humane world have
become so popular, so universal, so far—
reaching. Every year now, in April, thou-
sands of people who probably never other-
wise hear anything very special about kind--
ness to animals, have their attention di-
rected to this theme by hundreds of news—
paper notices, countless radio talks, ad-
dresses in public schools, and even from pas-
tor and Sunday-school teacher. Humane So-
cieties cordially compete with each other in
devising new methods to bring the lessons of
Be Kind to Animals Week into every home.

The twenty—seventh anniversary of the
Week will be observed in 1941 from April
21 to April 26, preceded by Humane Sun-
day, April 20. These dates are a triﬂe later
than those of the previous two years be-
cause of the need of keeping them from
conﬂicting with Easter and with Holy Week.
It is not too early to begin to plan for these
Observances which usually mean the high
water mark of the year’s humane efforts.
Every Society should ponder the question,
What can we do to make the 1941 celebra-
tion more impressive and more successful
than that of any previous year? Neces-
sarily many “true and tried” methods will
be repeated, and with good results, but those
with initiative and imagination will ﬁnd
some new ways in which to reach the mul—
titude with the gospel of kindness to ani-
mals during these red letter days of late
April. We shall be glad to publish in these
columns, between now and next April, any
outstanding suggestions that may help the
various Humane Societies in planning the
1941 campaign.

Only a Wren

It is greatly to the credit of a telephone
construction crew, about to erect a new pole
in Pittsﬁeld, Massachusetts, that, discover-
ing a mother wren with three little babies
was keeping house in the old pole, they, so
not to disturb the nest, lashed a section of
the old pole retaining the nest securely to
the new pole. Then the top and bottom of
the old pole were cut away leaving the wren
home where it had been. Not until the
young wrens were able to take care of
themselves was the section of the old pole
unlashed and taken away.

How the Copies are Used

How copies of Our Dumb Animals are
used to spread the gospel of kindness is
told vividly in this letter, recently received
from a subscriber in Wisconsin:

Editor, Our Dumb Animals,

Dear Sir: I wish to express my appreci-
ation of the monthly arrival of‘ your splen—
did magazine to my address, and to tell you
that after reading it myself I pass it on to
our Public Library, where the librarian
tells me she has been able to interest some
otherwise disinterested persons, in the acts
of the Humane Society, and children in
bird and animal study.

Some older copies have been given to a
country school teacher who said she found
them very much help in interesting her
pupils in the study of wild life.

Oct. 1940

Humane Education and
Spiritual Values

HOUGH many an educator looks upon

what is called “Humane Education” as
a more or less trivial affair, it is not a
sentimental experiment. It is one of the
ﬁnest and most Vital things that civiliza—
tion has ever fostered. Its inﬂuence is so
far—reaching and so potent for good that it
becomes one with religious education and
is a most essential part of it.

Humane Education, while recognizing the
value of scientiﬁc, literary, and philosophi-
cal training, seeks to go deep enough into
the life of the younger generation to reach
the home of those emotions and impulses
which are the determining factors in the
development of human character.

Kindness to animals uplifts and ennobles
every human soul, and it should be rooted
and grounded in the heart of every child.
It teaches a child to be strong, to protect
God’s weak and helpless creatures, and
shows him the happiness to be found in the
love and devotion of our four-footed friends
which have hearts full of affection for those
who treat them with intelligent kindness.
A child who is allowed to torment and
abuse animals will grow up with no regard
for the feelings of others, and will be in-
clined to tyrannize over and bully those
weaker than himself.

Humane education should have its proper
place in the curriculum of our schools and
colleges and should go hand in hand with
all other intellectual advancement, if this
world is to be made a better place in which
to live. Teaching and training young people
in their duty and right relationship towards
others, both human and sub-human, is the
best possible way to eliminate man-made
evils of cruelty, crime, warfare, selﬁshness
and fear.

Wistful Ones

Every year this sad little army of aban-
doned animals is to be found at summer
resorts, searching in all their accustomed
haunts for the families they have come to
love and trust. The families do not return,
however, and each day the once-favored dog
or cat grows a little more gaunt and a little
more hopeless. After a while, if they are
fortunate, agents from the local Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals gather
them up, and those for whom homes cannot
be found are mercifully put to sleep. But if
they are not picked up they drag out a
wretched existence.

If you cannot take your pet with you,
won’t you arrange for its care before you
leave, either by ﬁnding a new home for it
or delivering it to a Humane Society? Do
not betray the trust of your faithful friend.
Your pet depends on you.

Wild Life Increasing

According to an exchange, a big-game
census taken in the 158 national forests
shows a present total of 1,742,000 antelope,
bear, deer, elk, moose, mountain goats and
bighorn sheep, as compared with 1,493,000
the year previous.

“The lack of humane education is the
principal cause of crime.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

MARCH 1940

 

 

M. S. P. C. A. AGENT FEEDING DUCKS ON MUDDY RIVER, BOSTON

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY

FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELT Y

TO ANIMALS g2 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 




 

Feb. 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page31

 

 

 

  

Chiekadees

LOUISE DARCY

I like the sound in winter trees

Of cheerful, chirping chickadees.

They have so much to tell each other,
With lots of feathered fuss and bother.

They venture down and crowd around
The crumbs I scatter on the ground,
Then flutter back to winter trees,
The friendly, cheerful chickadees.

In a copy-book which George Washington used when a
schoolboy was found this rule: “Labor to keep alive in your
breast that little spark of celestial ﬁre,—conscience.” In
issuing orders against the use of profanity in the army,

General Washington spoke of “that unmeaning and abomi—
nable custom, swearing.”

The Goat’s Queer Diet

FRED CORNELIUS

@F course goats can not eat tin cans, but they do often eat
the labels from cans. And they eat old rags and pieces of
newspaper and all kinds of weeds and grass. I have often
seen Angora goats eat prickly pear cactus, spines and all.

Up in the mountains of New Mexico, juniper trees grow
profusely on the mesas and mountain sides. Goats are very
fond of juniper berries and eat them from the trees as high
as they can reach. Then the herd boys knock the berries from
the higher branches with long poles for the goats to pick up
from the ground. These berries seem to be the goats” favor-
ite food in that region.

The long wool of the Angora goat is called mohair. It is spun
into thread for weaving heavy woollen blankets and cloth for
clothing. The goats are sheared as sheep are, in the spring. If
the shearing is done too early and a cold spell follows it, the
goats suffer severely from the cold.

 

GOATS FEEDING ON THE PRICKLY PEAR CACTUS

  

 

 

)l 1\k\\m-.u_..... - m... "ll

“Benny” Woodchuck Grows Fast

HENRY H. GRAHA‘M

OMEWHERE “Benny” Woodchuck had lost his parents.
Whatever happened to them no one knew, but Ellen
Brown and Harry Foster, who discovered Benny wandering

 

FEEDING “BENNY” WITH AN EYE DROPPER

through the forest, felt sorry for him. He was such a little
fellow to be without any mother or father.

“Wouldn’t it be terrible not to have any mother and daddy
around all the time? How lonesome Benny must be, out
here all by himself,” they thought.

So they took Benny home with them and placed him in a
big, roomy box. They knew the tiny woodchuck would be
safe there.

At ﬁrst Benny was so frightened he could not eat. But
Ellen and Harry were very kind to him. Soon he began to
nibble bits of food from their hands.

Benny liked milk best of all. It was as good for him as
for boys and girls. At ﬁrst he was fed with a medicine
dropper. He would put his chubby little paws on the milk—
ﬁlled glass and drink all he could hold.

Within two weeks after they brought him in from the for-
est Benny nearly doubled in size. Then he became a full—
grown woodchuck, able to take care of himself. Knowing
he would be happier if allowed to roam at will, Ellen and
Harry liberated him. But Benny never went far from the
ranch and wanted to be their friend always, because they
had been so kind to him.

The twenty-sixth annual Be Kind to Animals Week will be
observed through-out the nation from April 15 to 20, 1940,
with Humane Sunday, April 14. In connection with this
event, the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, offers prizes of
medals and subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals for the best
posters, illustrating kindness to animals, made by pupils of
public and parochial schools in Massachusetts. The contest
closes March 23. Those interested» should send to Secretary,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for the special circular giv-
ing full particulars.

 

 

 

 

 

 




JUNE 1940

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELT Y

TO ANIMALS g? THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 




 

 

Page 16

Annual Poster Contest

N entirely new medal has been manu-

factured especially for the awards in
the annual school poster contest of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., which will close
on March 23, 1940.

Medals with blue ribbons are oﬁered as
ﬁrst prizes; those with red ribbons, as sec-
ond prizes; and annual subscriptions to
Our Dumb Animals for honorable mentions.
The liberal distribution of prizes in all the
competing schools is shown by the fact that
last season, when 6,993 posters were en-
tered by pupils representing 500 schools in
159 different cities and towns, there were
1,021 ﬁrst awards, 1,178 second; and 1,429
honorable mentions.

1. The contest is open to pupils in gram-
mar grades above the third and in junior
high and high schools both public and
parochial—in Massachusetts only, and
closes positively on March 23, 1940, results
to be announced during Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 15-20. Many of the best of the
posters will be on exhibition in the Young
People’s Room of the Boston Public Library,
Copley Square.

2. No more than ﬁve posters may be
submitted from any one room, and one only
from each pupil, teachers to make the selec-
tion. Schools and, so far as possible, grades,
are judged independently of each other.

3. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut—
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
etc.), silhouette, water—colors or charcoal
may be used. Color adds greatly to the
effectiveness.

4. DRAWINGS, ON LIGHT CARD-
BOARD OR HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE
NOT LESS THAN 12 x 18 INCHES, NOR
MORE THAN 18 x 24 INCHES and
should be SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled),
all charges prepaid, to reach the MASSA-
CHUSETTS S. P. C. A. not later than
March 23, 1940.

5. In the upper right-hand corner, on
the back of each poster, must be written
legibly the contestant’s name, WITH FULL
HOME ADDRESS, also number of the
grade, name and address of the school, and
name of the teacher. Use white ink or
paste a white slip with names and addresses
when dark cardboard or paper is used.

6. All posters receiving awards become
the property of the Society. Other posters
will be returned only if request is made at
time of sending and return postage en-
closed, or arrangements made to call.

7. Address all posters plainly, Secre-
tary, Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

[N THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

BY THE SIDE OF THE ROAD, Harriet
R. Greenland.

Here is a volume just ﬁlled with verse
on animal subjects, some of which appeared
originally in Our Dumb Animals, all wr1t-
ten for juvenile readers. It is in three
parts: verse for older children, verse for
younger children, and verse on wild animal
life. At the end of Part I is a compilation
of “Attributes of Worth,” followed by
“Humaneness,” a play in verse for children.
It is all intended to teach children the
lesson of kindness to animals. In the In-
troduction the author says: “It is essential
to learn this lesson of consideration and
sympathy toward those who repay us by
gratitude, affection and worthy service. To
realize the mental and physical suffering
of oppressed creatures, awakens in our
minds a broader understanding, and a
kindlier attitude toward humanity.”

This book will be especially helpful to
teachers in connection with Be Kind to
Animals Week celebrations.

186 pp. $1.50. Christopher Publishing
House, Boston.

ON EASY STREET, Daniel
Robins.

This collection of verse, called on the
jacket “Poems of Hope and Happiness,”
contains many delightful selections, several
of which relate to birds. One of the most
pleasing is the title poem, with its surprise
ending that it is a bird who lives “On
Easy Street.” Other selections refer to
curlews, Robin Red‘breast (state bird of
Michigan), young robins, and the tern.
Besides there are poems of Christmas, of
church bells in the country, and of many
phases of nature. There are a number of
full-page illustrations by Lottie B. Turner.

117 pp. $2.00 Christopher Publishing
House, Boston.

LIFE OF FRANCIS OF ASSISI IN
SILHOUETTES, Sister Fides Shep-
person, Ph.D.

Maurice

Sister Shepperson, whose “ C l o i s t e r
Chords” have often appeared in Our Dumb
Animals, tells the story of St. Francis from
boyhood to death in easy ﬂowing style. It
seems, almost, as though she had been able
to project her mind into the serene sure-
ness enjoyed by St. Francis during his life,
yet she delineates with sure strokes the
struggles of the saint in the transforma-
tion from mere human frailty to that
holy personality which the world honors.

To all animal lovers, of course, St. Fran-
cis is an object of veneration. You will like
him no less as a man among men when
you read this book.

64 pp., paper covers. 50 cents. American
Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

“ In making your wxll, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angeli Memorial Animal
flospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital," as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Jan. 191,0

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES
It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.
96 96 96 96 96
The management of our invested funds is

a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

“Washington Selects the Site of the
Nation’s Capitol"

That is the title of the colored (Osborne)
picture on the new

HUMANE
CALENDAR
FOR 1940

It shows General Washington, his aide and
attendants, all mounted on beautiful horses.

The leaves of the pad contain an entirely
new selection of memory gems and suitable
quotations. Order now. Special prices for
Societies Wishing their own imprint.

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve

for $1.80, postpaid.

AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE ALIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston

 




 

July, 1940

 

THE EXAMINATION ROOM

than $1 for each animal examined. This
deﬁcit is made up from funds of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A.

Relationship to Veterinarians
and Veterinary Practice

Considered abstractly, many veterina—
rians must feel that this huge veterinary
institution, which handles over 40,000 cases
annually, must take a great deal of practice
away from local veterinarians. Speciﬁc con-
tradiction of this theory is offered by the
fact that there has been an 80 per cent in-
crease in the number of practitioners in
Metropolitan Boston in the past twelve
years, while the population has increased
only slightly. These veterinarians are all
recent graduates and do small—animal work
primarily. Explanation of this phenomenon
must lie in the fact that the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. and the American Humane Edu—
cation Society spend thousands of dollars
yearly in educating people in kindness to,
and care of, animals.

The very presence of this imposing struc—

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ture on Longwood Avenue—within one of
the country’s largest medical centers,
and dedicated to man’s humanity to man
and animals—constantly reminds all who
see it to give proper care to their ani-
mals. The very creeds of the twin hu-
mane societies are such that persons are
constantly reminded by their teachings
to seek veterinary advice for their ail-
ing animals, and to practice preventive
measures for those in good health. It is
undoubtedly true that the indifferent or
incompetent veterinarian ﬁnds the hos-
pital a great competitor——and may such
always be the case! However, he would
also blame his more competent colleagues
were there no Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. Of course, the widespread dis-
appearance of the horse has greatly de—
creased the private practice of the city
veterinarian.

Critics of the institution often fail to
consider that it gives a living to the vet_
erinarians which it employs, who are prac-
ticing their calling and who doubtless would
be competition whether or not the hospital
existed.

Service to Veterinary Medicine

As an institution devoted to medical and
surgical care of animals for the animal’s
sake, the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
is in the enviable position of being free
from political domination; and with sufﬁ«
cient subsidy to allow its staff to develop
and improve certain phases of clinical medi-
cine free from the specter of healing ani-
mals with a motive of proﬁt. In keeping
with the aims of the parent body on hu-
mane education, medical or surgical inno—
vations evolved or perfected by the hospital
staff are given freely to the profession at
meetings and clinics and through the vet—
erinary literature.

There is a constant stream of telephone
inquiries for veterinary aid which are re-
ferred to competent local practitioners, with

THE OPERATING ROOM

Page 103

the feeling that in this way the animal may
be aided in the best manner. In turn, vet-
erinarians throughout New England feel
free to refer to the hospital, animals for
fracture, treatment, diagnosis, or special
surgery in which staﬁ members have ac-
quired special proﬁciency.

A Marc at Springtime

E. R. GRANTHAM
Her hoofs clipped the soft and springing
turf,
Her breath stirred the gentle, fragrant
air,

Her tail flicked the plunging, frothing surf.
Oh, she was a mad and drunken mare!

Her dark eyes mirrored the dawning sun,
Her sides rubbed the bark of the green
young trees,
She circled the ﬁelds at a breathless run,
And her long mane tossed on the flowing
breeze.

She neighed to a distant, sparkling star,
Her slim legs ached to stride the moon.
In her dreams she pulled Phoebus’ golden
car
Across the skies in the dazzling noon.

But a long-legged foal with a fuzzy tail
Who galloped the pasture in childish play,
And rattled the oats in a broken pail
Stole her giddy dreams and her heart
away.

The Old Horses’ Home

EDNA TRADEWELL

SPENT my vacation at the ranch home

of Kate and Dan Long. The Longs lived
prosperously quite in contrast to their less
successful neighbors. They drove me on a
tour of their ten ranches, showing
what to me were many things of
interest as the city had always been
my home.

We stopped by a large fenced-in
ﬁeld. Dan got out of the car, followed
by Kate and me. He leaned pensively
on a fence-post. I saw nothing un-

usual save a few horses, scattered
here and there.
“This is the old horses’ home,”

Kate smiled.

“Look at old ‘Rego,’ ” Dan pointed.
“I used to go to see Kate, before we
were married, with Rego. Fine horse.
Remember the buggy, Kate, and the
robe with the big red poinsettias in
it?” he mused.

“This is the way I ﬁgure,” he went
on. “They served me well and they
merit the last years of their life in
the freedom of the ﬁeld, on good feed,
without having to work.”

As we drove on to the next ranch,
the old horses’ home lingered in my
mind. I was wondering if there
wasn’t a subtle connection between
Dan Long’s mercy for his animals
and his unusual number of loyal
friends, his prosperity even through
the depression, and his thorough hap-
piness and well-being.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

! Page 128 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Aug.1940

 

 

l TheWorkat Fez IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY The Omaha Convention
. HAT is going to happen in Morocco, GREAT WINGS AND SMALL, Frances P LAMS aref rapidly. Vmaturing for the
for the good or ill of the American E. Clarke. proglam 0 the Sixty-fourth annual

Fondouk at Fez, no man at the moment This is another excellent collection of meeting Bf tﬁieldAmerican Humane Assoc1a-
knows. If all French possessions should “bird stories of our day” compiled by the thll,. tth‘ e we at Hotel Paxton, Omaha,
pass into the hands of Germany, that might well-known author, editor and proliﬁc con- Nebias a, .fiom September 23 to September
mean one thing. If Fez should continue tributor in the realm Of humane literature. 27, 1940. The ﬁist part of the convention
under the sovereignty of France, doubtless Miss Clarke is also the editor of several W111 be devoted to childrens work, With a
everything will go on as in the past. We popular anthologies abogt“animals which dinner Monday evening pres1ded .over by
are anxiously waiting to know what the include “Cats—and Cats, Valiant Dogs, Judge Herbert Rhoades of the Family Rela-

- “Gallant Horses ” and “Wild Animals.” By tions Court of Omaha Other s k t
future has in store. . . ’ . . pea ers a
this series she has rendered a ﬁne serv1ce - ,. , - . .
Here is a report of some of the ﬁgures, to the animal cause. the childiens sess10ns Will be Mrs. Waltei

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . . Ste hen John F. Smither r. .
looking back as far as 1935 and up to the A great variety of birds form the themes Wehtzel, U S Sen t Eds, Dd gmk F'RH'
present. of these well-told stories. Here are a few: W S 'th ' d M,.a 01" W31" 111" e, 0y

1’ 1935 $.. 543 condor, trumpeter swan, flamingo, bird of - m1 , an 15- Blanche 800“ Lee.

Total expenses for """ 2,898 paradise, ibis, crane, pheasant, eagle, pen— Of special interest will be the address by
Total expenses for i333 """ 4,158 guin, Wlld goose, raven,‘buzzard, blue Jay, Richard C. Craven on “Movies,” in which
Total expenses or ...... 0, 22 swallow, term-phoebe, Wild duck and wren. he will present his experiences of the past
Total expenses for 1938 ------ 0’9 Many d1st1ngu1shed writer-naturalists a 'k e t t' f th
T 1 f 1939 3699 _ , , , yeais w01 as a represenaive o e
ota expenses or """ ’ alredrepreseiited m thlSVWlIFCt Ogleitmrilm' Humane Association in California. Other
1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 C u ing suc names as 1 1am eer e, an topics for the animal section include “Com-

pany average. Devoe, Walter Prichard Eaton, Cherry . . . . . ,, b D' A
large animals 39 52-65 46-9 53-8 51-6 Kearton, T. Gilbert Pearson, Edward A. munity Anima101gan1aations, y 1; u-
Daily average, ‘ Preble, Alexander Rutledge, Herbert Rav— gust 0- Orthmann, pres1dent Of the Wiscon-
dogs ------ 7 7-65 8-8 6'1 3'2 enal Sass, Ernest Thompson Seton and a sin Humane Soc1ety; “Red Star Act1v1t1es,”
Put to Sleep“ 283 555 542 406 18 score of others no less famous. by Arnold M. Amundsen of the Humane
Up to the present, from all we can hear, _ So many fasc1nat1ng phases does bird- Society of Missouri; and “Preparation of
everything is going along as usual, the llfe present 130 readers Of all ages that thls an Annual Report,” by Dr. W. A. Young of
average amount of work being done in in— nev: and well—selected compilation W111 make the Anti-Cruelty Society, Chicago. Regional
spection 0f other FODdOUkS, and W01‘k at a S rong appea ' managers of the National Live Stock Loss
markets and other places where animals 332 pp. $2.50. The Macmillan Company, Prevention Board will be present and offer
may be found at markets 01' upon the New York. papers on various subjects connected with
streets. the handling of live stock. An exhibition of

i ' mounted specimens of animals killed by

. — l D s . - -
Report for May 3 ay In Funchal, Madeira automobiles Will be presented by Burling-
Daily average large animals 48.8 . . . ther fea-
Forage for same $ 4315 Through our correspondent in Madeira, 1161a? Schism; 01: Grtanhoy, 1:14.358 0d will be
gut t0 slfetn 10 i3: Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton, we learn that u1es an OplCS 0 e iscusse
5;?lgsgg‘eriégndogs 62 ' the. Society for the Protection of Domestic announced later.
Fvyrage for same t h t 631.2: Animals of Funchal, despite many discour-
ages, grooms, W8. C men, e C. . ° ° 0 o
Superintendent’s salary 100.00 agements, is making fair progress. 0 U f D U m b A I] 1 m a 1 S
veterinaries’ salaries 18-27 “What is satisfactory,” writes Mrs.
Motor ambulance upkeep 6.93 H ht w th . . . Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
Motonbicycles upkeep 2.59 011g 911, IS . 9 general apprec1ation 0f the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Sundries 27.54 the Soc1ety. Distinguished visitors to the Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Negvoxd,
' . - Massa h is tt . Boston Office: 180 Longwo v-
Actual operating expenses $266.43 1§Iandfhave lemarked upon the good condl‘ enue. cAlilderegs all communications to Boston.
Entries: 8 horses, 11 mules, 50 donkeys. tlon O the animals, WhICh has glven us TERMS
Exits: 8 horses, 12 mules, 52 donkeys. great pleasure. ’
Outpatients treated: 190 horses, 96 mules, 35 don- . . . . . One dollar per year. Postage free to any part Of
keys, 1 cow, 14 dogs... . A veterinarian is in daily attendance at the world.
Other Fondouks v1s1ted: 70, all native, Fondouks. the Soc1ety’s hospital. During 1939 the A11 dollar subscriptions sent direct_to the ofﬁce en-
SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Cases investi— receipts at the hospital exceeded the ex— ““9. the sender to memberShip in 91th“ Of our two
gated, 409; animals seen, 7,402; animals treated, 640; 81188 Eff t . d SOCletles'
animals hospitalized by us from above, 40; pack- p .S‘ 0.1. S W818 ma 6 to enforce regu" RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
saddles (infected) destroyed, 20; Arab-bits destroyed, laI’ IHSDGCUOD Of mules. New drinking- 0 I Y
19; transported in ambulance, 12; sent by Police . ° THE MIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION S C ET
Dept” 12. tioughs for animals were erected at con- OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P C A
, s1derable cost. Money for expenses of the ' i . .
TUESDAY lane 211383;:0W0’k U 1 k work was raised partially by auctions of 2cm“? tLlerJY $123 33 get”? tAnZual I“: g?)
, ay . . a. m. sua WOI‘ . ' ssoc1a e 1 e ssoc1a e nnua
French Police on duty at Bou Jeloud sent 1 mule to donated articles. and by a very succeSSful Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Hospital. 2.30 p.m. sent ambulance to transport a brldge and mahJong‘ tournament. .

sick dog (belonging to C01. Petitjean). At the re- In h . - Children’s 30-75
Quest of Dr. Larrouy, Municipal Vet. sent one man to t e 1939 report Of the SOClety We ﬁnd

. ' - b t to ALBERT
the Pound to put to sleep a mule in a very bad an apprec1at1ve reference to Mrs. HOUghton Checks and other payments :233’ Le sen d Avenue
condition and unable to rise. 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. who “is undoubtedly one Of the best and A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 0 ongwoo ,

 

 

Vet. visit, Dr. Bouguereau inspecting and numb ' - 130813011.
6 horses of public carriages, inspecting manymgiriltg3 mOSt valued frlends Of the FunChal S P. - h Ed't 180
patients, reporting all getting well. Animals in Hos- C. A..” Manuscrlpts should be addressed to t e 1 or,
pita]: 46. Longwood Avenue, Boston.
G. DELON, Superintendent
W
Aux111ary Acknowledges Gift . TO OUR FRIENDS
, _ . “TI“ making your will, hindly hear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Winchester Horse Show ASSOClatlon he Massachusetts Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
held its Horse Show on May 11. The Wln- eecond Incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the PreventiOn of Cruelty to Animals
Chester Branch Auxiliary of Fhe Massachu- m the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.
setts Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty H A“? lbequest eSPecially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel! Memorial Animal
to Animals 15 very appreCiative of the fact . °sPlta 51‘0““, nevertheless, made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven'
that it was the recipient of a liberal por- thong? Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
tion of the proceeds of the Show. hyeit OSpltal is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our I . FORM OF REQUEST
Dumb Animals” various articles and re- t hglve to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (01'
quest local editors to republish. Such COpies d2]: e Amerfcan Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
will be made good by us upon applicati on. a“ (01', If other Draperty, describe the Property).

.\

 

 

 

 

..,-—-4—.__...‘_.- _ . , ,,,., ,. > e; _ , ~77

 




 

      
     
   
   

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
. WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

wo RM . ,-
CAPSULES:
EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE

Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N—58_B

PARKE, DAVIS & CO., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 
 
   

 

 

 

“Washington Selects the Site of
the Nation’s Capitol”

That is the title of the colored

(Osborne) picture on the new

Ilunnanc:

(hﬂendar

For1940

It shows General Washington, his
aide and attendants, all mounted on
beautiful horses.

The leaves of the pad contain an
entirely new selection of memory
gems and suitable quotations. Order
now. Special prices for Societies
Wishing their own imprint.

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve

for $1.80, postpaid.

AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston

 

 

 

 

 

L011 Wlth * A

81076”? SKIN1

ex
elp rel1eV e
ilernally caueg-i
blel’mslﬂ‘eS ' ' . x-

  

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
Entertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINil—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

llumane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold—face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1930 and 19137, bound

volume ............................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................... $1. 00

Humane Calendar for 1940 .............. each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1. 00; $1. 80 per dozen
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ...$0 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ...... .50

The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow” .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small,50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. .$1.00 per 100

The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat ——- A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4.50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ......................... 50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of Gold, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $10.45
Trial ofthe Birds, play, 3cts. ea. ;12 for
25 cts. ................................ $2 00 per 100‘

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease. $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats 50“
The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “

Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat, ” post- -card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

I Knew She Was a Lady .............. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’S, cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7cts.

For Pity’ s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp... 1.00

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 “ “
A Wise Flsh ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ...... $0. 30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “
Films, pFakes and Facts, Helen Tr,eve1yan
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ ”
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp.

.50 per 100

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley..
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
The Humane Bulletin», for use in schools
96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts.; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. .......................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Free

Free

Free

each, 10 cts.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

cloth, 35 cts.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ..................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Sunday ....................... 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1. 50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach it ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty
A Talk with the Teacher ..............
Our Love for Animals, a short radio
address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ..........
Need of Humane Education Societies and
Methods of Forming Them ............ .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........

Band of Mercy

”Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So—
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant .............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ................................. $3.00 per 100

Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY. 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films
for Rent or Sale—

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem

and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital,

two reels

Both available in 16 and 35 mm.

Address
SECRETARY, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“THEY KNOW NOT”

An impressive novel with a New England set-
ting, by DR. GEORGE SANFORD FOSTER,
a well- known surgeon. From every sale the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will derive a sub-
stantial proﬁt. Price, $2. 50 per copy, postpaid
to any address. Use this form in ordering:

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Please send
Not” to

...... copies of “They Know

......................................
...................................
-

..................................
c o

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page104
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, horwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass, to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JULY, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Society’s Rest Farm

NLY those of our readers who have

visited our Rest Farm for Horses and
Shelter for Small Animals, at Methuen,
can appreciate the service that is rendered
there. The horses of many a poor owner,
tired and needing rest, can ﬁnd it there,
either at very little expense to its owner
or, where necessary, at no cost to him at
all. There too an “old favorite” may be
pensioned by its owner for as long as he
desires to have it cared for.

In addition, the ambulance in connection
with the Farm picks up lost and stray ani-
mals during the year; for example, in 1939.
the number was 1,756 animals.

In its very attractive cemetery there are

already Something like 1,200 small animals
buried.

War Horses for France

From the Women’s Pennsylvania Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
we have received information with regard
to the horses that, up to May 11, had been
shipped from Philadelphia to France. Des-
tinations, it seems, were Bordeaux and
Marseilles. The number of animals shipped
amounted to 4,105 horses and 596 mules—
total, 4,701.

From the United States Bureau of Ani-
mal Industry we have received word, since
the above was written, that 904 horses and
170 mules have been shipped from other
ports than Philadelphia during the present
ﬁscal year.

“Please Give Me a Home”

She was only a cheerful-looking little
mongrel. Tied to her collar was a note:
“Please, won’t somebody give me a home?
My master can no longer afford to feed me.”
Fortunately, “Peggy,” so they call her, fell
almost at once into the hands of Miss Flor-
ence Townsend, president of the San Ber-
nardino Humane Society, and word has
gone out to her master, if he can be found,
that the Society will gladly provide food
for her in the future if he will come and
get her. She gave every evidence of having
been well cared for. The note was soiled
and tattered, but it told its story.

OUR DUZVIB ANIMALS

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for April —- 30 Days

Daily average large animals 50.7
Forage for same $ 25.68
Put to sleep 9 1.60
Transportation 1.08
Daily average dogs 6.1 .
Forage for same 2.36
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 61.64
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 18.95
Motor ambulance upkeep 3.51
Motor bicycles upkeep 0.30
Sundries 31.56
Actual operating expenses $246.68

. Entries: 6 horses, 18 mules, 53 donkeys.
Exits: 6 horses, 11 mules, 52 donkeys.
Outpatients treated: 149 horses, 57 mules, 32 don-
keys, 5 dogs. '
Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Cases investi-
gated, 377; animals seen, 6,713; animals treated, 663;
animals hospitalized by us from above, 49; pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed, 28; Arab bits destroyed,
19; transported in motor ambulance, 11; sent by
Police Dept., 14.

One Day’s Work

THURSDAY, 18th. 7.30 A.M. Usual work. Two men
inspecting Souk e1 Khemis. Bringing in 2 mules,
destroying 1 infected pack-saddle. At the request of
Commissariat de Police, Ville Nouvelle, sent ambu-
lance to transport a donkey brought to Commissariat
by a French woman and slightly wounded on withers
by a needle. 1 P.M. to 3 P.M. went myself to Bab
Guisea inspection. Many animals in native fondouks.
Sent 6 donkeys and one mule to Hospital (two don-
keys in a bad condition and very lame transported
in ambulance). Destroyed one Arab bit. Men cleaning
grounds, and from 5 P.M. to 6 P.M. cleaning motor
ambulance. Animals in Hospital: 50.

G. DELON, Superintendent

The Goats Are Safe

The much-discussed destruction of a ﬂock
of harmless goats in the name of scientiﬁc
warfare—Heaven save the mark—is over.
The innocent goats never knew that any-
thing unusual had happened. Army medical
ofﬁcers said apparently not a single goat
experienced an extra heartbeat. The goat,

on the occasion, turned out to be Mr. Bar-
low himself.

We hope in the next issue of our maga-
zine to show the photograph of one of our
large wards in which have been installed,
so far as we know, the ﬁnest and most
sanitary glass kennels for dogs, the hope
being that ultimately all the wards may be
so equipped.

We are also now re-arranging the wait-
ing-room of the Hospital to eliminate as
far as possible any contact that dogs
brought to the Hospital may have one with
the other.

Seeing a report that a million dollars
was being raised to export to America pedi-
greed horses, dogs and other animal refu-
gees from war regions, we telegraphed to
the Bureau of Animal Industry at Wash-
ington asking if they had any knowledge
of this plan. A reply says, “We have no
knowledge of funds being sought to defray
cost importing animals from belligerent
countries.”

We wonder what ground there is for this
report.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angel] Memorial Animal HOSpital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a kennel
or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will insure
a suitable marker inscribed with donor’s
name. Terms of permanent endowment
of free stalls and kennels will be given upon
application to the Treasurer, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

July, 1940

From a Visitor to Japan

' HE Honorable Percival P. Baxter, for-

’ merly governor of Maine, recently re-
turned from Japan, tells us that he learned
that “each year the poultry dealers in Tokyo
have a large gathering which they all
attend, as a memorial service for the hens,
geese and other poultry that are annually
slaughtered by them in that city. The deal-
ers go to a shrine and have quite a service,
attended by large numbers of people.”

 

I;

 

MONUMENT TO “HACHIKO”

He also tells us the story about “Hach—
iko,” the faithful Japanese dog, and sends
us the picture of his monument which we
reproduce here.

Governor Baxter also included a clipping
from the Japanese Times, which states that
on a Sunday in April, this year, the entire
nation paid tribute to the gallant deeds of
horses on the Chinese fronts. It seems there
was a parade of more than 1,000 horses,
and the parade was participated in by all
army divisions of Tokyo.

Beware the Thieves!

That there are men, and sometimes
women, who are stealing both dogs and
cats—sometimes buying them and then sell-
ing them for experimental purposes—is
well-known among humane workers. To dis-
cover these people and punish them for
their thievery is almost impossible, al-
though occasionally one of them is caught
and punished. Those who prize the friend-
ship and companionship of their household
pets should give them every possible protec-
tion from these conscienceless dealers in
small animals.

0 O
o

The sixty-fourth annual meeting of the
American Humane Association will be held
in Omaha. Nebraska, from Monday, Sept.
23, to Friday, Sept. 27, 1940. The conven-
tion headquarters will be at Hotel Paxton.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 32

A Boy Who Loved Animals

ORE than a generation before the

ﬁrst Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals was started in the
United States (New York, 1866) Abraham
Lincoln, in the wilderness of Indiana, was
writing, in the language that later he was
to enrich by some of its choicest prose, his
ﬁrst composition, and it was on the sub-
ject of kindness to animals. We do not
ﬁnd that later he ever returned to this
subject in his writings or speeches. But
we do ﬁnd, in reading the books written
about him, many references to his own con—
duct in regard to the treatment of animals.
Several of these authentic anecdotes have
been published in these columns. Yes, he
did refer to the subject once more, very
brieﬂy but very eloquently, in that auto-
biographical gem which he prepared for
the Congressional Directory in 1847: “A
few days after the completion of his
eighth year,” he wrote in this short
sketch, “in the absence of his father, a
ﬂock of wild turkeys approached the log
cabin, and Abraham, standing inside, shot
through a crack and killed one of them.
He has never pulled trigger on any larger
game.”

Unfortunately we do not have preserved
to us just what the boy Lincoln wrote in
that ﬁrst composition, but we do have the
words of Carl Schurz, in his eloquent trib-
ute to Lincoln, that “seeing boys put a
burning coal on the back of a wood turtle,
he was moved to write on cruelty to ani-
mals.” And in the voluminous Life by
Nicolay and Hay (Vol. I, pp. 36-7) we
read: “It was also considered an eccentric—
ity that he hated and preached against
cruelty to animals. Some of his comrades
remember still his bursts of righteous
wrath, when a boy, against the wanton
murder of turtles and other creatures. He
was evidently of better and ﬁner clay than
his fellows, even in those wild and igno—
rant days.”

It was evidently to a somewhat later
period that Crittenden refers in his “Per—
sonal Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln”
(p. 348) when he recalls that “Once he
came upon six boys, each older than him-
self, who were drowning a kitten. He
bounded upon them like a panther, and one
after another the six went down under his
blows.” G. R.

If you call a tail a leg, how many legs has
a dog? Five? No; calling a tail a leg don’t
make it a leg. LINCOLN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1940

 

 

 

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay
you 6.5%—that is, $65 annu-
ally for each multiple of
$1 ,000. Correspondingly higher
rates for advancing ages up to
9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,

No fluctuations in rate of

income,

No commissions,

No legal expenses,

No inheritance taxes,

Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,

No waste of your estate by
a will contest.

The management of our in-
vested funds is a guarantee of
these Life Annuities.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C.

A., or the American Humane

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

ERE is a reproduction of the new BE

KIND TO ANIMALS poster for 1940.
It is designed by Morgan Dennis and beau-
tifully colored. Entirely different from
previous posters put out by the American
Humane Association, it is the ﬁrst one
where three colors have been used, and is
indeed a work of art.

The lettering is such that the poster may
be used any day in the year, though it is
especially adapted for display during BE
KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK, April 15 to
20. The size is 17 x 22 inches. The price
remains the same as in previous years, ri—
diculously low for so ﬁne a poster.

Orders for large quantities, or for copies
bearing the imprint of local societies
should be sent at once to the Association,
135 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y.
Orders for 100 or less may be sent to the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, at these prices,
postpaid:

Single copy .10 Twenty copies $1.00
Three copies .25 Seventy copies 3.00
Eight copies .50 100 copies 4.00

Please order early to avoid disappoint-
ment.

 

by it.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital 18 not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of . ...... . . .

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Education Society, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, will be
glad to furnish further details.

New Branch in Holyoke

UST as our magazine is going to press

we learn of the organization of a strong
Branch of our two Societies in Holyoke,
Massachusetts. Mrs. Aaron C. Bagg, deeply
interested in our work, gathered a group
of between one and two hundred on Wed-
nesday evening, January 10, for this pur-
pose. Dr. Rowley was present and addressed
the gathering. There is promise of ﬁne
work being done by this Branch.

Mrs. Bagg was elected president, and one
of the board of directors is Mr. William
R. Peck, superintendent of schools, who
also spoke, and is heartily in sympathy
with the whole movement.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, organ-
izer of the Society’s various Women’s Aux-
iliaries, was also present. More will be said
of this Holyoke Branch in our next issue.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

o. 1- “NOE

mb

U— ‘N 1868.AND FOR FoRTY‘ONE

\l

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

U. S.Trade Mark,Registemd & I) 1

    

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH, ,
Kmouess, Jusncs
AND MERCY To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

       
   
   
   

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the. Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass, under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at speCIal rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

VQﬂ.73

June,l940

PJO.6

 

Federal, State and- local taxes, United
States, 1916, 4 billion dollars; 1939, 14 bil-
lion. Public debt 1917, $1,225,000,000; 1940,
$45,000,000,000.

The Blue Cross, magazine of the Shang-
hai Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, tells us of Chinese bird shops
where wild birds are kept to be bought and
released as a religious or meritorious act.
Would that someone would buy them all
and set them free!

All is not war in China. The Hongkong
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals reports for January: Wong Pak
Ki ﬁned $10 for cruelty to pigs; Tang
Chun, $5 for cruelty to fowl; and Tsang
Yau, $5 for cruelty to chickens. About two
convictions a month seem to be the average.

Read the story on page 90—“War on
Cats and Crows.” Kansas sportsmen seem
to be running the state. Cats—too many
in all our states? No doubt of it. They do
destroy bird's. But to reward every man
and boy armed with a gun for every one
he kills puts Kansas on the “black list” in
the judgment of millions outside and inside
that state.

It was always “Be Kind to Animals”
week with Huxley. The physiologist was so
fond of his dogs and cats that he would sit
in an uncomfortable chair so they might
use the soft ones.

It may be that there is no way for men
and nations, who are willing to ignore the
claims of justice, fair play and human
rights, to learn that this is a moral universe
whose relations are as inexorable as the
laws of the physical universe; that greed,
lust for power, hate, force, war, can end
at last only in defeat and ruin. Someone
once said, in striking language, “He who
sins against the light kisses the lips of a
blazing cannon.” .

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. when making your will.

How Far Does It Reach?>

OU who read this periodical have seen

many references to the American Hu-
mane Education Society of Boston. But
how many of you realize all that this organ-
ization means? We doubt if one person in
a hundred is at all conscious of the full
service to character building that this one
Society alone is rendering, practically every
day.

Take the month of April, 1940. If you
will read the reports of the celebration of
Be Kind to Animals Week, as given on
other pages of this issue, you will note that
many of the events recorded were the re—
sult of the work of ﬁeld representatives of
the American Humane Education Society.
They are to be found in the great cities, in
the rural districts of the South, and, espe-
cially (for three of them are colored men—
leaders of their race) among the colored
populations, both urban and rural. The com-
bined contributions of these ﬁeld workers
to the recent Be Kind to Animals demon-
strations throughout the country would re-
veal interviews with Governors and educa—
tional leaders; a great variety of articles
sent to the public press, many of which
were published; contacts with Parent-
Teacher Associations, Women’s Clubs,
churches, and organizations of great vari-
ety; personal talks on radio and addresses
before pupils in schools of all grades; and
a vast amount of communications by mail
and telephone—to mention but a few of
the outstanding activities.

And what of the Band of Mercy work
being carried on in the schools, largely by
these same ﬁeld workers? More than 1,000
units reported as having been organized in
the single month. That means that noless
than 30,000 impressionable minds of chil-
dren had, at least for a ﬂeeting moment,
the idea of kindness to animals presented
to them. Much of the seed cannot fail to
fall upon good ground and to bear fruit.
Stop, reader, and reﬂect what the result
may be, what it must be in many instances.
The American Humane Education Society
—how far does it reach?

Dynamiting the Goats

EFERRING to the article on page one

of the May issue, having to do with the
destruction of goats by a so-called “new
explosive,” up to the date of this writing,
which is several days after the experiment
was to be made, so far as we can learn, the
goats are still alive.

An injunction, we believe, has been
secured against the proposed experiment
by the Maryland Society. It may be that
the multitude of protests sent to Washing—
ton, and the injunction obtained by the
Maryland Society will prevent this needless
and, wanton act.

A distinguished expert in the line of ex-
plosives, for twenty years connected with
the United States Bureau of Mines and the
Newport Torpedo Station, United States
Navy, and engaged in high explosive de-
velopments for the Army Ordinance Depart-
ment, writes that he has “never seen or
resorted to, through a long term of service,

\the use of live animals to test or measure

the force of explosive blasts.”

He also says that “the United States
Bureau of Mines, as well as the United
States Army and United States Navy, are
all, to my deﬁnite knowledge, well equipped
to measure and compare high explosives
upon a scientiﬁc and therefore accurately
set quantitative basis.” He adds that “blast
meters, ballistic mortars, pressure gauges
and detonation wave velocity recorders are
all standardized upon an international basis
at our proving grounds and arsenals, and
I can see no application of live animals to
the testing of explosives, old or new, of any
class—except for staging a sensational
show without the least scientiﬁc value.”

Word comes to us, just as our magazine
goes to the printers, that the destruction of
the unfortunate goats, is to take place
May 16. Whether this is actually to hap-
pen we cannot say at the moment. If it does
it is in spite of hundreds of indignant pro—
tests sent to Congress and to Senator
Morris Sheppard, Chairman of the Joint
Congressional and Military and Naval Af-
fairs Committee.

 




 

 

 

Apr. 191,0

The Cat Through the

Centuries

KATHLEEN BLAKE

CHINESE gazes earnestly into the

eyes of his cat. Affection? Not at all.
He is merely trying to see what o’clock it
is. And, by the same token, if his cat is
unusually playful the Chinese knows a
storm is coming.

How closely the cat has been wrapped up
in the life of man! The beautiful little
creature seems ﬁrst to have appeared in
Africa, although Persians and Angoras are
Asiatic, and our dear old “Tabby,” tamest
of the tame, got her stripes from a strain
of European wildcat.

But the cat was ﬁrst domesticated in
ancient Egypt. There it was regarded with
the deepest reverence. Dying naturally, it
was mourned with elaborate symbols. If
killed, its murderer was handed over to the
furious mob to be beaten to death.

One Roman very foolishly insulted an
Egyptian cat. He started an insurrection.
And the Persian king, Cambyses, ﬁghting
the Egyptians, was smart enough to have
his soldiers use living cats as shields. You
are right! The Egyptians, rather than hurt
the sacred beasts, let themselves be cap-
tured.

In Damascus a cat hospital was built in
honor of Mohammed’s cat. He was so fond
of the little thing, which had a habit of
sleeping in his sleeve, that once, rather
than disturb her, he cut the sleeve off.

Did you know that a king once made a
special decree to ﬁx the prices on cats? He
did. This was Howell the Good, King of
Wales in the 900’s. A kitten, he said, be-
fore it could see should cost a penny; be-
fore it had caught a mouse, two pence; and
after that, four pence, a great sum in those
days. But—the animal must be perfect in
hearing and sight; a good mouser with
whole claws; and, if female, a careful
nurse. If he failed in any of these condi-
tions, the seller must refund a third of the
purchase money.

The cat who guarded the King’s granary
was held of high importance. Any person
who stole or killed it must forfeit either a

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

milk ewe with her ﬂeece and lamb, or as
much wheat as would cover the cat to its
tail-tip if suspended by the tail with its
nose touching the ground.

But the cat is accomplished as well as
good for catching mice. It can sing. Per-
haps you don’t admire its song but, unlike
the dog, the cat has an appreciation of
music that can be trained to a high degree.
Cats like to walk up and down the piano
keys, listening to the notes.

And don’t you ever think that cats can’t
count! A mother cat, checking over her
kittens, knows instantly if one is missing.

And cats can talk, in meows as eloquent
as words. One very cold night, someone
had left the window open in the kitchen
where a cat and her small kittens were
sleeping. The cat went to her mistress’s bed
and meowed so piteously that the woman
went to the kitchen and closed the window.

Oh, yes, cats can talk. One blind lover
of cats compiled a vocabulary of 17 differ-
ent cat sounds with their meanings; and
he claimed that after dark or when Pussy
thinks herself unobserved, she uses about
600 more. If you want to learn cat talk,
you will ﬁnd all this in Marvin Clark’s
“Pussy and Her Language.”

A cat will play with her kittens like any
human mother with her babies. She will
teach them how to catch mice. She will
teach them to take care of themselves when
sick; to dip a feverish foot in cold water;
to lie before a warm ﬁre if they have a
cold. And just as American Indians learned
from the wolves that a sulphur spring
cures rheumatism; from the bear that a
red-clay bath will heal wounds; from deer
that fresh ferns will cure fever; from dogs
that “dog—grass” will make well a sick
stomach; so Europeans ﬁrst learned the
virtues of catnip, or mint, from watching
sick cats.

One old ﬁfteenth century herb-doctor
wrote: “Cat-mint is of a sharp smel and
pier-ceth into the head. It hath a hot taste,
with a certaine bitterness. Nevertheless
this pungent mint is a present helpe for
them that are bursteen inwardly by means
of some fall received from a high place,
and that are very much brused, if the
iuyce is given with wine or meade.”

“Vi-"1" .

Page 59
To a Little White Kitten

JOHN VILKAS

Your sojourn on this earth was all too
brief:

My jingling keys no longer catch your eye;

No longer do you stalk a wind-blown leaf

Or seek to capture some unwary fly.

I know the hour and day on which you died,
The sun in mourning fled behind a cloud.
So often had you brought its light inside,
It sent remembering shadows for a shroud.

Noted Savant Praises Cats

I cannot remember the time, when any
cat, no matter how humble in origin and
social station, failed to arouse in me an
almost breathless adoration.

Of all domestic animals, the cat is the
most beautiful and the most graceful. His
anatomy is precisely adapted to his needs
and although he takes only a hundredth as
much athletic exercise as the dog, he is
always in perfect condition. Whoever saw
a housemaid exercising a cat?

Every household should contain a cat not
only for decorative and domestic values,
but because the cat, in quiescence, is medi-
cinal to irritable, tense, tortured men and
women. When a cat decides to rest he not
only lies down, he pours his body out on the
ﬂoor like water. It is reposeful merely to
watch him. The dog is an intellectual fel-
low, but he does not compare in intellectual
power with the cat. The cat has an acute
mind, an inﬂexible will and a patience
almost divine. It is often said that a dog
is more intelligent because he learns tricks
so easily. But is this good evidence? You
command a dog to sit up and he, poor
fellow, thinks he has to do it. The average
cat throws oﬂ“, pretends unconquerable
limpness of body and stupidity of mind
and an inability to understand what is

wanted. Of course he understands, only
too well. Why sit up? There is nothing
in it.

WILLIAM LYON PHELPS in “Autobiography”

 

“PLEASE GO ’WAY AND LET ME SLEEP”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 106

 
   

 
 
  

GLORY TO “

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
|KINDNESS, JUSTICE o
‘ AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
   

7
9
m
2?.

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. RO'WLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of’ Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

*PH.ILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe. ......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 221
Number of addresses made, 175
Number of persons in audiences, 27,775

For Retired Workers

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri—
can Humane Education Society as a

trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will Welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Hints for Summer
HENRY H. GRAHAM-

ACH summer thousands of dogs, cats

and other animals accompany their
masters on motor vacations. In general,
such creatures are well—treated, but some—
times inadvertently they are made to
suffer.

One of the greatest hazards they have to
face is the heat of the warm car. Some-
times they are left locked in an automobile
for quite a length of time. If this sort of
thing is done a window of the car should
be left partly open to assure plenty of
fresh air. Tightly-closed cars get like ovens
in hot summer weather and animals suffer
acutely when imprisoned therein. Most ani-
mals are accustomed to fresh air, they
roam where they choose. It is not natural
for them to be inclosed in a stuffy place.

Traveling sometimes puts the physical
machine of animals out of order just as it
does that of human beings. It pays to
watch the health of pets closely on trips.
Different water and different food often
cause digestive upsets. In severe cases a
good veterinary surgeon should by all
means be consulted. Usually such an expert
can quickly restore the ailing creature to
health.

Another thing the motorist should do is
watch out for animals and birds in the
road. The danger is particularly grave in
game preserves and other forested areas.
Deer sometimes congregate at bends in
highways and cannot be seen except from a
short distance. Slow driving not only en—
ables the tourist to see more of the country
but is much safer for wild and domestic
life. Many animals are killed each year
by speeding autos. Sheep and cattle some-
times are found on western roads. This is
permitted by range law. It pays to drive
slowly and keep alert at all times.

Training a Baby Elephant

This is what .I saw at a southwest of
England circus and it is six years ago only.
The trainer was a white man, his two
assistants were colored men. The elephant
had a rope tied to each leg, near the ankle.
A brazier with red hot coke stood near,
and a pair of pincers. In the brazier, too,
were thin metal rods, heating. When the
elephant did not do what it was ordered,
one of these hot rods was applied to the
inside of its trunk, where the skin is very
tender. To make it lift up its feet at the
word of command a red hot cinder was
placed under the foot, so that it stamped
and quickly raised its foot again. It was
prodded at the back of the ears with a stick
in the end of which was a very ﬁne, very
sharp spike. From time to time the ropes
round its legs were jerked so that it fell,
this was to'teach it to lie down when told to
do so. To make it rear up its hind legs and
swing them on to a low cask a hot iron
was applied to the underside of the root of
the tail. This was what made the poor little
beast scream to such an extent that I waded
in, and turned my attention to the trainer.

The trainer was in a state of absolute
fury with the animal all' the time.

MIss NAOMI JACOB in leaflet published
by Our Dumb Friends’ League, London

July, 1940

Our Dumb Animals in the
Field of Finance
C. M. JEFFERSON

NIMALS have an interesting banking

system with saving accounts that run
pretty steep. Instead of conveying cur-
rency Nature’s children make food deposits.
Their banking institutions are usually situ-
ated just outside our residential sections.
Just let the bleak stay-in—doors weather set
in and you may rest assured that the deni—
zens of nature are quite prepared for it.

Out in the woods the trunk of a pine tree
will look as though covered with brass nails.
These are mostly beechnuts which the recl—
headed woodpecker has safely deposited.
He uses white oak trees for his acorns.
The strong bill of the woodpecker drives
some of the nuts into the cracks of trees.
Nuts are slipped under the bark in other
trees. Like a very crafty banker this bird
does not put all his investments in the
same institution. He mixes grains of corn
with nuts and drives them in railroad ties,
also in the cracks between roof shingles.
Broken fences, too, offer a safe depository.

If your eyes are quick enough they may
glimpse one of Mother Nature’s smallest
animals scurrying through the thickets or
a bushy dell. It will be the dormouse
saving for that rainy day. In the summer
and fall it lays up the winter store of
acorns, beech-mast, corn, young hazel nuts,
etc. The dormouse is a good liver. It feeds
well in the summer and becomes extremely
fat. When winter comes it prepares a
special nest, coils itself up into a ball with
tail over head and back and becomes com—
pletely dormant. If winter offers a mild
day, dormouse will awaken, eat a fresh
supply of its stored food and fall back into
slumber. It will awaken in spring, much
thinner, however, and resume its former
habits. The dormouse does most of its
work at night.

Another thrifty little group is repre-
sented by the red squirrel. Before day—
break these industrious denizens are gnaw—
ing at stems of unripe hickory nuts. The
hollow of an old tree trunk is the banking
vault for almost a bushel of the nuts. The
thriftiness of the ant need only be men—
tioned to impress Benjamin Franklin’s
philosophy on our minds: “Save young man
to become respectable and respected. It’s
the quickest and surest way.” Nor can we
fail to pass unnoticed the bee with its
highly organized system.

Can we evade the impression that man’s
success is imminent if he studies the birds
and children of the ﬁelds to see how they
grow? How very timely are the words of
Sir John Lubbock when he lauds our dumb
animals in the following:

“Watch their habits . understand
their relations to one another . . . study
their instincts and intelligence . . . ascer-
tain their adaptions and their relations to
the forces of nature.”

May we not truthfully concede that ani-
mals have a ﬁrm grasp on social security?

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 




 

 

Page 20

Fur Coat
JESSIE PLAYFAIR BICKFORD

It is not charm I see when I behold
This coat of costly far, but frantic eyes,
A northern winter woodland ﬁlled with
cries,
And creatures lost to dawn and snnset’s
gold.

I vision groves of evergreens that sway
With furry writhing forms the steel
holds high;
This is the hour for tortured beasts to
die—
But death is far—oh, very far away!

Perhaps tomorrow, or a morrow hence
A hand will strike to make the world
grow dim—
And One will wait beyond the shadow’s
rim
To light the calm of healing recompense.

It is not grace, Madame, I vision when
I view this coat, but ﬁfty pairs of eyes . .
And as I touch the fur where. lnstre lies,
I think with sorrow on the ways of men.

Giraffe Country
W EPSY COLLING

THE great Uganda Game Preserve,
which embraces all the territory be-
tween the Uganda Railway and the Tan-
ganyika border, is Africa’s paradise for
giraffes. The railway was built about 1890
to make it possible for soldiers and police—
men to dash about from place to place and
head off slavers. Today, after ﬁfty years
of watchfulness, the Arabs have been more
or less weaned from the trafﬁc in black
ivory, and the railroad carries hunters to
the big-game country around Nairobi. Some
of the hunters carry guns. A few are
armed with cameras.

The camera people have the best time,
because they can travel without a costly
license and are allowed within the sacred
precincts of the giraﬂ’e country as the
Game Preserve south of the railroad is
sometimes called. From the train windows
the eager traveler sees again and again a
herd of tawny orange giraffes feeding
among the dull green mimosas. They show
no fear, but sometimes one of the tall
creatures looks up with an amused glance
as the train goes by. There is something
about the quizzical look of an amused
giraffe that gives any animal lover a happy
moment. These Uganda giraffes have heads
as high as the telegraph wires because an
adult animal may be more than seventeen
feet tall, and East African telegraph poles
average about sixteen. Back in the old
slaving days when the telegraph was new,
glraﬁ‘es caused a lot of trouble by getting
their heads tangled up in the wires, but
today they know as much about the hazards
of the telegraph system as anybody.

They know, too, that the telegraph poles
and the railroad track form the boundary
of the Uganda Preserve, and they very
sensibly stay on the south side.

The new bound volume of “Our Dumb
Animals,” for 1939, is now on sale.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

INQUISITIVE GIRAFFE WATCHING
A TRAIN GO BY

 

Lincoln Anticipated London

F he were alive today, Abraham Lincoln

would be an enthusiastic member of the
Jack London Club. He did not countenance
cruelty in connection with trained animal
shows. Here is what a special correspond-
ent of the New York Times sent to that
paper from Kansas City, Missouri, a few
years ago:

Chauncey H. Graves, 83 years old, of
Mound City, Mo., says Abraham Lincoln
was no weakling in applying a barrel stave
to the spankable sector of a small boy’s
anatomy. Graves, Robert Lincoln and other
boys in the neighborhood were putting on
an animal show in the Lincoln barn. The
“wild” animals were dogs suspended from
the rafters in a fashion to cause them to
“growl” like lions. A neighbor reported the
cruelty to Mr. Lincoln, who, stave in hand,
unexpectedly visited the show. After loos-
ing the dogs, Mr. Lincoln rounded up the
show managers and applied the barrel
stave so effectively the show business
stopped.

The Jack London Club was started by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in 1918, as
the result of the reading of “Michael
Brother of Jerry,” the posthumous book
by the noted novelist. The object is to
stop the cruelties connected with trained
animal performances.

Feb. 19.40

The Cause of Trapping

D. D. TWITCHELL

HILE this is being written and

read, all over our land fur-bearing
animals, both large and small, are strug-
gling, freezing and starving between the
cruel jaws of the steel trap. Death comes
to a trapped animal as an end of a suffer-
ing too intense to be considered calmly, and
even death does not come quickly to its
victim but depends on the whim of the
trapper. To be sure there are laws that
govern trapping but they are man made
and while they lessen its cruelty, they do
not prevent it. When moral laws prevail,
then and only then, will this crime against
nature cease.

Recently one of my eats, a large beauti-
fully striped tiger, was caught in a trap, but
when he became free dragged himself home
with the foot and about three inches of his
hind leg frozen. When he ﬁrst arrived he
sang and seemed delighted to be here but
as the frozen leg began to thaw and the
feeling returned to it his agony was some-
thing never to be forgotten. Now he is
able to eat and sleep but his foot is wither—
ing and the place on his leg where the jaws
of the trap gripped it is a running sore.
We are doing everything we know to help
him but as he hobbles around the house on
three legs, with his fur that was so glossy
a few days ago growing dull and rough,
he is a living example of the horrors of the
steel trap.

It is doubtful if anyone let him out of
the trap. It is. more probable that, when
his foot was numbed by freezing, he pulled
it out, thus scraping the bone. In time this
wound may heal. In the meantime he is
fed and cared for, but what about the luck-
less animals that get free and have to
depend on themselves for food while they
are maimed and suffering? No one can
fully realize the torture suffered by trapped
animals and it seems incredible that any—
one after setting a trap can cease think-
ing for even a moment of the suffering
caused by the act. It is, however, equally
incredible that anyone will encourage trap—
ping by wearing furs when a refusal to do
so would destroy their commercial value
and eventually end the practice. We must
remember that it is not only the trapper,
but also the wearer and buyer of furs, who
are responsible for all the long agonies.

The Arab University of El Azhar, Cairo,
has at last issued an order about a request
of an Indian Prince asking for replies to
these three questions:—

No. 1. Is a Mussulman allowed to have
a watch-dog for his property?

No. 2. Is he allowed to play with a dog?

No. 3. If a .dog touches part of the body
or clothing of a Mussulman who has just
prayed, is the man considered as impure
and his prayers nulliﬁed?

In a long document, the answers of the
Arab University are that the dog is not an
impure animal, but, on the contrary, is by
his kind of life, a friend of the Mussulman,
and that the latter is allowed to keep it at
home and to play with it, and that, even if
he is touched by a dog, he remains pure
and his prayers are not nulliﬁed.

 




 

Apr. 191,0

\

V”

, m:
N ..
.‘ x; \\u 1,,

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-183 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. 1’. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke. Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.
Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.

MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 16,370
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 321
Animals examined . . . . . ........ 5,318
Animals placed in homes ....... 174
Lost animals restored to owners. . 75
Number of prosecutions. . . . . . . . . 8
Number of convictions .......... 7
Horses taken from work ....... . 3
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 33
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,367
Stack-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ........ . . . . . 49,922
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep.......... ...... 42

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGIELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D.
B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
J. ROBERTSON, v.M.D.
S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.

escapes

. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 620
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,486
Operations ...................... 374

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 164
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 523
Operations ...................... 176

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ................... 67
Totals
Hospital cases Since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 180,205
Dispensary Cases .............. 452,374
Total ............. 632,579

 

AN AGENT OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

IN THE BERKSHIRES USED HIS. SNOWSHOES

AND A TOBOGGAN TO DELIVER GRAIN AND HAY

TO A STORM-BOUND FARMER WHEN THE ROAD
WAS OTHERWISE IMPASSABLE

O 0

Delaware is the only state in the Union
in which there are no wild big game ani-
mals.

The original “stool pigeon” was a real,
live pigeon fastened to a stool to decoy the
now extinct passenger pigeon to nets.

Page 57
A Worthy Appeal

An urgent appeal has come to us for
funds for the use of the Finnish Veterinary
Corps.

Capt. Fergus MacCunn, General Secre-
tary of the Royal S. P. C. A. of London,
states that the need is very great and that
his Society has direct contact with the
Finnish authorities. The plan has the sanc-
tion of both the Finnish and British gov-
ernments. The Finnish Consul General in
New York advises us that there are more
than 100,000 horses three years of age in
Finland all of which are now in military
service. There were over 100,000 reindeer
but many of these have been slaughtered
for food or otherwise.

We will gladly receive and transmit all
contributions for this purpose without any
deduction for cable service.

Cash Prizes for Photographs

Cash prizes amounting to $70, and 10
annual subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals,
are offered for the best pictures of wild
animals and wild birds. The contest is open
to everybody, everywhere. Only the photo-
graphs must be original and unpublished.

Twenty-three prizes in all are Offered:
First, $30, cash; second, $15, cash; third, $5
cash; fourth to thirteenth, $2, cash, each;
fourteenth to twenty-third, one year’s sub-
scription to Our Dumb Animals (value, $1,
each.)

The contest will close June 30, 1940. NO
entries will be received after that date.
Send no photographs till you have written
for full particulars to Contest Editor, Our
Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston.

 

Animals vs. Human
Beings

Walt Disney, in an interview with the
author:

“In one way, you know, animals are
superior to human beings. People try
to change Nature to conform to their
own queer notions. Animals don’t—-
they adapt themselves to Nature. You
never saw a wilderness wrecked by
animals.

“Why do human beings, as soon as
they move into a place, declare war
on the birds, animals, ﬁsh, and wild-
life of all kinds? Why do they declare
war on natural shrubs and ﬂowers,
the rivers and mountains, the ﬁelds
and forests? They make a mess of
things by destroying the balance of
Nature. They strip the land of trees
and start soil washing into the ocean.
You never see animals do that. The
beaver even helps Nature to keep
water where it is by building innu-
merable dams. At the same time, man,
who is alleged to be far more intelli-
gent, does just the Opposite. He
straightens and deepens streams so
the water will get to the bigger
streams more quickly and increase
ﬂoods. Can you beat it?”

—Better Homes and Gardens

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

._.L*i

 

 

Oct. 19.40

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROVVLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
‘ County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED T. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Super‘intendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. 81. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch. of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres; MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

AUGUST REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS.I S. P. C. A., WITH
HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON, METHU-
EN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD, ATTLE-
BORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WORCES-
TER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON, HA-
VERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 18,910
Cases investigated ............. 291
Animals examined ............. 9,731
Animals placed in homes ....... 250
Lost animals restored to owners. . 53
Number of prosecutions ......... 6
Number of convictions .......... 4
Horses taken from work ........ 15
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 34
Small animals humanely put to sleep 3,234
Horse auctions attended ........ 13
Stock-yards and Ab-attoirs
Animals inspected ............. 49,981
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 17

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.
L

HARRY . ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 915
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,334
Operations ....................... 411

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 187
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 682
Operations ....................... 119

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

 

Cases entered ................... 115
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 185,879
Dispensary Cases ............... 467,733
Total ............... 653,612

Free Drinks for Work Horses

From July 29 to September 7 the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. maintained four free
watering stations for work-horses in Bos-
ton. This essential summer service was
availed of 3,529 times, as reported by sta-
tion attendants. For more than twenty—ﬁve
years, and ever since all fountains and
watering troughs for the relief Of horses
were abolished by state decree, this humane
service has been deemed indispensable by
the Society.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a kennel
or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will insure
a suitable marker inscribed with donor’s
name. Write for terms of permanent en-
dowment of free stalls and kennels.

Auxiliaries of Mass. S. P. C. A.

W'omcn’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

Page 153

Garden Party at Dennis

A SUCCESSFUL Garden Party was held
at the Cape Play House, Dennis, for
the beneﬁt of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
on August 30, with more than 400 in
attendance.

The Fashion Show, as put on by Chez
Madelaine, Inc., with Eva La Gallienne,
Constance Mather, Harriet Chamberlin,
Patricia Waters, and Muriel Williams act—
ing as models, created much interest.

Mr. Francis Hart, manager of the Play
House, was chairman of the affair, and
other members of the committee were Mrs.
Sydney A. Beggs, Osterville; Mrs. Hayden
Richardson, Dennis; Miss Mary Mortimer,
Barnstable; Miss Maida Falvey, Hyannis—
port; the Rev. de Wolfe Perry, Jr., Prov-
incetown; Mrs. Margaret Freeman, East
Dennis; and Miss Jean G. Hinckle, Oster-
ville.

The Society is very appreciative Of the
efforts Of all those who assisted in any way,
and is especially grateful to Mr. Francis
Hart and Mrs. Hart (Muriel Williams),
who not only made the Play House and
grounds available, but who freely give of
their services in furthering the humane
cause. Mr. Andrews, our local agent, ren—
dered able assistance.

Mr. Burgess to Lecture Again

We are sure that many of our readers
will hail with delight the announcement
that Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, well known
author and lecturer, has consented to ap-
pear for the fourth consecutive time as the
Humane Sunday speaker for the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. in the Boston Public
Library course next year. It was with con—
siderable reluctance that Mr. Burgess ac-
cepted our call for a lecture last year as he
thought that two consecutive seasons were
enough for one speaker. It was only because
of the interest of the Public Library Ofﬁcials
in his annual lectures there that we were
able to get his consent. for yet another
appearance.

His theme will be, “Making Friends with
Animals and Birds,” and the lecture will be
illustrated both with slides and moving pic-
tures. The time will be Sunday, April 20,
1941, at 3 :30 P. M., and the place will be the
lecture hall of the Boston Public Library
in Copley Square. Admission will be free
to all.

Women’s Auxiliary of the
M. S. P. C. A.

In View Of the fact that so many affairs
are being held for the Red Cross, and world
conditions being in such a turmoil, the So-
ciety feels that the Women’s Auxiliary of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. should dis-
pense with their Bazaar this year, and so
no appeals will be sent out. They are, how—
ever, planning tO hold a rummage sale at
Horticultural Hall, Boston, on October 26,
1940. All contributions of household goods
Of any kind, furniture, china, bric-a-brac;
clothing and shoes for men, women and
children, will be gratefully received.

Have you seen the bound volume of “Our
Dumb Animals” for 1939? Price, $1, postpald.

 

 

 




 

Entered as second-class matter, June
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of po

0,1. ”‘05

LL uxl 1868.AND FOR FORW‘ONE

umbA“ 11??

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

    
  
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmonass, JusncE
AND MERCY To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
      
 
    

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
stage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 73

February, 1940

No. 2

 

We wish we could acknowledge person—
ally the many attractive Christmas and
New Year cards that have come to us dur-
ing the holiday season. They have all been
carefully preserved and will be given later
to the children at the Children’s Hospital.

England apparently has what is known
as “Rat Week.” The Royal S. P. C. A.,
upon the recent observance of that Week,
sent out to hundreds of newspapers appeals
that people in exterminating rats use al.-
ways the humanest methods possible.

All who have been used to receiving
Animal Life, the attractive magazine pub—
lished by the Toronto (Ontario, Canada)
Humane Society and the Ontario Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
will regret that they have found it neces-
sary to discontinue it. The cost of all such
humane journals means a large expendi-
ture unless help can be found in a great
number of advertisements.

Do you know how the dachshund got its
name? Evidently from the fact that it was
employed in hunting badgers, because the
name for a badger is “dachs” and, of
course, “hund” is the German word for
“dog.” This combination, we are told, gives
us a clue to the correct pronunciation
which should be as if it were spelled
“daks—hunt.” Many educated people, it is
said, still insist on calling the dog “dash-
und.”

The Dogs’ Bulletin, published by the
Canine Defence League, London, tells of
the hundreds of dog- and cat-owners who
poured into its clinics when the evacuation
of so many human beings was begun.
“What shall We do with our pets?” was the
common cry. Even the wives of’the ‘em-
ployees of the clinics turned in to help their
husbands deal with the multitudes that
came for advice. Wherever" possible, ani-
mals were» 'sa‘vedf from being humanely

destroyed;

Abraham Lincoln
Born February 12, 1809

From Henry Watterson’s Famous Tribute

ORN as lowly as the Son of God, in

a hovel; reared in penury, squalor,
with no gleam of light or fair surrounding;
without graces, actual or acquired; without
name or fame or official training; it was
reserved for this.strange being, late in life,
to be snatched from obscurity, raise-d to
supreme command at a supreme moment,
and intrusted with the destiny of a nation.

~36 ee 99

Where did Shakespeare get his genius?
Where did Mozart get his music? Whose
hand smote the lyre of the Scottish plough-
man, and stayed the life of the Ger-mam
priest? God, God, and God alone; and. as
surely as these were raised up by God, in-
spired by God, was Abraham, Lincoln; and
a thousand years hence, no drama, no
tragedy, no epic poem will be ﬁlled with
greater wonder, or be followed by mankind
with deeper feeling than that which tells
the story of his life and death.

We Are All Kin in Sorrow

With all the suffering on the battleﬁelds
of Europe and of China, and on the sea
and in the air, and in those homes from
which have gone fathers, sons, brothers,
husbands to face the deadly weapons of
war, we here in our own country must
carry in our hearts some part of the bur-
den of suffering and sorrow of those in less
fortunate lands. Pain, sickness, trouble—
suﬂ'ering in any of its manifold forms
wipes out all barriers of race, color, creed
and boundary lines that separate nation
from nation. - . -

We still receive the monthly edition of
the Reichs-Tierfchutzblatt, organ of the
German Humane Society, published at
Frankfurt a. M. That the organization is
doing excellent service in the 'way cf the
prevention of cruelty to animals is. evident.

Again The Future

N the November issue of this magazine
Hwe had a brief editorial on “The Future.”
Its purpose was to remind our readers that
over and over again during the years of
recorded history, men—yes, and wise men
at that—have despaired of the future, con—
vinced that civilization and all that it has
stood for was about to crash in ruins over
a world doomed to sink back into barbar-
ism. Over against such a despairing out—
look we set the faith of men and women of
the world who, in spite of all that might
warrant such despair, have believed that
this is God’s world, and that even the wrath
of man shall yet praise Him, that good
shall be the ﬁnal goal of ill and that that
goal—“the one far-0]?” divine event to which
the whole creation moves.”

Whatever happens today or tomorrow in
Europe, civilization will renew itself, and
humanity move once more into a better
day. Both religion and history warrant
such a faith.

Since that November editorial was writ—
ten there has been quite widely published
the following, which conﬁrms our statement
that these are not the only days when men
have lost hope for the world, perhaps all
our readers have not seen these quotations:

“In 1783, William Pitt, British Prime
Minister: ‘There is scarcely anything
around us but ruin and despair.’

“Archbishop /Wilberforce, in the early
1800’s: ‘I dare not marry. The future is
so dark and unsettled.’

“Lord Shaftesbury, in 1848: ‘Nothing
can save the British Empire from ship—
wreck.’ L

“Disraeli, in 1849: ‘In industry, com—
merce and agriculture there is no hope.’

“The Duke of Wellington, in 1851,
shortly before he died: ‘I thank God I will
be spared from seeing the consummation
of ruin that is gathering around.’ ”

. Be Kind to Animals Week. comes again
4this year from April.15 ,to 20,» opening
with Humane Sunday, April 14.

 




 

 

 

SEPTEMBER 1940

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELT Y

TO ANIMALS g THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




llumane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

   
  
  
 
 

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00 Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan
Our Dmnb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound 4 pp. ................................. $0.50 per 100
volume, each, ........................ .75 Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ “
the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts. Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Use Nema Capsules to rem0ve Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%; X 33/3 $0.50 per 100 Helen Trevelyan, 4- Dp. ............... .50
12 'j o r (1 ho k- .
“iii—:1; lIitilir(ievcvt(i)vén—SDaerilaendalcade. About the Horse Hlunane Education
Send forfree Nema booklet No.65! Black Beauty (English), cloth ,,,,,,,,,, 50 cts. The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free

W“‘e‘° Anima"“dUSWDep‘vDeSkN'58'I The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ..$0.60 per 100 Humane Education, An Activity of the
...... I50 “ “

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PARKE, DAVIS &CO.,DETRO|T,M|CH. . ‘ . ‘ H 9 Education Leaflet, No. 5 National Congress of Parents and
Dlug 5‘0'9559”Pa'ke‘DaV'SP’OdUC‘S ,_*_F"°°-B9°ki9t ThlénI—Ilorse’s Prayer ..................... .30 “ “ Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow” 1,0 .. .. The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
About the Dog The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools
Beautiful Joe, new, i11us., $1.50 ........ small,50 cts. 96 pp. ............. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free Care. and Kindness for Our Animal
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free .Friends, 32 DD” paper covers, many
TIIIS SPACE Enlogy 0n the Dog, by Vest, post-card..$1.00 per 100 illus. ................ 10 cts each; twelve for $1.00
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “ Kindness Picture 300k, 32 1313-, 10 CtS-; twelve for $1-00
, Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr. The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
CO\TR]B[TTED Schneider .............................. 2.00 .. H cation, 32 pp. ...... . .................. each, 10 cts.
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog Aléjlgal'ly SStart to KmdneSS, Lucia F.
and the Cat -— A Supplement by Dr. 1 ert, 4 1313- FOI‘ first and second
Rudolph H. Schneider ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 1.00 .. H grades ............................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 .. .. “Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
What the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 u .. Tug: Fumane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
The Story of Barry ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, .30 .. H owey .............................. cloth, 35 cts.
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P. Friends and Helpers (selections for
- .. Lyons ................................. .50 “ “ school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
:1 Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three “And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
, Externally caused irritations are ,: girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10’ cts. play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
_ soothed and usually relieved by using , About the Bird Friends Of Fur and Feather.3play ht f 25 t
' cts.eac ; en or cs.
e u I. I c u RA The Birds of God, 318 pp., illuS- ------- 010th. $0.45 Humane Sunday ....................... 10. each
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 CtS. ea.; 12 for I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
S A P A o O l N M E N T 25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 10 The Best Gift, play ........ -2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
EACH ’25c, ALL ‘DRUGG/STSJ—BUY' TQDAYW. Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “ Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 ” “ Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “ Rowley, short radio address, ths. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education What to Teach and
About the Cat .’ .. ..
How to Teach 1t ..................... .50
F O r The Cat—Its Care in Health and Dise.ase.$0.60 per 100 Outlines Of Study in Humane Education 1'50 H h
The Cat in Literature ................... .50 “ “ Early Lessons in Kindness 01' Cruelty -- '50 .. ..
Only one DOI Iar Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... 50 .. u A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 ” “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “ Our Love for Animals, a short radio 100
. “The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “ address ..................... 2 cts. each; . “ “
POStpald to any part Of th’? WOI‘Id, . Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 ” “
“OUR DUMB ANIMALS, bound About Other Animals A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
volume for 1939, with 192 pp. and 'Iljhe Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts. A Great Prophecy’ Dr' Rome-V """"" Free
. ,. . *or Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5cts. Band of Mercv
150 illustiations. Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. “Be Kind to Animals” Button. three
180 Longwood Avenue The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free , S,
. . . , , ‘ , styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100 ci t S P C A $1 00 100
BOSTON, MASS. Gripped in the Teeth of Steel 2 pp 1 00 “ “ e y, or .' ' ' ' """""""" ' per
,. . ’ ' - .. ‘ Buttons—white star on blue ground With
How to 1x111 Animals Humanely 4 pp. 1.00 ‘ - , .. ..
_ . ’ , gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6 Animals .50 “ “ . . _,
Ways of Kindness ’ 50 u H Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small acts.
. - “Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35cts.
H E 4
Since 1832 22:2ng ducation Leaflet, NO' 7' Farm .30 .. .. Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
. , ------------------------------- -' J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
A F ............. H .. . ’
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc. Wlse {Sh """""""" '50 Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
The Jack London Club only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
, . Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 " "
mnhertakerg What IS the Ja‘ck.London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100 How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50
- Foreword from Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “ Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “
BOSTgl:—_B§OC:KLEI?E—CAM'BRIDGE Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
1 y an ou -o - own serv1ce

 

 

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

HUMANE FILMS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS

From the Secretary of one of the largest Humane Societies in the country comes this letter, dated July
12, 1940:

“We have a very favorable report from our public school librarian on the demand for the ﬁlm, THE BELL
OF ATRI. They now have eleven advance bookings for next season, and had to refuse it forty—four times during
the last school year because of conﬂicts.

“We are interested in providing another c0py. Let us know at what price you can supply it.”

For terms of sale or rental of this ﬁlm, illustrating Longfellow’s popular poem, also for the two-reel ﬁlm,

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS, showing the practical work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal
Hospital, address,

Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Mar. 1940

 

 

 

Page 36

Souvenir
NELLIE MARGUERITE LEACH

This I saw in a busy store——
Frightened creatures by the score,
Trapped and caged in a crowded pen,
Prodded and teased by curious men;
Turtles, painted with harsh veneers
Sold in the shop as souvenirs.

Not Mentioned in Dispatche s
HILLIARD F0 LEY

T is hard to write these things with a
ﬁsteady hand. Perhaps little can be done,
yet to withhold mentioning them would be
throwing down the torch. And who knows?
Our dumb friends may, through some me-
dium, acknowledge our helpless heartache.
Yes, though it seems untimely to contem-
plate their suffering, such contemplation
might move us to pity, kindness, and love
for the innocent ones that are still in our
midst. Certainly, in my own case, this is so.

When I see a mule, I must be kind to
him. For then I see another mule, a tall,
bony animal we had in the regiment “over
there.” We called him “J ack-of—the-‘Water-
Detail,” because his duty was to carry
water to the parched tongues of the» men
in the front line. I see “Jack” clearly, with
the cans of water slung across his middle,
plodding—since there is no other road——
along the top of the moonlit parapet of the
trench, plodding steadily and sure-footedly,
and caring no whit for the rain of enﬁlad-
ing machine-gun bullets that rake his
path. I hear again his labored breathing,
and I hear again his pitiful cry as a bullet
pierces his out-stretched neck.

Poor, innocent creature! Why must he
suffer? Why must he bleed? Dear old
friendly Jack who is in no way responsible
for the war! But he continues. On, steadi-
ly on. Another wound—and another. More
pain. More plaintive crying. This time your
wounds are shrapnel pellets. They sting,
but you can stand it, can’t you, Jack? On,
steadily on.

Ah! At last you are there! You have
reached the men with your precious load
of water. But—abut what’s this, Jack?
Your water cans are empty? Horrors, yes!
All empty! They’ve been riddled with
shrapnel pellets, and the water has all
spilled out—Wait! Wait until I walk
around you. No, J ack,—it is only the cans
on that side of you that are empty. These
around here are all intact and full. Let
me take them away from you. There. Yes,
all full. You’ve protected them with your
body and——

Hey, J ack!—What—what is it? You
weaken, you totter, you stumble to your
knees! You are pitching forward and tumb-
ling down into that black shell hole! Jack,
old faithful pal, you are dead! You de-
livered the precious water, but you are
dead—Ah, well, you were only a mule, and
you will hardly be missed. You will not
be mentioned in dispatches. But I, a wit-
ness to it all, will keep the faith with you.
Throughout my life I will be merciful and
gentle to others of your kind. Rest, J ack,—-—
rest in the deep, dark shell hole.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

Canada Protects Wild Animals

JAMES MONTAGNES

 

FOUR-YEAR-OLD BEAR CUBS PLAYING ON THE GOLF COURSE AT
JASPER NATIONAL PARK, JASPER, ALBERTA

OVING dots on the prairies resolv-

ing themselves into buffalo, moose,

deer and elk; black bears ambling
along the motor highways; goats climbing
to high mountain crags to look down on
man far below; these are but a few of the
sights of animals seen in western Canada
where the once hunted now roam un-
molested over thousands of square miles
of territory, the wards of the government.

In the chain of national parks which
covers the prairies and the Rocky Moun-
tains, animals which once were threatened
with extinction when fur hunting was one
of the principal industries of that part of
the country, are to be found in ever—
increasing numbers. In preserves set aside
so that all may see the natural beauty of
the land, camera shooting is the only shoot—
ing that is allowed.

The animals are not afraid of visitors.
Black bears come to back doors of the
houses in the park communities. They are
to be found around the tents of the camp—
ing spots, and where the town is large
enough, as Banff, they will be found regu-
larly each evening at the refuse dump,
looking for choice tidbits.

There are thousands of animals in the
parks. Buffalo, once nearly extinct, number
nearly 20,000. Caribou in Jasper Park
alone are estimated to total more than
8,000. In the same park are 20,000 deer,
4,000 bears, 5,000 mountain goats, 18,000
mountain sheep, and approximately 8,000
moose. Elk which once nearly disappeared
are now to be found in numerous groups.
In Jasper Park, where there were two
small herds, there are now more than 2,000
of these animals. These ﬁgures include

only the largest of the animals. Beaver,
marten, lynx and coyotes are on the in—
crease. In Waterton Lakes Park there are
1,500 beavers.

In fact wild life is so numerous that no
matter where one travels, some animals are
certain to be encountered. On the highway
or the trail, or farther aﬁeld off the beaten
track, there the animals of the zoo come
into life. They are not afraid, do not run
off or attack. They stand and look at the
newcomer, just stare or come closer for a
better look and perhaps for something to
eat. For the animals here have learned
that whereas outside the park boundaries
guns await them, as long as they are with-
in a certain area, nothing can touch them.
The call has gone far aﬁeld, for newcomers
arrive in the park boundaries to swell the
animals now protected.

A ban on hunting and trapping has
resulted in this thriving populace of big
animals. While ﬁsh may be caught within
the park limits, no riﬂe is allowed within
the boundaries. Fire, another danger, is
fought by a series of forestry ﬁre ranger
stations throughout the parks, and by fre-
quent warnings to campers as to the dan-
gers of the ﬁre demon.

It is reported that some eleven hundred
horses have been shipped from Philadel-
phia to France for war purposes. All we
can say is that the humane societies of the
country, and many individual citizens,
through appeals to Congressmen and the
President, have faithfully tried to prevent
the sale of horses and mules for war pur~
poses. It has been in vain. War has no
mercy for man or beast.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BASTIAN BROS. CO.

Advertising Specialties
in
Metal, Leather, and
Celluloid
Indoor Signs, Name Plates

Convention Badges and

Emblems

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS g
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET NO 652

NEMA”
WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE -
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N-58—F

PARKE, DAVIS 8: 00., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

    
  

   
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

OF EXTERNAL ORIGIN

T---I7'ELP RELIEVE (HEM mm,

- [untun geezer:

 

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF
“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers of
1939. 192 pages—150 illustrations.
Postpaid, One Dollar. OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Entertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—4CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C- A-

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939', bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound 75
volume ....... 1722lese1ght1n .

P t rs, X _ inc 1 , '
Ciigdedsetos. f3 .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 33/8 $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ..$0.60pe‘r1‘00
Humane Education Leaflet, N0. 5 ...... .50

The Horse’s Prayer ..................... .530 :: ::
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .30

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small,50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card..$1.0l0 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the C'hained Dog Says ............ .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10' cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... Cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................... .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals ' ”’

Tlhe Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 100 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ “
The Jack Lon-don Club
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “-

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. ................................. $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals —-— Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............... .50 “ “

Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................... 10 cts each; twelve for $1.00

Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp.

........................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 49 pp. For first and second

grades ............................... each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 10. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five» for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ ‘2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .75 ” “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ..................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2‘ cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Me-rcies .......... .50 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So—
c1ety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00' “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.

“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

(l it

How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave.,

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films for Rent or Sale

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem of that title
and

. IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Animal Hospital
and Rest Farm for Horses, two reels

Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Low rentals for schools, churches,
Humane Societies and other organizations

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Boston, Mass.

3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    
   
    
 
   
   

 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS ,
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No 652 r
N E M A
WORM
CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE

ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS

OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N- 58- C

PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

  

 

 

New Bound Volume of

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers for
1939. Beautifully bound in purple
cloth and stamped in gold. 192 pages,
150 illustrations. Postpaid to any
part of the world for One Dollar.

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Help keep baby’s skin

emu/my

delightfully clean and sweet.

 

Care for him regularly with

CUTICIIRA 5,215.22:

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

1 Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
Mohertakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind
that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in
the country, and that it has no connection
with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the
beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospi-
tal should, nevertheless, be made to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital
is not incorporated but is the property of
that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to
the American Humane Education Society),
the sum of .......................... .
dollars (or, if other property, describe the
property.

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 15—20
and Humane Sunday, April 14,1940

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound -
volume ............................... .75

Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................... $1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 X 3% $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ...$0 60 per 100
.50

p’

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ......

The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus. , $1. 50 ........ small, 50‘cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog ,by Vest, post— —.card .$1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ ‘
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says .......... 50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ......................... .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4p .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $10.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3cts. ea. ; 12 for
25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100‘

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2.50 “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air—Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease. $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ............................ 50 “

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
I Knew She Was a Lady .............. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp... 1. 00

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ...............................
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ...... $0. 30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “
Films, pFakes and Facts, Helen T1eve1yan,

4 ................................. .50 per 100

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... 50 “ ‘ ‘
Trained Animals —- Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan , 4 pp. .............. .50 “ ‘ ‘

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp, 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’ 5 Helper in Humane Edu—

cation, 32 pp ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Sunday ....................... lc. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .7
Humane Education, What to Teach and

(‘ (6

Cl

HOW to Teach it ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them ............ .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. A. ................. $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant .............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films for Rent or Sale

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem of that title
and

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Animal Hospital,
and Rest Farm for Horses, two reels

Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Orders for Humane Sunday and
Be Kind to Animals Week should be received well in advance.

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 




Feb. 1940

 

WITH HER COCKER SPANIEL, “ROW—
DY,” AND HER SCOTTY, “CORKY”

UCH has been written and said

about Shirley Temple’s sincere, sym-

pathetic and affectionate nature. But
in no way and in no contacts is it so plainly
revealed as when she is with her beloved
pets. The little girl adores animals and
likes nothing better than to be with them;
they interest her far more than autograph-
seekers and admiring glances.

Not so long ago, she gave tangible proof
of this. Having enjoyed the horse-story,
“Smoky,” she begged to see the picture when
it appeared at a neighborhood theater. So
Mrs. Temple took her, hoping that they
had sneaked in without anyone noticing
them. But when the picture was over and
Shirley and her mother came into the
lobby, they found it packed with Temple
admirers who cheered and waved as she
and her mother passed. Always polite and
gracious, Shirley smiled and threw kisses,

 

“ROWDY” TUGS AT HER BOOT AND
THEN PRETENDS HE’S INNOCENT

an» «- v

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Shirley Temple Loves Animals, Especially Dogs

LOUISE PRICE BELL

 

SHIRLEY’S EASTER BUNNY IS A
LIVE ONE, AND SHE ADORES IT

 

“CHING-CHING,” THE BELOVED
PEKINGESE, IS FOND OF RIDING

 

MAKING FRIENDS WITH, AND FEED-
ING, A SPOTTED BABY FAWN

 

WITH “BUCK,” FAMOUS MOVIE DOG,
OWNED BY A FRIEND

but no sooner had the family car pulled
away from the curb than she said excitedly
to her mother: “Mother did you see how
that horse swam across the river!”

Shirley is the proud owner of three
ponies: “Spunky,” “Roanie,” and “Carna-
tion,” and three dogs: “Corky,” “Rowdy,”
and “Ching-Ching,” but she is also on
intimate terms with many other animals.
She and Carl Spitz are great friends and it
is nothing uncommon to see them together
with one or more of his prize animals,
with Shirley making friends with them
all: >

Animals, like children, know when a per-
son likes them and so it is no wonder that
when the little star of “The Blue Bird”—
Shirley’s current picture—approaches a
pony, dog, fawn, or other animal, they all
instinctively know that they have a new-
found friend and protector.

 

SHIRLEY AND ONE OF HER THREE
PONIES, “ROANIE”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
      

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KlNDNESS, JUSTICE o

 
 
  

   

‘7
$
m
23

Founded by Geo. T. Angel] Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 11
Number of addresses made, 90
Number of persons in audiences, 7,967

Humane Pension Fund

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

For Parents and Teachers

HROUGH its chairman, Mrs. Kather-

ine T. Weathersbee, the committee on
humane education of the Georgia Congress
of Parents and Teachers has released a
“Plan of Work for 1940-42” which is so
suggestive that we are presenting some of
it here for the beneﬁt of Parent-Teacher
organizations in other states.

Foreword

The advancement of the world through-
out all ages is to be measured by the in-
crease of humaneness and the decrease of
crime. There can be no real humaneness
without development of humane ideals in
character education.

Goal

Humane Education activities in parent-
teacher associations are concerned with
speciﬁc teaching, in homes and schools, of
principles of kindness, justice and good will.
Kindness to animals is a means of develop-
ing in children an attitude of kindness
toward all life. The home is the laboratory
where, in the pre-school years of a child’s
life, these lessons in humaneness may be
most successfully taught. It is well for par-
ents and teachers alike to bear in mind that
to lead a child to regard all life as sacred
and to instill a sense of obligation toward
the dependent and weaker ones with whom
he comes in contact develops in him a
higher social consciousness, and regard for
others in all relations of life.

This in brief is the character formation
goal of the committee on humane education.

Basis Study of Humane Education

To function satisfactorily as a chairman
of a local committee in state Congress, the
ﬁrst essential is to become an informed
chairman through study of the Plan, activi-
ties and projects and its relation to the
Congress program.

Study Material on Humane Education
may be obtained free from the State Chair-
man, or write to the American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass.

Suggested Activities for Local Associations

Prepare Suggestive Programs for local
units from this Plan. Elect an active chair--
man who will, if possible, provide for par-
ticipation of teachers in demonstrating how
humane education is correlated with their
regular classroom work through poster and
scrapbook exhibits.

For the Home. Seek to acquaint parents
with the importance of training children in
just and kindly treatment of pets and all
animals as a primary objective in develop-
ing attitudes of fair play, understanding,
and tolerance in human relations.

Publicity. Feature the work of the com-
mittee through the Publicity chairman, in
the school paper, on bulletin board, on post-
ers and with short talks at local meetings.

Observe Be Kind to Animals Week
(which comes on April 21-26, 1941) by con—
centrating on above publicity program, and
sponsor plays and pageants in the class-
rooms.

Oct. 1940

Co-operate with other committees of the
Congress to further this program, solicit-
ing their interest and support of humane
education in their own ﬁelds of endeavor.

Continue education against commercial-
ized cruelty to animals. Give publicity to
the cruelty in such exploitation, emphasize
the adverse mental reaction cruelty has
upon the character of children and the low-
ering of community standards involved.

Special Projects Recommended

Fire—Arms Hazards. Continue a cam-
paign of education to arouse parents to the
lurking tragedies that lie in playthings
such as pistols and other ﬁre-arm toys
which stimulate the desire to destroy. Urge
toys and playthings of constructive nature
to take their place. The need is increas—
ingly urgent.

Vacation Program. Co-operate with the
State Commission of game and other wild
life, study the subjects of trees and ﬂowers,
the care and protection of birds, the haunts
and habits of the wild creatures, as an addi-
tional lure for a close-up study on hiking
and camping trips which will create a desire
to shoot with a camera instead of a gun.

Seymour Carroll Honored

OLLOWING is a release from the
South Carolina Publicity Bureau, which
appeared in many newspapers last August:
“South Carolina’s member of the Repub-
lican National notiﬁcation committee goes
to Salem, Oregon, Wednesday, August 28,
to oﬂicially notify U. S. Senator Charles L.
McNary of his nomination by the Republi-
cans as their candidate for Vice-President.
Mr. Carroll is from Columbia, South Caro-
lina; widely known in the South as a ﬁeld
representative of the American Humane
Education Society of Boston; a disabled
world war veteran; a former ﬁeld director
of the American Red Cross; honored with
appointments by three Democratic gover—
nors of his state; named by President
Harding as a member of the committee of
100 distinguished American citizens on the
Near East Relief of which Will Hays was
the chairman; active in inter—racial good-
will groups; founder and president of the
Brookgreen Welfare Conference of the
Brookgreen Gardens; a distinguished Re-
publican in the south.”

We understand that Mr. Carroll was the
only Negro on this special committee. While
in Oregon he visited Portland where he was
taken on a sight-seeing trip and also vis-
ited the headquarters of the Oregon Hu-
mane Society with its newly-opened shelter.
The American Humane Education Society
is honored to have on its regular staff so
distinguished a representative of the Negro
race.

Humane Work in Mexico

From a recent letter of our foreign cor-
responding representative in Mexico, Dr. A.
T. Ishkanian, we learn that he is continu-
ing his humane educational program in the
government schools; and on the streets, by
illustrated chart on his bicycle, on which
he does much of his work outside of his
ofﬁce. He holds humane conferences on
Wednesday evenings.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

o 1. ANGE

\l

grailMark, Registered ‘

LL ‘N 1868.AND FOR FORTY~QNE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends, ,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
~——COWPER

   
    

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH, .
Kmonesstusnci-z
AND MERCY To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
 
  
 
     

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Octo

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue,

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ber 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 73

September, 1940

No. 9

 

The British Minister of Agriculture said
recently, “The war might well be won by
whoever held the last week’s supply of
food?’

J. Edgar Hoover tells us twelve per cent
of all murderers, forty-ﬁve per cent of all
burglars, thirty-two per cent of all thieves,
ﬁfteen per cent of all arsonists, and ﬁfty—
two per cent of all automobile thieves
arrested were under voting age.

It would seem, from the decision of a
California district court of appeals, that
dogs can be carried by passengers in the
ordinary railway coach instead of in bag—
gage cars, as is the regulation at least in
the East. The railroad, however, must see
the dog harms no one. The Southern Pa—
ciﬁc Company had recently to pay damages
of $400 because a ﬁve—year-old boy in a seat
near a dog was bitten.

The Animal World, the organ of the
Royal S. P. C. A. of London, is authority
for the following:

“In Finland great numbers of horses
actually injured on the battle fronts are
being nursed back to health. From wounds
and diseases there were some 12,000 casu-
alties. It is estimated that some 5,000
horses, 36,000 cattle and 40,000 sheep have
had to be transported over long distances
to save them. The Royal S. P. C. A., the
Finnish Government has recognized as hav-
ing generously aided them in its care for
the animals that were the victims of the
war.”

 

Please Notice

In the interests of economy we have
adopted a new system of mailing Our
Dumb Animals, beginning with the
August issue. If our readers do not
receive the publication in good order
and regularly we ask that they ad-
vise us.

 

 

 

War’s Sufferers

WHERE are they? How many are
there? No man knows. No man ever
will know. There are so many kinds of
suffering for which war is responsible that
even the recording angel would despair of
telling the number.

Think of only a few. The suffering of
the wounded soldier falling on the ﬁeld of
battle, or being carried to some hospital
base, or still alive though mutilated beyond
all hope, or the air man in the crashing and
burning plane, or the sailor in the bombed
and sinking ship. \

Think of the anguish of the aged, driven
from home and traveling, worn and weary,
the highway under terror of shot and shell,
of little children lost, frightened, knowing
nothing of what it all may mean. Think of
the homes whose inmates wait through
sleepless nights and anxious days for that
dreaded explosion that at any moment may
fall upon them. Think of the homes where
mothers start at every footstep, lest it be
the messenger telling of one never to be
seen again. Think of the sufferings of the
lovers who can never forget that good—bye
kiss. Think of the sufferings of the millions
whose hearts go out in sympathy to all
these and who cannot forget them.

And all this wild, raging sea of pain and
woe dashing against the shores of a once
peaceful life—all this world of suffering,
needless, reasonless, born of a spirit defy-
ing God and the moral order of the world.
This is the thing men call war. It’s more
than that—it’s modern war that can murder
the mother holding her baby to her breast,
slaughter the helpless fugitives that crowd
strange roads hastening they know not
whither.

Men have called this thing not only war,
but Hell. Hell, whatever that word stands
for, must be ashamed to have its name so
disgraced. This modern war that grinds a
conquered people into dust; that with its
secret spies and invaders creeps like a thief
in the night with knife in hand into a
nation’s borders and strikes at its very
heart, and then glories in its treachery and
crime. This is the depth of heartless cruelty

to which man can sink when, mad in his
greed for power, he sells his soul to the
prince of darkness.

Yet we must not forget that in land after
land there are ten thousand times ten thou-
sand and thousands of thousands of men
and women who do justly, love mercy and
walk humbly with their God; for every
tyrant, for every maker of war a host no
man can number, loyal to truth and hating
lies, all holding sacred the ties of human
brotherhood. "

Which Path Shall We Choose?

In these dark days through which our
modern world is passing, when the prayers
of millions that cry for peace have seemed
to die at the suppliants’ lips, over and over
again has come the age—old, taunting voice
of the cynic, “Where is now thy God?”

Which path are we going to take—the
one where walk the men who say there is
no God, who say the world and all it stands
for has ever been and ever will be only the
helpless victim of a blind and blundering
Fate which knows no difference between a
human heart and a moth whose wings are
withered in the ﬂame?

Or shall it be the path followed by Saints,
Apostles, Prophets, Martyrs, followed today
by a multitude whom no man can number,
high and low, rich and poor, scholar, sage,
peasant, toiler, who, to the cynic’s charge,
answer with that singer of an ancient day,
“Why art thou cast down, 0 my soul? and
why are thou disquieted within me? hope
thou in God, for I shall yet praise Him.”

From England

Reports from humane authorities in Eng-
land tell us that, though the destruction of
animals was great through the early months
of the present war, it was by no means as
disastrous as has generally been understood
from articles in the press.

At the last annual meeting of the Royal
S. P. C. A. the statement was made that
soon after the outbreak of the war the So-
ciety was inundated with requests to destroy
animals, and was able painlessly to put to
sleep 750,000.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 81;

To a Leopard
ALMA ROBISON HIGBEE

You pace your cell and satin muscles ripple,
While lightning flashes from your green-
gold eyes,
Your flattened ears hear whispers of the
jungle
Where tall trees, moss hung, lattice lurid
skies.
Have you forgotten nights of stealthy
roving,
Slipping down the wind on winged feet?
Across the world your shy wild mate is

calling
And freedom beckons, breathlessly and
fleet.
Your stout heart beats with dull and aching
thunder

Against your concrete cell and iron bars,

Dream your futile dreams of still dark
rivers,

0f night-deep eyes and amber jungle
stars.

The Last of the Herd

BERNICE OGDEN

IGHT lonely animals took up their last
E retreat on a remote island off the west
coast of Mexico. They, alone, remained of
the vast herd which once inhabited the
Paciﬁc Ocean. All the rest had been ruth-
lessly slaughtered for no reason other than
that their bodies contained a valuable oil.
For this reason, the elephant seal was on
the verge of extinction.

How long could this pitiful remnant hold
out against the wasteful exploitation of
man? Great. lumbering beasts they were,
indeed. Some of the males reached a length
of almost twenty—two feet and weighed
between two and three tons but they were
no match for man with his cruel weapons.

Fortunately, they had a few friends.
Some men became concerned over the plight
of these animals. The Mexican Govern-
ment became interested and came to the
rescue just in time. They gave the seals
such excellent protection that the number
began to increase. In less than ﬁfty years,
over 1,200 elephant seals were counted on
the same beach on Guadeloupe Island. Even
more remarkable, the animals have over-
ﬂowed to the San Benite Islands near the
Mexican coast. In September, 1938, sixteen
were reported on San Miguel Island, off
the coast of Southern California.

The elephant seal has some interesting
characteristics. Its name comes from the
trunk, or proboscis, of the male. When
relaxed, this hangs down about eighteen
inches. It is said to seize small ﬁsh with
this and to transfer them to its mouth in
much the same way that the elephant uses
its trunk.

It is not a fur—bearing seal but has
coarse, bristling hairs on its back. A pe-
culiar device which nature has bestowed
upon it serves as a chest protector when the
animal engages in ﬁghts with other mem—
bers of its kind. This is a hard crust of
ﬂesh which extends over the chest and
around to the back of the neck.

Our neighbors to the south deserve much
credit in preserving this remarkable animal.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

FLASHLIGHT OF A BUCK IN NORTHERN
WISCONSIN

Hollywood Pets

DORISGALE

ITTLE—KNOWN stories about the
pets of very well—known stars! The
pets of Hollywood are seldom heard about,
but it is interesting to note that these
people of the glamour world are just as
devoted to our dumb animals as you and I.
For instance, there is the understandable
disappointment suffered by Mickey Rooney
recently. The young star became so attached
to “Peter,” the mongrel black and tan pup
which appears with Mickey in “Young Tom
Edison” that he offered the dog’s owner the
price of a pedigreed dog for him. Under-
standable, too, the refusal of Peter’s owner.
Greer Garson worried so about her Sealy-
ham’s habit of running away from her on
their nightly walk, that she bought a
special collar for him. The dog, named
“Coco,” is black as spades; and now he
wears a collar with white stripes set with
iridescent glass which gleams in the dark-
ness. Miss Garson is taking no chances on
losing him.

Then there is the story of J ean‘nette
MacDonald and the way she has “spoiled”
her pet Skye terrier, “Stormy.” Stormy
pouts all day unless he is allowed to accom-
pany his mistress to work in the morning
and ride along in the car that picks her up
at night. So, of course, Stormy gets his way!

But the most unusual pet story is prob-
ably this one, concerning Sigrid Gurie. She
has what is probably the most unusual pet
in Hollywood, an ocelot, a small variety of
African leopard. Recently Miss Gurie took
him to the beauty parlor, causing feminine
patrons in various stages of facial and
shampoo treatments to jump in excitement.
But Miss Gurie hastily reassured them,
“He’s just a pet, perfectly harmless. I’ve
trained him from a kitten.” Proving once
again the universal affection between peo-
ple and animals.

June, 1940
The Voice of the Deer

HAROLD ERNEST LEWIS

HE deer has long been termed

a silent animal as its voice
is seldom heard except in alarm
or pain. Members of neither sex
make use of their voices in call-
ing to each other during the
mating season.

When alarmed, the males, or
bucks as they are called, often
utter a sudden loud snort, a
peculiar whistling sound which
can not be well described. This is
called “blowing” by the woods-
man and naturalist, who are the
only persons, with the exception
of hunters, who probably ever
hear this sound. Deer in private
parks are not easily frightened,
therefore, visitors to these places
are not familiar with this signal
of alarm. When badly injured the
buck often emits a loud bellow,
and the female, or doe, a pitiful
bleating cry.

The female makes a low mur-
muring sound when calling to her
young, and the fawn replies with
a faint bleating sound, compar-
able to that of a lamb but not so
loud in tone.

A conservation department employee re-
ports that while engaged in catching live
deer where they had become too numerous
for, the available feed, for transportation
to a more favorable location, that the does
in their fright at being caught and handled,
made the shore of a near-by lake resound
near and far with their loud bleating cries.

In the course of their conservation work,
two of the men captured a half-grown fawn
that was swimming in the lake and trans-
ported it to a barn where several does were
being held, the group of does would huddle
together in the farthest corner of the
barn; but when this fawn was put in, a doe
sprang suddenly from the midst of the
frightened group and, bounding to the little
newcomer, lavished on it every frantic
affection possible in its dumb way, all of the
while emitting little indescribable noises of
pleasure. After nuzzling the fawn for a
while, the doe proceeded to nurse it. It was
very evident that a mother and baby of
the wild had been happily reunited.

This doe and fawn were shipped to a pro-
tected area in the Catskill Mountains of
New York, and liberated where they might
roam the forest together safe from gunner
and dog.

Performing Animals

“Think for a moment of the whole life of
a performing animal, domestic or wild,
spent in rehearsing, constantly improving
and renewing acts; traveling in rackety
trains with weary waits at stations, pierc-
ingly cold in winter, stiﬂing hot in summer,
packed so tightly that they cannot move in
comfort, so that they shall not be bruised,
agreed, but at what discomfort, and acting.
The most artiﬁcial existence in the world
for humans, and inﬁnitely more for ani-
mals.” So writes Helen Trevelyan, noted
English actress and author. The Jack Lon-
don Club, Boston, aims to stop such cruelty.

 

 

 

 

 

I
l

 




 

 

 

 

 
    
 

   
 
    

> A. / ' .' i 2
WWW iiim\‘\ ’ i ‘ ~——.
.::-.7/»..\ ‘49 ». d»
arc: \\\\\\“\ M
We _. , . _

 
 

.i

 

  

sate

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Office-rs

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. O. A.—-MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S» P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres. ; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. I’. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. I’. C. A-—-MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-

BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers. . 18,053
Cases investigated ............. 448
Animals examined ............. 3,381
Animals placed in homes ....... 229
Lost animals restored to owners. . 60
Number of prosecutions ......... 1
Number of convictions .......... 1
Horses taken from work ........ 14
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 38
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,649
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 46,799
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 53

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. . L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 767
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,857
Operations ...................... 377

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 176
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 471
Operations ...................... 154

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered .................... 70
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 182,883
Dispensary Cases ............... 459,527
Total .............. 642,410

Holyoke Branch, Mass.
8. P. C. A.

TEADY progress is being made by the

newly organized Holyoke Branch of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., according to the
report of the president, Mrs. Aaron C.
Bagg, for the period from May 12, 1939,
when the Animal Shelter was opened at 14
Railroad Square, to May 1, 1940. During
that period 1,900 animals were handled,
homes having been found for the more de-
sirable dogs and cats and the injured and
less desirable having been humanely put to
sleep. The Holyoke Fire and Police Depart-
ments have been most helpful in rescuing
dogs from the river and canals.

Arthur P. Allair has been appointed by
President Rowley as local investigating
agent for Holyoke and vicinity.

Humane education is receiving special
attention by the Branch. In April a Junior
Chapter of the Mass. S. P. C. A. was
started in the Springdale school where chil-
dren of the ﬁfth and sixth grades held a
splendid exhibit of animal welfare. Pupils
in all the sixth grades of the public schools
made animal posters. All this work was
done under the authorization and direction
of Superintendent of Schools, William R.
Peck.

Membership in the Branch is growing
steadily. TWO ﬁne meetings were held dur-
ing the year, a feature being the social
hour. The next one will be at the Y. M.
C. A. on October 9, at 8 o’clock.

Page 105

June Day Festivities

Annual Outdoor Gathering of Springfield
Women’s Auxiliary of Mass. S. P‘. C. A.

ORE than 500 women attended the

gala June Day celebration of the
Women’s Auxiliary, Springﬁeld Branch,
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., held on the
estate of Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Allison
on Longmeadow Street, Longmeadow, Tues—
day, June 4.

There were two outstanding features—
the bridge with more than 100 tables in
action, and the fascinating style Show. The
latter took place on a long parade platform
erected for the occasion. It was held under
the direction of Mrs. M. F. Peterson.
Among the models were Miss Constance
Hatt, Miss Mary Jo Gould, Miss Barbara
Sidd, Mrs. Irving, R. Shaw, Mrs. Frank W.
Winslow, Mrs. John V. Boyle, Mrs. William
A. Sidd, Mrs. Harvey Preston, Mrs. H. O.
Popham, Miss Ann Schlisenger and Miss
Audrey Garnett. An innovation was the
appearance of several three-year-old and
slightly older children with apparel for the
very younger set. They were Emily Blunt,
Bobby Sauers, and Carolyn and Alan Wey-
mouth.

Mrs. Walter J. DuBon and Mrs. Stuart
M. Robson were in charge of the dessert
bridge, the tables for which were placed
near the style Show area. The prizes were
arranged by Mrs. A. J. Guﬂ’anti. There
were a cake table, punch table, and booth
for the sale of bird-houses. Mrs. Harold B.
Adams was in charge of the special fea—
tures, Mrs. Harold D. Stickney of the
punch, while the bird-house sale was in the
hands of Mrs. Donald McAlister, Mrs.
Harold S. Treworgy and Mrs. Charlena B.
Kibbe. Other committee chairmen were
Mrs. Grace Whitney, music, and Mrs.
Harry B. Ellis, fortunes.

Mrs. Charles S. Vining directed the
table appointments, assisted by Mrs. Rollin
D. Keeney, Mrs. John N. Larson, Miss Ruth
Oldﬁeld, Mrs. Walter J. DuBon, Mrs. John
D. Kaps, and Mrs. Michael Kavanaugh.

Great credit is due to Mrs. Morton B.
Miner, president of the Auxiliary, and Mrs.
Carlton H. Garinger, chairman of the day,
for the marked success of this outstanding
social event.

Making Friends with Birds

An article in the Bulletin of the Massa-
chusetts Audubon Society, entitled “Attract
Birds with Food Plants,” says, “For sum-
mer and early autumn the Tatarian honey-
suckle, buckthorn, mulberry, gray dogwood
and red osier should be planted; for late
autumn and winter, the arrowwood, black
alder, mountain ash, ﬂowering crab and
Japanese barberry.”

It also speaks of the usefulness of certain
trees for the summer and autumn birds——
among these the oaks, hackberry, sassafras,
American elm, white ash and cherry. The
wild cherries are more popular with birds
than the cultivated varieties, although they
should not be planted where livestock may
reach them as their leaves often prove
poisonous to animals.

These are only a few of the plants and
trees so useful in attracting birds to one’s
home.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

June, 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 85

N ation-widc Be Kind to Animals Week

It is ﬁtting that our children everywhere should be instructed in humane principle-s.
GOVERNOR SALT’ONS‘T‘ALL, Massachusetts

The education of the young in kindness is one of the most important functions of civilized society.
GOVERNOR VANDE‘EREBILT, Rhode Island

I think this (Be Kind to Animals Week) is a good thing,

and gladly call attention to the occasion and its worthy purpose.

GOVERNOR HORNER, Illinois

These programs to remind us of our debt to the animals are vitally important and particularly helpful.

GOVERNOR HEEiIL, Wisconsin

One of the worst forms of human perversity is wanton cruelty to speechless creatures.

GOVERNOR RIVERS, Georgia

It is vitally important that education along these lines be included in our school work.

E

 

 

 

GOVERNOR MILIE‘S, New Mexico

 

 

 

  

THOUSANDS OF SCHOOL POSTERS WERE RECEIVED IN RECENT CONTEST OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Governors of states in all sections of
the country, as shown above, the
twenty-sixth annual Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 14 to April 20, 1940, was
marked by triumphant celebrations in which

E NTHUSIASTICALLY endorsed b y

press, pulpit, radio and, especially, the pub-
lic schools co-operated with the humane
societies.

Newspaper publicity included a promi-
nent notice at the top of the column, “Side-
lines,” in This Week Magazine, a syndi-

cated feature of many of the country’s
leading Sunday papers. Such popular radio
stars as Bing Crosby, Kate Smith, and
“Baby Snooks” gave voice to the message
of the Week. More than 70,000 national
Be Kind to Animals posters, designed by

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

What does Miss Hurst feel about her col-
lection? Are her various pets a bulwark in
her life?

The novelist will tell you that she can-
not think of her pets except as something
bound up with her private life, and in this
light, they are kept out of her short stories
and books and seldom publicly reviewed. To
the writer, her cockatoos and ﬁnches, her
cats, dogs, turtles and monkeys, represent
a primitive Eden, which, because man is
kept out of the equation and man does not
affect it one way or another, this paradise
remains inviolate.

Vagrant as Appash is and instinctive with
mischief, he may cuddle up against the
sleeping Anitra and there will be no reper-
cussions. A linnet ﬂies into Madame Mar-
moset’s cage and madam is only bored, not
necessarily provoked. Scottie, hugging the
ground, collides with a feline counterpart,
and there are no electrical discharges. One
looks in vain for those polar cap, quick-
freezing glances that are aimed to kill in
New York’s subway. Three bullﬁnches, so
ripe they must surely cause even sated
maws to salivate, ﬁnd themselves viewed
only with indifference by pussy, intent only
upon an inner peace and its own bequest of
somnolence.

So the novelist works- on. Her typewriter
keys ﬂy and she pecks away for hours. Her
heart and mind, the same that produced
“Humoresque,” “Back Street,” “Lummox,”
to name but a few, pour out what people
say, do, think. As she works her intimate
friends wait. They know that when their
mistress is through and words have been
put down, much as they are puzzled by the
whole business, there will be happy tidings
for them and devotion unto the least.

“The greatest coward is he that treats
with cruelty a helpless living thing.”

Woodpeckers can locate insects hidden in

wood by echo when they sound with their
bills.

 

PERHAPS THE MOST GRACEFUL OF ALL OUR
BIRDS ON WATER OR IN AIR

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

That Funny Fellow, the Swan

EDWIN PURVIANCE

NGAINLY though they are on land,
l the swans are perhaps the most grace-
ful of all our birds both on the water and
in the air.

Newly hatched swans, called cygnets, are
slate—gray in color, with ruffled feathers,
slender necks, and short red bills. Ador—
able as these little fellows are, neverthe-
less it is hard to keep from laughing when
watching them walk when they are about
ten weeks old. Their bodies have grown so
fast up to this period that their legs cannot
support the weight. They can waddle a
short distance to their food, then they sit
down to eat!

In ten to eleven months the cygnets have
reached maturity and are pure white with
smooth, even feathers. These are the
“Florida grown” swans as I have known
them and studied them on Lake Lucerne
in Orlando.

Swans are not unusually old at ﬁfty
years and one old-timer, as familiar to
Orlando residents as any citizen, reached
the age of 78. They do not make friends
easily with human beings, yet they do grow
to know individuals and they eventually
become tame enough to take food from the
hand.

A pair of white swans belonged to the
late Charles Lord who lived on the shores
of Lake Lucerne. Like few other birds the
male took his turn sitting on the eggs while
his mate went for a swim. After the eggs
were hatched the entire family, as part of
their daily constitutional, would swim to
the farthest side of the lake. Mr. Lord then
would give his familiar shrill whistle. The
cygnets immediately would climb upon the
mother’s back and with the father soaring
close by the family would ﬂy back to the
nest where food awaited them. As many
as ﬁve cygnets at the same time have en—
joyed rides on the back of" the mother!

Seemingly devoted to the
young ones, the father sud—
denly turns upon his family
when they are several months
old and literally drives them
from the nest, and from that
time on they must seek a nest
of their own.

Arctic seals that live in
frigid, ice—ﬁlled waters, have
a body temperature of 104
degrees.

An ostrich never sticks its
head in the sand but lies on
the ground with its neck
stretched out and its eyes
open when it wants to hide.

If indeed thy heart were
right, then would every crea—
ture be to thee a mirror of
life, and a book of holy
doctrine.

THOMAS A KEMPIS

Please remember the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of' Cruelty to Animals
when making your will.

.hdy,1940

A Painter of Animals

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

N the sunny Island of Jersey there

lives a man whose drawings and paint—
ings of animals and birds have made him
famous. His work has been exhibited at the
Royal Academy, which in England is the
highest honor which an artist can attain,
yet William Armitage lives a life of the
greatest simplicity, still studying, at an
advanced age, his many friends, both
feathered and four-footed, and setting
down on paper or canvas his impressions of
them in various moods.

Because the Island where he makes his
home is famous for its cattle, he has made
many studies of the tiny, fawn-like calves,
of the placid cows and of great tawny bulls.
In contrast to these are his hundreds of
drawings of lions, tigers, wolves, foxes and
other wild animals, many of them made at
the Regent’s Park Zoo, where he spends
most of his spare time whenever he is in
England. Horses and dogs form an im-
portant part of his collection, and pictures
of birds ﬁll every corner of his studio.

The secret of Mr. Armitage’s success lies
in his deep love for and understanding of
all living creatures. Cats and dogs pose for
him without any sign of restlessness. Birds
seem to recognize him as a friend. This
same quality of understanding has made
him many close friends among the people
whom he meets, for it is impossible for any-
one to know him without feeling a deep
affection for him.

His home, which is only a stone’s throw
from Mont Orgueil Castle, overlooks the
blue waters of the little harbor known as
Ann Port. From his back porch, Where
during most of the year he and his sister
have their tea, there is a charming view
of trees and ﬂowers and miles of sandy
beaches.

Cattle browse on the terraced slopes be-
low him, and the many birds which ﬁnd
their homes on the Island sing from the
high branches of near-by trees. It is a
peaceful life.

To Mr. Armitage, the most important
thing about portraying an animal is to
achieve the same expression in the eyes as
he ﬁnds in the original. If he is not success-
ful in this he considers his work a failure
and destroys it. That is perhaps why all
his animal paintings are alive, looking at
us with friendly interest.

During the ﬁrst World War he turned out
many posters for the British Government.
One, in particular, entitled “The Glory of a
Lion is His Mane,” in which the lion’s mane
is made up of the names of the British Col-
onies, sold enough reproductions to enable
him to turn over $6,000 to War charities.

Any Americans who visit Jersey may be
assured that if they walk down the cobbled
street of Gorey Village and knock at the
door of Mr. Armitage’s studio they will be
accorded a warm welcome and the great
privilege of viewing his enormous collection
of his own work. If they are fortunate, as
I was, they may be invited to tea, and may
fall under the spell of the painter’s gentle
personality.

Animals and birds in earthquake zones
sense .an approaching disturbance two and
sometlmes three days before it occurs.

 




45..-... I”: .

 

 

 

July, 1940

Clara’s Cat

WILLIAM PLUMER FOWLER

When Clara is not here, she leaves her cat

For us to love when she is far away-——-

For us to feed, to stroke, on gently pat,

As she herself would do, could she but stay;

Her soft-furred animal of white and gray,

With orbs of beryl, luminous at night,

The time he likes to roam,—although by
day

He ﬁnds in quiet sleep his chief delight,

Or purrs contentedly with all his might

Upon a quilt the color of his eyes——

0r stretches slowly in the sun’s warm light,

And cleans himself with zeal that mortiﬁes

The neatest housewife, with her mop and
broom,—

And goes to sleep again, in Clara’s room.

A True Story

M. H. MORGAN

A long time ago a Rev. Dr. Thomas
established what he called “The People’s
Church” in the old McVicker’s Theater,
Chicago, where services were held every
Sunday morning. On one of these occa-
sions he had arranged for the blessing of
children, as Christ blessed them. Accord—
ingly mothers had brought their little ones,
and as fast as they were presented Dr.
Thomas took them in his arms and prayed
that the blessings of the Father might rest
upon them, guarding them in times of dan—
ger, and clearing the path before them.

The old house cat of the theater watched
for a while, and then, apparently noticing
that other mothers were bringing their
children to this man, for some reason, she
actually went to her den under the stage,
and returned with half a dozen tiny kit—
tens following her. Soberly they ﬁled
across the platform, watched gleefully by
the audience and the kindly eyes of Dr.
Thomas. They formed a diminishing semi—
circle at the feet of the Reverend, where
they received a caress and a brief word
of praise. It is not to be assumed, of
course, that the cat had the least idea
what was transpiring, but whatever it was,
her mother love desired her own to par—
ticipate in it.

 

OUR DUMB

AN 1M ALS

Page 107

Fannie Hurst and Her Pets

IRVING SHERMAN

ROM coast to coast, the cry is out.

“What have you got? Is it a tiger, a

lion, a monkey or a dog? Send it to
Fannie Hurst.” She’ll welcome the gift,
and she’ll ﬁnd a place for the animal in a
collection that, some aver, approaches the
stature of a zoo.

Miss Hurst has been “that way” about
animals ever since she can remember. A
dog was responsible for her quitting college
before taking her degree. Rather than fore-
go a Scottie’s company, she abandoned
Aristotle and Keats, and, although Alma.
Mater subsequently claimed her again, it
was necessity not reconsideration that
changed her mind.

The keys of Miss Hurst’s typewriter ﬂy;
the writer is soon lost to her surroundings;
but an audience remains. Out on a terrace
of an apartment in the Hotel des Artists,
in New York, “Appassionata,” the lion mar-
moset, is making eyes at “Anitra’s Dance,”
the high-steppin’, platinum-blond, Persian
cat. “Lummox II,” a Yorkshire terrier,

contemplates, with inveterate impishness,_
the possibilities of a raid “on two imperi?"

turbable turtles; while chaiﬁ’é’d, but formid-
able enough, two tiger cubslﬁle keenly the
dazzling transparence of a pair of strutting
cockatoos. Perched high, like muezzin who
somehow cannot remember the summoning
prayer, a Capuchin monkey wonders why he
always has to start fun 'himself ifv he wants
any. '

The epic of the wild duck. deserves a
paragraph by itself. A certain radio com-
edian might have taken a few lessons from
Miss Hurst in the art of being persuasive.

First there was the Vathtub. “No like,”

said our wild friend. A large aluminum.

pan was presented to our amphibian.

This time duckie made it emphatic. He
churned and splashed and when he was
through, Miss Hurst Was sufﬁciently im-
pressed.

“Look, duckie, are you with me or are
you anti?”

“Quack! Quack! Quack!” replied duckie
three times and in a most afﬁrmative man-

1181'.

“JOSEPH,” “PATCH,” AND “DITTO,” PRIZE-WINNING PHOTOGRAPH IN
RECENT CONTEST OF PENNSYLVANIA S. P. C. A.
By Mrs. Gene Gibson, Upper Darby, Pa.

 

MISS HURST AND “ANITRA’S
DANCE,” HER PERSIAN CAT

Mr. Walt Disney’s protege is safely en—
sconced where he will be perfectly happy
and Miss‘Hurst does not care.

The mistress’s favorite is Lummox II. If
you catch Miss Hurst at a lecture or meet
the novelist at tea, Lummox II will un—
doubtedly be there. And be very careful.
Do‘not overlook one luminary for the light
of another. The Yorkshire terrier is as
removed from just plain mutt as high is
from low and Lummox, preserve us, knows
it. Nobody is going to get away with high-
hatting him!

In appearance, like so many prodigies,
Lummox is not prepossessing. To be entire-
ly truthful, he is on the dwarfish side; but
hold your snickers. The canine can rank
with the best of them. He is one of the
rarest Yorkshire terriers in the United
States—a sport who will never weigh more
than two pounds and who is a diminutive
variation of the normal large dog, very
much like a model streamline competes in
every detail with its massive, big brother.

Here come sordid details. Appassionata or
Appash, for short, is a married man; but
maybe the pet, a true monkey, has ideas.
One cannot deny that Anitra’s Dance is
very compelling; but must Appash’s eyes
wander? Let one as much as try to stroke
milady’s fur, and such a rage and solic1-
tude will leap out of the tiny body (mar-
mosets do not grow longer than ten inches)
one can understand all that Shakespeare
said Othello did.

Inasmuch as there seems to be no limit to
the birds and beasts Miss Hurst will shelter
in her domicile, lovers of animals have fre-
quently made the inquiry as to how the
novelist determines Which she will keep and
which ship off to zoos or friends. This 1s
answered by Miss Hurst’s enthusiasm test.
If enthusiasm is shown and if a corner of
her apartment is still untenanted, then you
can mark down another member of the
writer’s ensemble.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

{Vb—-1 W411, _, - ﬂ ,.

PagehO OUR DUIMB ANIMALS Mar.1940

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO'WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MARCH, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each olfering.

 

 

Is This Education?

ECENTLY, in the Westbury Grammar

School, Westbury, Long Island, New
York, for the enlightenment and education
Of the pupils, a pig was slaughtered. before
them, hung up and dressed. To Mr. Jerome
Fitzpatrick, superintendent of schools, a
number of letters were immediately writ-
ten condemning such an exhibition as any-
thing but educational in value and natur-
ally tending to dull the sensibilities Of the
pupils Of that grammar school. The bleed-
ing carcass, the disemboweling must have
been anything but a pleasant sight to the
young minds that witnessed it.

Replying to the letters received, we are
told in an article published in the New
York H erald-Tribune, January 22, that the
demonstration was sanctioned by the State
Department Of Education. As a redeeming
factor in this highly educational idea, it
is stated that none Of the fourth grade
pupils, who had fed this pig, were present
when it was killed.

Perhaps if one Of the great Chicago
abattoirs had been near this special school,
the pupils would have been conducted
through the plant. Had this been done, it
is barely possible they might have come
away from it with some idea Of the in-
humane methods by which the great major-
ity Of our food animals are destroyed.

“Wimpy”—Loyal Hero

A silver medal bearing the above inscrip-
tion was recently awarded to “Wimpy,” a
cocker spaniel owned by Mrs. Donald R.
Wood Of Stockbridge, Mass. When the
house was well aﬁre, Wimpy’s furious bark—
ing aroused Harold French who quickly
awoke his aunt, Miss Ada M. French, and
all were saved. President Rowley Of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. had the medal
cast which was attached to Wimpy’s collar
by T. King Haswell, Humane Society’s
Ofﬁcer in Berkshire County.

Our Life Annuities, at age 65, will pay
you 6.5 per cent-that is, $65, annually
for each multiple of $1,000. Correspond-
ingly higher rates for advancing ages up to
9 per cent. Write to 180 Longwood Ave.,
Boston, for further details.

 

ANG'ELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
MUNSON, V.M.D.
BLAKELY, v.M.D.

. ROBERTSON, V.M.D.
. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

ZPPHPF’H
“ROWE!“

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 784
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,905
Operations ...................... 373
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in HOSpital ........ 201
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 557
Operations ...................... 171
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 69
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 179,421
Dispensary Cases ............... 450,298
Total .............. 629,719

Still the Ku Klux Klan

E have before us a copy Of the

Philadelphia Tribune dated Janu-
ary 11, 1940. It tells the story of an in-
vasion sometime during that week into the
city of Anderson, South Carolina, by white-
robed mobmembers Of the Ku Klux Klan.
They marched through the entire colored
section; many Negroes were searched and
attacked. They also visited several other
neighboring towns where more Negroes
were assaulted, and a white man was
severely beaten. More or less of this same
type Of raiding happened at Greenville,
South Carolina, a few weeks earlier.

We also learn that three men were
arrested, including the chief Of the staffi of
the Ku Klux Klan in South Carolina; and
a reward of $500 offered for information
leading to the conviction Of white-robed
and hooded men who abducted and ﬂogged
a twenty-seven-year-Old mechanic on the
night Of December 27, 1939. The leader Of
that affair is under bond Of $5,000. The
other two were released under bonds of
$5,000 each.

Correspondence from South Carolina con-
ﬁrms these statements from the press.

We had hoped that sort Of business was
at an end in the South, and are well aware
that it has no support among the great
mass Of Southern people. The Governor of
the State of South Carolina, in his address
to the Assembly, over the radio, denounced
the activities of the Klan and received
tremendous applause both from the House
and from the Senate.

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868
See Pages 45 and 46 for complete list of ofﬁcers

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRs. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE’ BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

 

MRS.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 18,446
Cases investigated . . . . ......... 431
Animals examined ............. 6,801
Animals placed in homes ....... 216
Lost animals restored to owners. . 73
Number of prosecutions ......... 5
Number of convictions .......... 5
Horses taken from work. . ..... . 5
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 42
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,404
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ......... . . . . 65,332
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 65

American Fondouk, Fez

Delayed Report for November — 30 Days
Daily average large animals 57.1
Forage for same 33 11.42
Put to sleep 22 2.28
Transportation 2.07
Daily average dogs 8.2
Forage for same 3.30
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 52.51
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 17.12
Motor ambulance upkeep 3.49
Sundries 26.11
Actual operating expenses $218.30
Building upkeep 28.54
$246.84

Entries: 6 horses, 15 mules, 79 donkeys, 1 cow.
Exits: 6 horses, 15 mules, 54 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 138 horses, 79 mules, 56 don-
keys, 2 dogs, 1 cat.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Cases investi-
gated, 245; animals seen, 5,574; animals treated,
1,150; animals hospitalized by us from above, 61;
pack-saddles (infected) destroyed, 6; Arab bits
destroyed, 8; animals transported in ambulance, 9;
animals sent by Police Dept., 15.

One Day’s Work

FRIDAY, 17th. 7.30 am. TWO men inspecting
native Fondouks at Bab Guissa. Bringing 5 donkeys
to Hospital, destroying 3 infected pack-saddles.
2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Vet. visit, Dr. Bouguereau oper-
ating on a mule and a donkey (abscess on the
back). Ordering to put to sleep one of the donkeys
injured by a motor-car and hospitalized on last
Wednesday (pelvis broken). Making certiﬁcate about
those donkeys for Police Dept. Reporting all others
getting well. Men cleaning grounds and treating
some outpatients. 5.30 p.m. went to Police Dept.
Bou Jeloud. Animals in Hospital: 64.

G. DELON, Superintendent

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. when making your will.

 




Dec. 1940

OUR. DUMB ANIMALS

Page 181

 

years ago, when the sky hung
low and black over the sea, the
gray, stormy waves rose moun-
tain high. Back and forth they
churned, tossing great masses of
coarse, creamy foam into crests,
then scattering them into the
deep. Dark shadow, black night,
and restless uneasy waters made
the world cold and desolate. But
quietly, mysteriously, one lone
bright Star shone in the heav-
ens, and a gentle wind began to
sweep across the raging ﬂood,
and to touch each angry crest,
and whisper soothing tidings to
low clouds and leaping waves.
Suddenly the Star ﬂamed into
startling glory, then faded from
sight, and was replaced by a
soft eerie light that crept across
the vast expanse of ocean. The
mountainous waves began to
subside, the surface of the sea
became as glass, and a great
peace enfolded earth and heaven.

Across the world sweet notes
of music spread far and wide,
turning the loneliness into a

 

gt. iﬁrantia gang

A Legend of the Christmas Crib and of the Christmas Carol

KADRA MAYSI

Subasio was frosted with a fragile southern snow
Upon that eve of Christmas, seven hundred years ago,
When—his gentle heart o’erflowing with his love for beasts

and men—

Saint Francis was returning to his birthplace once again.

There were neither gems nor velvets in the little hillside town;
No costly gifts for Magi, for the Royal Babe no crown.
But Saint Francis sought the farmyards' and, from stall and

fold, he led

The living beasts to worship round about a manger bed.

And the people gathered with them and the Star of all the

East

Looked upon no play of puppets but the prayer of man and

beast.

50, across the Umbrian foothills on that eve, a carol rang
As the Saint who loved all creatures lifted up his voice and

sang.

Why does a snake test the air
with rapid forked tongue? Why
are the ears of the more de-
fenseless rabbit longer than
many other lowly creatures?

The wings of a bat are com-
posed of skin, stretched tightly
like a drumhead, upon which
tympanum beat the vibrations
in the air, warning of contact.
A bat also has small patches of
fur on its face.

Added to these unseen forces
are the senses of smell and
taste, closely related. Moisture
increases both. The taste buds
of mammals are on the palate
and tongue, so. that food, when
mixed with saliva, has a ﬂavor.
Aquatic creatures, living in
moisture, are hypersensitive to
odors. A dog follows a scent
better in the early morning be-
fore the dew is oﬂ' the grass.
Besides, a dog’s nose is moist,
which increases its powers of
smell. Rain brings out the odors
in atmosphere and ground.

There are discharges cast off

 

 

paradise of harmony and rest.
When the sounds died away an
enthralling silence followed, and then the
halcyon ﬂoated gently down upon the still
waters, and built her nest upon the motion-
less tide. Since then, each Christmas Eve,
as bells toll out the midnight hour, the
winds lie still as if to listen for the angel
chorus, and the halcyon again drlfts upon
the waters and builds her nest.

The1e is a charming story told about a
beautiful puppy whom the J udean shepherd,
Andrew, objected to keeping in his home.
Dogs were not employed in Palestine as a
help in cattle-herding. Why should he har-
bor a stray that was utterly useless? But
his small son begged so hard for a pet that
eventually his supplications prevailed. And
in due course the puppy, “Sivis” by name,
began trailing the ﬂocks back and forth to
the hillside pasture, and was ﬁnally ack-

nowledged by Andrew to be a Welcome

assistance in shepherding.

One winter night as Sivis and his small
master sat with Andrew1ninding the sheep
upon the grassy slopes near Bethlehem the
dog began to rush back and forth excitedly,
uttering strange stiﬂed barks and low dis-
tressed whines. Nobody could coax him to
lie down and the old shepherd grew

alarmed. Presently a rumbling sound was:
heard followed by sweet distant singing.r

Then the full angel chorus burst upon the

air, bidding the listeners hasten unto Beth-z. ‘
lehem. As if he understood, Sivis seized:

the clothing of father and son and half
dragged them along as he led the way
straight to the humble cave, the birthplace
of the Divine Child. Then he rushed in to
the manger, attempting to snuggle against
the tiny new-born Christ. The terriﬁed on-
lookers drove him off, but the infant had
caught the shaggy little visitor with his
hand, and cried so when he was snatched
away that at last he was allowed to retu1.n

/And thus forever he remained the com—

panion of the Carpenter’s family. All stories
that in th ir very essence proclaim the
domestic 21 ”1111318 and the feathered folk
are candid tes for a share in all Christmas
cheer disggnsed by human kind.

Unseen Forces in Nature

M. H. MORGAN

UST as there were methods of broad—
casting among the wild creatures long
before man instituted such a system—the
ululating blood call of the wolf, warning
slap of a beaver’s tail, the clairvoyant roar
of lions—so Nature has apparently installed
receiving sets among the furred, whiskered
and antennaed denizens of forest and ﬁeld.
There is positive electricity in the air;
negative in the earth, both of which are
caught and held by these communicating
points of direction——discharges that exist in
the air too ﬁne for the unampliﬁed ear of
man to apprehend.
,. Every joint of a bee’s “feelers” carries a
different message, just as our radio towers
control the radiations of our man-made an-
tennae; their scope of receptivity governed
by the extent of the wave length.
I The mole, living continuously under-
ground, susceptible principally to the nega-
tive electricity of the earth, has the hair
(if its fur placed differently, and certainly
does not rely overmuch on its pinhead eyes.
Why does a fur-bearer bristle when an-
gry or frightened? Is it a demonstration,
merely, or does that set the hairs in posi-

tion to catch danger signals more readily?

 

by fear, desire, hatred, love, etc.,
to which animals react, and so,
to an extent, do humans.

Why did Noah send out a dove from the
ark when the raven failed to return? Did
he know that the dove possessed greater
powers of orientation?

Are the segmented horns of certain mem-
bers of the deer and goat family but solidi-
ﬁed antennae"?

An article in the Kansas City Star of
December 30, 1939, states that a certain
scientiﬁc association has declared we our-
selves are human radios, constantly emit-
ting “rays” that a recently invented instru-
ment is able to chronicle; and it further
claims that every atom or molecule is a con—
tinuous broadcasting station, whose wave
lengths may be very short or extremely
long.

Calendars for Christmas

Send your friends the 1941 Humane Cal-
endar which is of an entirely new design,
with colored picture of a boy and 2a dog
8 x 10 inches, and a straight pad, 2by
41/2 inches, all mounted on a light2 green
cardboard, 11 x 16 inches, mailed ﬂat. Price,
15 cts. each; six for 80 cts.; 12 for $1.50;
postpaid. Special prices to Societies wish-
ing their own imprint, if orders are re—

ceived at once. Address, American Humane
Education Society, Boston.

 

 

NOTE THE RARE ALBINO IN THIS HERD OF BUFFALO

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 60
Pink Toes and White Snow

Inspired by article on page 191 of
“Our Dumb Animal‘s,” Dec. 1939

TOMMIE B. LAINE

I chanced, one day while walking through
the wood,

To pass a tree where two woodcutters stood.

With saws in hand, they felled a tall oak
tree,

And, meanwhile, let five fuzzy ﬁeld mice
free.

Five fuzzy brown and gray mice scampered
out,

And fearfully they turned and looked about.

An endless waste, they saw, of snow and
sleet

To make an icy floor for tiny ﬁeld mice
feet!

Their winter store lay bare before my
view—-

Neat piles of tree buds, nuts, and acorns,
too:

Their tree-trunk storeroom now exposed to
snow—-

And fuzzy ﬁeld mice with no place to go!

Woodcutters smiled and proudly watched
them go—

Five homeless ﬁeld mice—and it six below!

I saw in pain the hail, and snow, and sleet:

An icy touch for twenty bare, small feet.

And all possessing tiny, soft pink toes
So unprepared I felt for winter snows.
Five homeless mice, barefooted on a day
When I, near froze, stumbled by the way.

I pondered long while trying hard to ﬁnd

A way to right wrongs done by mankind

To helpless victims, powerless like these

Which man makes homeless oft’ when fell-
ing trees.

But what was that I saw before the tree

Not hardly twenty feet in front of me?

Among the brush the tracks of many feet—

Mice tracks for sure—in wind, and snow,
and sleet!

My fears were groundless, for before the
tree

The truth about ﬁeld mice was shown to
me:

I hide myself in furs and boots, and freeze,

While God keeps ﬁeld mice warm in snow
and trees.

The Other Side

It’s the other side of the dog we mean.
The inside, if you please, rather than the
outside. It’s the side seen by his friends
who forget his external appearance, the
color of his coat, the lines that tell of
pedigree and breeding. To them he is a
living thing that loves and answers to those
who love him with a devotion and a ﬁdelity
that make friendship possible.

It is this side of the dog that makes him
a humanizing force in many a home, inter-
esting children in all animals, teaching
them to be kind and merciful. Thousands
among the poor love as sincerely their low-
born, four-footed friends as the rich their
blue-blooded prize-takers.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1940

 

THIS PUPPY HAS HIS OWN FILLING STATION

 

Feed the Strays
HENRY H. GRAHAM

OT long ago a man said to me, “I

never turn away a stray cat, dog or
other animal that comes to my door to be
fed. I always see that they have plenty to
eat.”

Instantly I realized that here was a man
after my own heart, a chap whom I would
like to know better. For the fellow who is
kind to animal life is pretty sure to be one
worth knowing well.

For many years I myself have made it a
practice to feed stray dumb creatures, and
have spent a great deal of time and energy
ﬁxing snug places for them to sleep. Such
abodes are especially appreciated in cold,
stormy weather.

Sometimes I have had as many as ﬁve
cats and two dogs on hand at one time.
Obviously, such a number is almost too
many to have around constantly unless one
can devote considerable time to their care.
But usually I have managed to ﬁnd good
homes for them in short order. There are
many boys in my neighborhood and nearly
all of them like cats and dogs. They see
my animals, rush
home to ask their
parents’ permission
to adopt them and
proudly carry their
new p ets away.
Seldom is parental
permission denied.
I always make
sure that the ani-
mal will be kindly
treated before per-
mitting them to be
taken away. Usu-
ally I insist that
some 5 ort of a
w a r m shelter be
provided b e f o r e-
hand. One Sunday
morning my sister

COOKER SPANIELS BORN AT ANGELL HOSPITAL

heard a plaintive mewing in the basement
of the church she attends. Investigation
disclosed the presence of a very thin and
very dirty kitten. The animal had been
romping in the coal bin. Apparently it
had received no food for a long time. Its
ribs almost protruded.

She brought the kitten home. Right from
the start it was the friendliest, most affec-
tionate cat I have ever seen. Plenty of food
soon put meat on its little bones and before
long it was as healthy and happy as could
be. We named her “Tizzie” for phonetical
reasons as we already had an adored big
tom cat named “Dizzy.” Well fed, I have
never seen either of the felines catch a bird
or even try to do so. Hungry, stray cats
are the chief offenders against feathered
life.

There is great joy in befriending any
kind of wild or domestic life but to me the
greatest joy comes from giving food and
shelter to homeless animals that need love
and attention so desperately. Somehow it
makes one feel good all over to do some-
thing nice for animals. The latter appreci-
ate it so much, too. A good slogan for an
animal lover might be, “Do a good deed
for animal life each day.”

 

 

 




 

 

Page 58

«7
GOD, f},
PEACE ON EARTH, w

KuNDNEss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ......... Turkey

Humane I’ress Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR FEBRUARY, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 506
Number of addresses made, 278
Number of persons in audiences, 50,367

Fund for Field Workers

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a

trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Women’s Pennsylvania

S. P. C. A.

ROM Frank C. McCreary, superintend—

ent of agents of the Women’s Pennsyl-
vania S. P. C. A., comes a remarkable re-
port of the work accomplished by that
organization during 1939. We can give but
the briefest summary of it here:

Number of complaints investigated,
1,694; prosecutions, 242; ﬁned, 175; jailed,
6; reprimanded, 56. Of these cases 37 re—
lated to horses and mules; 29 to cattle; 68
to dogs; 10 to cats; and 85 to chickens.

There were 11,413 cases treated in the
Caroline Earle White Dispensary, of which
9,369 were dogs, 1,946 cats, and 63 horses.
A new horse ambulance was purchased.
During the year more than $2,100 were ex-
pended for gasoline to run the Society’s
motor cars. Thirty-four granite fountains,
erected by the Society, are all in active
service.

Bangor Humane Society

One of the most active humane societies
in the smaller cities of the country is that
at Bangor, Maine. The annual report,
recently issued, shows that 1,345 investiga-
tions were made in 1939, in addition to the
investigation of 33 barns where 179 head
of cattle were found. Seventy-four cats
and 184 dogs were placed in homes, while
329 cats and 141 dogs were restored to
their owners. Among animals humanely
put to sleep were 16 horses, 307 dogs and
1,314 cats. ,

The Society’s humane education program,
under the direction of Miss Gladys F. Tag-
gett, secretary, included the distribution of
humane literature and Be Kind to Animals
posters in schools, two broadcasts, and the
awarding of 33 medals to winners in a
humane essay contest for school children
in which 500 essays were received. The
Society notes the activities of these chil-
dren in saving many birds from perishing
in the storms of March.

In her report Miss Taggett says that
the Bangor Humane Society this year
makes a direct appeal to the women of
Maine to co-operate in helping to elimi-
nate the use of the cruel steel-toothed trap.

From Lebanon and Syria

Humane educational activity is being car-
ried on in Syria and Lebanon though under
somewhat disturbing conditions, as reported
by Mr. N. B. Matta, president of the
Oriental Humane Education Association.
He writes as follows:

“I visited ten villages in Syria and
twelve in Lebanon and lectured on ‘Our
Most Faithful Friends.’ Total attendants
were not less than 1,040 people. Our ﬁeld
lecturer also visited some sixteen villages
in Syria and nine in Lebanon. In Palestine
and Transjordan humane work continues——
but slowly. Reports coming from teachers
are quite favorable. They are steadily
teaching young people about the necessity
of kindness to animals.

“Animals humanely put to sleep, thirty—
six dogs, nineteen cats, thirteen mules.
Animals taken care of, four horses, six
dogs, three cows and two geese. Lost ani-
mals restored to their owners, seventeen.”

Apr. 191.0
Fez F ondouk

Report of the Honorary Secretary,
Charles A. Williams

URING the year under review much

has been done on the new pasturage
acquired in 1938. The land has been split up
into paddocks, many trees have been planted
to provide shade for the animals, and crops
of kikuyu grass, of such rapid growth, have
been raised, providing excellent forage.

A matter for gratiﬁcation is the com—
paratively smaller number of animals “put
to sleep” during 1939—only 188, compared
with 406 in 1938 and 542 in 1937. This
in no way indicates a relaxation of our
policy to destroy painlessly any animal
certiﬁed by the veterinary surgeon as in—
curable, but rather the improved general
condition of animals in Fez, thanks to our
efforts during the past 12 years.

In comparing our ﬁnancial results with
1938 it will be seen that for about the same
number of animals treated, the expendi—
ture was $222.69 less, but some frs. 11,000
more. This was due to the fall in the
value of the franc at the outbreak of the
war; and although it seems good to re—
ceive over frs. 43 for each dollar, I fear
the enormous increase in the cost of forage
and everything else will more than offset
the difference.

Report of the Superintendent

In the course of 1939 we have worked
even more closely with the authorities, and
have found most effective our policy of
taking care of ill-treated animals and re-
porting to the police for punishment the
men who cause the suffering.

The French police on duty in Fez in the
course of the year have sent 269 animals
to the Fondouk, and in every case the
Pacha’s Tribunal has imposed a ﬁne for
ill-treatment, thus putting into operation
the Grammont Law for the protection of
animals.

It would be rash to say that We shall be
able to eliminate entirely cruelty to ani-
mals in a country such as Morocco, where
brutal methods have been practised for
centuries, but we must continue our efforts
day after day and year after year. There
are, however, signs that the natives are
beginning to understand our teaching, and
during 1939 for the ﬁrst time I have had
natives coming to the Fondouk to report
cases of cruelty to animals and to beg me
to go and hospitalize the poor. ill—treated
beasts.

In working among natives great patience
is required, and in some cases we do well
to make them feel the force of the law.

A very useful part of our work has been
the inspection of animals in native fon—
douks and those entering and leaving the
town, as by making these inspections daily
the owners are obliged to keep their ani-
mals in good condition, or to give them up
to us for treatment. Unfortunately, since
the outbreak of war, I have been obliged
to modify my work at the Fondouk. I was
mobilized on August 28 and was absent
from Fez ﬁve days, during which time Dr.
Chaulet, head of the services d’Elevage,
took charge of the Fondouk. Then I re—
turned to Fez and was able to carry on my

(Continued on page 61,)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“FINE FEATHERS MAKE FINE BIRDS”
By Robert H. Boody, Hyannis, Mass.
Prize winner in recent contest of Our Dumb Animals

 

The Sorrowful Bird

MARIE WAGNER

HE most consistently sorrowful voice

in nature belongs to the whippoorwill.
His chant is so pitifully miserable that he
might be shouldering the woes of the entire
world. “Whip-poor-Will!” he wails. “Whip-
poor-Will! Whip—poor-Will!” over and over
through the interminable hours.

It seems inconceivable that such a tragic
burden could be false. Yet false it is, for
the whippoorwill is a superlative actor—-
probably our greatest bird tragedian.

With remarkable instinct for his art, he
is particular about atmosphere and setting.
Everything must enhance the effect. So he
sings only at night, when the darkness
shrouds him in mystery. Then his chant
sounds four times as dismal and morose.

Though he speaks only one line, his per-
formance is a truly astonishing one, in that
it lasts as long as the night. For besides
having nature’s most mournful call, the
whippoorwill is a tireless singer. One man
once counted a thousand eighty-eight calls,
one following directly after the other. The
man ﬁnally fell asleep, worn out. The
whippoorwill was still singing. '

Aloof and eccentric, the whippoorwill is
also uncannily crafty. By day, he is camou-
ﬂaged by the forest ﬂoor, which he matches
in color. But should you chance to recog-
nize him, he at once goes into his act. He
develops a highly convincing limp.

“I’ve broken both wings and one leg in
a horrible accident!” he implies as he
hobbles away.

You follow, stricken with sympathy.
Then, when you are a goodly distance from
his nest, he ﬂutters his “wounded” wings,
gives his “fractured” leg a little kick—and
ﬂies away!

But despite this duplicity, the whippoor-
will remains one of the summer camper’s
most welcome visitors. He eats mosquitoes,
thereby enabling the camper to get much-
needed rest. Then, having fortiﬁed him-
self and done his good deed, the bird repairs
to the trees to repent.

“Whip-poor-Will!” he shrills in artistic
a n g u i s h. “Whip-poor-Will! Whip-poor-
Will!”

Talking Birds

EDWARD F. BRIGHAM

T was a cold, raw day in mid-winter.
An intelligent and at times talkative
parrot was conﬁned in a large bird-cage
which hung in the kitchen of a house in a
small town in Rhode Island.

Snow was falling steadily and to the
family cat, which had been out of the
house for some time and suddenly sprang
on the outer ledge of one of the kitchen
windows, the room looked warm and pleas—
ant. As the window was closed the cat
could not get in, but lay, down on the win~
dow sill with snow constantly falling upon
it, and peered longingly into the cheerful
room.

The parrot, turning on its perch, noticed
the cat lying outside the window and in
the falling snow; whereupon, cocking its
head on one side, it asked: “You cold,
kitty?”

In the great dining room of a ﬁne house
in the capital city of a western state there
hung a very large cage of which the sole
occupant was a small parakeet that occa-
sionally made astonishingly apt and perti-
nent remarks.

The cage, suspended by a brass chain
from a long brass bracket, was thus so
far from both wall and ﬂoor that a cat
which also belonged in the household could
not reach or catch it, even though the cat
was frequently observed to be watching the
little bird.

One day when no one was in that room
a great crash from it was heard. Mem—
bers of the family in other parts of the
house realized the chain must have given
way and the cage fallen on the ﬂoor. They
ﬁrst thought the door of the cage might
have broken open and the cat might catch
the parakeet.

They quickly rushed into the room. As
expected, the cage was on the ﬂoor, the door
of it was open, but fortunately the cat was
not in the room. Instead, the little para-
keet, entirely unharmed, was strutting
around on the ﬂoor outside the cage, and
looking up at them he exclaimed: “I’m all
right!”

Oct. 1940
Pheasant Cock

LOUISE DARCY

I saw a pheasant cock
Standing beside the road,
Its beady eyes were bright,
Its brilliant plumage glowed.

I saw a pheasant cock.

Its beady eyes were still,

Its plumage streaked with blood.
No, I could never kill.

Jekyll and Hyde of Birdland

C. M. JEFFERSO N
W OULDN’T it surprise Robert Louis

Stevenson to know that there is a
real Jekyll and Hyde in the bird world?
With regret we identitfy him as the rice-
bird and the reedvbird, the scourge of the
South. With pleasure we present him as
the bobolink, the grandest songster in all
bird world.

The Merry Minstrel of New England
meadows, the gay meadowbird, butterbird,
Maybird and American ortolan. These are
all titles of the bobolink. His beautiful
song has won them. Take notice in May
and June. The bobolink ﬂoats and dips,
fairly intoxicated with the joyousness of
spring and with the beauty of his own
entrancing songs. He is quick on the wing,
calls “tink, tink” and skims across the sky
in company with several other bobolinks.

Early in June Mr. Bobolink stands guard
several feet from the nest of his mates
There are heavily spotted eggs in it. The
nest is hard to ﬁnd for it is built on the
ground. Usually it is under red clover.
“Chah!” Mr. Bobolink utters harshly when
he sees someone approaching. He sounds
like a blackbird, but the warning is suf-
ﬁcient. Mrs. Bobolink rushes to safety.

Now the bad thing happens. The bobo-
link leaves the breeding grounds in August
to dress for the masquerade rampage. Mr.
Bobolink changes into a coat of buﬂ"

feathers similar to that of- the female. Hé "

ﬂies to the South Carolina rice ﬁelds.
Farmers dread the coming of the ricebird.
They know that their rice will be eaten
and their crops destroyed. From the rice.
ﬁelds Mr. Hyde ﬂies to the marshes. People
in the lowlands call him reedbird. After
feeding on seeds and grasses the reedbirds
begin ﬂight from the United States. Trav-
eling by way of Florida they go to north—
western Argentina for the winter. Have
you ever heard of “reedbirds on toast?”

Presto! In April the beloved songster
returns to the United States for the sum-
mer. He is the world renowned bobolink,
and we love him. despite the damage he has
done. Now Mr. Bobolink is dressed in a
neat suit of black, white and buff. Not only
does he sing to us in the United States, but
he trills his lovely songs in the warmer
foreign countries. Stop and listen to the
magic tones, so different from others.

The bobolink will immediately win your
heart. His song is so much a part of our
national lives and our personal lives. His
notes, so rapid and so bubbling, seem to
fall over each other in delightful profusion.
“Tink, tink,” and away he goes. Its the
bobolink, dipping, soaring and singing.

 

 

 




 

 

Page 22

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Dog at the Filling Station

GEORGE NAGEL and DOC BONNER

ﬁlling-station at Hope Hull, Ala—

bama, on U. S. Highway 31, oper-
ated by D. L. Shackelford, is literally
“going to the dogs.”

At the moment, Shackelford’s assistant
manager is a very large and very intelli-
gent German police dog named “Trixie,”
and her two pups, “Blacky” and “Penny,”
are in the process of learning to take care
of minor details of operation.

Consider this picture: A car traveling
from Chicago to Miami pulls up at the sta-
tion. Shackelford goes out to render his
customary mechanical service. He raises
up the hood of the car and: pulls out the
stick that tells about the oil. It looks bad.
It may need oil. He calls Trixie, “Bring
me the oil rag.”

In a moment, the large dog comes trot-
ting over to him with the rag in her mouth.

While Shackelford is tending the needs
of his customer another one pulls into the
station. Trixie is a salesman. She goes
inside and comes out with the morning
paper in her mouth which is taken to the
new customer to read while he waits.

During rush hours, Trixie delivers cig—
arettes to customers in their cars and
brings the money back in her mouth. She
hasn’t been short-changed yet, Shackelford
declares.

She meets the bus every afternoon and
brings home the evening paper as well as
other packages dropped off at the station.
In addition to this she knows a storehouse
of tricks which she will run through for
the entertainment of customers while they
wait for service. These take a little encour-
agement. Trixie is getting older now; such
things appear a little foolish. She’s of the
opinion that it’s high time for the young-
sters to start taking a little responsibility
around the station.

Consequently, Shackelford is breaking in

Y OU could easily conclude that the

the new assistants who so far have assumed
a rather immature disinterest in accepting
responsibility. But Shackelford is conﬁ-
dent that this will pass in time.

“Kelly,” Everybody’s Friend

ANNA MCNEIL

“Kelly,” a terrier, owes his life to the
happy fact that he is everybody’s friend.
He became very much in Schenectady’s pub-
lic eye of late, when he slipped into Union
College chapel, or perhaps was smuggled
in by his owners of the moment, the Delta
Epsilon fraternity. During the hymn sing—
ing, Kelly, slyly urged on, joined his voice
in sharp, staccato barks which drowned
out all other sounds. He refused to be
ejected from the chapel in the belief that
his pursuers were merely playing with him
and frisked joyfully up and down the aisles
to the mingled consternation and amuse-
ment of the student body and the grave
annoyance of the college ofﬁcials.

Exercises were suspended and President
Dixon. Ryan Fox ordered Kelly’s removal
from the campus to the city animal shelter,
which amounted to a sentence of death for
the little dog.

The students immediately appointed a
committee to confer with President Fox
and to guarantee Kelly’s good behavior in
the future. The President agreed to a last
minute reprieve and pardon, with the
understanding that Kelly must not appear
on the campus before 10.15 a.m. any day
of the week. This will restrict him from
attending chapel with his friends. Presi-
dent Fox made a speech about Kelly and
his endearing qualities in chapel the follow-
ing day. Kelly is the canine king of the
hour at Union.

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. when making your will.

Feb. 191,0

Loyalty, 2. Definition

IME gives old words new meaning. I

discovered a new meaning recently for
a very old word. Loyalty. Or devotion. It
was in a home where a boy and his dog
were pals. Seldom apart. Always together.
Playing; walking; or just sitting close to
each other and dreaming. And one day 4a
boy forgot—~forgot to carry out an errand
about which his father had complained once
before. And now his father was determined
to punish him for it.

He was to go to bed at once. It was only
late afternoon. He was to miss dinner and
a favorite radio program. He tried to say,
“I’ll remember next time.” His father was
determined. And a boy walked upstairs to
his room very slowly—looking back as he
walked to a dog who seemed to understand;
whose head came down between his paws,
and a faint whimper seemed to carry but
one meaning—“Gee, I’m sorry, pal.”

Half an hour later the family sat down
to dinner. And a customary dish was set
aside for the dog in a near-by corner. They
called to him—“Dinner’s ready, ‘Tiger’.”
Nine times in ten, “Dinner’s ready,” found
Tiger running to his corner. Tonight there
was no sign of him. They called again and
again. And when a father tip-toed upstairs
to a boy’s room, he saw a picture which he
told me would live forever in his memory.

The boy was on his bed, weeping softly.
Near his door, a dog was stretched out on
all fours. His head was buried in his
paws—and sobbing every bit as much—and
a moment later he moved over close to a
boy’s bed and lay motionless.

“Dinner’s ready, Tiger,” said a man
whose voice a dog always obeyed. But
tonight a dog simply moved closer to a boy
on a bed and whimpered and whined—and
it was all as plain as if he had written it
on paper . . .

“No dinner for me. My pal is going hun-
gry tonight, and so am I. He won’t be out
walking tonight, and neither will I. You
have punished, him, and I’ll take my pun-
ishment just as he does.” And when a
parent tip-toed in again next morning, he
found a boy and a dog in a tableau which
will remain in his memory unforgettably.
A boy on a bed—his shoes on—fast asleep;
a dog near by—his head close to a boy’s
hand as if he were saying, “You forgot
Your blanket—I’ll try and keep you as
warm as I can.”

And such words as devotion and loyalty
and friendship that were humbled by a
dog’s devotion for a boy—his pal. If only
men and women and nations could feel
what a boy does for his dog, or a dog for
a boy—how quickly we could solve what
appear to be so many difﬁcult problems of

life and living. h Sh ft
___T e a

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angeli Memorial Animal Hos-
Pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars
for a kennel or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given Upon application to
the Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

J une, 1940

”inﬁljy.

7/

. . {W/

’7"
Q.
g
S

/

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. 8.. P. 0. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. 8. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres. ; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRs. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres, MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary-MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF MASS. S. P. C. A.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,955
Cases investigated ............. 435
Animals examined ............. 5,212
Animals placed in homes ....... 229
Lost animals restored to owners. . 60
Number of prosecutions ......... 3
Number of convictions .......... 3
Horses taken from work ........ 7
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 34

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,107
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 62,463
Cattle swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 83

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

H. J. ROBERTSON, v.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 696
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,882
Operations ...................... 410
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ......... 140
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 545
Operations ...................... 132
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 75
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 181,940
Dispensary Cases ............... 457,129
Total ............... 639,069

A Fine Social Event

On Tuesday evening, May 7, at the Hotel
Somerset, Boston, a concert was given by
the Glee Club Of the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology for the beneﬁt of the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. It was an unusually
interesting and successful social event.
There were something like 500 people pres-
ent. The Glee Club of over 100 students
gave a concert which so delighted the audi-
ence that they were repeatedly called upon
for encores, and Mr. George Fior, the dis—
tinguished pianist, frequently known as the
“young Paderewski,” was called back to the
piano over and over again to satisfy the
audience, who seemed so enthusiastic over
his playing.

Many prominent people in social life and
representatives of the Massachusetts Insti-
tute Of Technology, including several of the
well-known professors and their wives, were
present. After the concert the large com-
pany of young people, and even many
others Of those present, availed themselves
of dancing to the music of Jack Marshard’s
orchestra.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a kennel
or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will insure
a suitable marker inscribed with donor’s
name. Terms of permanent endowment
of free stalls and kennels will be given upon
application to the Treasurer, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

Page 89

Auxiliary Activities

Hospitality Day at Angell Memorial—Annual
Meeting and Election of Officers

PRIL and May were busy months for

the Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. In addition to its
regular activities tWO events were outstand-
ing the annual Hospitality Day, April
23, at the Hospital building on Longwood
Avenue, Boston, and the annual meeting,
May 3, at Hotel Lenox.

On Hospitality Day many visitors took
opportunity to inspect the Angell Hospital.
Arrangements for the many activities were
in charge of the president, Mrs. Edith
Washburn Clarke, who appointed the vari-
ous committees. Bridge was held under the
direction of Mrs. Albert L. Galpin, assisted
by Mrs. Francis G. Carreiro, Mrs. Edward
R. Bennett, and Mrs. Charles H. Hillman.
There was a food table in charge of Mrs. H.
E. Prescott, assisted by Mrs. W. W. Haswell,
Mrs. Harry J. Robertson, and Mrs. Frank
C. Porter. The tea service was supervised
by Mrs. Robert P. Dunn, assisted by Mrs.
Martha M. Herdt, Mrs. Arthur W. Hurl-
burt, Mrs. John A. Dykeman, Mrs. Eleanor
MacKinnon, Miss Sally Scudder, Mrs. Gor-
don McKissock, Miss Mary Ober, and Mrs.
James Lyon. Hostesses were Mrs. Frank E.
Towne, chairman, Mrs. Willard Bliss, Mrs.
Charles C. Hoyt, Mrs. W. C. Bliss and Mrs.
Grace Lyman. There was music throughout
the afternoon by the Kenneth Custance
harp duo.

The Auxiliary was honored with the
presence of Mrs. Leverett Saltonstall, wife
of the Governor, Mrs. Morton D. Miner,
president of the Springﬁeld Auxiliary, Mrs.
W. O. B. Little, president of the City Fed-
eration Of Women’s Clubs, and Mrs. Robert
Sanderson, sixth district director Of the
State Federation of Women’s Clubs.

Annual Meeting and Election

At the annual meeting guests at the
luncheon included President Rowley and
other Ofﬁcers of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A.; Mrs. Robert Sanderson of Ipswich;
Mrs. Howard Robbins Of Lexington, repre-
senting the Massachusetts Parent—Teacher
Association; and Mr. John Ritchey of the
Christian Science Monitor, each Of whom
spoke brieﬂy. Mrs. Clarke was loudly ac-
claimed for her efﬁcient leadership of the
Auxiliary and for its success in raising
many thousands Of dollars for the Hospital.
There were vocal solos by Miss Madeleine
Delight Brooks, graduate of the Perkins
Institution for the Blind, who was accom—
panied by her Seeing-Eye dog, “Verona.”

Ofﬁcers chosen for 1940 are: President,
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke; ﬁrst vice-
president, Mrs. Edward C. Brown; second
vice—president, Mrs. Frank E. Towne; re-
cording secretary, Mrs. Francis G. Car-
reiro; corresponding secretary, Mrs. Her-
bert E. Prescott; treasurer, Mrs. William
J. McDonald; chairman, work committee,
Mrs. George D. Colpas; chairman, ways and
means committee, Mrs. Albert T. Galpin;
Directors for one year, Mrs. Edward K.
Bennett, Mrs. George A. Ramlose, Mrs. S.
S. Sutcliffe; directors for two years, Mrs.
Ralph Dunn, Mrs. John A. Dykeman, Mrs.
Merrill Butler.

 




 

Pageé? OUR DUMB ANIMALS 'Mar.1940

 

 

ANIMALS TREATED IN BOSTON Small Animals h ) 401 H Y A N N l S
RIN 1939 laced in omes ...... .
HOSPITAL DU G (humanely put to sleep) . 3,733 1' CASES . _ . , Number
Hospital (Animals cared for) ..... 9,128 Average number of horses Complaints received (investi-
Dispensary (including a ni m nls cared for , ........... 2, gated) ................ 830
brought from Attleboro Clinic) . 24,878 Horses (take; 'ﬁom work) .. 17 z, ANIMALS INSPECTED
Operations .................... 8,163 ‘ (humanely put to sleep) . . 65 on investigations only ..... 1,365
ANIMALS TREATED IN SPRINGFIELD Mileage .................. 10,825 3. ANIMAL RELIEF ..WORtl( l t
HOSPITAL DURING 1939 Ambulance trips or as ,
P I T T S F I E L D stray or unwanted small
Hospital (Animals cared for) ..... 1,966 1 animals ................ 599
Dispensary .................... 6,540 1- CASES . _ . . Number Small animals (returned to
Operations .................... 2,017 Complaints received (InveStl' owners) ............... 29
gated) ................ 178 ( 1 cl . ho ) . . 18
p ace in mes . . . .
Total cases treated in Boston . . . . 34,006 2- ANIMALS INSPECTED (humanely put to sleep) . . 918
Total cases treated in Springfield . . 8,506 3. AN?&XEV;$EE:;O$00§11<Y ----- 2,036 girses (humanely put to sleep)31 513
. . 1 eage .................. ,
42 512 Ambulance trips for lost,
Summary I stray or unwanted small W E N H A M
animals ................ 2,061
Cases in Hospital since opened Small animals (returned to 1. CASES Number
March 1’ 1915 """"""" 178,435 owners) ............... 57 Complaints received (investi-
Cases in Dispensary since March (placed in homes) ...... 316 gated) ................ 202
1, 1915 ................. 447,767 (humanely put to sleep) . . 3,079 2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
_____ Horses (taken from work) - - 2 On investigations only ..... 4,559
Total """"""""" 626'203 (humanely I311t to sleep) - - 18 Auctions ................ 3,021
4. Prosecutions. . .2 . Convictions 2 Total ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 7,580
REPORT OF CHIEF PROSECUTING -
OFFICER FOR THE. ENTIRE STATE Mileage ................. 21,507 3. ANIMAL RELIEF .WORK
Ambulance trips for lost,
Complaints investigated ......... 4,925 S P R I N G F I E I" D ( O F F I C E R ) stray or unwanted small
Prosecutions .................. 5 1 1 . CASES Number animals ................ 467
Convictions ................... 45 Complaints received (investi- Small animals (returned to
Animals inspected .............. 48,753 _ gated) ................ 1,293 owners) ............... 9
Miles traveled ................. 203,984 2. ANIMALS INSPECTED (placed in homes) ....... 55
Horses injured or unﬁt for service, On investigations only ...... 7,887 (humanely put to sleep) - - 649
humanely put to sleep """""" 528 At stock-yards and abattoirs. . 19,665 Horses (taken from work) - - 23
Horses taken from work ........ 157 Auctions ................. 403 (put to sleep) .......... 124
Small animals; injured, diseased or Total ................. 27,955 4. Prosecutions. .ll Convictions 9
unwanted, humanely Put to sleep 24,727 3, ANIMAL RELIEF WORK Mileage ................. 26,255
Animals placed in homes ........ 2,721 Small Animals (humanely put
gniinalls returned to owners ...... 750 to sleep) .............. 1 W O R C E S T E R
m u ance calls ............... 10,267 , '
Animals inspected at stock-yards. .656,257 E;i:::3e?nt;om:§rs? ..... g 1‘ CASES . _ _ , Number
[I Cattle, swine, sheep, humanely put Horses (taken from work) 6 Complaints received (investi-
.. to sleep .................... 438 (humanely put to sleep) . . 6 gated) ................ 442
Service rendered to horses at sum- 4. Prosecutions. .10 Convictions 8 2' ANIMALS INSPECTED
mer watering stations ......... 6,242 Mileage ................. 24 759 On investigations only ..... 2,713
, Ambulance mileage—Boston ...... 24,104 . ’ Abatt'olirs and stock-yards . . 2,326
' ................. 3 8
Shelters for Small Animals 5 P R I N G F I E L D ( H O S P [T A L ) “$335 ................. 5,367
l During recent years the Society has 3' ANIMAL RELIEF .WORK 3. ANIMAL RELIEF W’ORK
l established what are known as “Shelters” Ambmance tnps for I‘OSt’ Small animals (returned to
l in several parts of the State. At each Of stray or unwanted small owners) ............... 1
these a paid oﬂicer 0f the Society has his animals. ................ 2,092 (placed in.homes) ...... 4
home and, in connection with it, a special Small ammals (returned to (humanely Put to sleep) -- 33
building to which can be brought lost and owners). """"""""" 353 Horses (taken from work.) . . 30
stray anmals for Whom homes can be found (placed in homes) ....... 1,155 (humanely put to sleep) . . 18
or, where necessary, the animals are hu- . (humanely PM t° Sleep) " 6’824 4. Prosecutions. . .8 Convictions 7
manely put to sleep. In one Of these 4. Mileage .................... 10,781 Mileage ................. 11,403
Shelters, at Attleboro, we have a Clinic
open two nights a week. The ﬁrst Shelter . A T T L E B 0' R O T A U N T 0' N
established is at Methuen, in connection with l. CASES Number .
the SOCiety,S RGSt Farm for Horses. The Complaints received (investi- 3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
report of the Farm and the Shelter, where gated) ................ 249 Small animals (re-turned to
we also have a small—animal cemetery, fol- 2. ANIMALS INSPECTED owners), """""""" 40
lows, as well as TePorts Of our other On investigations only . . . . 1,667 (placed in homes) """" 28
Shelters: Abattoirs and stock-yards . . 621 (humanely put to sleep) ' ' 1’257
Total ............... 2,288 (This Shelter is under the able direction of
1. CASES Number Ambulance trips for lost,
Complaints received (investi- stray or unwanted small Other Local Agents
gated) ................ 100 animals ................ 342 In addition to the above branch OﬂlCQS,
2' ANéMA-LS INSPECTED Small animals (returned t0 the Society has special local agents, to
n investigations only ..... 8,079 owners) .............. 29 h 1 - b d ,1 4--
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK (placed in homes) ...... 69 w om comp amts may 9 ma e 1e anye to
Ambulance trips for lost, (humanely put to sleep) . 862 any cases of cruelty to animals or inJured
stray, or unwanted small Horses (taken from work) _ . 22 animals, as follows: W. J. Callahan, Athol ;
animals ............... 1,756 . (humanely put to sleep) . . 12 E- D- MOSher; Fitchburg; D13 E- Erskine
Small animals (returned to. 4. Prosecutions. .12 Convictions 11 HarVey, Greenﬁeld; Wells C. Smith, Ha-
°Wners) .......... . . . . . 33 Mileage ................. 29,735 verhill; and Arthur P. Reed, Peabody.

 

 

 

4,

 




3., M... ._~.___.. .

 

 

Oct. 1940

Great Blue Heron
GARDNER L. GREEN

With curving neck and piercing eye,
As silently as moments fly,

The lordly heron wades the creek,
Its unsuspecting prey to seek,

Till downward darts its rapier bill
As swiftly as a flash of light;

And quickly banqueting its fill,

The great bird seeks in ponderous flight
A friendly tree-top for the night;
And stands amidst the falling dew—
A lonely sentinel in blue.

Couriers of the Air
JASPER B. SINCLAIR

C ARRIER pigeons do not always ﬂy an
airline course to their intended destina—
tions. A press item has just carried the
story of one bird that suddenly made up its
mind to visit the Hawaiian Islands.

On June 10, a carrier pigeon from Port—
land, Oregon, alighted on the deck of the
Matson liner “Lurline.” The vessel at the
time was 800 miles out of San Francisco
bound for Honolulu. Despite its long over-
water journey the bird was: in the best of
health and apparently not at all fatigued
by its experience. It completed the trip to
Hawaii in real comfort.

No one knows when carrier pigeons
gained their ﬁrst measure of fame as cour-
iers. History can go back twenty-ﬁve hun-
dred years at least in recounting the ex—
ploits of these ﬂeet-winged messengers of
the skies. Beyond that is nothing but fanci-
ful tradition.

Carrier pigeons have written their share
of history in those twenty—ﬁve centuries.
They operated the ﬁrst regularly scheduled
“airmail” service in New Zealand, a couple
of decades before airplanes fostered a
similar service. Special airmail stamps were
printed for use on the messages carried by
those feathered pilots of the late nineteenth
century. They carried hundreds of mes-
sages out of beleagured Paris during the
Franco-Prussian war of seventy years ago.
The pigeons of Paris operated an airmail
service, too, but not on the same methodical
time schedules as their New Zealand cous—
ins some years later.

Enrico Dandolo, one of the most cele-
brated Venetian doges, used carrier pigeons
to send back tidings of his victories in the
Crusades in the years between 1201 and
1203. At one time the arrival of these
feathered carriers became the occasion for
general rejoicing and festival-making by
the citizens of Venice. Ever since then the
pigeon has been held in high respect by the
people of this Adriatic port.

Cyrus the Great employed carrier pigeons
to transmit news and military messages
throughout the Persian. kingdom in the
sixth century before the Christian era be-
gan. History afﬁrms the fact that Cyrus was
the ﬁrst to train pigeons for use as couriers.
But then, history itself does not really
know when the carrier pigeons ﬁrst ﬂew
the sky lanes of the world.

Animals and birds in earthquake zones
sense an approaching disturbance two and
sometimes three days before it occurs.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Flightless Cassowary

EWEN K. PATTERSON

NE of the strangest birds in the world
©is the giant cassowary, found only in

the Cape York Peninsula (North Aus—
tralia), and in parts of New Guinea, the
Aru Isles, and Ceram (an island in the
Malay Archipelago). With its handsome
black plumage, brightly-colored wattles,
and striking horny “helmet” or casque, the
cassowary is one of the ﬁnest of the
world’s ﬂightless birds, but is the rarest
and least known of them all.

A sombre bird that lives
stealthily in the darkest parts
of the jungle, the cassowary is
the most alert and timid of all
birds. It glides through the
jungle like a shadow, and is
rarely seen by travelers. This
is somewhat surprising, be-
cause the cassowary is a big
bird; it often grows to a height
of six feet, and is much
heavier and more strongly
built than its well-known
cousin, the emu. Despite its
size, however, the bird moves
through the dense tangle of
stems and tropical climbers
with scarcely a sound.

Many naturalists who have
visited the jungles to examine
the bird in its natural haunts
have searched for it in vain;
day after day they have en-
countered fresh tracks made
by the birds, without even
catching a glimpse of one. In
fact, many persons have lived
for months in the jungles with-
out seeing a single cassowary.
Often, however, one hears the
bird’s peculiar call-notes—a
loud, guttural grunt, or a deep,
booming sound, which can be
heard from a considerable dis-
tance.

The birds are never seen in
open forest or plain country;
they remain in the darkest and
densest parts of the jungle,
where the sun never penetrates
and where it is always twi-
light. In fact, the cassowary is
so much a bird of the jungle
darkness that, if compelled to live in the
bright sunlight, it often becomes blind, and
loses the clear beauty of its splendid large,
dark eyes, which are one of its most attrac-
tive characteristics.

When night falls the birds leave the
densest parts of the jungle, and roam about
searching for food——wild fruits, seeds, and
berries. They are also fond of water, being
great swimmers, and often bathe in the
crocodile-infested creeks and rivers of the
jungle; but, strangely enough, the croco-
diles never appear to touch them.

The cassowary’s nest, rarely found, is
formed of sticks and leaves at the base of
a big tree in the densest part of the jungle;
it usually measures about a yard across.
Four or ﬁve eggs, of a beautiful pea-green
color, are laid by the female, and in hatch-
ing them she is assisted by the male bird,
who is a devoted parent and takes his turn

at sitting on the eggs. But so many of the
eggs are destroyed by wild pigs and snakes
that the cassowary is being slowly exter-
minated, and appears doomed to extinction.

The male cassowaries are very pugnaci-
ous, and never hesitate to attack any man
or animal found robbing their nest. The
birds have powerful legs, and their kick
could break a man’s leg with ease. They
are also swift runners and rival kangaroos

 

. as.

CASSOWARY OF NEW GUINEA

in their jumping ability; a cassowary has
been observed to clear at a bound, a fence
eight feet in height.

The birds do not thrive in captivity, and
although captive females frequently lay
eggs they have never been known to hatch
any.

When British General Howe’s dog ’had
been captured by sentinels, during the
Revolutionary War, General George Wash-
ington had the humanity to send the dog
back to the English commander under a
ﬂag of truce, along with a note to the
owner.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 88

Aristocrat
LYDIA RADER BILLINGS

I harbor an aristocrat,

My queenly orange Persian cat,

Who gives our modest domicile

An atmosphere of super—style.

She walks in stateliness across

The softest rug, her coat like floss

Of ravelled gold,—-and when she dines
It is as if the choicest wines

Were quaffed in tiny, pink-tongued sips
By exquisite patrician lips.

Yet when she knows we are alone,

She stretches out, relaxed and prone,
And purrs and cuddles unashamed.
So now I ask, can I be blamed

For housing this aristocrat?

My queenly orange Persian cat!

A Great Gift—A Santuary
for Wild Life

HE State of Maine may have had,

through its history, as ﬁne a Governor
as Percival P. Baxter, who served in that
oﬂ‘ice from 1921 to 1925, but we have never
happened to read of him or hear of him.

 

GOVERNOR BAXTER AND “GARRY”

As a member of the Maine Legislature
before he became Governor, and from his
childhood a devoted lover of animals and a
humanitarian by nature, he was deeply in—
terested in the wild forest lands of that
great state, having in vain sought to induce
the state to re—purchase some of these lands
in the Katahdin region, to be held as a
great primitive, recreational area and wild-
life sanctuary.

Failing in his efforts, he himself has
acquired 74,553 acres of forest land sur-
rounding and including Mount Katahdin.
This large territory now comprises what is
known as the “Baxter State Park,”
amounting in all to one hundred and six-
teen square miles. Mount Katahdin, 5,267
feet high, and the area about it, is Maine’s
most picturesque and spectacular section.
The deeds of gift, as accepted by the State
Legislature and published in the laws of
Maine, we are told, provide an unbreakable

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

trust, so that this land shall be “forever
held by the State as trustee in trust for the
beneﬁt of the people of Maine,” and the
important restriction which has led to the
gift by Mr. Baxter is “that the land shall
forever be left in its natural wild state,
forever be kept as a sanctuary for wild
beast and birds, and forever be used for
public forest, public park and public recre-
ational purposes.”

Mr. Baxter further says, “I hope soon to
enlarge the boundaries of Baxter State
Park by further purchases, negotiations
for which now are under way. When my
project "is completed I want it to contain at
least 100,000 acres of wild, spectacular,
mountainous forest land.” Trails and
camping—grounds and other accessories to
a wild—life area, forever dedicated to recre-
ation and forestry purposes, will be ar-
ranged for through the entire section.

What this will mean to the wild life of
that vast region of the Pine Tree State
one cannot even imagine. No hunter, no
trapper, no ﬁsherman, no person with the
purpose of destroying wild life in any of
its forms, will be permitted to indulge in
his trade or sport in the “Baxter State
Park.”

Death of B. F. Brisac

Mr. B. F. Brisac, president of the San
Francisco S. P. C. A., who died January
6, had been associated with that Society
for thirty-three years, and had served as
president for the past ten years. He was
known far and wide as a humanitarian,
and his ability as a humane leader was
recognized by such organizations as the
State Humane Association of California
which chose him to hold ofﬁce as director,
president, and ﬁrst vice-president, respec-
tively. He‘was a director of the American
Humane Association, of Albany, New York;
and a director of the American Red Star
Animal Relief.

Mr. Brisac had been a prominent and
highly respected insurance broker in San
Francisco for more than sixty years.

His loss will be felt not only by the local
Society, but by the entire community, as
well as by many persons engaged in hu—
mane work throughout the country.

Thomas S. Carlisle

Thomas S. Carlisle, veteran humanitar-
ian of Pennsylvania, died January 14. He
had been connected with the Women’s
Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., ﬁrst as clerk and
later as superintendent, for more than 40
years. He retired in 1927 and, until a few
months before his death, had served as leg-
islative agent for the Federated Humane
Societies of the state. Although not a law—
yer, he was an outstanding expert on
anti—cruelty legislation and had drawn up
many of the bills that were passed to stop
abuses of animals. His passing is a great
loss to the Women’s Pennsylvania Society
and to the anti—cruelty cause throughout
his own state and elsewhere.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

Mar. 1940

 

A LITERARY CAT

 

A Prayer for Conscripts
MINNIE LEONA UPTON

For little birds that" “test” the air
Within the soldiers’ cramped retreat,

And fall, from lurking poisons there——
Martyrs, so innocent, so sweet!

For pigeons, bearing orders grave,
That fall, before their goal is won,
Or else, mayhap, sore-wounded, save
The day—and leave their well-loved sun.

For wee, wise pigs, whose eager quest,
Seeking for truffles, ﬁnds, instead,

Swift death of bombs—their hapless test
Warning poilus, who else were dead!

For dogs, that speed tense words of warning
Through hard-drawn lines, with panting
breath,
Straining high wit, strong will, and scorn-
ing
The perils that hold dreadful death!

For all the hapless ones, that give

Dear life they may not know again,
Father and Friend of all that live,

Send Peace! 0h, swiftly! Now! Amen!

Elie J‘Banh of ﬂirting

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and seventy-nine new Bands
of Mercy were organized during January.
Of these, 163 were in Rhode Island, 111 in
Florida, 91 in Illinois, 88 in Massachusetts,
45 in South Carolina, 35 in Georgia, 28 in
Virgina, 16 in Pennsylvania and two in
Michigan. ‘

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 247,524.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

Dusk Comes

MINA M.TITUS

I like to watch the sun sink low
Behind the shadowed hills,

And hear the far—oﬂ, haunting call
Of plaintive whip-poor-wills.

I like to see the white mist rise
Beyond the pasture bars,

And ﬁreflies dance on dew-drenched fields
Beneath the night’s ﬁrst stars.

I like to hear home—flying wings,
And weary, plodding hoofs,

And rustling hay, and tinkling bells
’Neath lantern-lighted roofs.

Animals Like Music, Too!

CHARLES RICHARD DUTTON

OR a great many years it was the

common belief that human beings were
the only lovers of music, but in recent years
it has been proved otherwise. Several years
ago a poultry farmer in the Midwest in-
stalled a radio in one of his large hen
houses as an experiment. He kept the in-
strument playing constantly all day and
soon he was rewarded by receiving dozens
more of eggs from the birds in that par—
ticular pen. However, the hens in the other
pens that could not hear the radio continued
laying the usual number of eggs. As a
result of the experiment other radios were
promptly installed in all of his hen-houses.
Other poultrymen were quick to adopt the
idea and in many of the larger poultry
farms today a radio is as much a part of
the equipment as are the nests and the
watering-troughs.

Another farmer in Ohio was unable to
hear his favorite early-morning program
because he was milking his cows at the time
the program was on. To remedy the situ-
ation he brought his radio to the barn. In
less than a week milk production sky-
rocketed. Removal of the radio resulted in
an immediate drop in the amount of milk
produced. Again he installed the machine
and again he received more milk. Cows, it
appeared, were devotees of music as well
as hens.

It was not all farmers who experimented
in this ﬁeld, however. In a zoo in Phila~
delphia a swing band was hired to play
several selections in front of the monkey
cage. The music had scarcely begun before
the monkeys were dancing crazily around
the ﬂoor of their cage like true “jitterbugs.”

A small pet turtle which I once owned
was ordinarily very sullen and kept himself
inside his shell almost all of the time. He
would come out quickly enOugh though
when I whistled some snappy tune to him.
For over a century western cowboys have
kept nervous cattle from stampeding by
crooning gentle melodies to them. And so it
seems that birds and animals, the latter
particularly, enjoy music as well as we do.
Truly, music hath charms to soothe the
savage breast.

The Jack London Club now numbers
780,496 members, all pledged to do what
they can to prevent cruelty in training
animals for stage or screen. Write to 180
Longwood Avenue Boston, for full partic—
ulars.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

Sept. 1940

 

“SAMSON,” “STRONG MAN” OF RAINIER NATIONAL PARK

By Roland Ryder—Smith, Seattle, Washington
Prize-winner in recent contest of Our Dumb Animals

 

“Martians” Save Animals
CLEVE WILLIAMS

EN from Mars,” parachuting out of
the skies, are saving the lives of thou—
sands of wild animals and songbirds in the
great forests of the Paciﬁc Northwest.
They are the “smoke jumpers” of the
United States forest service, who brave
deadly peril by ﬂying to the scene of a
forest ﬁre, leaping from a fast plane and
parachuting down into the timber, to attack
the ﬂames before they grow into a great
conﬂagration.

These ﬂying ﬁremen resemble, to some ex-
tent, the dreaded parachutists of European
armies, but they are soldiers of mercy, and
their technique has been developed by the
forest service after years of study. They
wear heavy crash helmets, thick shoes,
bright red canvas coverall suits and heavy
wire masks to protect the face.

When an observer, for instance, looks
from his tall tower with a telescope and
sees a wisp of ﬂame curling up after a
lightning storm in an inaccessible part of
the forest, he knows there is grave danger.

It would take men with mule-trains
carrying ﬁre-ﬁghting tools several days to
reach the spot. By that time, the ﬁre would
be a holocaust. Particularly if the wind
were brisk, the ﬂames might leap into the
tops of the trees, forming a terrible “crown
ﬁre,” which can race before the wind at
ﬁfty miles an hour.

Such ﬁres turn the forests for thousands
of miles into black and smoking tracts of
terror, dotted with the pitiful carcasses of
America’s most graceful and beautiful ani-
mals and birds.

No deer or antelope can outrun the ﬁend-
ish bursts of ﬂame that hurtle through the
tree-tops. Little bears, jackrabbits, porcu—
pines and similar animals that are even
natural enemies, ﬁnd themselves running

hopelessly together before the ﬂames, mak-
ing anguished sounds like the cries of
little children, as the ﬁre rings them in.
Birds, blinded by the horrible haze of smoke,
beat their wings futilely. Bewildered, they
even plunge into the ﬁre. There is practi-
cally no escape for animals when a fast
crown ﬁre is on the rampage.

Observers in airplanes have seen deer,
trying to outrun the ﬂames, actually burned
to blackened crisp by searing heat before
the pursuing ﬂames overtook them.

But nowadays, the man in the tower will
very likely spot the ﬁre when it is small,
and telephone immediately to headquarters.
If there is any danger, a fast plane of the
forest service will take off and ﬂy over the
ﬂying column of smoke.

A weighted burlap bag, attached to a
parachute, will be dropped, for observation
of wind drift. Then the “smoke jumper”
will tumble from the plane, pull the ring
and open his ‘chute. Falling slowly, he
crashes through the tops of the trees, and
ﬁnds himself tangled among limbs and foli-
age, sometimes nearly trapped by the lines
of his parachute harness.

He breaks free, and scans the skies. Soon
the pilot throws overboard another burlap
bag, and attached to its parachute is a
long yellow streamer. This is the ﬁre-ﬁght-
ing tool kit, containing axes, shovels, picks,
food, water, a ﬁrst-aid kit and a radio.

The ﬁre ﬁghter attacks the blaze single
handed. By arriving promptly on the spot,
he has an easier chance of extinguishing the
ﬁre, saving near-by timber and preventing
destruction of wild life. If the ﬁre is beyond
his control, he radios for help, and it is not
long in coming.

The forest service reported that the ﬁrst
season. cf the “smoke jumpers” was very
successful in the Okanogan and Chelan
National forests of Washington state, and
in the Bitterroot forest of Montana. The
aerial force is likely to be increased.

 

 




(V IV I F'"

VICT'W“

 

M a7“. 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 3’7

Cash Prizes for Photographs of Wild Life

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 15—20; Humane Sunday, April 14, 1940

Be Kind to Animals
Poster for 1940

NE of the most beautiful of the

long series of BE KIND TO
ANIMALS posters, designed by
Morgan Dennis, is that for 1940,
reproduced on this page. It is in
three colors. It is entirely different
from those of previous years. The
size is 17 X 22 inches.

A copy of this poster should be
hung in every school-room in the
land. Friends of the humane cause
can do no better service than to
order a supply of these posters for
their local school. Every humane
society building and veterinary hos-
pital should be decorated with them.
They are ideal for children’s rooms,
dens, ofﬁces and stores.

While this is the most expensive
poster yet published in this series,
the price is the same as in former
years. Early orders are urged—the
supply may run out before BE
KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK.

Here are the prices, postpaid, for
100, or less, which may be ordered
from the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass.

Single copy, 10 cts., three copies,
25 cts., eight copies, 5O cts., twenty
copies, $1, seventy copies, $3, 100
copies, $4.

Orders for large quantities, or for
copies bearing the imprint of local
Societies, should be sent at once to
the American Humane Association,
135 Washington Ave., Albany, N. Y.

“ For Humane Sunday ”

This is the title of a single-page
leaﬂet, prepared by the Society last
year, containing selections from
prominent ministers and others,
with helps and hints for observing
Humane Sunday. Price, 30 cents
per 100, prepaid; sample copy, free.
We also have “A Festival of Tender
Mercies,” two pages, suitable for
vesper service, at 50 cents per 100.

See inside front cover of this
issue for our list of humane cards,
leaﬂets, pamphlets and books, and
for Band of Mercy supplies. Also
for our two humane ﬁlms.

Lecture by Mr. Burgess

Thornton W. Burgess, popular
writer of animal stories, will give
an illustrated Lecture, “Friendly
Folk Who Run and Fly,” under the
auspices of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., on Humane Sunday, April 14,
at 3:30 P. M., in the lecture hall of
the Boston Public Library, Copley,
Square. Free to all.

 

 

 

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Seventy Dollars in Cash Prizes

E Kind to Animals Week for 1940 will soon be here

again. As usual, Our Dumb Animals will conduct a
photographic prize contest. This year cash prizes amount-
ing to $70, and 10 annual subscriptions to Our Dumb
Animals, are offered for the best pictures of wild animals
and wild birds. Here is your chance to “hunt with a
camera,” as advocated in the poster reproduced above.
The contest is open to everybody, everywhere. Only the
photographs must be original and never before published
in any periodical or book or in post—card, form. Here are
the conditions, which are absolute:

1. Twenty-three prizes in all are offered, as follows:

First, $30, cash; second, $15, cash; third, $5, cash.

Fourth to thirteenth, $2, cash, each.

Fourteenth to twenty-third, one year’s subscription to
Our Dumb Animals (value, $1, each.)

2. The subjects must be either live wild animals or live
wild birds. (No circus 0r hunting pictures or those show—
ing cruelty, considered).

3. The contest is open to all, but entries will be accepted
only from those who actually have taken the photographs.

4. Only strictly original, hitherto unpublished photo—
graphs may be entered.

5. There is no limit as to size, but we suggest approxi-
mately 3 X 4 to 4 X 6 inches, and no limit to the number
that may be sent by one person.

6. Send no negatives, only good, clear prints, prefer-
ably glossy ﬁnish. Size of the ﬁgures is always considered.

7. Photographs winning prizes become the exclusive
property of Our Dumb Animals; those not winning a prize
will be returned only if full postage is provided.

8. All photographs must be marked plainly on the back
with the full name and address of the sender. (Notes of
explanation are deﬁnitely not wanted).

9. The contest will close June 30, 1940. No entries will
be received after that date.

10. All photographs intended for the contest must be

New Pamphlet
For School Use

OR many years the Massachu—

setts S. P. C. A. has had com-
piled and published a small pam-
phlet, usually of eight pages, as a
guide and assistant to teachers ob-
serving the annual Humane Day in
Schools.

That day is usually set for the
Friday of BE KIND TO ANIMALS
WEEK, but this year that Friday
falls on April 19 which is a holiday
in Massachusetts. Therefore the
schools in Massachusetts are asked
to observe Friday, April 12, while
those in other states may well ob-
serve Friday, April 19, or the near-
est convenient date, for special
school exercises in connection with
BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK.

The “Humane Exercises” for 1940
will contain short selections of prose
and verse, suitable for recitation by
pupils in elementary grades, and
mottoes and references, all pertain-
ing to kindness to animals.

The pamphlets will be furnished
free to all teachers in elementary
grades above the second, in Massa-
chusetts, through the various school
superintendents who indicate thelr
willingness to make use of them.

Sample copies will be mailed to
teachers or to Humane Society ofﬁ—
cials anywhere, upon request. Those
outside of Massachusetts wishlng ta
uantit , may have them at cos ,
$1.50 er 100 copies. Already 4,000
copies of the Humane Exerc1ses for
1940 have been ordered from us for
use in the schools of Chicago.

New Play for Children

“The Best Gift” is the title of our
new playlet for use in elementary
schools. It is by Eva Brmker, .au-
thor of the popular plays of prev1ous
years, “Boots’ Day” and “I’ll Never
Hunt again,” and is about the same
length, not more than twenty min-
utes. The cast calls for four girls
and two boys. The setting 1s very
simple, adapted to any stage. The
story is based on an actual happen-
ing in New York City. Prlce, smgle
copy, 2 cents, six for 10 cents, post—
paid. Address, Amerlcan Humane
Education Society, Boston.

 

 

addressed, Contest Editor, Ou'r
Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass. If the words
“Contest Editor” do not appear on
the address, any photographs re-
ceived for Our Dumb Animals W111
be considered in the usual way and,
if accepted, will be paid for only at
the regular rates.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Dec. 191,0

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬂicer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED T. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester orcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and. Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.-—MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRs. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

OCTOBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled hy humane ofﬁcers . . 17,840
Cases investigated . ...... . . . . . . 260
Animals examined . . . . . ........ 5,284
Animals placed in homes ....... 222
Lost animals restored to owners. . 60
Number of prosecutions ......... 4
Number of convictions .......... 3
Horses taken from work ....... . 14
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 53
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,214
Horse auctions attended ........ 15
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 70,327
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 50

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL M'EMORlAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 879
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,381
Operations ...................... 489

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 214
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 759
Operations ...................... 137

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered .................... 109
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 187,995
Dispensary Cases ............... 473,673
Total .............. 661,668

Clarence M. Ewell

Clarence M. Ewell, who had been a clerk
in the ofﬁce of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital since its opening in 1915, died sud-
denly in Boston, November 2. He came to
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in 1904, as
a boy of 18, and thus served the Society
continuously for thirty—six years. He was
a life-long resident of Medford and had
been prominently identiﬁed with lodges of
Odd Fellows and Masons. He is survived by
his wife, Mabel M. Ewell, a daughter, Mrs.
Hazel Dunn of Bow, N. H., and two broth-
ers, Walter W. Ewell of Medford, and Wil-
liam J. Ewell of Lynnﬁeld, to whom the
sympathy of his many colleagues and
friends is extended.

The funeral services took place on No-
vember 5, from Allen’s Funeral Home, 49
Dudley Street, Medford.

Auxiliaries of Mass. S. P. C. A.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

Page 185

Humane Traps Discussed

T an open meeting of the Women’s

Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., held at 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, on November 1, the members and
guests were privileged to hear a lecture by
Mr. W. E. Sanderson, director of the wild
life department of the American Humane
Association.

Mr. Sanderson described the methods of
trapping and told of the efforts being made
to secure a humane trap. Prizes totaling
several hundred dollars are offered each
year by the Humane Association for traps
which will either take animals alive or
else cause instant death.

Samples of traps were exhibited, accom-
panied by demonstrations to show the dif-
ference between the cruel types and those
considered humane. The speaker also showed
a number of mounted specimens, including
beaver, fox, and skunk, which had been
caught in traps of various kinds. He also
presented two reels of motion pictures, il-
lustrating how animals are taken alive by
the proper traps. Many questions from the
audience, which manifested great interest
in the subject, were answered expertly.

It is gratifying to know of the progress
of the invention and use of humane traps,
much of which is due to the work which
Mr. Sanderson has been so successfully
carrying on.

New England Federation

Dr. Francis H. Rowley’s opening address,
reviewing the growth of humane sentiment
and stressing the importance of humane
education, enthused the members of the
Massachusetts Federation of Humane So-
cieties and the New England Federation of
Humane Societies, at their joint meeting
held at the Merwin Memorial Free Clinic
for Animals, Brighton, Mass., October 30.
Delegates were present from points as dis-
tant as Bar Harbor, Maine, and Burlington,
Vermont.

At the morning session Mr. Reed W.
Hitchcock, director of the animal depart-
ment of the Connecticut Humane Society,
presented a paper on the prevention of
rabies, warning against depending too much
on compulsory vaccination of dogs since
scientists disagree on its value. Mr. Eric
H. Hansen, general manager of the Ameri-
can Humane Association, gave an interest-
ing account of the work of the American
Red Star, with its regional and state direc-
tors, organized to give animal relief in
national disasters. Arrangements are now
being made with the Government for CO-
operation in military units.

Features of the afternoon session were
an inspiring talk, emphasizing spiritual
values in connection with humane work, by
Mr. Victor A. Friend, president of the
Melrose Humane Society, and a brief ac-
count of her work in humane education by
Miss Lillian Mathewson of the Rhode Island
Society. The use of humane posters and
other publicity for Be Kind to Animals
Week was generally discussed. It was voted
to hold the meeting next year in Boston.
The New England Federation re-elected
Robert F. Sellar of Boston, president, and
chose Mrs. Howard F. Woodward of Taun-
ton, secretary.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Oct. 191,0
The Little Dogs of Dunkirk

Terriﬁed by noise of shellﬁre
Lost and helpless, left to roam,

All the little dogs of Dunkirk
Looking for another home.

Shepherds, spaniels, setters, mongrels,
They were waiting on the beach,

And the soldiers, their companions,
Gave a kindly word to each.

Little victims of the Fuehrer,
Shivering little refugees;

Should a soldier not show pity
Even to the least of these?

One black puppy off to England

Rescued from that pleading pack—

British soldiers paid their shillings
Just to take that puppy back.

HELEN TERRY in Chicago Tribune

Tongs for removing dogs from beneath
the pews may still be found in some old
English churches.

A jeweler in New York City sells gold
ear clasps to fasten a spaniel’s ears over
its head to keep them from dangling in its
food.

Herodotus, the Greek historian, tells us
that in the time of the Babylonian kings
some cities were made to contribute food
for the royal dogs instead of paying regu—
lar taxes.

On board the liner “Normandie” were
midget life preservers for each dog in the
luxurious dog kennels. Russian wolfhounds,
being much larger, were provided with two
life preservers, one for the front, one for
the rear.

Some of the natives of New Guinea re-
gard mongrel dogs as more valuable than
gold. For hundreds of years the teeth of
dogs have represented wealth for these
people, and the savage warriors are as
proud of their dog-tooth jewelry as they
are of their skill with the bow and arrow
or the spear.

' .ﬁ'f’ 45/ /%MI (I
V’é/

I

/

 

 

 

“JASPER”

OUR DUMB

 

 

ANIMALS

LOOKING FOR A FRIEND

 

Page 155

a box for his occupancy. That
night, Hume considering him-
self Rousseau’s host, called at
his lodging to escort him to
the theater.

Rousseau refused to go.

“What shall I do with Sule
tan?” he asked.

“You must leave him be-
hind,” Hume decided.

“But the ﬁrst person who
opens the door, Sultan will run
out into the street in search of
me and be lost,” Rousseau ob-
jected.

“You must lock him up in
your room, and put the key in
your pocket,” Hume proposed.

Rousseau complied. But Sul-
tan’s howling when he heard
his departing footsteps stayed
him.

“I cannot go and leave him
in this condition,” he protested.

His host stood ﬁrm.

“Mr. Garrick has dismissed
another company to m a k e
room for you. The king and
the queen will be present and
expect to see you. It will be
ridiculous to disappoint them,
unless you can give a better
reason than Sultan’s impa-

 

Rousseau and His Dogs
AMELIA WOFFORD

E is not a beautiful dog, but he has

rare qualities, and I have made him my
companion and friend; he is more worthy
of this title than many of those who have
taken it, and he has become celebrated at
the chateau of Montmorency, for his loving
disposition and for the love we have for one
another.”

So Rousseau pictured his
“Duke.”

Duke was his companion. He went with
him on his walks, and would lie by his side
while he was reading or writing in the
shade of a tree.

Remarkable sagacity must have been one
of Duke’s “rare qualities,” and a particu-
larly attractive one to Rousseau; for should
he leave behind him a book or a paper,
which sometimes happened, he would send
Duke for it, and never did the dog fail to
bring back in his mouth the forgotten
article.

Rousseau gave to “Sultan,” his second
dog, all the love and care he had given to
Duke. It was always Sultan’s preference,
not his, that mattered. He was fond of
boating—drifting at the will of wind and
wave. Unfortunately for him Sultan did
not share his partiality for this recreation,
so he alternated his stay on the water with
visits of an hour or two on land.

When Rousseau’s writings and charming
little operas had lifted him to a high place
in the literary and the titled world, he met
Hume, the English historian, while in Paris.
Hume asked him to go to England with him.
Rousseau consented; so to England he went
with Hume, and to England Sultan went
with him.

Rousseau being a distinguished visitor,
Garrick, the great actor, invited him for a
special night at his theater and appointed

ﬁrst dog,

tience.”

To his host’s relief, this argument pre-
vailed. And theaterward he and Sultan’s
lagging, still reluctant master proceeded.

It must have been after this incident that
historian Hume wrote that Rousseau’s
affection for his dog was “beyond all ex-
pression or conception.”

Although dogs can detect sounds and
odors that are not apparent to humans,
their sight is inferior to that of man. In
broad daylight, they see no better than we
do at sundown. They can hear an approach-
ing car before we can, but by the time they
see it, it is too late to get out of the way.
Which serves to explain why so many dogs
are accidentally killed by automobiles.

—Dogd0m

In Memoriam

SALVATORE MARSIGLIA

There are two little lads who share a grief,
And in their sorrow ﬁnd no joys,

For death has taken: from their midst

A dear little pal from two little boys.

A little white dog who cheered their

minds . . .

A curly white dog who romped and played
And with his antics proved the love

With which his kind are all arrayed.

There was love and trust in his two brown
eyes,

And warmth in a wet snub nose;

And care in his teeth when he licked their
hands

And care in the claws on his toes.

0h, a little white dog has gone away

To the place where doggies go;

And two little boys will never again

The love of their Buddy know.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your Will.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

MAY " 1940

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

A NOBLE DOG

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY

FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY

TO ANIMALS €37 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Entered as second-class matter, June
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of po

0 u u S,Trade Mark, Registered ‘
0&0

N 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

1. ANGELL ‘ ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Msncv 'r'o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
stage prowded for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 73

Seed, water, grit—the birds of winter
need these. Do not forget them.

The German Government, so the San
Francisco News says, has issued special
food cards for large dogs—those at least
sixteen inches high—entitling them to cer-
tain rations of meat and bones. The small
dogs, apparently, must get on as best they
may.

There are over a hundred thousand blind
people in the United States. Multitudes of
these are unﬁtted, for many reasons, to be
helped by a Seeing-Eye dog, or to own one.
The present facilities for training these
dogs make it possible to provide only from
sixty to seventy a year.

With all other humane societies in the
United States, for which, we are sure, we

may speak, we extend our sincere sympathy .

to similar organizations in lands suffering
from this present war. They are still
struggling under heavy odds to carry on.
Even China is no exception.

On the eighteenth day of last December
the strong, active Scottish Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals cele-
brated its hundredth anniversary. Among
the early patrons were Lord Jeffrey and

the celebrated Dr. Chalmers. An annual ‘

sermon is always preached in Edinburgh.
The ﬁrst was preached by the Reverend
Dr. Guthrie. It has well been said of the
service rendered by this Society, “It was a
great work, greatly done.”

Philip Stockton

Just as we go to press we learn of the
death of Philip Stockton, one of the best
known financiers and bankers of New Eng-
land, on February 11, in Boston. He had
served for many years as a director, and
also as a trustee of the permanent funds, of
the Mass. S; P. C. A. and of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, where his
counsels were invaluable.

March, 1940 _

Religion and Education

MONG the leading educators of New

England is Dr. Alfred E. Stearns,
headmaster emeritus of the Phillips Acad—
emy, Andover, Massachusetts. In an ad-
dress given by him at the annual school
and college conference at Lafayette Col-
lege, Easton, Pennsylvania, he said:

“Democracy really rests on religious
principles, its ideals being spiritual. It is
signiﬁcant that the ﬁrst thing dictators in
Italy, Germany and Russia did was to get
hold of the schools, realizing that the older
people have made up their minds and are
out of their reach.

“Our present education is not making the
type of citizen that can live happily in a
free government, the fundamentals being
lacking.”

'Criticizing the bickering and fear shown
when religious instruction in the public
schools is mentioned, Dr. Stearns said that
“the fundamental things for what religion
stands are the same and Protestants,
Catholics and Jews should agree on those
fundamentals to be included in the public
school curricula.”

That religion is one of the fundamental
values upon which must rest the ﬁnest
character and without which no abiding
democracy can endure, we believe will
scarcely be denied by any thoughtful man
or woman. Yet, according to law, it must
not be given any place in our public
schools and is practically ignored in many,
at least, of our higher schools of learning.
Of course, few are they who would want
the teaching of any special creed made the
duty of the teacher in a country where
church and state are clearly separated, but
there is, as Dr. Stearns has said, something
in religion deep at the heart of it upon
which Jew and Protestant and Catholic can
agree and which each holds as vital and
fundamental.

Can the teacher teach religion even
where it is forbidden that he or she should
mention it by word of mouth? Yes; by the
spirit reaching out from his personal char-
acter, and silently yet persuasively enter—

No. 3

FROM THE PRESIDENT’S ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

FOR 1939

Complaints investigated ......... 4,925
Prosecutions ................... 51
Convictions ................... 45
Animals inspected .............. 48,753
Miles traveled .................. 203,984
Horses injured or unﬁt for service,

humanely put to sleep ......... 528
Horses taken from work ......... 157

Small animals; injured, diseased or
unwanted, humanely put to sleep 24,727

Animals placed in homes ......... 2,721
Animals returned to owners ...... 750
Ambulance calls ................ 10,267

Animals inspected at stock-yards. .656,257
Cattle, swine, sheep, humanely put

to sleep .................... 438
Service rendered to horses at sum-

mer watering stations ......... 6,242
Ambulance mileage—Boston ...... 24,104

 

ing into the character of the pupil. The
teacher often fails to realize with what
high regard the pupil holds him, how real
the respect accorded him, and so how
strong the inﬂuence of his character. You
don’t have to associate day by day for
weeks and months with anyone without
coming to know whether religion plays any
real part in his life.

Banish all acknowledgment of religion
as a vital and ennobling element in a na-
tion’s life and you have a nation without
God; and, if without God, without hope.

Door Bells for Dogs

We read in the Electrical Times that at
the front door of many houses in Copen-
hagen a small foot pedal projects at a
point near the ground where the dog usu-
ally scratches to call attention. He is
taught to press this pedal when he wishes
to rejoin the family circle and this action
closes the circuit of an electrical bell. The
idea pays for itself by avoiding muddy paw
marks on the door.

-—-The Dog’s Bulletin

 

 

 

 




 

M m. 19.40

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 4]

Seventy-second Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1939

I

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

T was thirty years ago that the present

President of our two Societies made his

ﬁrst annual report. In re-reading the
story told at that time it seems that the
chief task before The Massachusetts So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals in 1910 was to reduce to a mini—
mum, as far as possible, the cruelties con—
nected with the shipment into this state of
calves coming from New York State by the
thousands, transported into our Common-
wealth under false representation to evade
the New York State laws.

Then and Now

Assisted in many ways by the United
States Department of Agriculture, and
especially through the co-operation of the
efﬁcient head of that department in this
city, the trafﬁc was practically stopped.
Indeed, the whole condition of affairs at
the stock-yards and slaughter—houses con-
nected with them was, in important re-
spects, revolutionized. There were days and
nights of careful vigilance, watching the
incoming trains, with sometimes anywhere
from a half-dozen to ten or ﬁfteen dead in
a car, following them from the train to
the various private slaughter—houses to see
whether they were fed or even decently
cared for before being slaughtered.

The result of this work was a law giving
authority to our agents to enter stock-yards
and slaughter-houses in the state. It was
several years later that we secured a law
giving our agents police power as agents of
the Society to arrest, on sight where neces-
sary, for any act of cruelty.

Humane Slaughtering

Out of this experience with the shipping
of food animals, as well as with stock-yards
and slaughter-houses, there grew the cam-
paign that our Society started to secure
humaner methods in the slaughter of cattle,
sheep and swine. That campaign became
nationwide. Visits were made to foreign
countries to study their methods, and all
possible pressure was brought to bear upon
the great abattoirs of this country to better
conditions.

The campaign still goes on. Progress
has been slow. Only an enlightened public
sentiment will ﬁnally bring the long—hoped-
for reform.

It is interesting to notice that in that
ﬁrst report it was said, “An automobile
was purchased last summer for the agent
assigned to the southeastern part of the
State.” Today we have twenty-three auto-
mobiles, trucks and ambulances.

It was also in that year that we ordered
our ﬁrst motor ambulance to take the place
of the old, horse—drawn one which had been

in use for many, many years. We have
now two horse ambulances besides the ﬁrst
one bought in 1910, which was electric,
and is still in use and in excellent condition
for short trips.

It was in that year also that the plans
were‘ drawn for the building of The Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, where are the
headquarters of our two organizations.

The two Societies had at that time on
the payroll twenty—three. Today there are
103. The total number of animals in-
spected during that year throughout the
State and at stock-yards and abattoirs was
53,598; for 1939, 705,010.

Expenses for that year, in round ﬁgures,
were $72,889; receipts, exclusive of be-
quests, $45,181. For 1939, receipts, exclu-
size of bequests, were $353,936.80; expenses,
including depreciation, $342,546.28.

Honor to Whom Honor Is Due

The President today takes little credit to
himself for the differences between 1910
and 1939. It was his predecessor who laid
the foundation upon which it has been his
chief task to build. Mr. Angell’s name
must always stand among the few great
leaders in this historic movement. Indeed,
he and Henry Bergh are pre-eminently the
founders of the entire movement in the
United States. Mr. Angell was also widely
known abroad by his visits and addresses
in France, England and other foreign coun-
tries. To him, therefore, unquestionably
belongs not only the credit for the found-
ing of our two organizations, but largely
for whatever they have grown to since he
ﬁnished his work.

The present President has also had the
co—operation and advice of one of the most
helpful boards of directors with which any
president ever served. They have always
been willing to forward any undertaking
that looked like progress, and few presi-
dents have had ﬁner helpers than those
who have stood with him in the work
carried on at headquarters, throughout
Massachusetts and throughout the various
states where the Humane Education
workers have been doing such ﬁne service
for many years.

To the Trustees of the Permanent Funds
of our two Societies, both the President
and the Societies owe a great deal for the
time and thought given to the investment
of the bequests that have been received. We
know of no charitable organization that
has come through the trying years since
1929 with so small a depreciation in the
value of its invested securities. Many simi-
lar institutions have been nearly wrecked.

The Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

The building of our Animal Hospital as
a memorial to Mr. Angell required no little
courage on the part of the directors. The

venture, however, has proved to be one of
the best things that the Society has ever
done in the interest of animals. The build-
ing not only became the headquarters of
the two organizations, furnishing the
necessary ofﬁces, but that part of it de—
voted particularly to Hospital work has
met a need far greater than any of us
thought possible at the time.

Starting with one veterinarian, we now
have seven here in Boston, one of them a
technician, the greater part of whose time
will be spent in the laboratory; also a
smaller Hospital, well—equipped, in Spring—
ﬁeld, with two veterinarians.

During the years since the Hospital in
Boston has been in existence, there have
been brought to it 626,203 animals of all
descriptions, even from mice to elephants;
while at the Springﬁeld Hospital, since it
was established in December, 1931, there
have been 40,452 animals to which it has
given its services. It was never expected
that either the parent Hospital or the one
in Springﬁeld would pay for itself. The
object was not only to furnish medical
and surgical treatment to the animals of
those abundantly able to make compensa-
tion, but to do a very generous work for
those who could not afford to pay for the
service given them. This latter class has
proved even much larger than was antici-
pated. And particularly during the recent
years, the demands upon it for free work,
or work only paid for in part, have been
excessive.

In 1938, the actual deﬁcit of the Boston
Hospital was $45,042.31; in 1939 it was
$40,737.31. The actual deﬁcit of the
Springﬁeld Hospital in 1938 was $7,406.23;
in 1939 it was $5,533.22.

In order to meet the demands of the very
latest equipment in animal hospitals, the
Society is now replacing, in one of its
largest wards, the wire-screened cages
with those constructed largely of glass.
This will make possible the most ideal
sanitation and cleanliness, and we are
planning to have the same equipment in all
the other wards.

Loss of Chief Veterinarian

The Society, during this past year, has
sustained, as most of our readers know, a
most serious loss’in the death of its chief
veterinarian, Dr. Hugh F. Dailey. For
nearly twenty-ﬁve years he was its faith-
ful and devoted servant, fulﬁlling his tasks,
not simply because at the end of each
month he received his salary, but because
he positively was fond of animals. It hurt
him to see them suffer; it was his joy to
relieve them from pain or distress, where
possible. Dr. Dailey by nature seemed
equipped for his calling. One look in his
face and you knew you had a friend.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Mar. 1940

The Bluebird’s Song

S. LOUISE STOCKWELL

Up on a leafless bough
A bluebird sings

His morning song.

The spring has scarce begun,
Yet beats his heart
With courage strong.
Before him are cold days
And soon‘ he has

A nest to build,

Yet he is glad and gay
And his sweet song
With trust is ﬁlled.

Faithful After Death

MAY ALLREAD BAKER

From my own home town—a small city
in southern Ohio—less than a decade ago,
came the story of another “Greyfriars’
Bobby”—a red chow, belonging to a noted
lawyer.

For more than ﬁve years, “Chubby,” as
he was called, lived happily with his kind
master. Then, one cold winter, the lawyer
died, after a brief illness, of pneumonia.

Chubby wandered disconsolate about the
house for several days, refusing food and
water. Finally, his mistress took the chow
with her to the cemetery where she went
to deck her husband’s grave with fresh
ﬂowers.

And, strangely enough, Chubby seemed to
understand! He returned home with his
mistress; ate and drank, and resumed his
normal life. But everyday thereafter, as
long as he lived, the faithful chow made
two trips daily to the cemetery, winter and
summer, lying at length for an hour or so
on his master’s grave. And then, seemingly
comforted, he trotted soberly back to the
house, a distance of several squares.

Only the story of a ”faithful dog, but his

ﬁdelity would put to the blush many human
beings.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Mark March

HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

ARK March on your calendar for
special attention to the birds’ feed-
ing boards, for March will add to the
winter visitors the early migrating arrivals
from the South. And even if we do see a

 

 

FEMALE BLUEBIRD WITH CUTWORM

 

bluebird and have a few sunny days, we
should not be misled to think that now the
birds can fend for themselves. Remember
March is a deceiving old fellow who, as the
oldsters will tell us, once back in 1888 pre—
cipitated the biggest blizzard New England
ever knew.

Nor do we have to go back that far, for
a March storm that gave us quite a blanket
of snow and ice came last year. And
scanning my 1938 diary I note, “Awoke to
a big snow-storm, four inches already

.fallen. Birds ﬂocking to the board and a

ﬂock of twenty robins in the bushes strip-
ping the barberries. Snow until middle of
the afternoon. Between seven and eight
inches, then turned into ﬁne rain.”

And the next day, March thirteenth, I
ﬁnd, “Snow again in night making ten
inches. A wintry scene. Robins ﬂying
over snow.”

Those poor robins! Frantically they
ﬂew from one to another clump of the
barberry bushes, which they stripped in a
single day, the snow ﬂying in showers as
they plucked at the red berries.

Also come in March the purple ﬁnches
and if they come in such numbers as last
year it is well to get in a good big supply
of bird seeds, for they have rapacious
appetites and will crack the sunﬂower
seeds with their stubby beaks almost as
fast as one can get them out. Indeed they
eat them so fast that in order to make
them go farther, I get them mixed with
cracked corn. This by the way is a good
combination for most winter birds.

One of the best ﬁnch feeding trays, as

Page 39

well as one of the least expensive, is the
top of a vacuum coffee can tacked to the
window ledge. On this, sometimes three
ﬁnches will perch at once, giving the
watcher at the window a marvelous view
of the handsome birds—a real close-up.
This type of tray was introduced to me
one March day last winter when a bird-
loving acquaintance called up to say she
was coming after me to see their purple
ﬁnches. One hundred and ﬁfty at least. And
although it seemed a “big story” I was
certainly convinced when, as we arrived in
the drive of her old-fashioned house sur-
rounded by apple trees and backed by a
woody ravine, ﬁnches ﬂew up from every
tree and shrub. And the chief attraction
was these little coffee—lid trays, one of
which she had at almost every window.
And thrilling enough it was to go from one
window to another and watch their eager
feeding. Mostly females, I thought, but
when I learned later that only the mature
males show the rosy red, I understood why
it was that those I had termed females
were bossing about the ﬂock. They were
the young males, cocky as youngsters often
are. So now, when I see a very deep pur-
plish fellow, I say, “Oho, Mr. Patriarch,
your coat of color gives you away.”

My ﬁnches I feed way into April for
they are, I ﬁnd, retaliatory birds, who if
one shortens their rations of seeds, will
make up for the shortage by dining sumptu-
ously on the apple and lilac buds.

So mark March for increasing bird food
supply and keeping an eye on the ﬁnches.

The Sale of Baby Chicks

(This letter has been sent to all business concerns
in Massachusetts, so far as we know, dealing In What
are known as Easter chicks.)

OW that the Easter season is ap—
proaching, our Society is urging all
establishments handling newly-hatched
chicks (and ducklings) not to sell these
frail young creatures to persons intend-
ing to make Easter presents or favors of
them, and also not to allow them to fall
into the hands of children or others not
having proper facilities for their feeding
and care. Courts in other states have de-
clared the act of selling such chicks, under
the above conditions, to. be in violation of
the anti-cruelty laws. These tender young
fowl suffer from being mauled and‘ mls-
handled, and soon die from their inJurles
and neglect. If these chicks are sold only
in lots of six or more, probably they. are
being purchased to be raised to maturlty.
Our Massachusetts laws provide punish—
ment for one who “procures” a creature to
be “deprived of necessary sustenance” or
for one who “knowingly permits 1t to be
subjected to unnecessary suffering.” We
are expected to submit to the courts ev1-
dence of any violation of those laws.
Having dyed chicks (or ducklings) on
hand for sale is really prima facie ev1dence
of their being intended for sale solely 1n
individual lots—and we believe the courts
would so ﬁnd. If it is your intention to
handle these creatures at this season, .we
would ask your co-operation in protecting
them to the extent that you will refuse to
sell in quantities of less than .s1x; and,
further, that each purchaser be 1nstructed
how properly to feed and care for them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

TO ANIMALS I? THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELT Y

AT MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. REST FARM FOR HORSES, METHUEN

 

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 1940

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 134

I Song Sparrow

MARIE F. JOHNSON

Flick your nervous tail;
Wipe your little bill
on the wires.
Watch the slow clouds sail
Gold in the dawn—and trill
your sweet desires.

Raise your pulsing throat;

Pearl your throbbing song,
dawn-adoring.

Thrill the trees remote;

Shake the dew and fog
from the morning.

Warblers Lost and Found

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

HOULD you happen along the St.

Francis River in southeastern Mis—
souri in the summer do not give all your
attention to the interesting work of lead
mining and smelting which goes on in this
region. Be sure also to ask some bird lover
thereabouts to point out Bachman’s warb-
lers to you.

I say, “Ask some one native to point out
these birds,” because if you are a stranger
you will hardly be lucky enough to know
this rare bird which was lost for a long
time, but happily found again.

A naturalist named Bachman was the
ﬁrst person to spot this bird anywhere in
our land. It was near Charleston, S. C.,
in 1833. Mr. Bachman sent the bird to the
great Audubon at New Orleans, where he
lived then. The famous ornithologist de-
scribed the little fellow and named him
after his discoverer the Bachman warbler,
in 1834.

Then years went by but none of his kind
was seen except rarely in Cuba. After ﬁfty-
two years, in 1886, one of these birds was
shot in Louisiana, and sent to the Ameri—
can Natural History Museum in New York
City. Later a few more of the species were
found in Louisiana, but it was not until
1897 that the bird was found to be breeding
commonly along the St. Francis River.

Another warbler lost and found again is
Kirtland’s warbler.

Dr. Samuel Cabot, who knew something
about birds, was on a ship sailing near the
Bahama Islands in October, 1841, when a
tired little bird, brightly-colored, ﬂew down
upon the deck. Doctor Cabot caught him
and kept him, thinking that he was a bird
as yet undiscovered.

Ten years later Doctor J. P. Kirtland,
who took an amateur’s interest in birds,
caught a stranger near Cleveland, Ohio, on
May 15, 1851. Spencer F. Baird, a well-
known ornithologist of that time, described
it and named the new species after its
ﬁnder.

Years passed but no more Kirtland’s
warblers were seen again although orni-
thologists were keeping a far and wide
lookout for them.

Since these warblers are migrants, and
since one was found in the Bahamas in
October and the other in Cleveland in May,
it was certain that they went back and
forth between these two sections.

In June, 1903, Norman A. Wood dis-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

covered this lost bird’s nesting-place in
Oscoda County, Michigan. There in the
high, sandy, jack-pine plains of Central
Michigan these warblers nest regularly
each spring. In winter they are found only
in the Bahamas.

Mr. Fred E. Brooks, one of West Vir—
ginia’s most ardent bird lovers, has had
folks watching for a long time to spot one
of these warblers in their migration ﬂights
in May or September. It would seem that
some of them ought to cross the mountains
of this state in their ﬂight from Michigan
to the Bahamas.

Anyone in the central Appalachian coun—
try who wants to watch out for this rare
bird should look for a warbler about ﬁve
inches in length, his upper parts bluish
slate, his under parts pale yellow, with
head, back and sides prettily marked with
black and brown spots and streaks.

Another warbler lost and found is
Swainson’s. He was also discovered by
Bachman in South Carolina in 1832, and
then was lost for ﬁfty years. Now he is
found in goodly numbers in several South-
ern states.

But the small-headed warbler, ﬁrst found
by a pioneer naturalist, Alexander Wilson,
in New Jersey in 1812, and found nearly
the same time by others independently in
Kentucky, has been lost ever since. Yet,
even after all these years, ornithologists
keep constantly looking for this long lost
little fellow of the feathered tribes.

 

Sir Wilfred Grenfell says:

Very deﬁnite teaching of kindness
is simply invaluable in the formation
of character. Kindness. to all of God’s
creatures is an absolutely essential,
rock-bottom necessity if peace and
righteousness are to prevail. As for
the campaign for Humane Education
now being carried on, may God give it
inﬁnite success.

 

 

 

Sept. 1940
He Stopped the Traffic

BERNICE OGDEN

FREAKISH Windstorm may have

caused him to lose his bearings. It
is doubtful if he had any aspirations to
appear on Broadway, but there he was.
Even San Diegans, who were familiar with
this odd type of bird, stopped to stare at
Grandfather Pelican. For he was strolling,
or rather waddling, down the middle of the
main street in the heart of the city.

Cars halted. A trafﬁc tie—up was threat-
ened. Drivers impelled by kindness or curi—
osity gave this large, brownish-streaked
bird the right of way. His cream-colored
head suggesting baldness, together with his
awkward gait, no doubt, gained for him the
veneration due to age. His long, straw—
colored beak seemed almost too heavy for
him to hold up. With curiosity, he peered
at his unaccustomed surroundings. Appar-
ently, he was not particularly pleased for
in a very short time he took off into the
air and headed toward the bay.

If we could have followed him to the
water, we would have seen him at his best.
With a wingspread of about six feet, the
California brown pelican is an impressive
ﬁgure. Gracefully, he circles above the
water. Suddenly, he halts in mid-air. From
a height of some twenty feet, he dives
straight down into the water causing a
mighty splash.

Then up comes the pelican with a ﬁsh
held cross-wise in his beak. With a quick
jerk, he casts the ﬁsh not down his throat
but into his pouch. For the queerest thing
about this bird is the yellow membrane
pouch under the lower bill. His ﬁshing
basket once ﬁlled, he retires to the land.
When ready for his meal, he merely raises
his head, contracts the pouch, and swallows
the catch.

If we wished to see more of his family
life, we could take a short boat trip to the.
Coronado Islands of Mexico. There, the
pelicans nest in great numbers.

 

Photo from U. S. Bureau of Biological Survey

A THRIVING PELICAN COLONY

i
1

 

 

 

 




 

Dec. 191,0

English War-Time Pigeons

L.E.EUBANKS

MMEDIATELY the present war broke

out tens of thousands of pigeons were
called up for active service with the Royal
Air Force. Two homing pigeons in a basket
are a regular part of the crew on all air-
craft which ﬂy over the sea, and in any
emergency the birds are released to return
to their base with an S. O. S.

A blue-tinted carrier is clipped to the
pigeon’s leg and while it is on duty a
standardized S. O. S. is already attached.
A white patch on the carrier is used as an
emergency writing pad and the plane’s
bearing is scratched on this patch just be-
fore the pigeon is released.

Pigeons have already been proved gal-
lant members of the forces; one bird
brought an S. O. S. from the coast of Nor-
way to England, a distance of 200 miles.

The average speed of ﬂight is 35 to 40
miles an hour from between 200 and 300
miles out to sea.

Special care is taken to release the birds
in such a way that they are not upset and
buffeted about by the tremendous rush of
air past the airplanein ﬂight. These clever
birds drop clear of the machine with their
wings closed and then spread them out in
ﬂight when they are well in the open.

The National Pigeon Service organizes
the pigeon scheme, under which hundreds
of birds are on duty with Coastal Command
airplanes and bombers every day. Attached
to every air station there is a local organ-
ization of homing pigeon owners who must
own at least twenty birds.

Every local group is “commanded” by a
Pigeon Service ofﬁcer, a civilian, whose
duty it is to collect the number of birds re-
quired each day by the air station from the
lofts of the owners. They are then housed
in their own pigeon quarters. Every effort
is made to keep the birds contented and
in good condition.

While they are “on duty” they are fed
by the Air Ministry, and even the cost of
bird baths is sometimes charged to the
official accounts, which also include such
items as peas and grit. The local owners
accept only a very small nominal payment,
but theirs is a valuable national service.

Should ordinary communication in Eng—
land become paralyzed as a result of bomb-
ing attacks or invasion, the pigeon mes-
senger services would become an integral
part of the Home Defense. Therefore, the
War Ofﬁce is increasing the “personnel”
of this already vast bird air force.

A delightful story is told of “Jenny,” of
the R. A. F.——the pigeon who laid an egg
over the North Sea while on patrol duty.

She was immediately released from her»-

oﬁ‘icial duties as messenger and recom-
mended by the crew for “domestic duty at
home.” Just one of many appreciations; the
ﬁghting men know the value of their
staunch feathered allies.

The Scottish S. P. C. A., Edinburgh, an~
nounces its annual prize essay contest for
1941, the subject being, “How Wild Birds
Help the Farmer.” Pupils in more than
2,300 schools of Scotland are eligible. In
the 1940 contest 22,700 essays were written
in 431 schools, and 592 book prizes were
awarded.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bird-Feeding Stations

NELLIE(L BOURDEAUX

White flakes danced a rigadoon

While the chill wind piped a tune;
Birds perched hungry, cold, forlorn.

I brought crumbs and ﬁne crushed corn
To my shelf, and, clearing snow,

Felt a smug, self-righteous glow.

Then you came, ill-mannered, rude,
Crowding, snatching all the food,
Bird of wretched reputation,
Flouting my expostulation,
Rusty-voiced, unpopular—

Who misnamed you “little star”?

Selfishly I’d hoped to lure

Some proud crested troubadour,

Rare bluebird, titmouse, or thrush . . .
You were hungry . . . Now, I blush
For my heart’s hypocrisy

Which pretended charity.

Come then, starling, help yourself
To the food upon my shelf—
Food for all who may desire,
Cardinal or scorned pariah.
Surely this is meager duty

That I pay for winter’s beauty.

Transient Guests
RENA STOTENBURGH TRAVAIS

HILE we all love the birds whom we

call our regular boarders because
they build their nests in our trees and wait
expectantly for the crumbs and seeds we
scatter for them, there is
no thrill quite like discover-
ing a new bird on our feed-
ing-board, or a ﬂock of
strangers in the yard.

Not all of these birds
that call in passing through
eat crumbs; it is in fact
hard for us to say what
they would like, and all too
often when we go out to ﬁx
a supply for them they take
ﬂight and ﬂy away never
to return.

The very best way of en-
couraging both regular and
transient guests is a plant-
ing of the trees and shrubs
that furnish tid-bits for
them. Such a planting takes
but little space and will lure
them to yard or garden
literally every month in the
year.

The following list will
furnish tempting food for
practically every kind of
bird that visits this section
(Elmira, New York): Vir-
ginia creeper, wild cherry,
serviceberry, hedge privet,
wild plum, wild g r a p e,
French mulberry, common
mulberry, sunﬂower, black
gum, coralberry, black haw,
red bud, wild rose, elder-
berry, dogwood, j u n i p e r
berry, holly.

 

Page 189
A Threat to Bird Life

LAURA A.BOYD

HE present popularity of feathers as

decorations for women’s hats and the
lax enforcement of laws regulating such
sales have resulted in a serious threat to
bird life. Among the birds being exploited
for the plumage trade are the golden and
bald eagles, condors, swans, ospreys and
the great blue and the white herons. None
of these birds are numerous in the United
States and in spite of the fact that strict
state and federal laws forbid the sale of
their plumage a recent investigator sent out
by the Audubon Societies, found that feath-
ers from more than 40 species of birds were
being offered for sale in New York and
Philadelphia stores.

The great white heron is just beginning
to return to the Florida Keys after having
been almost annihilated by plume hunters,
ﬁshermen and hurricanes. Two years ago
it was estimated there were not more than
600 of these birds in the entire United
States but a recent estimate gives the num-
ber at 1,000. Such an increase in numbers
is most gratifying and steps should be
taken at once to protect these beautiful
birds which so easily fall prey to hunters.
The original decrease in the great white
heron population is said to be due not only
to market hunters but to commercial ﬁsher-
men who took the young birds from the
nests and used them for food. In 1935 a
disastrous hurricane visited the Florida
coast and reduced the entire heron popu—
lation to less than 150 birds.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 44

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

11

Mar. 1940

The American Humane Education Society

E are coming, Father Abraham,
Wthree hundred thousand strong.”

So sang the Union recruits when
the call to arms resounded in the North in
1861. Today more than 300,000 children,
pledged to kindness to animals in the year
1939 through the efforts of the American
Humane Education Society, are coming to
join those who are enlisted in the great
anti—cruelty army. This 0 r g a n i z a t i o 11
through the past year of 10,192 Bands of
Mercy, scattered from Maine to Califor—
nia and from Minnesota to Florida, and
also including New Brunswick, Newfound-
land, the Philippines and Palestine, is but
one of the activities of the Society, yet how
far reaching may be the effects of these
many hundreds of lessons in kindness upon
impressionable minds! Since this move-
ment started, in 1882, there have been
reported to our ofﬁces no less than 246,945
units of the Band of Mercy.

Remote Sections of Maine Visited

Miss Gilbert, working from March
through May and from September through
December, visited nearly 100 towns in
Maine, some of them in the extreme north-
eastern section of the state. She made 260
school visits where she gave 454 talks and
organized 673 Bands of Mercy. Nearly
25,000 pupils and more than 1,000 adults
listened to her message. She distributed
about 4,000 pieces of literature and ar-
ranged for poster displays in many shop
windows. She corresponded with 57 school
superintendents, many of whom gave her
the heartiest co—operation and made it pos-
sible for her to reach schools far from the
main highways. At her suggestion, the
State Commissioner of Education called for
a general observance of Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week. Miss Gilbert also took action
in several instances to relieve suffering
both of animals and children.

1,000 New Bands in Massachusetts

Miss Maryott, whose work is principally
in elementary schools in Massachusetts,
gave more than 200 talks, illustrated with
slides or posters, in schools of eight cities
and eleven towns. These were attended by
37,900 pupils and 1,065 adults and resulted
in the organization of 1,000 new Bands of
Mercy. In addition, she gave an illustrated
lecture at the Burroughs Newsboys Foun-
dation, Boston.

Parent-Teacher Alliance

Mrs. Clarke, secretary of the Humane
Press Bureau, with headquarters at the
ofﬁce of the Society, has retained the chair-
manship of humane education in the Massa-
chusetts Parent-Teacher Association, al-
though this department in the National
Congress has been consolidated with an-
other. Efforts are now being made to have
appointments of district chairmen, com-
bining several states, who will, in turn,
appoint local chairmen to carry on the
work. Mrs. Clarke held an exhibit at the
Massachusetts Parent-Teacher Convention

and has attended the meetings of the state
board. She also held a three—day exhibit
at the convention of the Massachusetts
Federation of Women’s Clubs. Altogether
she sent out about 3,600 press slips, 16,375
leaﬂets, and 1,300 letters. She attended
a hundred club meetings and gave 50 talks,
including two on the radio. She made 58
visits to cities and towns in Massachusetts,
New Hampshire and New York.

Dr. Wentzel Reports 500 Bands of Mercy

Besides visiting a score of towns in
Pennsylvania, Dr. William F. H. Wentzel,
with headquarters in Pittsburgh, included
Cincinnati, Ohio, and Albany, New York,
in his itinerary. He reached 165 schools
and gave talks in 80 of them. He reported
more than 500 Bands of Mercy and that
55,000 persons listened to his messages, of
whom 50,000 were children. His adult ad-
dresses were given before a great variety
of clubs, conventions, teachers’ institutes
and Bible schools, as well as on the radio.
He estimates that he distributed 180,000
pieces of humane literature.

3,000 New Bands of Mercy Reported by

Mrs. Toomim

Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, our indefati—
gable representative in Chicago, gave more
than 400 addresses in 136 schools, reach-
ing more than 93,000 pupils and 3,600
adults. She reports that 3,000 new Bands
of Mercy were the result. She gave away
3,000 pieces of literature in addition to a
special distribution of 4,000 school pam-
phlets in connection with Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week. She was responsible for a very
successful school contest for the best play-
lets, stories and poems, for which prizes
Were given by the Illinois Humane Society,
which also contributed the school pam-
phlets referred to above. She also secured
unusual newspaper publicity during Be
Kind to Animals Week, and used her inﬂu-
ence to obtain a Proclamation by Governor
Horner and references to the Week in the
broadcasts of Eddie Cantor and Mrs.
Eleanor Roosevelt.

Among Our Colored Friends

Some of the most outstanding work ac-
complished by our ﬁeld representatives is
that of the three men whose special efforts
are directed to teaching kindness to ani-
mals to the Negro populations.

In Virginia the Rev. John W. Lemon
visited 331 towns, involving nearly 12,000
miles of travel, and gave 244 talks in
schools and 53 addresses to adult audiences.
The aggregate attendance was 26,793.
About 26,000 pieces of literature were dis-
tributed. Mr. Lemon also did consider-
able practical work, making use of Band
of Mercy members to aid both deserving
animals and persons.

Mr. Barnwell, with headquarters in Fort
Worth, Texas, assisted the Interracial Com-
mission to correct evils in the School for
Delinquent Boys and Orphan Home and in
asking for state funds to establish and

maintain the State Home for Delinquent
Negro girls. He reached 82 towns, where
he gave 180 talks in 155 schools and 117
addresses before church, club and other
social gatherings. Altogether his audiences
totaled more than 83,600. He gave out
9,000 pieces of literature and secured the
publication of 55 articles relating to hu-
mane work.

Mr. Carroll Secured Press Publicity

Mr. Carroll, ill in December, did the fol-
lowing work in the ﬁrst eleven months of
1939: Visited 244 places, mostly in South
Carolina; gave 394 school talks; organized
371 Bands of Mercy; reached 47,200 chil-
dren; gave 87 talks before adults, reaching
25,000 persons; secured 1,600 Jack London
Club pledges; and distributed 15,000 pieces
of literature. He secured 35 press articles
in addition to sending out 150 newspaper
releases in connection with Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week, arranged for three radio talks,
gave much time in summer to speaking at
county teachers’ associations and summer
schools, and addressed delegates to various
conferences and conventions. He was the
ﬁrst and only colored delegate to attend
the South Carolina Safety Education Con-
ference at Greenville, where he spoke at a
group meeting.

Mrs. Weathersbee Reaches 50,000 Persons

More than 50,000 persons were reached
by Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee in her
10,000 miles of travel to visit a hundred
towns throughout Georgia, where she gave
400 talks in 150 schools and organized
nearly 600 Bands of Mercy. She also spoke
in vacation Bible schools, 4H Club camps,
summer schools for teachers, local and dis—
trict Parent-Teacher meetings, Women’s
Clubs, etc. She distributed 12,000 pieces of
literature and secured about 15,000 Jack
London Club pledges. Her Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week activities included securing gen-
erous space in the press, getting school
teachers to put on special programs, bill-
board advertising along the highways, and
humane sermons preached in churches. She
assisted in organizing a humane society in

rMadison, Georgia.

Mr. Burton’s Work Carried 0n

After having served the American Hu-
mane Education Society, particularly in
the mountain regions of Tennessee, for 20
years, Mr. James D. Burton died early in
October. Fortunately for the Society, Mrs.
Burton, who had been a real handmaiden
to her husband in his humane activities,
was able to carry on in his place. There-
fore the following summary represents Mr.
Burton’s work for the ﬁrst nine months of
the year, with the addition of Mrs. Bur-
ton’s work in December.‘ There were more
than 15,000 miles of travel, in which 78
places were visited, with 124 school talks
and 58 addresses to adult audiences, in
which nearly 16,000 children and 9,000
adults were reached. More than 3,000

(Continued on page 48)

 

 




 

 

 

Page 62

55112 Tﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and ﬁfty-three new Bands

of Mercy were organized during February.
Of these, 263 were in Illinois, 168 in
Rhode Island, 128 in Georgia, 125 in
Massachusetts, 64 in Florida, 42 in South
Carolina, 33 in Virginia, 24 in Pennsyl—
vania, three in Nebraska, two in New J er-
sey, and one in Texas.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent—American Society, 248,377.

From the Principal of a primary school
in North Carolina:

“There are twelve teachers in our school.
We organized a Kindness to Animals Club
in each room. The children have greatly
changed in their attitude toward animals.”

The secretary of a Be Kind to Animals
Club in California, in ordering a Humane
Calendar, writes: “We have about twenty-
nine attending our meetings every two
weeks. I always call the roll and each
member responds with an account of what
he has done for an animal since the last
meeting. We get some ﬁne reports. We
live in the mountains. We are making
scrap-books on cats and dogs. I am proud
to belong to a Humane Society.”

No Monopoly
MARION H. ADDINGTON

“They say dumb creatures have no mind,”
Said Farmer Brown. “I don’t agree
That brains are all in humankind;
It don’t sound sensible to me!”

“Now maybe you will think I’m droll,

But take my cow—well, she’s got sense;
I’ve seen old ‘Blossom’ kneel and roll

Just like a man, beneath a fence.”

“She knows what grass and plants to eat
And what she ought to leave alone.

Are human beings that discreet?
I’m not, myself, I’ll have to own.”

“And when the rain comes pelting down
She simply turns her back and waits;
She doesn’t act the frantic clown
And bellow at the pasture gates.”

“But if she sometimes kicks the pail
When some mean fly stings through her
hide
And she can’t reach it, with her tail,
You’ll have to own she’s justiﬁed.”

Said Farmer Brown, “Now I allow
There’s lots of sense in my old cow!”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1940

 

£9». ._: ._ -. w

YOUNG ROGER PRACTICES FOR HIS FUTURE WORK

 

Adopting a Pet
HILLIARD FOLEY

OU may choose whatever animal you

fancy for a pet, but use judgment, take
precautions, and—be prepared. For in—
stance, a baby beaver, with its webbed hind
feet, blunt nose, ﬂat tail, and soft brown fur,
makes a nice little chum. At least that was
what we thought—my partner and I—when
we took one into the tent with us that year
we spent with the Indians in Algoma. We
built a special place for the little fellow to
stay in at night, but we let him run about
inside the tent in the daytime. We were
delighted at the rapidity with which he
learned to sit up and to perform other
simple tricks. In a few weeks Roger, as we
called him, was so close a pal that he really
belonged to the household.

And then Roger got his teeth. The amaz-
ing thing about a beaver’s ﬁrst teeth is the
immediacy with which he can use them. No
sooner is the ﬁrst tooth through than the
gnawing begins, just as though the furry
rascal were to pick up a handsaw and set
to work. Roger must have cut his ﬁrst
teeth some time in late afternoon, for one
evening when we returned to camp we
noticed with surprise that our tent was all
loose, ﬂabby, and lopsided, and some two
feet shorter than it had been when we left
it. Our pet had gnawed a chunk from the
lower end of the tent pole, letting the whole
thing sag down. We ought to have known
better than to have a tent pole made of
white birch, the beaver’s favorite tidbit
next to the willow and the aspen.

We replaced the tent pole with one of
dry and tasteless tamarack, but Roger’s
sabotage did not stop there. He just seemed
to have it in for that tent of ours. One
morning, during those small, precious hours
just before dawn, when the sleep of tired
prospectors is so sweet, but which, on the
contrary, seems to be the favorite working
hours of the beaver, we were suddenly and
rudely jolted from our dreams by the
swishing sound of a tree top crashing down
full onto the tent.

Our ﬁrst impulsive judgment was that
a wind storm had uprooted the tree, but
when we crawled out from under the weight
of twigs and ripped canvas around our

necks we observed that there was no wind
blowing. Roger, in a word, had cut down
his ﬁrst big tree. And that ﬁrst big tree
happened to be the stout, leaning poplar
which stood some twenty feet away from
the tent, and whose lower limbs we had
been using for a clothesline when we did
any washing. The poplar had been leaning
heavily towards the tent, and we wondered
if Roger had considered that circumstance
when—and—if he had measured the tree
for the fall.

Indeed we were at a loss to account for
his felling the tree at all. If he were merely
after food, he ought surely to have been
satisﬁed with the tender outer bark of the
poplar instead of eating through into the
heart as he had done. He was too young
and inexperienced, we reasoned, to contem—
plate the construction of a beaver dam, and
even if, he were a matured beaver and had
that intention, there was no water to dam
closer than the spring which was over ﬁfty
yards away. ‘

We were still puzzling out the question
when an old Indian trapper came along.
He told us that both of our conjectures
were wrong. Roger, he said, was only praC«
ticing for the time when he would be re-
quired to build a beaver dam. He assured
us that young beavers prepare themselves
in that way. However, we were skeptical.
We cut down all the leaning trees that
threatened our tent. When we left, we gave
Roger to the old Indian. We knew that he
would have a good home and be happy in
his own native environment.

Lend a Hand Society

A good friend of the Book Mission from
time to time asks for names of schools to
which humane literature may be sent, and
we supply her with lists, says the organ
of the Lend a Hand Society of Boston.
This fall she sent books, posters, and cards
to a number of schools. Since then we have
heard from three different teachers that
Bands of Mercy have been started in their
schools as a direct result. Two other teach-
ers have written about the literature sent
them earlier in the year.

The elderberry is the birds’ best liked
wild fruit, since over 100 species feed on it.

 




 

 

 

 

Sept. 1940

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Some Facts about the Starling

ALVIN M.

O B - W H I T E, bob-white,”

came some clear whistled

notes from the vicinity of the
barn. I glanced that way and saw
a number of bob-whites scurrying
towards some woods and brush.
“Bob-white, bob-white, bob-white,”
there the notes were again, a
chorus of them. Surely, they were
the songs of bob-whites, those
chubby, fowl-like birds also called
quail.

But I had my doubts. The notes
were uttered rapidly, shortened a
bit, and were not quite as loud and
full as they should be. Then, too,
half a dozen birds were singing at
about the same time, something
bob—whites never do. Bob-whites do
not sing when roaming about in
bevies, but wait until the ﬂocks
have broken up in spring prepara-
tory to nesting. Finally, another
fact seemed to have a bearing upon
the problem—a dozen or more staru
lings were perched in the tops of
a couple of near—by oaks.

“Spring-o’—the—year,” came other
sweet whistled notes from the same
direction. Was the meadowlark
back from its winter home three
weeks ahead of time? Here was a
mystery.

I advanced cautiously, and the
bob-whites scurried off down the
pasture. “Bob—white” and “Spring-
o’-the-year,” came the same sweet
notes again, now quite clearly from the
tops of the oaks. Then I realized the truth.
The starlings were imitating the bob-
white and meadowlark and doing a good
jobof it. Apparently, the sight of the bob-
whites on the ground was responsible for
the music. Did the starlings mistake some
of the bob-whites for meadowlarks and was
that why they sang that whistled “Spring—
o’-the-year?”

Since then, because I have known what
to expect, I often have heard starlings imi-
tating other birds. Last fall, for example,
a lone starling was perched in the top of
an oak near the drive, where it remained
a long time, singing “fee-bee” over and over
and imitating the phoebe. It uttered other
notes also, the delightful “teer—a-lee” of the
bluebird, the call of the red-wing, and some
of the notes of the blue jay. The starling
also mocks the cardinal, wood pewee, and is
able to imitate the mewing of the catbird.

Six or eight years ago starlings were
rare in this neighborhood (western Wis-
consin), whereas now they are among our
most common birds. The ﬁrst ones I remem-
ber were three or four I saw daily all win-
ter long about some trees along a near—by
street. The trees had had their tops re—
moved and looked like stubs with dense
clusters of small branches at their tops. In
these trees, and about a neighboring barn,
the birds made their winter home. Then,
one spring, my son told me a strange bird
was nesting in a hollow tree on my neigh—
bor’s farm. It proved to be a starling. Now,
starlings often nest in our little bird
sanctuary.

PETERSON

 

Photo from U. S. Bureau of Biological Survey

STARLING CARRYING A MAY BEETLE

TO YOUNG

Two years ago I found a red—headed
woodpecker sputtering about an oak near
the hen-house. The oak was hollow, and,
within it, red—headed woodpeckers had
nested for years. The woodpecker screeched
loudly as I approached, and soon a starling
emerged from the hole to see What all the
noise was about. Starlings are suspicious
birds, and, upon seeing me, this one ﬂew
off. Apparently, my intrusion determined
the outcome of this bird quarrel, for the
starling did not return and a pair of wood-
peckers nested in the hole that year. Last
summer, at least two pairs of starlings
nested on the premises, both in holes in
trees. It is no uncommon thing these days
to see ﬂocks, containing from twenty to
thirty birds, in the neighborhood during
the spring and autumn.

The starling was introduced into the
United States from Europe in 1890 and
1891, when a hundred or more birds were
liberated in Central Park, New York City.
Since then it has multiplied amazingly and
spread far and wide.

Why has the starling been able to multi-
ply so rapidly in America? Because it is
hardy and sturdy. Then, too, it is proliﬁc
and well ﬁtted for the battle for existence.
It has a formidable beak, a hard skull and
big bones. Finally, it long has lived near
man and is shrewd and cunning.

It is a chubby, black bird eight inches
in length with some green and purple about
the head and neck. The bill is yellow, the
tail short, and, in summer, the “bird is
speckled with cream-colored spots.

It nests in hollow trees, bird—boxes and

 

Page 135

nooks about buildings and deprives blue-
birds, woodpeckers, martins and some other
native birds of nesting-places. The nest is
made of twigs, weeds, grass and the like;
the eggs are pale blue and number from
four to six. The males spend much time
about the nest, perching upon a near-by
branch, chattering, whistling and snapping
their beaks, dropping the wings meanwhile.
Starlings destroy many insects but also take
and damage fruit and grain.

On Seeing a Migrating Hum-
mingbird Far out to Sea

MARY W. PEASE

He passed as on the selfsame course
Our great ship took to cross the main,
A flash of color in a sky
Prophetic of the coming rain.

He had no place to land and rest,
No food to give him strength to reach
The port on which his heart was set,
Beside a palm-fringed line of beach.

He seemed a shining jewel tossed
By careless hands" into the air,
And yet he knew beyond a doubt
The windswept path that he must fare.

I picture him above a rose,
Safe and warm in a land of sun,
The tiniest bird} in all the world
Rejoicing that his journey’s done.

He taught me that the heart can ﬁnd
Without the aid of chart or star,

The loveliest things in any clime
However hard the way, or far.

The Birds at My Window

FERN BERRY

ITTLE did I think when I allowed the

woodbine to grow across my kitchen
window last summer that I was setting the
stage for a whole winter’s entertainment.
As the leaves dropped away after a brief
splurge of brilliant color, cluster after
cluster of purplish blue berries remained
on the vine like little bunches of grapes.
The mildness of the weather allowed them
to cure in the ﬁnest way without wither—
ing and dropping off.

When the ﬁrst snow storm appeared,
covering the weeds and grasses by the
roadsides and in the ﬁelds, the birds came
to my natural feeding station. The beau-
tiful star-Spangled starling, pest that he is,
was the ﬁrst to come. Then the tree and
English sparrow and the ﬁnch. The chick—
a-dees came to see what it was all about,
and I placed a little shaker of suet on the
vine for them. My one hope that a cardinal
will ﬁnd the station has not been fulﬁlled
thus far.

Since the vine actually clings to the glass
I have a ﬁne opportunity to watch the
birds while I wash my dishes at the sink
or prepare a supper salad at the work
table. But, I am selﬁsh. I do not let them
eat the whole store in one day. I gently
tap at the window to scare them away.
But they always return on the following
day, usually in the morning or afternoon.

 

 

 

 

 




 

‘-
I
I

- .
. .4:
. .J '

..-\~.

 

may»
1‘ P"

‘I', ,..'."L’- "-

3:2.

4.

I
. tiff/5: A. .-

Iif‘f.

4.. I

0"1

‘5..:‘=. .—
‘hr', 9
a

.J ‘ . u
. r w I o
. 1-} ~,»2~"5n-,‘. .
, . _

~.

-\?J,§;' " ' ‘-
‘- ("-
5?) a»

v,-

 

g
11:1.

5 ~”Ar.
_..

. ‘1‘?-
. -.)~, .

. x

L“- .1

Jun. .

r'
. 3“»;
-. ‘. ‘F‘

."_:"v
cl
.. u

’x
—
\

,~ ..
— .- A-
‘ "_

_1.,s

ass-

.g_.
y,
H.

C ‘ n:
J 1.30“
a. -

v‘-

3.7} «+5.5» ?

 

A's-15' ‘.
- 4 rv'vf"

‘ .

«1" i; ' 9."

5 in

VS»
fir-’51"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 180

Silent Worshippers
MARY AGNES COLVILLE

We could not join when men and angels
sang,

To usher in that ﬁrst great Christmas day;
We had no gifts of frankincense or myrrh,
To place beside the crib wherein He lay.

And yet we were a part of that blest scene—
Oocen and cow and sheep and goat and dove,
And in our awestruck, meek and lowly way,
We did our best to show our wordless love.

Jungle Babies

BLANCHE BUTLER

EARLY all the animals we see in the

Zoo were one day jungle babies, or
have lived in a wilderness far away. It is
hard to believe when we look at these great,
monstrous animals, some of them weighing
hundreds of pounds, that they were once
tiny babies.

A baby bear weighs at birth only about
three-quarters of a pound, and is less than
a foot long. When it is a few days old, it is
almost hairless, and looks very much like
a little, pink-skinned pig.

At an early age bears eat anything from
a grasshopper to a deer—steak. They are
very fond of honey. The chief diet of the
Alaskan bear is salmon. Bear cubs are
about the most merry-hearted youngsters
you ever saw. They are even more play—
ful than monkeys.

Baby tigers look and act very much like
our own tame kittens. Their mother begins
to teach them how to behave properly when
they are very young. The ﬁrst lesson con-
sists of learning how to wash their face and
hands correctly, for tigers are extremely
clean, and the mother will not tolerate a
speck of dirt.

Then come other lessons. They must learn
to rustle for their living, and they must
also learn the ways, laws and customs of
jungle life. The ﬁrst principle in a tiger’s
education is patience, and Mrs. Tiger often
gives a sound box on the ear to her chil-
dren for their carelessness in not paying
attention to her teaching.

Baby lions are no larger than a small
house-cat. They cannot walk until they are
about three weeks old. Their eyes open on
the third day and are of a beautiful, soft
brown color, almost like a collie puppy’s
eyes. Baby lions’ eyes are spotted with black
spots and resemble the eyes of a leopard.

A baby leopard is very beautiful. It is
about as large as a half-grown cat, and is
covered with soft, gold-colored fur, marked
with black spots. The underneath part of it
is cream colored, and its eyes are a deep
blue. Leopards are found both in Asia and
Africa. They belong to the big cat family,
and are remarkable for their grace of move-
ment and beauty of skin.

A baby giraffe is one of the cutest and
most interesting of all animal babies. When
he is small his neck is not so very long,
and does not lengthen to any great extent
until the animal enters its second year. His
body is pale yellow, beautifully ﬂecked with
dark brown spots. The giraffe is the one
animal that cannot make any vocal sound,
not even the slightest noise, but its hearing
18' very acute. Baby giraffes can walk when
they are only two hours old.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Truth about Wolves

w}. J. BANst

Dec. 191,0

 

 

UNUSUAL SHOT OF YOUNG WOLVES AT PLAY

wild animals less cruelly if the truth

about the nature of various species,
popularly cast in the villain’s role, were
well known. The common gray wolf, whose
color phases shade from black to white in
different climes, has been a frequent sufferer
from slanderous tales. Well might be sue the
author of “Little Red Riding Hood” for libel.

The United States Bureau of Biological
Survey declared that its ﬁles contain no
record of wolves killing people in North
America, “as all reports of such killings
proved, upon investigation, to be un-
founded.” The late Sir Wilfred T. Grenfell,
the world-famous medical missionary, wrote
that “the Labrador wolf has never been
known to kill a man.”

Many metropolitan dailies throughout
America have commented upon the amusing
tales told by J as. W. Curran, northern On-
tario editor, regarding the inoffensiveness
of the timber wolf. For 15 years Mr. Cur-
ran has posted a standing offer to pay $100
to anyone who can establish that he (the
claimant) had been attacked by a wolf in
the Algoma district, where they still are
numerous. He has his money yet.

Authorities in European and Asiatic
countries agree in branding as preposter-
ous the old, lurid tales of Russian children
being tossed from sleighs to appease the
hunger of pursuing packs, or of eastern vil—
lages being wiped out by hordes of fam-
ished wolves. In America we know that the
“pack” consists normally of a pair of wolves
and their young.

So shy of man is the wolf that expert
woodsmen consider it possible to pass a life-
time in a wolf-infested district without ever
seeing one at large. Photographs of un-
caged, untamed wolves are very rare. In
many districts these animals are almost im-
possible to poison because they refuse to
come near any bait which bears the betray-
ing odor of man’s touch.

Time and again, even starving wolves
have been proved inoffensive, passing up

PERHAPS mankind would treat all

the opportunity to attack helpless adults or
even children. It is true that the nocturnal
howls of a prowling pair constitute a terri-
fying sound and that often an imaginative
traveler has spent the night in a tree, con-
vinced that he was besieged by ravenous
animals who, in truth, only ask to be left
alone.

Elderly Mr. Spens-Stewart, a fellow of
the London Zoological Society, spends an
hour with the four wolves in Regent’s Park
almost daily. Before the public, whose pres-
ence might make the wolves nervous, are
admitted, he takes his lupine chums for a
walk and romps with them on the open
lawn. Like many other animal lovers, he
knows that kindness and understanding can
win strange friends.

Christmas Legends

F. B. M. COLLIER

HRISTMAS has enriched the glory of
.its traditions by a lavish wealth of
legendary fancies concerning the speechless
life of the woodland and the waters. There
is the story of the White camel colt whose
mother carried one of the Magi to Bethle-
hem. He broke his tether, followed the
cavalcade, wasn’t discovered as a hanger-
on until too late to send him back, and so
at last reached the Manger. And because
the Holy Child touched him he grew into
the sweetest—tempered camel throughout
the East. There is the story of the Star
that guided the Wise Men, and then fell
in shattered fragments down the mountain
side, and thus turned into the precious and
dainty edelweiss, of the oxen who tell the
glad tidings as they kneel in adoration at
midnight on Christmas Eve, and of the
bees who sing in their hives, and of Baxa,
the ass, whose gentle modesty won him the
right to carry the Child Jesus.
One of the loveliest of all stories con-
cerns the famous halcyon, the bird similar
to our modern kingﬁsher. One night, many

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158
@112 Emmi] nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY
Nine new Bands of Mercy were formed
in Virginia and two in Georgia during
August.
Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 252,423.

An Understanding Friend

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

ROBABLY no one has sung the praises
Pof bird and beast and stressed kindness
to them more than the celebrated Danish
writer, Hans Christian Andersen.

One instance in his “Fairy Tales,” is the
touching story of Thumbelina, where she
says to the sick swallow: “Oh, it is so cold
without. It snows and freezes. Stay in your
warm bed and I will nurse you.”

Then the author goes on to say. “The
whole winter the swallow remained there,
and Thumbelina nursed him heartily.”
Later, the bird, well and strong from
Thumbelina’s thoughtful ministrations, ﬂies
away into the warm sunshine and the
green forest.

Again, in the “Goloshes of Fortune,” the
Canary says in sympathy to the caged
Lark: “You little gray Northern bird, so
you have also become a prisoner. It is cer-
tainly cold in your woods, but still liberty
is there. Fly out—they have forgotten to
close your cage; the upper window is open.
Fly! Flyl”.

In the story of “The Daisy,” Hans Chris-
tian Andersen again shows marked sym-
pathy for the caged bird: “Yes, the poor
Lark had good reason to be sad! He was
caught and now sat in a cage close by the
open window. He sang of free and happy
roaming—sang of the young green corn in
the ﬁelds—and of the glorious journey he
might make on his wings high through the
air. The poor Lark was not in good spirits
for there he sat a prisoner in a cage.”

A little later on in the same story, the
writer stresses the dreadful unkindness of
leaving no water for the bird: “ ‘Here is no
water,’ said the captive Lark. ‘They are
all gone out and have forgotten to give me
anything to drink. My throat is dry and
burning. It is like ﬁre and ice within me,
and the air is close. Oh I must die! I must
leave the warm sunshine, the fresh green,
and all the splendor that God has created.’ ”

A few paragraphs farther on, the writer
relates poignantly: “The evening came, and
yet nobody appeared to bring the poor bird
a drop of water. Then he stretched out his
pretty wings and beat the air frantically
with them; his song changed to a mournful
piping, his little head sank down toward
the ﬂower—and the bird’s heart broke with
want and yearning.”

In the story of “The Beetle,” Andersen

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Oct. 1940

 

Courtesy of Victoria and Island Publicity Bureau

DEER AT OYSTER BAY, VANCOUVER ISLAND, WITH HIS TWO CHUMS,
THE CAT AND DOG, EATING OUT OF THE SAME DISH

\__

is glowing in his praise of the Emperor’s
horse. “He was a beautiful creature, with
delicate legs, bright, intelligent eyes, and a
mane that hung down over his neck like a
veil.”

In the story of “The Storks,” Andersen
has the good lad Peter, of whom the storks
were not afraid, tell his mean playmates
who are pointing at the Storks mockingly:
“It is wrong to make a jest of animals.
I will not join in it at all.”

Last, but by no means least, are the
many compelling passages in the “Ugly
Duckling,” where the author describes the
great hunt and the fear and terror of the
ugly duckling as gun after gun is ﬁred.

Later he shows the kindness of the peas—
ant who breaks the ice of the pond with his
wooden shoe and rescues the benumbed
duckling who had become fast frozen there.
Then there is that happy closing scene
where thoughtful and admiring children
bring bread and corn and cake, and feed
and praise the duckling after its glorious
transformation into a swan.

In that heartfelt cry of the grateful
duckling: “I never dreamed of so much hap-
piness when I was still the ugly duckling—”
the Danish weaver of tales seems to voice
the gratitude of all dumb things for the
benefactions that come into their lives.

To a Cherished Kitten

STELLA BRANDES

What skillful art you make of play!
In wonderment I see each day

The lovely, sunlit hours you pass
Romping through enticing grass,
Or scampering up a beckoning tree
With such feline agility.

A wanton leaf can fascinate,

And so completely captivate

Your fancy—till a butterfly
Attracts your most capricious eye.
Your life is spent in merry stride,
Alert to fun on every side,

Seizing the joy within your reach— .
Teach me your secret, I beseech!

 

 

Entente Cordiale

STRANGE friendship has sprung up
A between two tame animals and a crea—
ture from the wild forest of Vancouver
Island. “Jackie,” a deer; “Mickey,” a dog;
and “Muzzy,” a gray—striped tabby, have be-
come the closest of good companions and
can be seen any day playing together at
their Oyster River home on Vancouver Is-
land, British Columbia. This picture shows
them enjoying their dinner of milk and
oatmeal, eating together out of one dish.
This scene indicates how a little human
kindness can make creatures who seem to
be natural enemies forget their ancestral
animosity and enable them to live together
in friendship and serenity. R. T.

Pet Deer Returns Each Year

The following unusual incident was re—
ported in the Argus-Courier of Petaluma,
California, last August. We received con-
ﬁrmation of the story from Captain—Engi—
neer E. C. Borman of the Veterans’ Home,
who says that the institution came in
possession of the doe by a gift from the
game warden. Then only a fawn, she was
raised on a bottle. She was ﬁrst conﬁned
in a pen, then given her freedom. She had
a kitten as a bed-mate, now a large cat who
roams around with the deer when she re-
turns with her fawns.

“Mitzi,” the darling of the veterans at
the Veterans’ Home of California, Yount-
ville, is back again, this time with her off-
springs, two spotted fawns, a buck and a doe.
For the ﬁfth consecutive summer “Mitzi”
has returned to the scenes of her fawnhood
on the grounds at the Veterans’ Home. In
the summer of 1936 she ﬁrst came to the
quarters of Captain E. C. Borman, the chief
engineer. A tiny fawn, she was adopted by
the family. In the fall she disappeared. In
the spring she came down from the hills
with her ﬁrst born and stamped for recog-
nition at the Borman home. She appar—
ently seeks protection, appearing at the
opening of the deer season and remaining
for a few months.

 

 

 

 




Apr. 19.40 0 U R

DUMB ANIMALS

 

The “Seeing-Eye”
J O H N VILKAS

You would not think to see them on the

street,
That one was dumb and one bereft of
light.
They walk so proudly, with such certain
feet,
As if the world were good and day were
bright.
Where science faltered, love has found a
way
To bridge the chasm of the unknown
dark.

Within this union, blindness ﬁnds the day
And darkness flees before this dog’s bold
bark.

So You Enjoyed the Circus?

JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

0 you enjoyed the circus? Yes, most

people and especially the children do
ﬁnd much enjoyment in the many goings-
on to be found beneath the big top. Bright—
ly painted clowns, freaks, pink lemonade,
peanuts and all the rest that, combined,
make for an interesting performance.

But did you ever stop to think what
really made the circus so enjoyable for
you? Yes, the clowns were funny and the
tight-wire walkers brought your heart to
your mouth several times, while the aero-
bats high above you in the air made you
dizzy with their daring performance. But
.. the real performers, the drawing card of
any circus is the animal performers. But
unlike the clowns and tight-wire walkers
the animal performers do not enjoy giving
the performance you so well enjoyed.

All winter these animals have been
trained and put through their paces so that
the coming of spring and circus days would
ﬁnd them at their very best. Each season
these animals are taught new tricks and
as you view them from your comfortable
seat you can hardly visualize the strain,
and in some cases the mistreatment, these
animals went through in learning the
tricks you thought were “just great.” Ani—
mals feel the strain of repeated training
on their nerves and dispositions just as
much, if not more, as does any human
being. And, as it is necessary to train
these animals frequently so that they will
not forget what has been taught them, you
can imagine the hardships they must en-
dure during their training hours. All the
care and attention they may receive cannot
very well make up for the strain they must
live under.

Then the circus must travel from town
to town and city to city. During the hot
summer months the animals are conﬁned
to box cars and must travel the rails for
many miles so that they will arriveat their
new destination in time to put on the same
performance that you enjoyed a day or two
before. On through the hot summer months
this is repeated until winter once again
brings them to their training grounds
where once more they begin learning new
tricks so that when you see the circus
again next year it will be different from
last year’s performance. So you enjoyed
the circus?

 

BUFFALO WITH ALBINO CALF, NATIONAL BISON RANGE,

MOIESE, MONTANA

 

Wild Life and Motorists

PARE THE WILD LIFE—Avoid

Killing Innocent Creatures,” is the
plea to motorists by Burlingham Schurr,
naturalist, who contends that the automo-
bile takes a toll of birds, mammals, turtles,
snakes, and other forms of wild life that
cannot be estimated, and he states that the
rate of destruction from this cause alone
will, ere many years, bring about extinc-
tion of some forms.

Naturalist Schurr is director of the Mu—
seum of Natural History and Art, Holyoke;
honorary directing curator of the Museum
of Zoology, and honorary professor of
natural science, St. Hyacinth’s Seminary,
Granby; and a former curator at the Mu-
seum of Zoology, Amherst College. He
recently was commended by President
Roosevelt for his interest and activities in
helping to remove hazardous conditions in
New England forests strewn with hurri—
cane-felled timber.

The rarest species of birds and mammals
as well as the most common, are killed by
motor vehicle-s at frequent intervals, the
naturalist declares. In a “Killed by Auto”
collection of wild life, prepared and
mounted to show how the victims appeared
when picked up on the highways, and
which is owned by Naturalist Schurr, are
different species of warblers and sparrows,
robin, bluebird, thrushes, roseabreasted
grosbeak, catbird, woodpeckers, indigo
bunting, purple ﬁnch, whip-poor-will, night—
hawk, ruby-throated hummingbird, swal-
lows, brown thrasher, wrens, scarlet tana-
ger, ﬁycatchers, ruffed grouse, bob-white,
pheasant, sparrow hawk, saw-whet owl,
long-eared owl, screech owl, barred owl,
chipmunk, red squirrel, gray squirrel, ﬂy-
ing squirrel, woodchuck, rabbits, skunk,
muskrat, raccoon, red fox, all species of
New England fresh water turtles, frogs,
toads, salamanders, and several species of
snakes.

This collection, the naturalist asserts, is
merely a suggestion of the various species
and as to the total number of creatures
killed by auto annually.

The American or bald eagle, the symbol
of our country, is not protected from
hunters by Federal law and is only given
such protection in sixteen states.

“Lost Face”

MARGUERITTE LUNGREN

OST FACE” ran uncertainly

the busy boulevard. He was
dirty and completely lost. Motor sirens
blasted and he jumped in fright, ﬁnally
gaining the curb by a whisker’s breath as
a car roared by. Forlornly he stood and
looked about him at a strange neighbor-
hood, then timidly started down the street.
A growl nearby told him danger was near
and the little white body turned and ran
for life.

Someone, a girl, who was returning
home from work, had been watching this
near tragedy. She saw the white kitten
thrown from a passing car in the center
of trafﬁc and had seen its wavering pro-
gress and ﬁnal treeing by the dog.

* * * * *

across
small,

I was the girl and indignantly I gath-
ered up the bit of dirty fur and took it
home. Lost Face, after a supper of warm
milk, sat back and surveyed me with satis-
ﬁed eyes of aquamarine. Then he per-
formed a meticulous toilette and, feeling
himself presentable, proceeded to play with
all objects handy.

Deﬁnitely, he was no beauty and, besides,
was ﬂea infested. But he had personality
plus. Bedtime approaching, and cold winds
without, I endeavored to sell him the idea
of sleeping on a cushioned chair. But Lost
Face did not care for that. It was smack
in the middle of my bed, or nothing.

So I was forced to accept this, and at
various times during the night I was sleep-
ily conscious of switch-engine-like purring
near and against me.

Having but one room, I could not keep
him and so Lost Face went to the Humane
Society where he found a good home almost
at once.

Wherever Lost Face lives now, I am
quite sure he is taking life with calm aqua-
marine eyes and a ﬂuffy nonchalant tail,
all memory of his cruel abandonment gone
from him.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest l-ocal editors to republish. Such. copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1940.

OUR DUIIIB ANIMALS

 

 

    

_ . .‘-‘." ‘ . _ ,__. .. . .
. . .. .4: 0. - Ci' ._ ,. .
* \. . ‘7“ \ - -
‘ . - . . :- ‘.- -.
. 1- -.-g- ‘7 ' . _ ~-.
I *- l . ’,-\ ‘.. .,;_.
f :1", L. . J. , . '- '--. -'
‘ ’ 21.2. ~ . ~ I .~ - --. ‘ ‘ 1
. I '54:. ‘ "- 5;" - . u ‘ d I: “
- -- -- ; ‘..-. , :v‘gab- -3- 1.3“-..“

Devotions
MARY AGNES COLVILLE

That birds and beasts are not devout,
I surely won’t agree,

For robins sing their matin songs
Each morning in our tree;

And only just last evening,
While sitting on the stair,

I watched my kitten fold her paws,
As. if in bedtime prayer;

And then, when noontime came around,
Right at the Angelus hour,

I saw a horse bow low his‘ head
Beneath an old church tower.

The Amazing Spiders

SUPPOSE some of you imagine, as so many people do, that

spiders are insects. They are not, writes “A. B. C.” in the
R. S. P. C. A. Journal. A spider is divided into two distinct
parts, not into three, as an insect is, for there is no division
between a spider’s head and its shoulders, and that is one
reason by which we know it is not an insect. But there are
other differences as well.

A spider has eight legs, and no grown-up perfect insect ever
has more than six. These are points worth remembering, for
it is always interesting to be able to recognize to what class
our little friends belong.

There are other differences, but these cannot so easily be
seen. Insects breathe by a net-work of air-tubes running all
over the body; but a spider, besides these air—tubes, has gen-
erally two or four little lung-books.

It is easy to remember that, as well as having eight legs, a
spider has eight eyes. These are like little bright beads, and
are arranged in two rows on the front of its head. These eyes
are not like the great compound eyes of most insects, but like
the three simple eyes the bee has in the middle of her fore—
head. As a matter of fact, for all its eyes, the spider is very
short-sighted, and depends on its keen sense of smell and
touch for ﬁnding its food.

Although the spider has smelling bristles on its body, it is
really its ﬁne sense of touch that is of most value to it. This
has. its center in the ﬁne bristles at the ends of the legs, and
constitutes the highest form of sensitiveness known.

This amazing little creature is a spinning expert, and carries
around its own spinning factory. At the end of the body there
are six spinning ﬁngers, called spinnerets, which make the
most exquisite spinning machine, said to be the most wonder-
ful in the world. These ﬁngers are short and stumpy, with
rounded tips, and are covered with little spinning tubes or
spools, with a tiny hole at the end of each, through which the
silk comes out.

The silk is not a skein inside the spinner, but is liquid until
it comes in contact with the air. The spider can use as many
spools at a time as it likes, and so can vary the thickness of
the threads, and the quality of the silk. It has three different
kinds of silk, and always uses the best suited for the work
it is doing—a snare to catch food; a soft cocoon for the
children; or a swinging—rope for itself.

Have you ever studied the beauty of a spider’s web? It is

 

, )i ll\k\\iJL.u.-..... - wu. .JI

 

“BUSHYTAIL” PAUSES FOR A NUT LUNCH

 

a most lovely thing. In the early morning, glistening with
dew-drops, it is as beautiful as jeweled lace. I wish I had
space to tell you of some of the wonderful cobwebs I have seen.

A spider has beautiful little claws on its feet, like tiny
combs. These it uses for combing itself most carefully, for it
is very particular to keep itself neat and clean. A spider
never neglects its toilet.

But I have to confess that these little peOple are quarrel-

some and quick tempered and, alas, that they are cannibals,
too!

The Strange Animals

ALFRED L TOOKE

This list may look as if Jack had been stocktaking, but
really he had just been jumbling up the names of some
animals. Can you put the letters in each item back in the

proper order and show what animals they are? (The ﬁrst
is MERINO).

ONE RIM SEVEN LOWER
ONE STAPLE T'E'N KITS
ONE CURS PIP TEN RAMS
ONE CHOIIRS R T‘EiN HE PALS
TWO MABES TEN HARPS

Correct answers will be given on this page next month.

Answers to “Queer Animals!” puzzle last month: Heifers,
marmosets, guinea pigs, catamounts, turtles, hippopotamus,
giraffes, antelopes, porcupines, chameleons.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

o-ATN

CELL ‘N 1868. AND FOR FORT-Y‘ONEYEARS

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society
The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
‘ '—COWPER

     
  

GLORY TO ‘
GOD,

   
 

PEACE on EARTH, - .
Kmouass, JUSTICE

AND MERCY 'r'o
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

 
   
   
   

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass. ., under the Act of March 3,1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13,1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 73

December, 1940

No. 12

 

One billion, one hundred and three mil-
lion, two hundred and sixty people—more
than eighty per cent of the world’s popula-
tion—live under ﬂags of nations now in-
volved in war.

One cent a meal—$10.95—will save the
life of an orphan child or widowed mother
in China for a year. What a chance to do
a lovely thing! Send us a postal and“‘we’ll
tell you all about it.

Dealers in plumage and women who are
illegally wearing these feathers in their
hats should read the article on page 184,
entitled “Illegal Millinery.” Friends of the
world’s beautiful birds are deeply concerned
over" this return to what has been thought
of as “only a barbarous memory.”

In 1913 the over-all per capita debt in
the United States, including Federal State
and local, was about $60. Today it has risen
to $500. This represents a total indebted-
ness of nearly sixty-ﬁve billion dollars. This
means that in addition to all the ever-
increasing taxes we must pay in the future
there is a debt of $500 hanging over the
head of every man, woman and child in
the land.

The Royal S. P. C. A. of London, Eng-
land, in spite of all that has happened dur-
ing these months of air-raids and destruc-
tion of life and property, has been main-
taining its splendid record of service on be-
half of the animals for whose welfare it
cares. From the ﬁrst of January, 1940, to
the ﬁrst of October, there had been 16,415
complaints received; convictions for vio—
lation of humane laws, 878; and warnings
given to offenders, 10,404.

Fortunately, the casualty list has not
been heavy. There have been injuries to
persons and property, and in one case a
devoted worker, the manager of one of their
clinics, was fatally injured, the clinic being
demolished by the explosion of a heavy
bomb during a night raid.

Christmas

Nineteen Hundred and Forty

EARLY two thousand years ago a

little Child was born in Bethlehem of
Judea. Could anyone who looked upon Him
that day, and upon the lowly Mother who
bore Him, have dreamed that the hour
would come when in distant countries songs
would ring in far-off lands hailing Him as
King of Kings and Lord of Lords? That
born in a stable of a village inn He would
be adored by generation after generation
in years to come as the Prince of Peace?

Since that day in Bethlehem, kingdoms
have been born and died, nations have
arisen and fallen yet the name of that Child
this Christmas Day in 1940 will be upon
the lips of unnumbered millions and sung
by grateful souls in places of adoring wor-
ship and in unnumbered millions of Chris-
tian homes.

Then why a world at war today? Why the
training of a nation’s youth to learn the
deadly game of how to kill their human
brothers? Just because this world of men
and nations has never dared believe the
teaching of Him whose name makes pos-
sible this Christmas Day of 1940.

Over and over again through these more
than 1900 years the sky has darkened, the
clouds have been rent, wars have threat-
ened the very existence of the faith that
bears His name, but that faith endures and
will endure until men and nations learn
that love is mightier than hate and that
Christ and not Caesar is King of Kings and
Lord of Lords.

To every reader of these words, to every
member of every home into which they go,
we send the wish for the happiest possible
Christmas and the best possible New Year,

and we send this wish in the hope of that:

better day that is sure to come.

“Christmas morn, 0h, let us sing
Honor and praise to Christ the King,
Sheltered ﬁrst in a lowly shed,

And cradled there where the cattle fed.” ‘

Cruelty in the Movies

N article appeared recently in a Massa—

chusetts daily paper severely attacking
the moving-picture industry for the cruel-
ties to animals so evident in the scenes pre-
sented on the screen. The article speaks of
having “to look at unhappy horses tumbled
headlong down steep hills—hurled from high
cliffs—or else to view with anger teams of
the helpless animals forced down slides into
deep waters with heavy coaches piling up
on top of them, all supposedly to create
thrills for people who like brutal sensa—
tions.”

That such acts have been witnessed re-
peatedly at the picture houses we grant.
That many picture producers have been
guilty of subjecting animals to treatment,
nothing less than brutal in appearance at
least, is also true. That in many cases it
has been not merely brutal in appearance
but in reality is also true. Still, in many
a scene where an animal, particularly the
horse, has seemed to be the victim of some
evident heartless act, the camera has played
a trick upon the public.

A handsome horse, with rider, races up to
the edge of a steep cliff and plunges down
to apparent destruction. What really hap-
pens is that at the last second the real
horse, and sometimes the rider, stop, and
a dummy horse and rider make the deadly
leap. Even this appearance of cruelty
should not be permitted, for the effect is the
same upon the people—men, women and
children—who may witness it.

The article above referred to was un-
justly critical of the societies for the pre—
vention of cruelty to animals, saying “they
could accomplish more if they thought more
of performing duties than about their pri-
vate subscriptions.” It further says that
“some studios hire the humane society’s
ofﬁcers ostensibly to supervise the shooting
of pictures, but actually to provide protec-
tion for the studios engaged in the infrac-
tion of the law.” If such societies exist

(Continued on page 186)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tel. KIR. 8083-4-5

G. Nelson Armitage
PILGRIM BADGE AND
SPECIALTY COMPANY
614 Memorial Drive
Cambridge Mass.
BADGES - MEDALS - BANNERS
CELLULOID BUTTONS

and
ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors—at-Law
DAVID T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST.,
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION, INc.
6 BEACON ST., BOSTON. MAss.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

    

Use Nema Capsules to rem0ve
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
Send for free Nema booklet No. 652 ,
Wrrte to Animal Industry Dept , Desk Nrmh

PARKE, DAVIS & (20., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davrs Products

* free .309“?!

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

I
'1

 

Soothe, and help heal chafings
and rashes of external origin.

[UTIEUR‘ mare:

    

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mnhertakrrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

O'ur Dumb Animals, 1939', bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound

volume, each ......................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in

the set ................. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ............ 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc.....$0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ...................... .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow... .50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 .......... small,50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card—$1.00 per 100

 

The Dog Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —- A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .5 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............. .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons .................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10' cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................... .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............. .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper,7cts.
For Pity‘s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, '2 pp. ..... 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 100 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ....................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No 7, Farm

Animals ............................... . .50 “ “
A Wise F‘ish ............................ .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? .......... $0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .3-0. “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. .................................. .50 “ “

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ....................... $0.50 per 100
Trained Animals —- Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.... Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................... 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
It‘ricnds, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu—
cation, 32 pp. ........................ each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Friends of F’ur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 1c. each

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.

The Best Gift, play ......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

“

HOW to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “

A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... '2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy .............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ........ .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Hospital, write to

 

 

THE RIGHT FILMS ARE THE MOST VITAL
FACTOR IN HUMANE EDUCATION

For these “proven” subjects in silent pictures—

THE BELL OF ATRI, illustrating Longfellow’s poem,

and

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS, showing the practical
work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the Angell Animal

Secretary, 1.80 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 1940

print such cruelty may make upon their
own characters and told that there can be
no decent life based upon heartlessness.”

Under the direction of Mrs. Katherine
Weathersbee of the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, whom Governor Rivers in-
troduced at a meeting of the State Board
of Education as “the mother of humane
education in Georgia,” radio talks were
given daily, newspapers featured stories
and editorials, schools put on special kind-
ness programs, and announcements were
made from pulpits and in Sunday-schools.

Florida Takes Part

Arthur C. Hatch, mayor of De Land, Flor-
ida, issued a Proclamation in which he
said pertinently: “It is a tribute to man’s
love for animals that in a war-torn world
with millions of men under arms seeking
to destroy each other there should be
enough of the humane sentiment ”to sponsor
a week throughout the country as “Be Kind
to Animals Week.”

In West Palm Beach Miss Louise H.
Guyol of the American Humane Education
Society gave an address over Station
WJNO.

Radio Features Texas Observance

Over Station KNOW, Austin, Texas, Rev.
F. Rivers Barnwell, representing the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, was inter—
viewed by Miss Nannie Belle Jenkins, super-
visor of Travis “County Negro schools,
regarding the Band of Mercy and other
activities of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society. At Beaumont the pupils of
Charlton-Pollard High school presented a
dramatization of the early career of George
T. Angell in his efforts to establish humane
education, and held a pet show with unique
features. Mr. Barnwell gave several ad-
dresses during the Week in schools and
elsewhere.

New Mexico GovernOr Proclaims Week

John E. Miles, Governor of New Mexico,
in an excellent Proclamation says, among
other good things, “This crusade for kind-
ness, tolerance and mercy to animals also
carries the same spiritual values into hu—
man relationship in family and community
life. It is therefore vitally important that
education along these lines be included in
our school work, so the children may begin
life imbued with these high and funda-
mental principles.”

Cameras for Guns in California

The San Francisco S. P. C. A. made a
feature of exchanging cameras for guns, as
it has done in previous years, the idea being
to take the guns out of circulation and to
encourage hunting with the camera. An
original illustrated card, 11 x 24 inches,
printed in color, announcing the dates of
Be Kind to Animals Anniversary, was used
in all street cars and- busses in San Fran-
cisco during the Week. A ﬁne, leading edi-
torial “Should Have a Square Deal,” was
published in the Daily Press, Riverside,
April 17.

A contributor considered himself quite a
humorist, until he sent some of his jokes
to a newspaper. In a few days came the
reply, no check included:

Dear Sir: Your jokes received. Some we
have seen before, some we haven’t seen yet.

—Capper’s Weekly

' OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Stop in Time
LESTER BAN KS

COULDN’T stop in time.” That’s what

we so often hear from the automobile
driver after he has run down and killed or
maimed a person or animal.

I personally know several car drivers
who as a regular practice travel entirely
too fast, and many of them have never
made any study whatever of the required
distance in which to stop the car to avoid
accident. The following authentic informa-
tion should be taken seriously by all who
drive, not only for the safety of persons
but in the interest of dumb animals who
have already suffered grievously from reck-
less driving.

It is good work, say experts, if an aver-
age car can be stopped within 137 feet at a
40-mile per hour speed. Here are a few
interesting points from a standard table of
speed and stopping distances: at 40 miles
an hour a car travels 58.7 feet per second.
The “thinking distance,” that is, the num-
ber of feet the car travels while your brain
is telegraphing your intention to stop to the
foot which operates the brake pedal, is 28
feet. The “braking distance,” the number
of feet needed in which to bring the car to
a halt after the brake is applied, is 109 feet,
making a total stopping distance of 137
feet.

But these ﬁgures are based on the as-
sumption that all conditions—those of the
motorist, the road surface and the car—are
ideal. On the average all conditions are not
ideal. Further reckonings of averages give
a stopping distance of 208 feet at ﬁfty miles
an hour, or more than thirteen times the
length of the average car. Here the “think-
ing distance” is 36 feet, the “braking dis-
tance” 172 feet.

At 60 miles an hour the stopping length
is 290 feet; at 30 it is 83 feet. Under good
conditions it should be possible to bring a
car to a stop within 30 feet at 20 miles
an hour.

Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico, house
approximately 3,000,000 bats which, at dusk
in summer time, sw00p out, clouding the
sky with their number, to forage for food.
It is estimated that, in one night, they
devour eleven and a half tons of insects.

F' _ ........

 

 

“GINGER,” A PRIZE WINNER

Page 93

Kitten

MARION H. ADDINGTON

You little bit of fluff,

Though scarcely strong enough
To keep your wobbling stand;
You nestle in my hand,

Your manner timorous,

Your tail ridiculous,

Your blue eyes vague and weak,
Your mew a feeble squeak.

It’s hard to vision that

Some day you’ll be a eat,

And arch your coat of fur

With most engaging purr

That shakes your whole machine;
To clamber up the screen

And stalk unwary birds

In spite of chiding words,

Each eye a gleaming spark:
Topazes in the dark;

Or, stretch out in the sun

In warm oblivion.

You funny little thing,
So weak and wavering,
It’s nice to think that you
Will make your cat debut!

“Catterina”
FORREST FRAZIER

ANY cats have become famous be-

cause they were owned and cherished
by famous men and women. Of all such
cats the one I particularly admire is Edgar
Allan Poe’s cat, “Catterina.” For many
years she was with the Poes, traveling
about the country with them and sharing
their misfortunes.

Catterina was a large tortoise—shell cat
which belonged to Poe’s wife, Virginia.
However, she outlived her mistress and was
cherished by Poe and his mother-in-law,
Mrs. Clemm. There is hardly a biography
of Poe in which Catterina is not mentioned.
Some biographers spell the name Catarina,
but Poe referred to her in several letters
and his spelling was Catterina.

Catterina was with the Poes in Philadel-
phia where they enjoyed a brief time of
success while Poe was editor of Graham’s
Magazine. Later, Mrs. Clemm took Catter—
ina to New York where she went to join
Poe and Virginia, who had preceded her
shortly before. There Catterina was a mem-
ber of the household at the farmhouse
where “The Raven” was written and later
at the famous Fordham Cottage where Vir-
ginia died.

Poe had a genuine affection for cats, and
Catterina was greatly beloved by him. She
often perched on his shoulder while he was
writing, and it is not unlikely that she was
the only witness of the composition of “The
Raven.”

Catterina also served a useful purpose in
the Poe household. Often they were too poor
to buy fuel and Catterina would curl up in
bed beside the sick Virginia and supply
warmth to the body of the fast dying girl.

The fame which Catterina has attained
through association with her famous owners
is justly deserved, since she was with them
through all of their many misfortunes.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 186

  

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
’KmoNEss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
   

   
 
      
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griﬂ‘ith, De Land, Florida

Field’ Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR OCTOBER, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 558
Number of addresses made, 382
Number of persons in audiences, 58,527

Gifts for Retired Workers

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a

trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Education and

Democracy

VALUED correspondent, Mr. Edward

N. Skipper, director of Humane Educa-
tion for the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., has
emphatically called our attention to the
timely need of presenting humane educa-
tion as an integral part of the democratic
way of life. This, in spirit, we have always
agitated, but not especially using the word
we hear so much today—democracy. We are
sure our readers, particularly those en-
gaged in promoting humane education, will
be glad to hear Mr. Skipper’s comments
and to learn of his plan of teaching. He
says:

In my work in high and junior high
schools I am now stressing the importance
of Humane Education in preserving our
democratic form of Government. In and out
of school, democracy is the most discussed
subject today. Teachers and principals of
schools even though somewhat confused as
to the most effective means of preparing
youngsters to appreciate and to be worthy
of the democratic way of life are agreed
something should be done and done quick-
ly to inspire our youth with deeper love
and loyalty to our form of Government.
Therefore, they are grateful for our con-
tribution to this important task.

Since there can be no democracy worthy
of the name without a high degree of jus-
tice, mercy and kindness controlling the
mind and hearts of those individuals living
within this democracy—things we have al-
ways taught—we need make no readjust-
ment of our teaching methods, only change
the presentation. Time devoted to this new
presentation will pay big dividends; many
serious thinking people will begin to see our
humane education work in its true light.
You’d be surprised at the comments already
coming in.

I think our magazines would gain much
by playing up the vital relationship between
humane education and true preparation
for democracy. I wish every teacher of
humane education could be advised to take
up this interesting subject along the lines
outlined above.

War-Time Activities in England

It is surprising to us here in America
who read of the terrible atrocities abroad
to learn of the activities of the various hu-
mane societies in England. They all seem to
be carrying on, much as in peace time. A
recent letter from Mr. Arthur Middleton,
secretary of the Humane Education So-
ciety of Manchester, says that “we are go-
ing ahead with the humane campaign which
is more needed than ever before. Air raids,
sirens, bombs, are causing much suffering,
but we keep on our humane education ac—
tivities, doing all we can to help those in
need, and to bring about better and happier
conditions.”

Mr. Middleton stated that a Home for
Poor Children, near Liverpool, of which he
is president, has recently suffered from the
effects of bombs falling near, but that
none of the young people were hurt. Ef-
forts are being made, among many difficul-
ties, to get these children into private
homes in safer areas.

Dec. 1940

His Friends Speak

LILLIAN E. ANDREWS

I saw the Lord,” said the soft-eyed 090,
“As He lay in His manger bed,

On a pillow made of my fragrant hay
Did He lay his baby head.”

“I saw the Lord,” said the little, gray ass,
“I bore His mother that day;

She stroked my ears and patted me,
As I trudged along the way.”

“I saw the Lord,” said the proud, red cock,
“As I perched on rafters high;

His very first dawn, He heard ,my voice,
Announcing that day was nigh.”

“I saw the Lord,” said they one and all,
“Back there in .the stable dim,

And as ye remember our humble needs
So ye remember Him.”

Cruelty in the Movies
(Continued from page 179)

they are not humane societies but use the
name for fraudulent purposes.

This is a serious charge which we do not
admit for a moment. Practically all that
has been done to out these acts of cruelty
in our moving pictures has been done by
the humane societies of the country. Year
in and year out protests have been made,
inﬂuences brought to bear upon the organ-
izations guilty of the offense and, where
possible, prosecutions for law infractions
have been undertaken.

The humane societies of the country have
now in California, at large expense, a
special officer, fearless and determined to
do everything that the law permits him to do
by every means in his power to eliminate
all acts of cruelty to animals in the mak—
ing of moving pictures.

Mt. Clemens Reorganizes

The Macomb County Humane Society of
Mount Clemens, Michigan, was reorganized
at a meeting held late in October. The new
ofﬁcers are: Mrs. Gwendolyn Elliott, presi-
dent; Miss Violet L. Willey, vice-president;
Mrs. Nell Lohr, recording secretary; and
Mrs. Beatrice Dahms, corresponding secre-
tary.

Mrs. Dahms continues to carry on the hu-
mane education work in connection with the
Society. She has several very active Be
Kind Units, each consisting of twenty-ﬁve
members. They take a pledge similar to
that of the Band of Mercy. The meetings
usually last for two hours, when very deﬁ-
nite programs are carried out. These include
instructions in treatment of animals, ex-
planation of a state law or of a city ordi-
nance pertaining to animals, the reading of
a list of animals wanted and a list of ani-
mals to be given up, and musical selections
including singing by the group.

Mrs. Dahms has been very successful,
despite many discouraging factors, in keep-
ing up these humane educational activities.
It is to be hoped that the people of Mount
Clemens will now give the support to the
practical work of the Humane Society there
which is so urgently needed.

 




 

M ar. 1940

Women’s Auxiliaries

Since 1921 the Women’s Auxiliary,
formed by a group of women deeply inter-
ested in our work, has proved worthy of
the Society’s sincere appreciation. During
the years since, it has raised, particularly
for the better equipment of The Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital and its many
needs, over $30,000. Under the direction
of Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, who has
been its president since 1923, other similar
Auxiliaries have been formed. Especial
mention should be made of the one in
Springﬁeld, of which Mrs. Morton B.
Miner is president, succeeding Mrs. Char-
lina B. Kibbe, the Auxiliary’s ﬁrst presi—
dent, which, in connection with our Hos-
pital there, is deserving of generous praise,
having raised for the Hospital $6,628.42
since its organization in 1933.

The Winchester Auxiliary, organized
under the presidency of Mrs. Richard
Taylor, has also proved most helpful in
awakening new interest in our Society, has
established a small Shelter to which lost,

 

REPORT OF CHIEF OFFICER

Individual tabulations of the work of the
Society’s Humane Oﬂicers during 1939 will
be noted above. An examination of these
statistics will show how thoroughly all sec-
tions of the state, including the rural dis-
tricts, are being covered through the aid
and equipment for state-wide travel and
inspection with which the Ofﬁcers are
supplied.

Prosecutions for cruelty have been made
as few as possible and only resorted to in
the more ﬂagrant cases, and when milder
procedure was deemed inadequate. This de-
partment has held to the opinion that the
measure of its work is best determined by
its educational, advisory and preventive
results rather than by the actual number
of its prosecutions and convictions.

Among the offenses which called for
court action a few may be mentioned as
being of rare occurrence.

A cat thief was caught and arraigned.
The court ﬁned him $25 for cruelty and
$200 for theft. Two others were appre—
hended, with six cats in two bags, all
nearly suffocated. The offenders admitted
procuring cats for a medical school at 50
cents each. They each paid $25 for their
cruelty.

Several dogs with ears cropped were
found in possession of a dog-raiser who
could not produce a certiﬁcate to the effect
that the cropping operations were neces—
sary. Defendant was charged with procur-
ing operation to be done. He pleaded guilty
and paid ﬁne of $75. A Seeing—Eye dog
was cruelly beaten by a blind man who had
obtained the dog for his guide and pro-
tector. The dog was taken from the offender
and returned to Morristown, N. J. The
man was given a suspended sentence of one
year.

By adhering to the principle, often
asserted, that it is better to convert men
from cruelty than to convict them in the
courts, the Society is performing its func-
tion and seeks to make men respecters
rather than violators of the anti-cruelty
laws.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

unwanted or homeless small animals can
be brought for which homes may be found,
or where, if necessary, some may be pain-
lessly put to sleep.

At Northampton another Auxiliary has
been organized, of which Mrs. Frank Dow
is president, and which maintains a central
station where such animals as we have just
spoken of can be brought. This Auxiliary
is also caring for whatever expense is in-
volved and employing the services of a
veterinarian.

Still another Auxiliary was formed in
Great Barrington three years ago, of which
Mrs. Robert Magruder is president, and
another is being planned for in Attleboro
and one in Beverly. To all the faithful and
devoted women of these Auxiliaries we ex-
tend our sincere gratitude.

A New Branch

On the evening of January 10, 1940,
there was organized in the city of Holyoke,
through the instrumentality of and by rea-
son of the deep interest in humane work of
Mrs. Aaron ‘C. Bagg, a branch of The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Several hundred
letters of invitation to all sorts and condi-
tions of people in Holyoke were sent out by
Mrs. Bagg, and on that evening a group of
between one hundred and two hundred
people were present.

The purpose of the gathering was out~
lined, ofﬁcers and directors elected, ad-
dresses made by the superintendent of
schools, Mr. William R. Peck, and by Dr.
Rowley. This promises much in meeting
the situation in that city where there
seems to be an unusual number of lost,
stray and unwanted small animals. Up to
the present that work has been taken care
of, in large measure, by the ambulance in
Springﬁeld and through the co-operation of
a local veterinarian. This new branch

 

Page 48

ought to mean much for the good name of
our Society, and" help take care of the ex~
penses involved.

Treasurer’s Report

It will cause some surprise to the most
of our readers to learn that the Society
has been able this past year, 1939, to close
its books, not with a deﬁcit but with a
substantial gain in proﬁt over loss.

The explanation of this is due to the
fact that, being obliged to spend many
thousands of dollars for remodeling our
various wards to bring them up to the
latest and last equipment of modern ani—
mal hospitals, and to make possible other
necessary facilities which twenty-ﬁve years
ago, when the Hospital was built, were not
planned for, we have been making special
efforts during 1939 to raise funds for this
purpose. This gain, shown below, and more
than $20,000 additional, will be needed in
the very near future.

From the Treasurer’s ofﬁce we have the
following ﬁgures:

Total receipts from income from
the Trustees of Permanent
Funds, and also other sources,

save bequests ............ $353,936.80
Expenses (including deprecia-

tion) ................... 342,546.28
This makes a favorable balance

of ..................... 11,390.52

As stated elsewhere in this report, the
expenses in connection with our two Hos?
pitals, exceeded receipts by $46,270.53. This
serious difference is due to the free work
done for those unable to render any com-
pensation, and the uncollectible bills incur-
red by those who could pay but who resort
to all manner of subterfuge to avoid
payment.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

DR. E. F. SCHROEDER PERFORMING AN EMERGENCY OPERATION ON.
A DOG IN THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL, BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




, '1"M,{i‘ '“3‘MI3‘M1‘9' . .n . I . \ .. . LI H

Dec. 1940

And then, when the eager push-
ers ﬁnished their pleas, Michael
of Heaven passed right over the
crowd, and came to the shaggy
donkey standing all by himself.

“Why do you not ask for
yourself, Baxa; what do you
have to recommend you?”

“Nothing at all,” said he, “I
am the very least of all God’s
creatures, I am not worthy so
glorious a task.” . , -.

Then, in a clear thrilling _;
voice like the sound of a trump- -
et, the Archangel spoke to the
herd of animals: “Baxa is chos-
en. Go, Baxa, wait by the stable
near the Holy Family. You are
meek and gentle, and lowly of
heart; it is you who shall carry
the Holy One on all His jour-
neys.”

And happy little Baxa with
his ears ﬂapping, and his heart
full of peace, clop-clopped away,
muttering funny little laughing
brays, as he prepared to wait p
near by until Mary and Joseph 2”
and the child Jesus were ready
to begin their ﬂight into Egypt.

Humans Sunday, April 20,
1941. Free lecture by Thorn-
ton W. Burgess in the Boston
Public Library, at 3:30 P. M.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

' - ""‘HI'C" '3 "IﬁWWLuiibnﬁ’ .':’a’~‘ﬁl'- no.anJ‘o‘H’rrilvmn'iIrwin-6'34”!-“011'l'l“Widnfdvﬂv'lvﬁm:‘ﬁi'vﬁrl’v‘m-‘vi""'9'{"!“"W‘a‘JFVH-‘PWWWXU

Page 183

  
    

MERRY, MERRY CHRISTMAS, EVERYBODY!

 

The Seeing-Eye
NANCY TELFAIR

A pair of eyes; that’s all. The wagging tail,

The furry body, keen attentive ears

Are but reminders of his canine trail

From wolf to mentor through a thousand
years.

Who knows his words, *can any understand

How, ceding dogdom, he seems all content

To live beneath the gesture of one hand,

Accept its gifts as his emolument?

A pair of eyes to see where dangers spread,

To lead the helpless through the thorough-
fare,

To sleep tied close to his blind master’s bed,

To sense the slightest storm upon the air:

What great reward awaits the sacriﬁce—

Himself forgot——to be the blind man’s eyes?

A Soldier’s Dog
RAN TERSEN

AR often brings out the worst in a

man or a nation. Yet, almost ob-
scured in the swiftly-moving news of a
world in conﬂict, there comes the rare story
of man’s devotion to his animal friends
that seems to justify our deep-seated faith
in human nature.

Just such a story was revealed in a letter
written by Driver J. Stuart of the Royal
Army Service Corps when he made an in-
quiry about a dog that he had brought from
continental Europe during those hectic days
when the British forces were being hastily
evacuated from Dunkirk.

Here is part of Driver Stuart’s letter to
the Blue Cross Kennels, Blackheath, Eng—
land: “I am writing on behalf of the dog

I have brought back from France with me.
I was in Arras and have had him eight
months. I saved him from a bad accident,
and have been more than repaid by his de-
votion. He is a black Malignoir, a Belgian
police dog similar to an Alsatian, but not
quite as big. He has kept guard in the
woods, and was instrumental in the capture
of four parachutists who were dropped near
our transport lines. I have had him on my
lorry and together we covered more than
11,000 miles from the Maginot Line to
Dieppe and as far south as Paris, Nantes
and Brest. After Dunkirk, we arrived in
England at Plymouth, and there he was
taken away from me in a police van by the
customs to go into quarantine.

“I am devoted to him, but of course could
not insist on accompanying him, as I am
only in the ranks. I should like you to ﬁnd
out where he is, if you can. It will be a
struggle to pay his fees, but I would sooner
borrow than be parted from him after all
that we have been through together.”

Since he wrote that letter, Driver Stuart
has heard that his dog is well and that it
will be cared for by the British authorities,
free of all cost, until the Malignoir can be
restored to him.

The llama, a South American relative of
the camel, is one animal which it is most
unwise to try to overwork as the llama takes
matters into its own hand. If by chance one
should happen to tire while being ridden,
the animal may abruptly turn its head and
spit into the face of the rider. Unpleasant
though this act may appear, it does seem a
somewhat just punishment for one low
enough to overwork a beast of burden.

The ears of an African elephant may
measure up to nine feet or more across.

Dogs on Parade
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

WALK along the streets or in the

parks of any large city in early morn-
ing or late evening is always a pleasing
sight to dog lovers. For it is at this time
of morning, or evening, that one may see
many different breeds of dog, out walking
with their masters.

One can see dogs whose ancestors can be
traced to various foreign countries. Re-
cently, while walking with my own dog I
observed the following breeds of dog within
the short time of one hour:

First, there was a small girl who walked
proudly with her English bulldog and well
she may, for her breed of dog is the symbol
of the ﬁghting spirit of the British Empire.
Then there was the Dalmatian who followed
at the footsteps of his master, a city ﬁre-
man. This breed of dog, long associated
with ﬁremen as their ofﬁcial pet, has Dal-
matia as its home of origin. Next, stroll-
ing into view, came a Pekingese, off his
leash and holding his head proudly in the
air, probably well knowing that one time
his breed was held in the greatest rev-
erence in China, his place of ancestry. A
Sealyham terrier then took my attention,
and I could not help but wonder if the dog
realized that he was far from the shores
of his original ancestry, which was the ham-
let of Sealy in Wales. Next to pass was a
large Newfoundland seldom seen in cities
but who hails from Newfoundland and who
for years has been the favorite dog of the
Newfoundland ﬁshermen. Last, but not
least, I saw a Kerry blue terrier which,
while scarce in this country, is rapidly gain-
ing in popularity and who claims Ireland
as his land of origin.

‘ '~ ‘ _ . .. . h . g . . M »‘ . . . ' ‘ x > ‘ .. ~ . _ o v ' p“ '.£u._‘:;;?‘\1tiz“ ,‘j!
... nwmnus‘ﬂ-Sﬁz‘FP-Y' asmamasnsmmmswmmmmww.smswswmwg1mammalraszeaeamsswmmm‘9:3h.» his?

t

"I'Iu! ~,,- ~. .‘ .
.ufoiéiodl'JJfIﬁ .W! emu £411..:o'mf.7n-.r;a;,gg ;:-.._‘.:;-‘. Liv-.5? .r. ' ' ,

I!

will?" '4,
{-ofaé“: . ‘

‘3 .
x .,
(4‘.

_ .
x.

. Mar --

:auﬁv." ‘ -

_ 4.; '.

 

 

*W ~ .
.5». '- ‘1‘ ‘3' f -, 5.; a

#55531". 1 . . :1 ~"~"‘:-r-_"o.. .—
3’ .‘nla; 5;; :- 5:

.‘—-~‘?’/“.
5: . -, M

.p « «$3.4 -
@ﬁt am,“ 3"
ﬁw-n";

. ‘ j.
u
0‘. f
5‘

a.
o
. .2?

.
‘~
.
‘2

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 191,0

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. ‘FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
V L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, »Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. I’. C. A.—MRSi
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRs. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres., MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

JULY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF

THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A., COV-

ERING BOSTON, METHUEN, SPRING—

FIELD, PITTSFIELD, ATTLEBORO, WEN-

HAM, HYANNIS, WORCESTER, FITCH-

BURG, NORTHAMPTON, HAVERHILL,
ATHOL, TAUNTON

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,691
Cases investigated ............. 254
Animals examined ............. 4,606
Animals placed in homes ....... 234
Lost animals restored to owners.. 77 ,
Number of prosecutions ......... 4
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ 12
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 20
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,736
Horse auctions attended ........ 13
Stock-yards and Ab'attoirs
Animals inspected ............. 60,200
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ...... . .......... 32

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 814
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,948
Operations ...................... 309

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 203
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 556
Operations ...................... 142

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ................... 97
Totals
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 184,777
Dispensary Cases ............... 464,602
Total .............. 649,379

At the Taunton Branch
The work Of the Taunton Branch of the

‘ Massachusetts S. P. C. A. shows a consid-

erable increase during the past year. A
total Of 1,284 animals were handled, Of
which number 619 were voluntarily brought
to the shelter. Activities for: raising funds
consisted Of a bridge party, food sale, and
annual tag day. There were many dona—
tions. The Society furnished 250 pounds Of
grain to the wild birds during the winter
and Boy Scouts kindly distributed it. Presi-
dent Woodward placed Be Kind tO Ani-
mals posters in all the local schools. Mem-
bership in the Branch now numbers 56,
including nine honorary members.

The twenty-seventh annual Be Kind to
Animals Week will be celebrated April 21
to April 26, 1941, Opening with Humane
Sunday, April 20.

Auxiliaries of Mass. S. P. C. A.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. I’. C. A., 180
Longwood .Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work
Com. First Friday. .

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

 

 

Page 137

You Must Believe It

HY? Because it’s absolutely true.

The letter is from one Of our Wholly
loyal and generous members of many years’
standing. It might almost bear the title,
“A new use for an old Ford car.” Here it
1s:

“On Tuesday, July 2nd, ‘Dick,’ our collie
dog, left alone in the car in Great Barring-
ton, (while the chauffeur went in the shop
to do an errand) jumped out when ﬁre-
crackers went Off and frightened him, and
disappeared. Although we hunted from
dawn to dusk for a week, we could not ﬁnd
him; he was as ‘lost’ as if in the heart Of
Asia!

“We advertised for him and he was re—
ported ‘seen’ from time tO time, (but un-
fortunately never by us) SO I suggested to
my husband to leave our Old Ford car out
in the country Where he had been seen
(something to supply ‘scent.’) We left
bread and water in the car. For four days,
morning and night, we visited that car hop—
ing he would retrace his steps and get the
scent. On the seventh day, in the evening,
my husband and the chauffeur went tO take
the car to another place (where he had been
seen). Imagine their joy, as they ap-
proached the Old Ford, to see Dick sitting
on the front seat Of the car! Imagine the
happy reunion; and isn’t this an amazing
story?

“Dick was thin and dishevelled, had one
or two cuts from barbed wire, and showed
much suffering in his face, weak on his legs
and bark rather weak. He couldn’t have
stood being ‘lost’ much longer but, since
getting home and having light food several
times a day, he is getting entirely normal.
A good bath and combing Of his beautiful
coat are greatly improving his appearance.

“In gratitude for his marvelous restora-
tion to us I am sending to the M. S. P. C. A.
a small contribution for ‘lO-st dogs,’ hoping
it may help some unfortunate.

“Believe me sincerely yours.”

Horses Watered in Boston

Four horse watering stations in Boston
were made available in July by the Mass.
S. P. C. A. During the ﬁrst ten days over
a thousand drinks were served to animals.
Many drivers still regard these oases as in-
dispensable in those sections of the city
which they serve. This relief will be con—
tinued through the hot weather.

Rescue Work in Salem

The Animal Rescue League Of Salem,
Massachusetts, (Miss Anna Fessenden,
President) reports for the year past: 1,136
cats and kittens, 221 dogs and puppies and
12 birds have been humanely and mercifully
put to sleep. Homes were found for quite
a large number, and a number also were
restored to their owners.

Our agent, Mr. F. T. Vickers Of Wenham,
co—Operates wherever possible with this or-
ganization in cases Of cruelty with which
the League cannot deal. We are glad to
co-operate with them in every way possible.

Please remember the Massachusetts 5. P.
C. A., when making your will.

 

 

 




 

 

I

 

Nov. 1940

“Fly Far, Wild Geese”

E. P. ROCKWELL

Fly far, wild geese in wedge of gray, fly
far

Across a continent to some clear lake

Beyond man’s devastating hand and take

Abode on marshy point or hidden bar.

There rear your brood until in youthful
strength

They rise with raucous call to follow one

i/Vho feels again the course so lately done

And pilots on undaunted by its length.

Fly wise, wild geese in wedge of gray, fly
wise

Above the spew of train and factory stack,

And stifling city street where mingled cries

0f human kind fling upward in your track,

Above the waiting hunter’s planned dis-
guise.

Fly wise, wild geese in wedge of gray, fly
wise.

Phoebes’ Nests Today

ROBERT B. PATTISON

T has long been noticed that civilization

changes nesting—sites. Formerly there
were plenty of natural tree-holes for blue-
birds and wrens, now they depend largely
on houses made for them; with the abun-
{dant planting of dwarf spruces the grackles
are now building in the high trees as once
they did. Of all our common birds the nest—
ing-places of the phoebes are very notice-
ably altered.

The old-time wooden bridges are forever
:gone, or going. Cement takes the place of
their previous material and cement is
smooth, too smooth for phoebes’ nests to
grip vertically, and the horizontal beams
no more are available. Phoebes take delight
in building over running water, even though
many nests are built, and will continue to
be built, on cottage beams and barn rafters
when in the open.

Why then would it not be entirely fea-
sible for contractors when erecting modern
bridges for auto use, and there are hun-
dreds of such in our country already, simply
to place a daub of cement where it would
never be seen by the passenger but where
it would easily serve for a grip-point for
the phoebe’s nest? Would it be at all difﬁ-
cult to persuade bridge builders today thus
to provide a suitable nesting-site for these
lovable and useful birds? Much would de—
pend on the personal interest of the builder
in any case.

The need for this provision is evident to
any bird-observer who has looked under
bridges these last few years, hoping to see
a phoebe’s nest but confronted only by a
smooth uninteresting cement wall. A letter
to our bridge contractors would doubtless
be sufﬁcient.

Owners about to construct bridges on
their private estates could very easily see
to it that such a cement daub or a few
wires were placed so as to provide the bird
with such a site and himself with such a
bird-friend on his property.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 165

Where Trumpeter SWans Survive

MARGUERITE HUTCHINSON

 

TRUMPETER SWAN IN

RED ROCK

   

 

 

\\' ‘ z - ‘\7~<‘A ‘~

LAKES

. xx. :.

MIGR ORY

REFUGE, MONTANA

EVERAL swift-ﬂying trumpeter swans

have been sighted at various points in
the northwestern states. This beautiful
species of wild life was believed to have
become extinct.

According to a report of the wild-life
service of the Interior Department, dated
September 22, there are now known to be
about 212 of this waterfowl in the country.

Seventy-eight trumpeter swans have been
counted in Yellowstone National Park, and

128 in the Red Rock Lakes Migratory
Waterfowl Refuge in Montana. Also, three
swans were glimpsed in the National Elk
Refuge in Wyoming, and three in Malheur
Refuge in Oregon.

The trumpeter breeds in the north, but
ﬂies to the interior of the continent in the
autumn. These great, white beauties are
said to ﬂy at the rate of over a hundred
miles an hour.

 

Expert Mimicry
L. E . EUB A N K S

The champion bird impersonator is the
starling. The mocking-bird is louder, more
pompous, and perhaps more original; but
the starling is master of a great number of
imitations, executes them more accurately,
and has a better memory for exact sound.

Observing starlings in their boxes near
his window, one bird-lover avers that al-
most all sounds seem to have registered
themselves in the starling brain. He has
heard reproductions of a hen’s “announce-
ment” after her laying of an egg, the call
of a quail, the song of the wood peewee, the
mew of kittens, and many, many others.

“Some of the more remarkable exhibi-
tions,” he says, “have extended to very
special notes such as the immature chirp
of young robins, as well as the clearer less
throaty notes of the adults. One of the most
interesting renderings was the portion of
a whistled song by some boy, the whistled
notes being delivered with surprising clear—
ness.”

To reproduce the staccato notes of a
woodpecker and the tapping of his beak on
a tree must be high-class mimicry indeed,
and the starling is an adept at this imi-
tation. Even though it may have been
months since a certain sound was heard,
the starling still remembers, as is proved
in his imitation of migratory birds long
after their departure.

A Bird that Hums but

Never Sings

ALETHA M. BONNER

IKE a jewel upon the tilted honey-

suckle horns”—— Thus did Riley, the
American poet, describe an all—American
bird, which all America chooses to call a
“hummer.”

This petite jewel on wings has perma-
nent setting in the ﬂoral diadem of varied
sections of the country, and whether ruby-
throated or black-chinned, whatever its
species, and there are some ﬁve hundred,
the bird is a treasured friend of the human
family; being highly respected for its ser-
vice in ridding ﬂower-gardens, lawns and
parks of insect pests.

Such a statement indicates that, contrary
to the belief of many poetic-minded per-
sons, the diet of the tiny fellow, who seems
ever on the wing, is not limited to “nectar
sipped from the ﬂowers,” but includes the
more substantial insect-viands found in
Nature’s open-air cafeteria.

It must be admitted, however, that the
hummingbird does get some of its vitamins
from the sweets of ﬂowers; and as it dips
its long, slender bill into a deep-cupped
blossom, and with its double—tubed tongue
sips up the delicacies within, whether honey
or bug tid-bits, it unwittingly assists Na—
ture’s economic program of plant fertiliza-
tion, as particles of pollen adhere to Its

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118
“Old Jerry”

STILLMAN J. ELWELL

Another horse must do my work,
Less swift his step will be,

Less proud the arching of his neck,
His heart less true to me!

Another’s neigh will greet my ears
As day is ushered in;

Less glossy black the coat he wears,
Less white the heart within.

Enough of gold will buy a horse
To ﬁll my heart with pride,
But gold can’t buy the friendship

I lost when Jerry died!

A Sea Gull De-Oilery

RAN TERSEN

HEN crews of submarine-Chasers

see an oil patch spread over the
surface of the ocean after the release of a
number of depth charges, they know an-
other U—boat has been put out of action.
But, what of the sea birds in such waters?
Sea gulls attracted by the enormous num-
bers of ﬁsh which come to the surface, stun—
ned or killed by the high explosive detona-
tions, often have their plumage drenched
with the ﬂoating fuel oil from the disabled
undersea craft. Soon, these oil-soaked birds
are helpless derelicts who must drown or
drift shoreward to die.

To care for these oil-drenched sea gulls,
one of the strangest hospitals in the world
is being operated on the Cornish coast of
England near the town of Penzance. Spon-
sored by a white-haired, sixty-ﬁve-year—old
woman, Mrs. Vglesias, and her two daugh—
ters, hundreds of feathered patients are
treated weekly in the crude wooden build-
ings which make up this oddest of war
hospitals.

 

SHEEP GRAZING ON SALISBURY PLAIN,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Since the outbreak of the present war,
the hospital has been ﬁlled to capacity.
Now, every time a U—boat is sunk, ﬁsher-
folk for miles around scour the beaches and
watch at sea for helpless gulls. One morn-
ing over seven hundred birds were picked
up and sent to Mrs. Vglesias for the de-
oiling treatment.

The Faithful Horse

F. SAUNDERS

Forty years ago only a rich man could
own a car. Now the automobile and tractor
have rapidly superseded the gentle and
faithful old horse. Yet, in some sections of
our country, the horse is still man’s most
dependable. servant. Particularly is this
true on out-of-the-way cattle ranches. How
long would a herd of steers stay bunched
if cowboys attempted to ride around them
in automobiles? Only until they heard‘the
ﬁrst explosion of the exhaust, then a wild,
free-for—all stampede would be underway.

Horses are indispensable on logging op—
erations in the northern Maine lumber
camps. They work hard for six days each
week and rest on the seventh, Sunday.

A teamster once remarked that the
horses seemed to know when Sundays came.
When asked to explain his statement, he re—
plied: “On workdays every horse is on his
feet, ready for hay and grain, at four
o’clock each morning. But on a Sunday,
when I feed them later than usual, I’ll
ﬁnd most of them lying down. Anyone who
says horses don’t ﬁgure things out for them-
selves—well, he doesn’t know horses, that’s
all.”

Which to horse-lovers is a pretty sensible
statement.

It is estimated that there are 111 cormo-
rant colonies on islands along the Maine
coast. On Old Man Island alone there are
thought to be 1,000 of these birds.

 

TRAINING GROUND OF BRITISH
ARMY. THIS SCENE IS NEAR AMESBURY

Aug. 191,0
“Nellie”

The Horse Who Sold Herself
A . G R A C E G R A Y

THIS true story was told to me by F. A.
Featherstone, proprietor of an exchange
stable in Nelson, Ontario.

I bought “Nellie” when she was a colt.
I had owned her mother during her best
days and have always considered her one
of the best horses I ever had in my stables.

Nellie proved to have the same character-
istic in traveling as her mother—a certain
proud way of stepping along the road,
looking ﬁrst to one side and then to the
other, an almost nervous expectancy, as
though something was about to leap out of
either ditch at her. Nervous? Not she!
She was simply enjoying herself.

When Nellie was nicely broken into har-
ness a buyer came, requesting a driving
horse for his daughter. This daughter, he
explained, was verging on a nervous break-
down because of a sudden loss of voice
which threatened her career as a singer.
He thought that a new interest such as
driving might help her to regain control
of herself. He wanted a ﬁne appearing
horse and one that was trustworthy.

I showed him Nellie and, having hitched
her to the buggy, we started down the road.
He complained of her manner of travel——
too nervous, too skittish, going from one
side of the road to the other. He couldn’t
trust his daughter to her; her nerves were
in bad trim anyway. Just as we were
ascending a hill we saw a car approaching.
Cars were unusual on the roads in those
days. I saw my prospective buyer wince.
Here is the test, I thought. So I carelessly
let the lines fall beside the whip and began
to light my pipe.

“Watch out there,” he shouted, in a
frenzy. “Don’t you see that car coming?”

“Yes,” I replied calmly. “But I ﬁrst want
to light my pipe.”

His terror was hardly controllable as the
car shot past. But Nellie did not so much
as quiver. Fear was not in her.

“You’d better turn around and drive
back now,” my companion said quietly.

I obeyed without a word. “Guess I’ve
gone one step too far,” was my inward con-
clusion. “Lost a good sale, just trying to
show off.”

But, to my surprise, a few days later the
man returned. This time he had his daugh-
ter with him. He requested me to hitch
Nellie up and let his daughter take a turn
at driving her. After the demonstration he
paid me two hundred and thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for her.

She proved, as I had boasted, an invalu-
able mare. The daughter used to take her
to town on shopping trips. One day when
driving across a busy intersection a child
suddenly darted out from the sidewalk,
slipped, and fell down directly in Nellie’s
path. She was trotting briskly but when she
saw the child she braced her fore feet and
slid until she touched her.

“We resolved then,” the daughter de-
clared to me, “that no one else would ever
own Nellie. By her refusal to step on that
child she won our undying esteem and love.
Nothing would ever persuade us to part
with her.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

Mar. 1940

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
FOR 1940

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents
CHARLES,G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, Gov—
ernor of Massachusetts

His Honor Maurice J. Tobin, Mayor of
Boston

EX-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

EX-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Adams, Edward S., Fall River

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Blaisdell, Albert R, Haverhill

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Southern Pines,
N. C.

Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Converse, Mrs. Costello C., Boston

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Downey, Walter F., Boston

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Freshel, Mrs Curt P., New York City

Friend, Victor A., Melrose

Friend, Mrs. Victor A., Melrose

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Gould, Arthur L., Boston

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston

McAfee, Mildred H., Pres. Wellesley College

Murphy, Rev. William J ., Pres. Boston
College

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Shearer, Miss Mary B., Baltimore, Md.

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Woolley, Mary E., Westport, N. Y.

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ew-officio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM
EDWARD G. FISCHER
JOHN R. MACOMBER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President and
Treasurer, United Shoe Machinery Cor-
poration

Philip Stockton, Chairman of Executive
Committee, First National Bank of
Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana Orcutt Walter M. Kendall

Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan Stanwood K. Bolton
Miss Dorothy Forbes Hon. Channing H. Cox
Charles G. Bancroft Hon. Percival’ P. Baxter
John R. Forgie George F. Booth
William E. Putnam Thornton W. Burgess
John R. Macomber George H. Godbeer
Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn Edward G. Fischer

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.

Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham

Mrs. B. A. Behrend, Beverly Farms

W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England

Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld

Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, Fitchburg

Capt. Fergus MacCunn, London, England

Charles Rowland Johns, London, England

Miss Edith Ward, London, England

Col. Leonard Noble, Henley—on-Thames,
England

Mrs. Ida Young Denault, Longmeadow,
Mass.

Active Life Members

A Friend Cabot, Mrs. Susan

A Friend Chamberlin, Miss Louise N.
A Friend Chase, Miss Alice P.
Abbott, Mrs. Mary L. Cheever, Mrs. Grace J.
Abercrombie, William H. Clark, Miss Elizabeth
Adams, Mrs. Nancy M. Codrington, Mrs. Ethel M.

Allen, Mrs. Linda W.
Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D.
Ames, John S.
Ames, Mrs. William H.
Amos, Miss Virginia A.
Anderson, Johan M.
Andrews, Miss Frances
Virginia
Appleton, Miss Maude E.
Aronson, Harry
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D.
Ayling, Edith Cornish
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C.
Baker, Mrs. Charles M.
Baldwin, Mrs, Anita Crowninshield, B. B.
Bancroft, Hugh, Jr. Cummings, Miss Florence
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H. L.
Bandry, George, M.D. Cummins, Miss Anne M.
Barnard, Miss Mary Alice Cummins, Miss Elizabeth
Bartlett, Miss Bess B.

Conrad, Miss Flora W.
Converse, Mrs. Costello C.
Couch, Franklin Lindley
Countway, Francis A.
Craig, Elizabeth Worthing
Craigin, Mrs. Louise
Crane, Mrs. Francis V.
Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.
Crocker, Mrs. Emmons
Crocker, Emmons
Crocker, Miss Lispenard S.
Crompton & Knowles
Loom 'Works
Cirossman, Mrs. Howard A.

Bartley, Miss Hattie C. Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-
Bates, Ruth B. ence C.

Beals, Mabel E. Curran, Mrs. Maurice
Beardwood, James Curtis, Miss Amy
Beardwood, Mrs. James Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich
Beekman, John V., Jr. Curtis, Miss Clara
Beekman, Mrs. John V.,;Jr.Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic
Behrend, Mrs. B. A. Haines

Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent
Bolles, Mrs. Mary K.
Boston Plate & Window
Glass Co.
Bouve, Mrs. Howard A.
Bray, Miss Ella W.
Brigham, Robert O.
Borsody, Mrs. Louis
Brown, Mrs. Edwin P.
Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick
Burke, Mrs. Florence E.
Burr, Mrs. Herman M.
Burr, I. Tucker

Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.
Cutler, Mrs. Ellott C.
Dane, E. B.

Dane, Mrs. E. B.
Davis. Mrs. Kate K.

Davol, Miss Florence W.

Day, Mrs. A. L.

Day, Cordelia P. “Mem-
orial Life Membership”

DeGogorza, Mme. Emma
Eames -

DeWolf, Charles E.

Dodd, Miss Ethel

 

Page .45

Douglas, Elizabeth
Drooker, Mrs. Minnie
Dumont, Mrs. W. E.
Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.
Ellison, Eben H.
Emerson, Charles H.
Emmerton, Miss
Endicott, Miss Katherine
Endicott, William
Engstrom, Richard
Ernst, Mrs. Harold C.
Esleeck, Mrs. Martha R.
Evans, Owen N.

Ewing, Miss Amanda W.
Farley, Dr. Wm. C.

MacNiven, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mason, A. P., M.D.
Mason, Mrs. Eula C.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. 'Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Mrs. Ethel D.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.
Merrick, Grace L.
Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N.

Fearing, Mrs. George R- Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Fish, MiSS Margaret A- Munsell, Alex E. 0.
Fisher, H. Murdock, William L.

Fiske, Miss Gertrude
Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.
Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.
Forte, H. T.

Foss, Mrs. James 0.

Murray, Mrs. T. Morris
Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris
Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate

Foster, G. Herbert Otis, Mrs. Alfred W.
Fottler, Mrs. Jacob Paine, Mrs. Frank C.
Fowler, G. W. Paine, Richard C.
Fowler, H. P. Paine, Mrs. Richard C.
Fowler, Madeleine H. Parker, Miss Eleanor S.

Fox, Miss Edith M. Parker, William A.
Frothingham, Mrs. Louis Paul, Frank

A. Pearson, Mrs. Bernice A.
Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M. Pease, Mrs, Edith G,
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S. Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr. Peirce, J. Gadget
Gifford, Josiah H. Penniman, Miss Annie B.
Godbeer, George H. Penniman, Miss Ella
Godfrey, Mrs. O. M. Perini, Joseph R.
Graﬂy, Miss Dorothy Pfaﬂ’, Mrs. Charles

Graﬂy, Mrs. Frances Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F. Phillips, Mrs. Charles
Gray, Miss Ellen E. H.

Gray, Roland Pike, Mrs. Frank B.

Greeley, Maude E. Plummer, Mrs. Harriet H.
Greenough, Mrs. Henry V- Porter, Miss Frances R.
Griﬂin, Mrs. Frank D. Powers, Thomas R,
Grinnel, Mrs. Susan 13- Powers, Mrs. Thomas R.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R- Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Grozier, Mrs. E- A- Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Hammond, Samuel Quincy, Mrs. H. P.
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. 13- Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry
Hastings, Miss Claire Rea, Charles S,
Hathaway, MrS- 0- P- Richards, Mrs. Sarah
Hayward, MiSS Elizabeth Richardson, Mrs. Charles
H.

Hemenway, Augustus Riley, Miss Mabel Louise
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus Rivette, Mrs. Josephine P.
Hemenway, Mrs. Myles Roberts, Paul B.
Henderson, Mrs. H. P. Robertson, Mrs. M. W.
Hickey, Mrs. J. G. Robinson, Forrest
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore Robinson, William A., Jr.
Higginson, Francis L. Rockwell, Mrs. C. P.

Higginson, Mrs. Francis Rountree, Mrs. H. H.
L. Rowe, E. J.

Hill, Miss Ella A. Rowe, Mrs. E. J.

Hill, Haven G. Russell, Allen H.

Hitchcock, John Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.

Hooper, Mrs. James R. Sargent, The Misses

Hopkins, Mrs. Susan S.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, William C.
Houston, Ada Bell
Howe, Mrs. Lydia
Howes, Mrs. Ernest
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Huntington, Mrs. Amy

Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.

Scott, Miss Katharine

Schrafft, W. E.

Sears, Miss Eleanora
Randolph

Sears, Mrs. Vernon F.

Sedgwick, Mrs. Lydia C.

Shapleigh, Amelia

Shaw, Samuel

Low Shillito, Mrs. John
Huntington, Mrs. Archer Sias, Mrs. Alice E.

M. Silsbee, Mrs. George S.
Hurlbut, Mrs. B. S. Simpson, Nellie Pennell
Hutchinson, Mrs. Mabel Simmonds, Miss Alice
Ingersoll, W. Fitch Simonds, Otis

Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.
Jacobs, Mrs. F, W_ Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.
Jennéy, Mrs. Edwin C. Sloan, Mrs. E. S.
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F. Smith‘ Mrs. Helen M.
King, Miss Caroline W. Smith, Mrs. Ida A.
Kittredge, Mrs. John SHOW, Miss Louise
Krook, Mrs, Amanda J, Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.

Lahey, Mrs. Frank H. Spring, John C.
Langshaw, Walter H, Storck, Mrs. Maude L.
Lawrence. John S. Storer, Mrs. R- H.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza Storrow, Mrs. James J.,
Leonard, Mrs. Charles H. Jr.

Stratton, Mrs. W. J.
Sumner, Mrs. Charles. P.
Sweet, Mrs. H. E.
Sweet, Mrs. J. L.
Symmes, Mrs. Henry W.
Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps
Thayer, Mrs. E. R.
Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.

Loomis, Sara C.
Lord, Elizabeth F.
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Low, Mrs. Seth F.

Lyman, Miss Mabel
Lynch, Efﬁe M.
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 90

PEACE ON EARTH,

.0

. ‘KINDNESS, JUSTICE o I
. \ AND MERCY TO
‘; EVERY LIVING
\ CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY&STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

*PHILIP STOCKTON, Chairman of Executive Committee,
First National Bank of Boston
* Deceased

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra.........,.............India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe. ......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR APRIL, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 936

Number of addresses made, 310
Number of persons in audiences, 47,297

Special Gifts Needed

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a

trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

News from Colombia

ROM E. J. H. Escobar, our foreign rep-
resentative in Colombia, and secretary
of the Sociedad Protectora de Animales de
Cali, comes this account of recent activities:

I am glad to report that the use of horses
in bull—ﬁghts has been discontinued in this
locality where bull-ﬁghting enjoys consider—
able popularity on Sundays. As you know,
many a horse is killed by the bull in the
arena; but this atrocity will not happen
again in Cali, thanks to my repeated re-
quests to the impresarios and intervention
through several governmental enterprises.

After considerable effort I ﬁnally ob-
tained a place of rest for old horses where
they receive veterinary assistance and
proper food. I have distributed throughout
the schools much of the material concerning
the Boston Society which you kindly sent
me in Spanish, and I hope to receive more
in order to intensify my campaign. As soon
as I can raise the money, I will order the
animal ﬁlms from your Society.

The following is a resumé of my activi—
ties during the months of February and
March, 1940:

Persons ﬁned for cruelty to animals . . 34
Boys from whom sling-shots have been
conﬁscated ..................... 22
Conferences on humane education . . . . 15
Horses withdrawn from service and
sent to the rest place ............ 38
Dogs placed in homes ............... 38
Animals humanely sacriﬁced ........ 24

One Day’s Work at Fez

Tuesday, March 19th. 8 A.M. Usual work.
Men treating some animals sick with mange.
1 RM. French policeman on duty at Mellah
(Jew quarter) sent one horse seriously
wounded on knees. Owner sent Police Dept,
and Pacha for ﬁne. 4 RM. Visit of Mr.
Combettes, president of the Chamber of
Commerce, with my friend Capt. Faroul,
Director of Docks Silos. The Pacha and
Cdt. Coget, Commissaire du Gouvernement,
sent a leather-bottle (skin) of oil, about
25 litres, refused as being too bad for hu—
man consumption, but good for medicine.
Men cleaning whole grounds. Since Monday
gardeners working on new land. Animals
in Hospital: 60.

Sunday, 31873. Animals in Hospital: 54.

Outpatients treated in March: 88 horses,
72 mules, 24 donkeys, 1 dog, 1 cat. Total,
186. G. DELON, Superintendent

 

HAULING DRY PEAT IN A MOUNTAIN
VILLAGE OF IRELAND

June,1940

War on Cats and Crows

VERNE F. RYLAND

HE cats and crows of Kansas have
Tbeen given an ultimatum by the game
commissioner of the state. In spite of pro-
tests by various humane societies, May 1
marked the day designated by the commis-
sioner to open ﬁre.

Already the sportsmen in twenty-ﬁve
counties have organized for the drive which
will extend through the summer to October
1, in an effort to wipe out the cats and the
crows and secure the prize for the most
points made by each county. Each cat will
be equal to ﬁve crows in the commissioner’s
score book, and the prize will be two hun-
dred quail or pheasant to be distributed in
the county whose sportsmen can extermin-
ate the greatest number of these “predatory
pests.”

The poor crow has a small value on the
books, and not being domesticated, will be
blasted by everyone with a gun. The com-
missioner says that tame domestic house
cats are exempt, however, and the sports-
men will kill only the “wild” cats who roam
the ﬁeld.

According to the estimate, in some count-
ies there are “as many as ten wild cats to
a quarter section” (160 acres).

It is doubtful if the average man with a
gun can distinguish a “wild” cat from a
“tame” eat. And, cats being as they are,
unable to speak or to defend themselves,
will probably be, like the crow, the target
for the guns of the men who are in the
contest—whether they are pets, or as the
commissioner puts it, “predatory pests.”

EDITOR’S NOTE:——Since we accepted the
foregoing article Mr. Ryland has sent us
the following, which we are very happy to
publish:

Cat Lovers Win the Day

When the Kansas State Fish and Game
Department declared war on “wild” cats
and crows in the state, they reckoned with-
out the public.

Since the ﬁrst notice that the war was to
begin on the ﬁrst day of May, thousands of
letters have been sent to the commission
and to newspapers in the state, urging that
this program be dropped completely, and at
once.

Organizations, farm groups, and the
farmers themselves made statements that
they would not support any such a drive
and many farmers who had previously
allowed hunting on their farms notiﬁed the
public that the day the cat war started
their farms would be posted.

The commission has explained that
through the misunderstanding of the people,
the program of killing cats will be deﬁ—
nitely dropped, and: that no harm was ever
intended to pet cats at any time.

It is unfortunate that there are cats run-
ning wild that prey on bird life, but it
would seem that the public has acted wisely
and efﬁciently to put a stop to a movement
that would endanger every pet cat that
might be so unfortunate as to run afoul
of a sportsman’s gun. In the sights of a
riﬂe the pet cat looks exactly like his wilder
brother, and he is no more bullet proof than
the culprit. If the bird-killing cat is to be
apprehended, the cat owner is the one to
take the step in that direction.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




.y. x.

J “a
:’ .v-

*3“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23.31 «-
, .

_ . . . .. l . '.
www‘ vs- ‘. . j ‘.. “,g .
Q“, .V, . ,. _

x,

.r‘, .1 ,
.
... .

_-_ 13mg... .‘n
- '..’
,.

 

 

. ' A _ ‘
“an"?u’ﬁ—r" "‘.1IM'.'-"“

'r-‘vwr 7’ ‘

Page 116

Tragedy in the Wood

ANNE ABBOT DOVER

Staining the snow’s white purity

With blots of red, it huddled lay.
W'hoever shot at it was moved

But by a wanton urge to slay;

The fact that he had left it there

Proves clearly that he had no wish

(Who so profaned the peaceful path)

For rabbit as a supper dish.

He brought it down in sport’s good name,
A mere half foot from sheltering cover—
I’m very sure that such a man

I’d never choose for friend or lover.

The Bear Lacked a Flute

WESLEY MELZ IAN

BEAR that stalked a sheep came
A nightly just to see the lambs cavort
and play! Smacks a little of a “Peter
Pan” or an “Alice in Wonderland” tale.
But it actually happened in the Sierra
foothills in California. And the bear was a
grizzly at that.

James Crandall (which wasn’t his real
name) was a sheep man, or wool raiser,
who ran numerous ﬂocks on the grass-
covered hills just below the giant, timbered
slopes of the Sierras.

One spring Crandall received word from
one of his herders that a huge grizzly was
making frequent visits to that particular
sheep camp. N 0 further details or explana-
tions were given in the report, so Crandall
supposed, naturally, that the bear’s object
was mutton—mutton being to bears what
fried chicken is to the average man. There-
fore, on his next trip with supplies for that
camp, he took along his big game riﬂe.

It was night when he, on horseback,
neared the camp. But a bright, full moon
was shining, lighting up the rangeland.
Within a hundred yards or so of the pole
corral, into which the sheep were herded
each night, Crandall suddenly discovered,
that he and Mr. Grizzly were making their
visits simultaneously. From the direction
of the mountains came the huge, shambling
ﬁgure of the bear.

Crandall immediately dismounted, tied
his horse to a clump of brush, and started
for the corral, which was the focal point of
their respective, right-angle courses. The
bear, however, got to the corral ﬁrst and
climbed nimbly over the fence. Crandall,
sneaking up, found the beast sitting on its
haunches in the center of the enclosure.

Fear of their natural enemy caused the
terriﬁed sheep to crowd trembling against
the pole fence, leaving a somewhat circu-
lar patch of considerable size to the grizzly
and the lambs.

The lambs, not knowing enough to fear
the intruder, busied themselves by skipping,
playing and chasing about in a moonlight
patch between the sheep and the bear, while
the bear continued to keep his position,
turning his head this way and that, and
watching very intently all the movements
of the gleeful lambs.

Having seen this much, and fully believ—
ing that the bear meant soon to take a
sheep away with him, Crandall raised his
riﬂe, took careful aim, and—snap went the
hammer. This alarmed the bear and, see-
ing the man, he loped to the fence, rather

. .»':....,Ivi,.“,.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

IN FOREST PARK, SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
By Mrs. Fannie P. Smith,

Aug. 1940

 

Springﬁeld, Mass.

Winner of third prize (See Opposite page)

 

leisurely, or so it seemed, jumped itsthree-
foot height, and took to the mountains
again, disappearing almost instantly in the
shadows of a draw.

On examining into the queer action of
his riﬂe, Crandall found that in his excite—
ment at ﬁnding the bear so soon he had
forgotten to chamber a cartridge. It was
now too late to chase after the bear, so he
went on; to the camp shack where he found
his herder busy preparing supper. The
herder, apparently, was unaware of the
bear’s visit, or so it seemed until Crandall
mentioned the fact. Then his statement
startled the sheep owner.

“Oh,” said he, “I saw him comin’, but I
didn’t see you. That grizzly don’t do nothin’
to the sheep. He’s never hurt one yet. He
only comes to see the little ones play. He
comes nigh unto every night, and some—
times twice the night.”

The herder later informed Crandall that
the bear continued these visits to the ﬂock
for almost a month afterwards.

A Bit about Turtles

GLADYS JORDAN

F our true turtles there are three com-
mon species, though there are over
four hundred that belong to the Chelonia
order, or toothless reptiles. The hawkbill,
the green and the loggerhead are well
known. They have tough, leathery skins, or
plates, as they are usually called, which is
really a horny shell or series of shells.
The hawkbill turtle has thirteen plates of
shell, the central ones triangular, six or
seven inches wide and weighing eight
pounds or more. Instead of the plates being
joined together by their edges, so as to
make one piece of shell, they are thinned
off at the posterior margins and overlap
each other, like the shingles on a roof.
From these plates the most beautiful tor-
toise shell is made and is used for decora-

tive purposes all over the world.

In earlier days many a shipwrecked crew
found life-saving sustenance in turtle meat
and turtle soup and large quantities of tur-
tles were carried on sailing ships.

Turtles live to be very old and attain
great size. One captured and taken to Eng-
land weighed 560 pounds and its shell
measured ﬁfty—ﬁve inches in length. An-
other, sold in London, weighed 870 pounds.

Our land turtle is usually herbivorous.
His neck is retractile, often drawing back
into his shell until he seems to have no
neck at all. His shell is not convex like
that of his brother who lives in the water.
Instead it is ﬂattened and it is only partly
ossiﬁed. But all turtles have the tough,
leathery skin. And their twisted legs and
club-shaped feet are what probably gave
them their name, for tortoise comes from
the French word, “tortis,” which means
twisted.

The terrapin is a fresh water tortoise
common along the Atlantic coast. It is sel-
dom more than six or seven inches in length
of shell. Unlike others it is bright and va—
ried in color. On the land it is slow in motion
but once in the water it moves with surpris-
ing swiftness, and woe be unto the tiny ﬁsh
or frog that comes into its path when it is
hungry.

The snapping turtles have long necks
that dart out like a ﬂash and withdraw just
as quickly and often their prey disappears
with it.

Dull, awkward and with slow-hitching
gait, the mud turtle makes his way across
the ﬂats, but here again Nature hides its
beauty beneath a drab shell. For these same
creatures have given much of beauty and
of food to mankind and in return mankind
should be considerate of them.

The twenty-seventh annual Be Kind to
Animals Week will be celebrated April 21

to April 26, 1941, Opening with Humane
Sunday, April 20.

 




 

   
   
 
 
 

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
Send for free Nema booklet No. 652
Wnle to Animal Industry Dept , Desk N-S8-H
PARKE, DAVIS & 00.. DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davrs Products

wt

* Free Booklet

 

 

 

NEW BOUND VOLUME OF
“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”

Including the twelve numbers of
1939. 192 pages—150 illustrations.
Postpaid, One Dollar.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Irritation quickly soothed, healing

AM
h 230k!)
promoted by use of mildly medicated 13°“ mp“

w
\ a (—40.4 n. v“
\Wsuumtc ”9
w

turltun _* was:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
ﬁlmmakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

l-lumane Literature and Band of Mercy SUppIies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold—face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound
volume, each, .......‘ ................. .75

Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in
the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 X 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ..$0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ..................... .30
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50

About the Dog

66 ll

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card..$1.00 per 100
The Dog~—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the C‘hained Dog Says ............ .50 ” “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 " “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free

Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three
girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. $2.00 per 100

Humane 1351123565Lesiiétsliiés'."1'5'53'2 .50 ~ ..
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................... .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 7'5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley . .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Grippred in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 31.004 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 »_“ “

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm . 1
Animals ............................... .50 “ “

A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” 30 “ “

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. ................................. $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Ediwation, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................... 10 cts each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 . ........................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 49 pp. For first and second

grades ............................... each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. cloth, .35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00

The B—K~T—A——~C‘lub, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of F‘ur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 10. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ '2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach it ..................... .50 ” “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercie-s .50 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ............
Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—~white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy . 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ..........
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy

.50 (O 6‘
.30 It It

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,18

0 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Most P0pular Humane Films for Rent or Sale

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem of that title

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and its Animal Hospital and Rest Farm

Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Low rentals for schools, churches,
Address, SECRETARY, 180 Longwood

 

and

for Horses, two reels

 

 

Humane Societies and other organizations.
Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 188

test against the chase: ~

“. . . Detested sport.
That owes its pleasures to another’s pain;
That feeds upon the sobs and dying shrieks
Of harmless nature, dumb, but yet endued
l/Vith eloquence, that agonies inspire
Of silent tears and heart—distending sighs?”

Cruelties- of the chase. Cruelties of gam—
ing. The more negative cruelties, as of
neglect, do not escape our poet’s pen. “On
a Goldﬁnch, Starved to Death in His Cage”
is a veritable sermon in verse:

“Time was when I was free as air,

The thistle’s downy seed my fare,
'My drink the morning dew;

I perch’d at will on every spray,

Il/Iy form genteel, my plumage gai,
My strains forever new.

“But gaudy plumage, sprightly strain,
And form genteel were all in vain,
And of a transient date;
For, caught and caged, and starved to
death,
In dying sighs my little breath
Soon pass’d the wiry grate.

“Thanks, gentle swain, for all my woes,
And than/ts for this eﬂectual close
And cure of every ill!
JI/I ore cruelty could none express,-
And I, if you had shown me less,
Had been your prisoner still.”

Cowper has phrased his own apologia for
his championship of animals’ rights to hu-
mane care and affection:

“All the notice that we lords of the
creation vouchsafe to bestow on the crea-
tures is generally to abuse them; it is well,
therefore, that here and there a man should
be found a little womanish, or perhaps a
little childish, in this matter, who will
make some amends . . .”

We may not care to call kindness “wom-.
anish” or “childish.” Rather we praise
Cowper for the rugged quality of his ten-
derness that impelled him to fend for his
friends.

Why Slaughter Porcupines?

MORLEY COOPER

OT far from my camp in the Modod

Forest (California) is the camp of two
state predatory game hunters. With rifle
and strychnine, these men are rapidly wip-
ing out the last of the porcupines in this
forest. At latest count the hunters had
1,200 porc snouts in their collection to pre-
sent to the state for payment, at the rate
of ﬁfty cents a snout.

The authorities have condemned the por-
cupine to extermination because, in winter,
he eats the tender bark at the tip of the
pine tree, and occasionally thus kills this
tip by encircling its bark.

Because it is easy to slaughter the porcu-
pine, our forestry department has decreed
its extermination, but accomplishes little in
controlling the larvae of the bark beetle
which, each year, completely destroys hun-
dreds of century-old redwoods in these same
forests.

In Canada the porcupine is wisely pro-
tected. In the deep snows of wintertime it
is often the only meat available for the
trapper, and no Canadian woodsman will
ever needlessly kill a porc.

The porcupine has the most perfect na-

OUR’ DUMB

 

PET PORCUPINE REACHING FOR AN
APPLE. NOTE THE BELT AROUND
HER MIDDLE

tural defensive equipment of any animal in
the forest, unless it be the skunk. (I once
saw a skunk and a porcupine meet in mid-
stream, on a log over a creek. The pore fell
off, whether through shock or intention, I
do not know. But the porc has no protec-
tion against a human being.

The porcupine makes a ﬁne pet, if only
you willtake the trouble to tame and train
him. He should never be conﬁned in a cage.
By means of a dog collar secured around
his chest just back of the forelegs, he should
be tethered by a swivelled chain to a shaded
tree-like stake, built in such a manner that
it gives him a perch to sit on. In this fash—

ion a porcupine. may be healthfully kept in

captivity for years. He sleeps much of the
time during daylight hours, is fed well at
night, and gets his exercise by ambling
about his roost. He is clean, odorless, and
quiet, and makes an excellent pet in the
backyard of a city home. He will not bite
or claw anyone.

I feed my pores on almonds, apples, car-
rots and green stuffs—a much better diet
than they get in their free state. They are
greedy, and get more genuine enjoyment
out of good food than any animal I know.

As pets, porcupines become thoroughly
tame and never raise their quills when you
approach them. They do a funny little dance
on their hind legs, at the end of their chain,
and when feeding time nears they start
singing a plaintive little song that sounds
exactly like the cooing of an infant. They
may be stroked and petted without danger
of being stuck by a quill—providing only
that you remember to stroke them always
from north to south.

With the rapid disappearance of so much
of the small wild life from our forests, it
seems a shame that our forestry depart-
ments should authorize the extermination of
this ﬁne little animal.

ANIMALS

Dec. 191,0

“Tramp”

C. H. HUEY

RAMP,” a gay, young kitten, white

with black spots, is the pet of a group
of men who work in a large warehouse near
the A. B. & C. Railway tracks in Waycross,
Georgia. It might one time have been called
the “ugly duckling” of the eat world.

One day the workmen noticed a thin,
scrawny, little kitten perched on top of one
of the barrels under the long shed adjoin-
ing the building. At ﬁrst they paid little
attention to the kitten, thinking that some-
body had thrown it out there to be rid of
it and it would die or crawl away. The
grown cats that had the run of the build-
ing would not allow it to come inside. So
day after day it perched upon the barrels,
looking in a wistful, friendly manner at
the men. No one knew how it lived except,
perchance, it might pick up an occasional
scrap of food.

Finally, one of the workmen said, “That
kitten has courage. It might become very
useful around here to keep the rats away——
I’m going to bring it food.” Soon other men
noticed it, too, and begun to pet and feed it.
The kitten responded to this kind treatment
in a wonderful manner. Its coat of fur be-
came beautiful and glossy. It added weight.
One day it ventured inside the building.
The grown cats resented this, but each day
the kitten ventured in and by sheer per-
sistence and courage gained the freedom to
go where it pleased.

Tramp learned the name the men gave
him and seemed to like it. One day a large
rat ran from under a barrel. The kitten
grabbed it. The rat was too strong for the
little fellow and bit it but the kitten swung
upon the rat’s back and held on, riding,
across the street before it was shaken off.
The men saw this performance and now
Tramp is a hero. Lots of people have
wanted to carry it home with them, but
the busy workmen take time to rub its
glossy coat and feed it. Nothing could in—
duce them to part with Tramp—the young
hero of the warehouse by the railway
tracks.

Faithful Dog

CORWIN ROBBIE

VETERAN Oregon sheepherder is re
Acovering from a serious operation. His
name is Frank Pullen and he was recently
stricken ill while watching his ﬂock in a
desert section near Vale, Oregon. Pullen
was alone, miles from any human being;
only the ﬂock of sheep and his intelligent
and faithful friend, his dog, “Bud,” were
near.

So ill was Pullen that he was unable to
move out of camp, and he feared for his
life. He called Bud to him, tied a note to
his collar and instructed him to go home.
The six—year-old dog trotted off, arriving
about three hours later at a ranch, 18
miles distant. When medical aid reached
the sheepherder he was found to be in
a critical condition as the result of an in-
fected, strangulated hernia.

Man’s best friend, a dog, was credited
with saving Pullen’s life. Such a deed by
one of our dumb animals should not go un-
rewarded, and I don’t think it will.

 




 

 

 

 

 

AUGUST 1940
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS E7 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 




 

 

—

,. -.-.'
r’ﬂ‘i. “‘5 -_a

 

e" ‘53. .

v .

f
.- ‘m'
_. ~ ‘ -\—,-«

‘_ 3' ‘T- 1
.

“‘- «.r‘
_-g 3. ~}-v

A’L-
. .

y‘“_:~. J‘s-

 

..

3'.
‘>
El

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 190
(1112 lama: nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and forty new Bands of
Mercy were organized during October. Of
these, 133 were in Rhode Island, 130 in
North Carolina, 114 in Massachusetts, 110
in Maine, 61 in Pennsylvania, 57 in Florida,
40 in Illinois, 36 in Georgia, 30 in Vermont,
19’ in Virginia, ﬁve in District of Columbia,
two each in Nebraska and Ohio, and one in
Michigan.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 253,395.

“Pete,” the Rabbit

MARGARET HALL

ETE” thinks that shoestrings were

meant to be untied. She has discovered
that a good, ﬁrm tug on an unsuspecting
shoestring is one of the surest methods of
attracting attention—and Pete loves atten-
tion. If the unlucky victim pulls away and
says “Stop that!”, that makes a still better
game of it. Pete’s middle name might well
be Persistence.

Pete is a large white rabbit with ruby
eyes and pretty pink ears, and she has lived
all the four-and-a-half years of her life
in a New York City apartment. She is
happy and healthy, and apparently her life
with only human adults for companions is
completely satisfactory. It’s a mutual feel—
ing, for her mistress thinks she’s pretty
satisfactory, too.

Pete’s only animal acquaintances have
been cats. One in particular, as black as she
is white, is an old pal of whom she is very
fond. Each time they meet they pick up
their friendship where they left off and
seem genuinely glad to see each other
again. But other cats are either afraid of
Pete or frankly puzzled. It’s the cat, not

 

INVITED TO DINNER, THE CAT CAN’T DECIDE
WHETHER TO EAT OR WATCH THE RABBIT.

BUT NOTHING CAN DISTURB “PETE”
CARROT’S IN SIGHT

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 191,0

 

 

 

 

the rabbit, who retires under the sofa to
peer out timidly at that strange white thing
who takes up her favorite position in the
center of the room with a great show of
self—conﬁdence after a few disappointing
attempts at friendliness.

Children seem to inspire a special sort of
patience. Pete lets them poke her thick fur
or pull her long ears with an astonishing
degree of tolerance. She is thoroughly able
to take care of herself, however, for when
the going gets too rough she disappears into
a remote and inaccessible corner or hops
into her cage-like pen which she regards as
her own special home. Her interest in vari-
ous adults is measured by the amount of
attention she receives from them. She
adores having her head and ears stroked
and anyone can buy her affection by a
judicious amount of petting.

Pete has been raised on oats, rabbit pel-
lets, a mixed seed bought in a pet shop, and
green leafy vegetables. She drinks milk,
which she prefers to water. As a baby
bunny she was allowed to have liquids only
with the dry food, never with the greens.
Now she pretty much regulates her own
diet. A small amount of dry food and a
dish of milk are always available, and she
is given a big handful of green vegetables
morning and night, usually the
left-overs from the family’s sal-
ads. Carrot tops are her favor-
ite, with parsley, escarolle, chic—
ory, watercress and celery next
in importance. On occasion she
has the outside leaves of lettuce,
spinach, cabbage, romaine, broc-
coli, an occasional carrot, a
piece of apple. She likes whole
wheat bread, cookies, crackers
and various dry cereals, such as
corn ﬂakes.

House-breaking a r a b b i t
starts off with the battle already
half won because of two inborn
traits of rabbit character—a
natural instinct for cleanliness
and a one—track mind that never
permits an idea to be dislodged
once it is ﬁrmly ﬁxed. From her
very earliest babyhood days

 

Pete showed a strong inclination to keep
her bathroom, dining-room and bedroom
completely separated. All that remained
was to make her idea of “places” coincide
with an adult’s notions of where those
“places” should be. She showed an early
tendency to return always to one favorite
corner; so for the time being we “capital-
ized” so to speak on that idea by placing
newspapers there and encouraging the habit
to form. Then by careful process of barri—
cading that favorite corner and showing
her patiently at intervals that the news-
papers had been transferred to a corner of
the bathroom, she soon got the idea. Now,
after four years, the habit is so ﬁrmly ﬁxed
that she can even be taken visiting with
perfect safety.

On the debit side of the ledger, Pete’s
persistent desire to chew anything and
everything is her one fault as an ideal
house pet. Rugs, books, legs of furniture,
and electric wires have to be constantly pro-
tected from her sharp little teeth, and no
amount of chewing substitutes like pieces of
wood, magazines, and old bath towels ever
seem to quite make up for the joy of
snatching a corner off a pillow or book left
carelessly within reach. On the credit side,
Pete is an adaptable, affectionate, enter-
taining pet, easy to care for, never de-
manding, never noisy, but always ready for
attention and companionship.

Boys Save Suffering Dog

According to Humane Ofﬁcer J. W. Hel—
vin of Norfolk, Virginia, two small boys are
being hailed as heroes in that city. A very
valuable pointer dog, the property of James
R. Parker, was attacked by a swarm of bees.
Unable to protect itself, the dog suffered
almost one thousand stings.

Two small boys who were passing at the
time, quickly sensed the dog’s plight and
turned a convenient hose on the suffering
animal. The stream of water soon dispersed
the swarm of bees. According to the au—
thorities, had the bees not been scattered,
the valuable pointer would undoubtedly
have been stung to death.

MARGUERITE HUTCHINSON

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 92
Be Kind to Animals Week

(Continued from page 86)

in the schools. In addition several thou—
sand pieces of humane literature, including
posters, were given out. Mrs. Toomim ad-
dressed 4,000 pupils during the week.
Stories and pictures were published in all
the newspapers. Radio talks included “Edu-
cator Discusses the Purpose of Be Kind to
Animals Week,” Dr. Earl E. Sherff, pro-
fessor of science; “Minister Discusses the
Purpose of Be Kind to Animals Week,”
Rev. Lester R. Sprenger, pastor Normal
Park Methodist Church; and “The Humane
Movement in America,” Geo. A. H. Scott,
secretary of the Illinois Humane Society.
In his endorsement of the Week’s activities,
Governor Horner said: “I think this is a
good thing, and gladly call attention to the
occasion and its worthy purpose.”

Wisconsin Celebrates with Dedication

A full program for Be Kind to Animals
Week marked the celebration by the Wis-
consin Humane Society, Milwaukee, for it
included the dedication ceremonies, on April
14, of the Society’s New Memorial Animal
Shelter. These exercises included an address
on “The Humane Movement—What is it?”
by Sydney H. Coleman, president of the
American Humane Association, and a dedi-
catory address and dedication of Marshall
Hall in memory of the late Miss Elizabeth
G. Marshall, by Phil Grau. The hall, which
is at the left of the entrance to the new
building, is to be used as a lecture, library
and display room for the promotion of hu-
mane education. The capacity of the Shelter
for small animals is eleven ward-s and 135
individual kennels.

On Monday the Society gave 23 John
LeFeber medals for meritorious service to
animal or bird life; on Tuesday it held a
display of photographs received in a con-
test; on Wednesday it held open house for
the Boy and Girl Scouts; on Thursday it
presented three playlets by school children
in the new lecture room; on Friday it un-
veiled memorial plates on kennels in mem—

 

o. ,

MOTHER LOVE ~ JUST ONE DAY OLD

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ory of their honors; and on Saturday the
Society held a health day for pets, w1th
dedication of Free Animal Clinic by Dr. W.
A. Young of the Anti-Cruelty Society,
Chicago.

Governor Heil issued a Proclamation for
Kindness to Animals Week, in which he
urged “all citizens, schools, churches, civic
and fraternal organizations to co-operate
with the Wisconsin Humane Society and
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals in advancing this worthy cause.”

Humane Sunday Stressed in Washington, D.C.

The Animal Protective Association,
Washington, D. C., published a new leaﬂet,
“Bible Lessons of Mercy and Kindness and
Our Kindness Festival,” and distributed it
liberally to church schools. The Associa-
tion’s president, Miss Virginia W. Sargent,
addressed an enthusiastic group of colored
Girl Scouts and their leaders, broadcast
from Station WOL, and sent letters to all
the newspapers. Posters, blotters and leaf-
lets, advertising the Week, were generally
circulated.

Virginia Schools Celebrate

Miss Blanche Finley of the American
Humane Education Society and the Rich-
mond S. P. C. A. gave eleven talks and was
a guest of ﬁve schools which put on special
Be Kind to Animals programs. She placed
more than 200 posters in schools and held
three exhibits of bird and animal pictures.

Editorials in West? Virginia

Two leading editorials, “A Plea for Ani-
mals,” and “Wild Life and Motorists,” ap-
peared in successive issues of the Marion
County Weekly Leader, Fairmont, W. Va.,
whose editor suggested the organization of
an S. P. C. A. in that county. The issue of
April 11 also carried a notice of the Week
in its heading.

South Carolina Officials Co-operate

Governor Maybank and the mayors of
several cities in South Carolina issued Proc-
lamations for Humane Week. Superintend—
ent of Education, J. H. Hope, and many
other school ofﬁcials enthusiastically en-

 

June, 1940

Old Barn

HARRY ELMORE HURD

Rowell stopped before the empty stall,

Hearing a little Morgan’s whinnying call

Across the‘years. Leaning against the door,

He recollected how she pawed the floor

To speed him to the chest of golden grain

With three—quart measure. Ends of broken
chain,

Rusty bits, and bone-dry harness (hung

From wooden pegs) were hands that reached
and swung

Him bodily backward to the good strong

days

When he had climbed the ladders to the
bays

To fork down hay. He would not need to
climb

The mows again, now that tidal time,

Reversing, .swept its silver through the nets

0f ragged cobwebs, unimpeded. Silhouettes

Of facts forgotten . . things forever dear . .

Fell upon his heart as sable clear

As swallow’s wings against the meted light

That slanted through the barn. His throat
grew tight

Wit-h memories. A sudden wind blew over-

Sharp as a whetted scythe: as sweet as
clover.

 

dorsed Humane Day in schools. Harry E.
Daniels, U. S. Farm Demonstration agent,
circularized all his agents in behalf of the
Week. Many broadcasts were heard in the
state, Stations WIS and WCOS of Colum-
bia, as well as those in Charleston, Spar-
tanburg, Greenville, Anderson and Flor-
ence carrying programs. The Logan school
chorus, composed of members of the Band
of Mercy, in Columbia, presented a pro-
gram on WCOS.

Through the efforts of Seymour Carroll,
representing the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, a large amount of press pub-
licity was secured. Conspicuous among
newspapers co-operating was The State,
Columbia. More than 1,500 pupils of the
Booker Washington High school at C0-
lumbia listened to addresses by Mrs. Robert
W. Gibbes, Mr. Carroll and several of the
students. At Trenton an essay contest was
held at Bettis Academy on “Why Teach
Humane Education in the Schools.”

Big Celebration in Georgia

The biggest celebration of Be Kind to
Animals Week that ever took place in
Georgia was that of 1940. Governor Rivers
issued a Proclamation in which he said:
“One of the worst forms of human per-
versity is wanton cruelty to the speechless
creatures of this kingdom. The Georgia
Humane Association, working in conjunc-
tion with the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, is endeavoring to foster a
spirit of human sympathy for all living
creatures. . . . The citizens of Georgia are
requested and urged to observe this period
ﬁttingly with the objective of implanting
further lessons of thoughtfulness toward
the animal kingdom.” In an editorial, “Hu—
mane Week,” in its issue of April 19, the
Atlanta Constitution declared: “Children
should be taught, not only this week but
every week, of the suffering which thought-
lessness or cruelty may bring to pets. They
should be impressed with the horrible im-

 

 

 

 

 




 

July, 1940

The Master of the Famous
Dog, “Wessex”

CORNEL IA SILVERN

N April 10 of the year 1910, the great
© Thomas Hardy wrote a letter to the
secretary of the Humanitarian League, ex—
claiming:

“I am glad to think that the Humani—
tarian League has attained the handsome
age of twenty years—the Animals’ Defence
Department particularly!”

He went on in the same letter to add
the profound remark:

“Few people seem to perceive fully as yet
that the most far-reaching consequence of
the establishment of the common origin of
all species, is ethical; that it logically in-
volved a readjustment of altruistic morals
by enlarging as a necessity of rightness
the application of what has been called ‘The
Golden Rule’ beyond the area of mere man—
kind to that of the whole animal kingdom.”

Thomas Hardy was deeply sensitive to
the sufferings inﬂicted upon a n i m a l s
through man’s injustice, and had an intense
longing to right this wrong. Although he
disliked writing poetry to order, and rarely
did it, when the Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals requested
him to write something to celebrate the
centenary of the society’s establishment,
Hardy set himself to the task with genuine
pleasure in working for so worthy a cause.

He could not bear to see the brow-beaten,
ill-treated horses on the London streets,

SIBERIAN HUSKIES IN NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and at one time jotted this entry about
them into his notebook:

“What was it on the faces of those
horses?——Resignation. Their eyes looked at
me, haunted me. The absoluteness of their
resignation was terrible. When afterwards
I heard their tramp as I lay in bed, the
ghosts of their eyes came in to me, saying,
‘Where is your justice, 0 man and ruler?’ ”

On another occasion, while he was riding
in an omnibus the greasy state of the street
caused the poor horses to slip. The animals
struggled and struggled but could not bring
the omnibus up the hill. A man who was
sitting next to Hardy exclaimed:

“It 'must take all heart and hope out of
them! I shall get out.” He did so. And
Hardy writes of this incident:

“The whole remaining selﬁsh twenty-ﬁve
of us sat on. The horses despairingly got
us up the hill at last. I ought to have taken
off my hat to him and said: ‘Sir, though I
was not stirred by your humane impulse I
will proﬁt by your good example’; and have
followed him. I should like to know that
man!”

The sight of animals being driven to
slaughter always caused Hardy the most in—
tense pain, as he knew well what needless
sufferings were inﬂicted on these poor
beasts, packed densely into cars, unwatered
and uncared for. He drew a pencil sketch
once of the rows of trucks with animals’
heads at every opening, looking out at the
green countryside they were leaving for
scenes of horror in the distant city. When
he died he left a sum of money to each of
two humane societies “to be
applied so far as practicable
to the investigation of the
means by which animals are
conveyed from their houses
to the slaughter-houses with a
view to the lessening of their
sufferings in such transit.”

Hardy’s m o s t cherished
companion was his dog,
“Wessex.” Often the two
would go for long walks, and
when Hardy would rest on
the stile, the dog would sit
near him and survey the
view as his master was doing.

Two days after Christmas,
in 1926, Hardy wrote in his
notebook:

“Our famous dog Wessex
died at 1/2 past 6 in the eve—
ning, thirteen years of age.”

The following evening he
noted that Wessex was bur-
ied, and the night after that
he made the following pitiful
entry: “Wessex sleeps out-
side the house the ﬁrst time
for thirteen years.”

The dog lies in a small
grave in the shrubbery on
the west side of Max Gate,
where several other pets are
buried. On the headstone is
this inscription drawn up by
Hardy, and carved from his
design:

THE
FAMOUS DOG
WESSEX
AUGUST 1913 - 27 DEC. 1926
FAITHFUL. UNFLINCHING

Page 109

 

Minnie Kendall Wiswall

T the request of the Winchester Branch

of the Women’s Auxiliary of The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, we are printing the
picture of the late Minnie Kendall Wiswall.
Among her last deeds of generosity and
good will was a gift of $500 for the con—
tinuance of humane work in Winchester.
For years she had been among the most
loyal members of the Auxiliary, making
and ﬁlling attractive boxes of various arti-
cles which added much to the Auxiliary’s
Shelter Fund; also many surgical dressings
for the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Someone said of her what was said of
Evangeline: “And after she had passed it
was like the ceasing of exquisite music.”

 

One of the sweetest poems in the Thomas.
Hardy Collection is the poem on “Dead
Wessex,” in which the dog speaks to his.
master. Two of its verses are:

“Do you look for me at times,
Wistful ones?

Do you look for me at times
Strained and still?

Do you look for me at times,

When the hour for walking chimes,

On that grassy path that climbs
Up the hill?

“You may hear a jump or trot,
Wistful ones,
You may hear a jump or trot—
Aline, as ’twere—
You may hear a jump or trot
On the stair or path or plot;
But I shall cause it not,
Be not there.”

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 191,0
The Thrush

EVA BURGER

Where I wield my garden hoe

A helpful thrush companions me,
Closely following as I go

Up and down the garden row.
A little bird so free, so free,
Native to the air and tree . . .
A jolly gardening mate is he.

Every step I take with care

Lest upon my mate I tread.
Though I warn him to beware

0f heel or hoe, he does not share
A thought of all my haunting dread;
And a tempting feast is Spread
Where we work my garden bed.

Spider-made Earthquakes
L . E . EUBA N K S

“Spiders cause more earthquakes than
any other agency,” wrote Sir John Milne,
the famous scientist.

Of course the “earthquakes” are not real
ones; we might call them play earthquakes.
Spiders often ﬁnd their way into seismo-
graphs, the delicate instruments that
record every movement of the earth.

Dr. John J. Lynch, the “earthquake man”
at Fordham University, says: “Spiders
have an uncanny fondness for seismo-
graphs. They hide away in some corner of
the machine and’ then, in the dead of night
perhaps, crawl out on the delicate pendu-
lum. This records an artiﬁcial earthquake.
I once took a whole instrument apart to
ﬁnd a spider that I knew was there because
he had been producing these artiﬁcial
’quakes. I could not ﬁnd him, but I acci-
dentally dropped a part of the instrument
—then he scuttled out.”

 

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 87

The Gregarious Cliff Swallow

ALVIN M. PETERSON
Photograph by the Author

soon reaching thirty-eight. Yes, there

were thirty-eight ﬂask-shaped nests,
and all were securely fastened to a. sand-
stone cliﬂ" that projected out over the
Whitewater River in eastern Minnesota.

It was late May, and the cliff swallows
were back from their winter home and busy
building their mud nests. The nests were in
all stages of construction, some a mere
circle of mud pellets, others nearly com-
plete with constricted necks and small,
round entrance holes. Some may have been
lined, or provided with other inner furnish-
ings, though as to this I could not be sure.
Practically all the nests looked dark and
wet, though a few were beginning to dry
out and assume a lighter shade.

There were only a few swallows about
when I stopped to inspect the nests, step-
ping from rock to rock until I reached a
small sandy island almost within arm’s
reach of them. The birds began to scold
and chatter and soon were joined by scores
of others. All seemed greatly alarmed and
excited because an intruder was standing
near the nests. In and out, around and
around, this way, that, they ﬂew, seeming
so alarmed and worried I counted the nests
as quickly as possible and left.

We were back at Whitewater State Park,
Minnesota, a month later. I walked down
the west bank of the Whitewater River on
this occasion until I reached a bend a few
rods below the park area. Here the stream
was sluggish and formed a sizable pool.
Both the shore and bottom were covered
with a thick layer of soft, black mud, and
a perpendicular sandstone cliff rose above
the outer bend of the river.

There were scores of cliff swallows ﬂying

©N E, two, three, four, ﬁve,” I counted,

CURIOUS NESTS OF THE CLIFF SWALLOW

over and about the pool, and, fastened to
the cliff, I found three groups of bottle-
shaped nests. The three groups were only
a few feet apart and, no doubt, were the
nests of one large colony. I counted the
nests twice and learned there were approxi-
mately 108 in the ﬁrst group, 89 in the sec-
ond, and 154 in the third. I say approxi-
mately because it was hard to count them.
Try counting the nests shown on the accom-
panying photograph, and you will ﬁnd that
it is not an easy matter. The photograph
shows most of the nests in one group. There
were more than three hundred and ﬁfty
nests in all, so this colony must have con-
tained something like seven hundred cliff
swallows. What was the population of the
colony later in the summer, when the nests
held young birds? I often have wondered
Since.

The cliff swallow is a small bird about
six inches in length with white forehead
and belly, chestnut throat, and rusty rump.
The birds formerly nested almost entirely
about cliﬂ’s, but now many fasten their
nests to barns and sheds, locating them, as
a rule, beneath the eaves. Little wonder,
they also are known as eave swallows.

Cliff swallows arrive from the south
about the ﬁrst of May and remain with us
until late September. They are among the
most sociable of birds and, though not
gifted of song, they warble happily.

The feeding habits of swallows are inter-
esting and make them highly useful to
man. They feed when on the wing, ﬂying
rapidly and scooping up winged pests with
their wide mouths as they skim along—
beetles, ants, wasps, bees (drones almost
entirely), bugs, ﬂies, and other small crea-
tures.

The United States Department of Agri—
culture examined the contents of 375 cliff-
swallow stomachs and found that more
than 99 per cent of this bird’s food consists
of insects. Beetles constitute about 27 per
cent of the yearly food; ants, bees and
wasps, about 28 per cent; bugs, over 26 per
cent; and ﬂies, nearly 14 per cent. Chinch
bugs, boll weevils and dung beetles are in-
teresting items of the diet. Swallows, as a
general rule, conﬁne themselves to small
winged pests and, consequently, do not take
many butterﬂies, moths, crickets and grass-
hoppers, which are too large for them to
handle, or caterpillars and many other crea-
tures, which cannot ﬂy.

Swallows are gentle, unobtrusive birds
that trust man and like to live near him.
They do much good but no harm. Little
wonder, the late F. E. L. Beal wrote: “It is
doubtful if there is a more useful family of
birds in the world.”

A Toast to the Mayflower

Drink its fragrance! It is the choicest
gift from nature. An everlasting messenger
of cheer and comfort—the symbol of faith,
hope, love—the token of the bond that
makes the whole world kin—this one touch

of nature.
BURLINGHAM SCHURR

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 182

Horses in Winter
CAROL FOSTER

Winter was a sleepy time

For horses on my father’s farm,

A time of dozing, chewing, dreaming,
Warm inside a hay-stuffed barn.

There was time to eat the corn

They’d helped to plant and plow and husk;
Time to drowse and wake again

Warm inside the hay—sweet dusk.

For father said the horses earned

Those months of rest, and they should be
Well fed with hay and warm and dry
Beneath a roof, like you and me.

Our Debt to the Horse

HAT form of life lower than our

own has served humanity as the
horse has served it? He has played bravely
his part on a thousand ﬁelds of battle, fac-
ing war’s appalling horror, and moved to
his task by no hope of its glory. He has
helped build the world’s great cities, their
temples, their palaces, their libraries, their
universities. He has made possible a mil-
lion harvests. He has toiled on the railways
of the nations. He has been a partner in
the rearing of our homes. He has been our
swift messenger in joy and sorrow. He has
carried us through many happy hours of
recreation. He has stood ready to die in our
service when we have asked it.

Well may the great Homer have sung of
the horses famous at the siege of Troy!
Well may Alexander have founded a city in
honor of the charger which bore him safely
from the perilous ﬁeld! Well may Cimon
have reared beside his own an enduring
monument for the ﬂeet-footed mares which
won him the chariot races at the Olympian
games! Well may nations, as Japan has
done, build monuments to the memory of
the horses which have fallen in their wars!

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY in “The Horses of
Homer”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

A Fox’s Food

H. E. WENTWORTH

HE late Capt. G. E. Martin of Danvers,

Mass, was for many years a close ob-
server of the contents of the fox’s stomach,
and proved that the farmer’s chickens and
wild game birds are a very small part of
his daily bill of fare.

Wild rabbits and hares score ﬁrst because
they are usually plentiful and fairly easy
to catch; but there was ample proof that
ﬁeld mice, meadow moles, all kinds of squir-
rels, woodchucks, skunks, horse ﬂesh, snakes
and even the spiny porcupine had been on
his menu. Although the frog was often
found, the Captain never once saw any evi-
dence that the toad had ever appealed to
the fox as food.

Late in the winter, when food becomes
scarce, frozen apple occasionally proved
what Reynard had for his last “eats.” The
strangest contents came from a fox taken
in Ipswich sand dunes. As nearly as could
be estimated, he had caught and swallowed
about 120 grasshoppers. Near-by hills at the
time were infested with these pests, so that
this fox had had no difﬁculty in getting his
ﬁll.

A fox whose habitat was near salt water
added ﬁsh to his diet; also plover and some
water fowl that had probably washed
ashore. In short, Mr. Martin contended that
a hungry fox would eat almost anything
that a cat or dog cares for; also grass-
hoppers.

Twin Mule Colts a Fact

EDNA TRADEWELL

Twin mule colts are considered freaks.
Nevertheless, here they are: “Toots,” the
small sorrel, and “Casper,” the large one of
bay coloring, with their mother, “Roxy,”
big gray mare.

Guests come to see the twins from all
over the country.

These colts were born April 11, 1940, on
the Francis Bates Ranch, Esperanza Dis-
trict, Lancaster, California.

Twin horse colts are a 10,000 to 1 chance
but twin mule colts rarely happen.

 

 

Dec. 191,0

The Donkey’s Christmas Gift

JOHN GATES

NCE upon a time many years ago,

they tell us, a small donkey lived near
the village of Nazareth in Palestine. He
was sturdy and strong and patient, but he
knew that people laughed at his long ears,
his rough shaggy coat and long tufty tail.
So he knew he wasn’t handsome or admired,
although everybody was glad to make use
of him, and pile his back high with bundles
and bales.

He was called “Baxa,” and on that ﬁrst
Christmas night, nearly two thousand years
ago he felt there were strange things hap—
pening on earth and in the sky. N ow, even
if he was very humble and modest, he had
a lot of good“ sense inside his slow dull
brain. That night out on the lonely hillside
he heard queer rustlings and murmurings,
and funny little thrills made his tough hide
crinkle and shiver. He pricked up his ears,
and pushed on towards the sounds, curious
to know why all the dumb creatures of
ﬁeld and wilderness were gathered together
in the dark, and what made the air feel so
strange and exciting. Presently he stood on
the edge of the animal crowd. Nobody spoke
to him or heeded his presence. He was of

.no account, and yet in spite of that he felt

very eager and happy.

Suddenly, as he waited, he heard a sweet,
clear voice that seemed to come from a long
way off, and it charmed him—it was so
lovely and distinct. Then his little heart
began to thump, for it was the Archangel
Michael telling all the dumb animals of God
about the birth of a divine Child in Bethle-
hem, and how they would all serve this
royal King in the future. When he ceased
speaking the dogs and leopards, the oxen
and lions, camels and elephants stood in
silent wonder. Baxa felt so uplifted and
joyful and amazed that he was almost
afraid to breathe. The old dromedary from
Jerusalem was so terribly still Baxa felt he
could hear him think. The lion didn’t switch
his tail a hair’s breadth, and the elephant
kept his trunk as stiff and still as a post.
There was a long hushed silence before the
Angel began to speak again, and said:

“Now this Baby from Heaven born in
Bethlehem must very soon go on the ﬁrst of
three great journeys, and one of you ani-
mals will have the great glory of carrying
him on his travels.”

Baxa glanced at the kingly lion, and the
swift-footed camel, and the stately ele-
phant, and the sure-treading, big-muscled
ox, and wished that he too—rough little
Baxa—had some mighty gift so he could at
least be considered.

“I am the most powerful beast God has
made,” said the elephant with lordly sure-
ness, “I will have to be the one.”

But the lion tossed his tawny head, and
said: “I’m the king of all the animals, I am
the right one to choose.”

And the camel said, “But I’m the swift
ship of the desert, all travelers depend on
me.”

Each in turn told of his greatness, and
made his claim, whilst little Baxa stood
meekly aside to see who would win. His
ears dropped a little sadly, and his tail
hung limp and sorrowful, I’m too homely
and dull to be looked at, he thought gently.

 

7 8;. fr—ﬁb




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 16.4

Woodland Thanksgiving
Prayer
K A D R A M A Y S I

We are Thy quiet folk who haunt the wood
And only ask sufficiency and peace.
Save for defense or food, we shed no blood.
Were we tribunal, war and hate would

cease.

Give us again this year the fruit of tree
And bush and vine which Thou, in love,
hast made.
We ask no more than that the harvest be
For us to reap with hunger’s busy blade.

We are content in our lowly life.
Count it for us, Lord of the Fruit and
Grain,
That bird and beast are innocent of strife
Which mars Thy handiwork with blood
and pain.

An Animal Paradise
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

FRIEND of mine has a large farm in

New York State. Bordering on his
farm are many acres of heavy forest land
which he also owns. On many of the trees
are signs forbidding trespassing and hunt-
ing. My friend has had this property for
many years and claims that there IS more
animal and bird life upon it than anywhere
else in the surrounding neighborhood.

When I inquired from him why wild life
is so abundant on his estate he answered:
“Well, I guess the birds and animals real—
ize that they are safe here with me. You
see I have never harmed nor molested them;
never brought suffering or death to animal
or bird. I never could get any thrill out of
hunting them. They go about minding their
own business and I try to mind mine. Why,
in the real cold winter months they come
right to my door, deer and other animal
life. They’re hungry and the snows have
covered up the food they might otherwise
be able to secure. I feed them; have been
doing it for many years. It costs me a little,
but the pleasure of seeing these animals
about at all seasons more than makes up
for the trouble and expense. The only sea-
son I don’t like up here is the hunting sea-
son. I have to be on the alert most of the
time to prevent hunters from trespassing
on my property. Some of the hunters don’t
seem to be able to read signs, else they
would not set foot on my land.”

Here is a man living in an animal para-
dise with all types of animals to hunt and
yet has never caused death or suffering
to one of them. What a deal of comfort and
satisfaction he must enjoy in protecting so
many of nature’s children!

Circus Trainer
ELEANOR ALLETTA CHAFFEE

With whip and cartridge, short, clipped
word

He keeps the jungle beasts at bay,

While from the benches, feathered, furred,

A horde of savages at play

Shriek their pleasure in a roar

That echoes from the sawdust floor.

w-‘ __ _ WHA,‘

OUR

 

THIS PHOTOGRAPH OF AN OPOSSUM BY LEWIS
MOORE, BURWELL, NEBRASKA, IS USED BY
COURTESY OF N. Y. STATE NATURE ASSOCIA-

TION, ALBANY, N. Y.

DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 1940

why he goes over into a neigh-
boring state each y e a r to
slaughter quail. (They are not
on the game list in Ohio.) Ap-
parently, he sees a difference
between killing for hunger, and
killing for sport.

Posting, apparently, does no
good. We post both our farms,
but hunters continue to run over
our woods and ﬁelds just the
same; and, on my Sunday after-
noon stroll, I saw no evidence of
rabbits or pheasants anywhere.
The wood was signiﬁcantly si-
lent. Moreover, domestic ani—
mals are being maimed and
wounded. Last year, one of our
valuable Jersey cows was shot
in the eye, and..a neighbor lost
three sheep. Robert Fenwick,

rector, was deliberately shot and
critically wounded by one of
three strange hunters whom he
ordered from his property.

We are not selﬁsh. City folks
are invited to ﬁsh, swim, pick
berries and enjoy a picnic din-
ner in the woods, during the
summer and early autumn. But
we have tried to save the timid

 

The Hunting Season Problem
M A Y B A K E R

T has come again—the great, annual

slaughter of the timid creatures of wood
and ﬁeld and stream. And, with it, the
great annual nuisance as well. I say nui-
sance—for the fact cannot be denied—each
year the hunters become more numerous,
more bold and insolent of the farmers’
rights.

No longer is this so-called “sport” lim-
ited to a few days nor to adult men. Even
the fair sex are taking to the ﬁeld, and
school—boys of tender ages of twelve and
fourteen are handling guns, endangering
their own lives, as well as the lives of
others with random shots.

More and more, the Saturday holiday
from shops calls city men to enter the hunt-
ing lists. Ranging the ﬁelds and woods they
slaughter, without mercy, any timid wild
creature that gets within range. Even the
ancient sport of archery has been revived.
A recent issue of an illustrated periodical
shows the picture of a lady (?) holding up
in triumph the mangled form of a little
cotton-tail, with the cruel length of arrow
protruding from the tiny, furry body. An—
other one shows a wood-dove. An item from
a Virginia paper gives the senseless account
of the slaughter of a mother bear and her
two cubs.

One of my neighbors does not like cats.
He informed me, laughing, that he shot
every cat that happened to cross his path,
while hunting. “Most of ’em are strays,
anyhow,” he defended himself. “And they
kill birds.”

When I pointed out that even the best-
cared-for cats like to stroll in the ﬁelds—
and they kill birds only from natural hun-
ger—he only remarked, callously, that they
didn’t get hungry after he met up with
them. And he failed to give a good reason

little animals and birds, pro-
hibiting both hunting and trapping. But
our efforts seem to be in vain. We are won—
dering, in company with hundreds of other
farmers, what, if anything, can be done
about this serious problem.

A Haven of Rest

F. SAUNDERS

Many naturalists have wondered why
some wild ducks ﬂy South for the winter,
while others remain in the North. '

A lover of wild life, who resides in Port—
land, Maine, once stated his views on the
subject.

“I know why Wild ducks stay here all
winter,” he said. “It’s because we offer
them unlimited protection over in the Basin
and even food, when they can’t get it for
themselves. As the guests of Portland, they
know when they are well off.”

Which is pretty close to the truth. Back
Bay Basin, which is entirely within the
city limits, has been a bird sanctuary for
a number of years. Seldom do the Basin
waters freeze completely over. But this
happened, one winter, a few years ago.
Shore ice piled high, and the ducks had no
place to light or ﬁnd food,

It was then that the city oﬂicials under-
took the task of feeding the birds daily.
Until the spring thaws came, large quanti—
ties of grain were distributed for the hun-
gry “guests of Portland.”

Back Bay Basin is encircled by the Bax-
ter Boulevard. And in the later afternoons
of autumn and Winter, many motorists have
paused to witness the thousands of black
ducks that come ﬂying in from the sea and
inland waters, seeking a haven of rest and
safety.

See page 167 for description of the Hu-
mane Calendar for l941——entirely new, and
unusually attractive.

Chardon, Ohio Farm Bureau di-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

 
 
  
   
   

GLORY TO ‘7;
GOD, m
PEACE ON EARTH, a)
KINDNESS, Jusnce a .
AND MERCY TO "
EVERY LIVING

CREATURE.

 
 
  

  
 

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover.
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................ Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobeh ........ Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel,
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Rev.
Rev.

Dr. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JULY, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 975
Number of addresses made, 56
Number of persons in audiences, 11,026

Retired Workers’ Fund

W E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

Checks should be made payable to,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Bumblebee

N interesting story about the bumble-

bee is told in a book recently published
by Thomas Nelson & Sons of England. The
author is Mr. Ray Palmer.

We wonder how many people know that
our clover crops are dependent upon the
bumblebee, it being the only bee with a
tongue long enough to extract the nectar
from the ﬂowers, and so do its fertilizing
work- It is very” diﬁerent from the regular
honeybee. The queen is responsible not only
for the laying of the eggs but for super-
intending the workers in the running of the
home. Mr. Palmer saYs, “Humans might
well emulate the scrupulous cleanliness of
the worker-bees, both in their person and in
their varied tasks as housemaids, nurse-
maids and guardians Of the hearth.”

We are afraid that some Of our Older
readers, brought up in the country, were
guilty of what many a boy did in his
younger days in destroying bumblebees’
nests. The writer of these words remem-
bers well some experiences of that sort
which he had as a lad. Alas, he knew no
better.

Food in Wartime

A book recently published in England, Of
which Sir John Orr and D. Lubbock are the
authors, says, “With sufﬁcient milk, vege-
tables andpotatoes, there need be no mal-
nutrition. With suﬂicient bread, fat (butter
or margarine), potatoes and oatmeal, there
will be no starvation.”

But what about the millions of poor vic—
tims of this pitiless war that cannot get
even bread and potatoes, to say nothing of
milk and fat and vegetables? Are we in
this so far favored land daily grateful for
a small part, even, Of our many blessings
and our freedom from the roar of bombs
dropping over our cities and our homes?
Are we doing what we can to make life
even a little easier for those less blest than
we are?

What a Soldier Thinks of War

A staff correspondent of the Christian
Century sends in the following:

Sergeant Alvin York has at last con-
sented to have a ﬁlm made depicting his
life. But he made the stipulation that it
must be a peace and not a war picture, that
he himself will not re-enact his exploit in
the Argonne, and that the large sum to be
paid for it will go to his new Bible school.
He once refused an offer of $150,000 just
to re-enact the few minutes in which he
captured 132 German soldiers with his
sharpshooting riﬂe, saying, “I don’t want
my children ever to see me do that.” All
together he has turned down Offers of a
half-million to exploit his fame as the most
publicized private soldier in the A. E. F.
He lives on his valley farm on the Wolf
river in Fentress county, Tennessee, makes
many addresses on temperance, peace, and
religion, remains unspoiled by attention,
and keeps his friendliness and good humor.

One out of every twenty-six persons in
the United States has been arrested for an
offense more serious than a trafﬁc violation.

Sept. .1940

Humane Education in England

ESPITE- the terriﬁc handicap of a

nation at war, the Humane Education
Society Of Manchester, England, is carry-
ing on valiantly. From a letter received in
July we quote the following:

Congratulations on excellent articles in
your attractive journal. Myself and col-
leagues deeply appreciate the encouraging
and useful information and delightful pic-
tures. It is very thoughtful of you to send
on a copy each month. I make good use of
each copy in the course of Special talks in
schools, youth centers and adult movements.
Everyone is at once interested when I tell
them of your journal, and the kind, prac-
tical work being done by The American
Humane Education Society. The special
article and illustrated posters re “Be Kind
to Animals Week,” are very good.

Enclosed is a copy of our recent Report
and leaﬂets. We are being kept very busy
in these strenuous and adventurous times.
Applications for help, advice, special litera-
ture and talks, are coming in from all over
Great Britain, and many countries and
Dominions abroad.

We feel conﬁdent that in teaching and
training young people, and old ones too,
their duty and right relationship towards
others, we are doing the best thing possible
to eliminate man-made evils of cruelty,
crime, warfare, selﬁshness and fear.

Our great difﬁculty now is the ﬁnancial
one, the war having caused severe loss to
many of our supporters. However, we go
forward with faith and courage, doing all
we can to help those in need of friendship
and protection.

With every good wish for success in all
you are doing,

Yours sincerely,
ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary

Dog Murder in Germany

Every man, woman and child in England
who has the slightest affection for domestic
animals must have read with digust, horror
and pity the brutal order of Hitler that all
the dogs in Germany are to be killed forth-
with.

The excuse is that they eat food which is
ﬁt for human consumption, but I haVe no
doubt that the carcasses of these poor dogs
will be put to other uses.

It is indeed one of the many foul acts
that these foul people have perpetrated.
That it has become necessary is very clear
evidence that the blockade of Germany by
the Royal Navy has been successful.

GUY COLERIDGE, H.M.S. Wildﬁre
The Animal’s Defender, June, 1940

I will not hurt or kill any living thing
needlessly,
Nor destroy any beautiful thing,
But will strive to save and comfort all
gentle life
And protect all natural beauty.
RUSKIN

Peace is the happy, natural state Of man;
war his corruption, his disgrace.
THOMPSON

 




 

 

 

n. n._ .. .. qr

Oct. 1940

 

 

 

  

L
l
«'5;

.~.-. 2-: . .
is? ~. ‘ - - - - ~
.- -' . , . v.3, -'. .- - -.
u, . .---.-~ ' . I.‘ ~ 5.
a - ’ v.1. . ‘ -. - _.
. . ‘3‘. ‘ -ﬁ-‘ .i . . . . .
- ~ 5 I - ~ 3" "J ‘ ' "I.' *i
- . -,- . u v: ~.. , . ~
. is! l "" ‘ . .. : .‘ . .
-'C.. .. ‘ . . - _-‘ £(_.-.
1‘ . $1.1. . . . .. , _. : --.
_ 4- - ‘- - _.. . . . -, ¢
‘ . . ".3... . ..- " ., ~_.-_ ‘4'. ~ ‘ . m. -

 

“Snowball,” a Friendly Maine Cat

MINA M.

TITUS

HIS is Crystal Young, eight, and “Snowball,” a year—old
cat, owned by Mrs. Freeman Corson, of Madison, Maine.
Snowball is a beautiful Angora with exceptionally long,
soft fur. Her coat is snow-white and her eye winkers and
whiskers are half again as long as the ordinary cat’s. But
there are many unusual things about Snowball. She has double
paws in front on both feet. She is and has been since birth,
stone deaf. But her most noticeable and outstanding char—
acteristic is her eyes. They are blue—not the blue of any
human’s eyes, nor yet the blue seen in a dog or cat having one
blue eye only. They are the exact shade of Heaven’s deep
blue sky on a clear summer’s day—big and round and clear.

This unusual cat will shake hands when asked to, not only
with members of the family with whom she is familiar, but
with total strangers like the little girl in the picture. Being
deaf, she can not hear one ask her to shake hands, but if
touched on the cheek or head gently with a foreﬁnger, she
will raise her huge, double-toed right paw and hold it extended
until one grasps it and shakes.

Snowball’s mother is a cream and white Angora, also with
double paws. She too, will shake hands, jump through the
loop made by clasping one’s hands some distance from the
ground. And as she shakes hands if one asks her for a kiss,
she will lap a lowered cheek with her moist pink tongue.

    
   
 

 

 

lk\\i)L.1L....... - mu. .JL

Pixie Lanterns

JANE SLOAN

When Earth’s emerald green
Gets lost in the dark

The pixies need lanterns
Beﬁtting a lark.

So fireflies flick

Their wee, nimble lights
And weave a gold web

On mid-summer nights.

M g heart as I watch

The golden-meshed trees,
Then dances a rhythm

The pixie decrees.

The Deserted Pet

Black Cat: “I’m skinny and hungry and thirsty and I’ve
watched and waited, both night and day, for my two little
children comrades, who used to pet me and play . . . But now,
the house is empty and they have gone away and there’s a
sign on the window, “For Rent” . . . Will they come back? Or
have they forgotten what pals we used to be? . . I’ll wait
patiently for them to return . . perhaps I was not around
when they called me . . . how could they be so cold and mean
and heartless when they professed love in our play times? . . .
I’ll sleep in the shade, the sun and the rain, and perhaps then
they will come back for me . . . No one attends to me when 1

awaken, to feed me, or to love me . . . If people move all their
furniture, why can’t they take one poor black cat along? . . .
I’m hungry and thirsty and lonely . . . I’ll sit here and wait and

maybe some day, they will come and take me home with them.”

RHEA SHELDON

Hidden Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HN each of the following sentences a bird is hiding. Can
you ﬁnd them all?

1. What is that group of people? If there is a panic on, do
run for the nearest gate.

2. But you must run fast or keep out of the way of the
crowd or they may knock you down.

3. Once my boy, John, in a panic ran every way but the
right way.

4. Finally he and another boy found a gate and both rushed
to get through and got jammed there.

5. When John got home his coat had a new rent in it.

6. His coming roused curiosity as to what had happened.

7. He feels like a hero now that he has had such an excit-
ing adventure.

8. He and his cousin Ross played a duet on the violin
netting a dollar between them.

9. With a special bat Ross scored a home run in the ball
game.

nﬂn

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=3

Page 110

Elna Zﬁanh nf mettg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and ﬁfty-seven new Bands
of Mercy were organized during May. Of
these, 332 were in Rhode Island, 62 in New
York, 59 in Georgia, 44 in Texas, 24 in
Massachusetts, 21 in Florida, 14 in Penn-
sylvania, and one in Nebraska.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 251,122.

Rare White-Tail Squirrel

C. S. BELSCHNER

ANY kinds of squirrels lend animat-

ed fascination to the North Ameri-
can forests, but none equal in beauty and
interest the rare Kaibab squirrel.

This unusual squirrel, distinguished for
its gorgeous plume—like tail and conspicu-
ous ear tufts, is found only in the Kaibab
National Forest, along the north rim of the
Grand Canyon, Arizona.

Few tourists to the north rim of the
Grand Canyon have a chance to see this
rare animal although there are plenty of
them there. He is too elusive. But in the
sunlight or in a breeze his white feathery
tail often betrays his presence. His general
color scheme is dark brownish gray blend-
ing into black around his muzzle, throat,
and from his elbows down on his forepaws.

 

IT TOOK PATIENCE AND LOTS OF
NUTS TO GET THIS CLOSE-UP OF
THE RARE WHITE-TAIL

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1940

 

BOY SCOUT—BAND OF MERCY MEMBERS IN PHILIPPINE LEPER COLONY

 

He is not so bold or trusting as other
squirrels in our forests. He is more cau-
tious, sly, sometimes hiding for an hour or
more among tufts of pine needles at the
end of a limb. He has no taste for pub-
licity.

Ordinarily he is awkward in walking,
but he is a spry little speed demon when
alarmed or in the mood to go places. He
moves in a series of extremely graceful
bounds with that showy white tail in a
graceful curve.

The rangers in the park point out that
the Kaibab squirrel is a clear—cut case of
what isolation and climatic conditions can
bring about in nature. This rare little
animal is conﬁned to an island-like plateau
of spruce, pine and aspen forest about 70
miles long and 40 miles wide. He lives in
a cold snowy area where winter comes
early and stays late, hence his white tail
and brown and black color scheme serve as
a protection for preservation.

Visitors to the park desiring a glimpse—
one would be extremely fortunate to get
more than a glimpse— of this wonderful
little denizen in his own home country,
should hike some distance into the Kaibab
Forest. There keep still and quiet and
listen for a deep churring or chucking call.
Sometimes there may be a barking note
resembling that of a fox squirrel. Then
watch for a light streaking movement in
the leaves, a bound on a tree trunk with a
ﬂash of a curved White willowy ﬂag, then
a spring up—too fast for a picture.

Your Dog in Summer

Don’t keep the dog tied up and exposed to
the sun this hot weather. Dogs can endure
cold better than heat. Too much heat makes
them uneasy, nervous, cross and sick.

If a dog must be tied at least let it run
on a chain that slips along an overhead
wire from post to post or between build-
ings and so it can be in the shade. Let the
dog have plenty of cool shade and water
and it will be comfortable and good na-
tured. Take good care of the dog or else
don’t keep one.

—Pueblo (Colorado) Indicator

Boy Scouts in Leper Colony
Join Band of Mercy

E told our readers about the extra—

ordinary Band of MerCy organized
in the Philippines, numbering over 1,500
and largely composed of grown men and
women, by Mr. Irving Hart, American rep-
resentative in all leper- colonies of the
National Boy Scout Council. This picture
of Boy Scouts was taken during his recent
visit to the Culion Leper Colony. There
were about 500 lepers and 100 non—lepers
present on this particular occasion.

Mr. Hart writes to us saying, “When I
told them what you had written me and
how you were pleased at their enrollment
in the Band, and that you would gladly
make a contribution of Band of Mercy but-
tons, they seemed very enthusiastic and
very anxious to become members.” He
further says, “I am sure thousands of the
lepers would be glad to sign the cards if no
payment were asked in return, not only in
Culion but in all of the other leper stations
of which there are about seven.”

This island, Culion, is the largest leper
colony in the world, having 5,584 lepers and
1,289 non-lepers. There were present at one
of the gatherings, about which Mr. Hart
writes, Dr. and Mrs. John H. Hanks, for—
merly of Boston, Massachusetts, who are
under contract with the Wood Memorial
and the Rockefeller Institute for a period
of two years, at least, among the lepers.

To All God’s Creatures

The practice of kindness toward dumb
creatures is a sign of development to the
higher reaches of intelligence and sym-
pathy. For in every place there are those
who are giving of their time and thought
and energy to the work of protecting from
cruelty and needless sufferings the beasts
of the ﬁeld and streets. And you will in—
variably ﬁnd that these people are amongst
the most progressive and sympathetic and
intelligent of a city’s populace. These are
the people who make the earth clean and
sweet and more like what God intended it
should be. GEORGE LAUGHTON

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 68
Wild Life Comes to Alaska

LU.DWIG CAMINITA, JR.

LASKA, the big-game paradise of

North America, surprisingly enough
does not abound in all forms of wild life
that can exist there. Some species have
been brought dangerously close to extir-
pation in the Territory by overhunting,
disease, and other factors. For more than
a decade the Bureau of Biological Survey,
through the Alaska Game Commission, has
been restocking various areas of Alaska
with big game, upland game birds, and
other wild life.

The results have been gratifying. The
1939 annual report of Dr. Ira N. Gabriel-
son, chief of the Biological Survey, shows
that plantings of beavers, snowshoe hares,
and muskrats on Kodiak Island a few
years ago have resulted in excellent in-
creases in these species.

On Afognak Island eight elk were re-
leased in 1927. By last year, this small
herd had multiplied to more than 100 elk.

Even bison, traditional kings of the west-
ern plains, have fared well in the great
northern Territory. In 1928 the Biological
Survey transported 19 buffaloes from Mon-
tana to the Big Delta region near Fair-
banks. That herd now numbers about 200.
One of these buffaloes is an albino calf, the
third known to exist in North America to-
day. Of the remaining two, one is in the
National Zoological Park, in Washington,
D. C., and the other on the Survey’s Na-
tional Bison Range, in Montana.

Mountain goats and musk oxen also have
received the attention of Survey scientists.
In 1923, a ﬂock of 18 mountain goats was
taken from Juneau, on the mainland, to
Baranoﬁ’ Island, near Sitka. The ﬂock has
increased to more than 100 goats. Musk
oxen were so scarce that in 1929 the Sur—
vey obtained 34 of these animals from
Greenland and transported them to Fair-
banks. Thirty of the musk oxen survived
and were transported to the Nunivak
Island Wild Life Refuge, where within a
decade the herd almost doubled itself.

Encouraged by these successes, the Al-
aska Game Commission has continued its

restocking projects. Last year 864 eggs of ‘

Mongolian pheasants and 30 chukar par—
tridges were received at experiment sta-
tions at Petersburg and Matanuska. From
the birds hatched, the Survey hopes to
develop adequate breeding stock.

A pair of wolverines and a timber wolf
from Alaska were sent to the Wisconsin
Conservation Department last year in ex-
change for game birds of hardy varieties.
Included are the brown, blue-eared, and
cheer pheasants. Wisconsin will use the
wolf and wolverines for exhibition pur-
poses.

Population increases demonstrate a grow-
ing need for game birds of this type in
Alaska, the Survey chief said, for although
the Territory has an abundance of native
ptarmigans and grouse, epizootics and en-
vironmental conditions sweep them away at
intervals.

Wild life in Alaska is in good hands.
With increased research, and scientiﬁc
management, restocking programs, ade-
quate regulations, and rigid law-enforce-
ment, the Territory will be assured of a
bountiful supply of wild life.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

May, 191,0

So I Met a Bear

ELLEN RACEY

E were returning to camp, tired
Wfrom a day’s outing, and I, wish-

ing to view the home valley from
a favorite spot on the hillside, bade the
others go on the last quarter-mile, and I
climbed a bit higher along the ridge. Seek-
ing to avoid the deep snow, I ran along

 

Southern Region—U. S‘. F'orest Photo

“A GREAT BLACK BEAR STOOD PERFEC‘TLY STILL”

several fallen trees ﬁnally jumping down
onto the prone giant ﬁr that formed my
valley lookout.

Then I saw it. A great 'black bear sat
upright upon the other end of my ﬁr,
looking as surprised as I felt. Someway
that tree didn’t look nearly as long just
then as it had at other times. I stood per—
fectly still. So did the bear.

I wasn’t conscious of any fear then.
My mind worked clearly. I began to talk
soothingly, as I would have to a fractious
horse or dog: “Nice bear,” I mumbled,
surprised to ﬁnd my mouth so dry, “Nice
bear, good old lady.” And kept my eyes
right on hers.

A little of this and then I took a step
backwards onto another log, carefully and
without haste. Haste I felt might very well
prove disastrous just then. Mrs. Bear, with—
out any young, fortunately, watching me,
shufﬂed back a step too, feeling with her
huge foot a ﬁrm hold on the next log which
tilted“ high up the hillside.

It was my ﬁrst encounter with a bear,
but watching those little eyes closely, I’m
sure I detected a twinkle of amusement.
Whatever it was, it deepened as twice she
dropped her eyes to the little useless twenty-
two I carried in my hand. My own eyes
never wavered for an instant from hers as
I backed slowly, keeping my voice little
above a murmur, “good old ‘bear, good old
lady.”

The distance gradually lengthened be-
tween us, she heaving her big body gently
and surely upward along her log, until she
hunched high in the air upon its jagged
broken end and coolly eyed me from her
vantage point.

It was a slow process. It had to be, for
a false step would have plunged me neck-
deep in the snow between the logs. The
length of three of these I traversed in slow
measure and reached the trail. As soon as
my feet hit that, I whirled and ran as I
never had run before, down, down towards
the camp.

At last curiosity
urged me to look
and there was my
bear perched on the
end of the log. May-
be that was a favor-
ite lookout of hers.
She was still watch-
ing me. And did I
only imagine that
through the dusky
evening light those
little eyes still glim-
mered amusedly?

From there I went
slowly home, all my
pent-up fear evap-
orating through my
trembling knees.

It is reported that
in Yellowstone Na-
tional Park there are
630 bears, of which
180 are grizzlies and
450 are black bears.

The Mocker

JAMES WARNACK

He sang, and all the world looked up and
listened.
The gift of song was granted him at
birth—
For angels ﬁlled his heart with hymns of
heaven,
And taught him to interpret them on
earth.

He sang to herald dawn and welcome
twilight;
His was the very voice of ecstasy;
He seldom sang without a throng about
him—
And freely given was his minstrelsy.

The children stopped to harken to his

music;
Young men and maidens paused to hear
him sing;
The songsters of the wild drew near to
listen

And vainly sought to match his caroling!

But when on earth his farewell note
resounded,
Unseen he lay upon the crimsoned sod;
For he was but a mockingbird of summer——
His slayer was “the image of his God!”

The medal of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A. was awarded to Anthony Todarro of
North Attleboro for rescuing a fox terrier
from the icy waters of Todd’s Pond in
March. The presentation was made by Ofﬁ-
cer Charles E. Brown.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1.40

Parts of Speech

NIXON WATERMAN

Though gifted with speech, still, we frankly
confess

we should be at a loss for the means to
express

The thoughts which we wish to convey in
our words

were it not for the help of the beasts and
the birds.

It is always so easy to make people know

What we mean when we say something’s
“black as a crow”;

“As proud as a peacock”; “as blind as a
bat”;

“As big as an elephant”; “as spry as a cat”;

“As crazy’s a loon”; or “as cross as a bear”;

“As brave as a lion”; or “as mad’s a March

hare”;
“As busy’s a bee”; or “as strong as an 090”;
“As dumb as an oyster”; “as sly as a for”;
“As gay as a lark”; or “as rough as a»
ram”;
“As vain as a rooster”; “as meek as a
lamb”;

“As deaf as an adder”; “as wild as a deer”;

And many more sayings that help to make
clear

Our thoughts. ’Twould be hard to translate
into words

All our meanings if ’tweren’t for the beasts
and the birds.

Paul Whiteman and His Farm

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

M 0ST of us think of Paul Whiteman
. as a famous orchestra leader, but his
neighbors in Hunterdon County, New Jer-
sey, know him as a farmer whose livestock
and broad acres are always worth seeing.
Those who understand what it takes to
maintain a farm efﬁciently are amazed to
ﬁnd that everything is in apple-pie order
all the time, summer and winter.

Barn ﬂoors are swept. Machinery is kept
well painted and oiled and put under cover
when not in use. Livestock is well-fed, well-
housed and guarded against disease in every
way known to science. This is not merely
for show, it is good farm economics.

A herd of polled Angus cattle grazes in
the lush grass. Pigs, chickens, turkeys, all
have their place. A long-horn Texas steer,
a gift from the governor of the state of its
origin, has a comfortable paddock. But the
chief attraction of the farm, from Mr.
\Vhiteman’s own Viewpoint, are his famous
Tennessee walking-horses. The farm itself
is named, after them, “Walking-Horse
Farm,” and between engagements in New
York and Hollywood and intermediate
points their owner can often be seen riding
over from one ﬁeld to another.

Watching his evident enjoyment in the
society of those beautiful animals we can
readily understand why it is becoming in-
creasingly more difﬁcult for him to tear
himself away from the countryside for long
periods in the city.

Peace and friendship with all mankind is
our wisest policy and I wish we may be
permitted to pursue it.

THOMAS JEFFERSON

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sept. 191,0

Something about Turtles

ANNE L.

gaudily painted backs on which. was

inscribed the name of some prominent
person or ﬁctitious being were very popu-
lar, especially with children. However, the
strength of the baby terrapins not being
able to withstand days without food, con-
stant handling and the lack of natural and
healthful conditions soon cause them to suc-
cumb to softening of the shell, blindness
and ﬁnally to death. Due to the inevitable
death of so many of these poor orphans
they are no longer a novelty. One estab—
lishment selling turtles has ventured to
suggest to the public that the paint be pain-
lessly removed after the beauty of it has
been appreciated, which is helpful if they
must be painted. There are, however, the
fortunate few that have lived and thrived
and among them we ﬁnd proud owners
whose pet turtles nibble from their ﬁngers;
in answer to a call come paddling across
the ﬂoor, and seem to recognize strangers
from members of the household.

Baby terrapins are highly colored and
attractive and become interesting pets when
properly cared for, but far less dainty and
colorful species are even more entertaining
and valuable. The common snapping turtle,
although not graced with beauty, is a more
widely distributed species, is second in size
only to the alligator snapping turtle of the
South, and will become tame in a surpris-
ingly short time. He is naturally a shy
creature and prefers the muddy and se-
cluded. lakes of swamp land although he
will be found in most lakes and ponds of
the southern, eastern and central states.
His pugnacious appearance and independ-
ant attitude toward the outside world has
gained for him the reputation of vicious-
ness and has instilled in persons a fear of
an animal whose weight very seldom eX—
ceeds one-third that of the average weight
of man, an animal who is more interested
in retiring to safety than ﬁghting, and one
that has no venomous ﬂuid to inject into
the human body. His only protective meas-
ure is the pressure of the strong biting
mandibles and the quickness of the almost
elastic neck. Fun-loving persons with a dis-
torted sense of humor enjoy poking sticks
at the snapping turtle for the purpose of
seeing how this protective measure is put
into action. Now and then a person mis-
judges the ability of the turtle and is taken
by surprise and pain as these crushing'
jaws close over a piece of ﬂesh. In such a
case it is difﬁcult to remove the turtle for
with his eyes closed and with no other idea
in mind he remains thus until it thunders—
so the superstition goes—but most persons
are not willing to wait for the thunder so
proceed to cut off the head of the attacking
animal or apply a knife between the jaws.
The victim once free vows that all turtles
are a menace and should be destroyed.

The life habits of the snapper are simple.
They are usually nocturnal, feeding mostly
upon the bottom of the lake and on the
shore where the prevailing wind has carried
available food. A larger portion of their
diet consists of vegetation; the aquatic
plants so common in most localities. It is
doubtful if a snapping turtle could catch

S FEW years ago baby terrapins with

PEACOCK

 

MISS PEACOCK HAS NO FEAR OF ANY
TURTLE—SHE HANDLES THEM ALL

an active ﬁsh, for never has a snapper been
seen moving at a speed that compares in
any way to the speed of a ﬁsh. It may seem
probable that they might catch them by
watchful waiting, half buried in mud at the
bottom of the lake, neck outstretched and
mouth open and. ready to grasp the ﬁsh that
comes in reach of those crushing jaws, but
it would seem more likely that a majority
of the ﬁsh consumed were either injured
or dead when taken. Captive turtles are
fond of water snakes but are not fond of
crayﬁsh and they reject mussels. In trap-
ping them only fresh bait will lure them.
Having no teeth with which to chew their
food the strong jaws serve a double pur-
pose, for when eating the turtle holds the
food in his mouth and tears it into bits with
his sharp claws on the fore-feet.

Unlike other reptiles, the eyes of the
turtle are set in bony sockets and are ca-
pable of focusing but, due to the position of
the eyes on either side of the head, each
has a separate focal plane. The combination
of keen eye-sight and sensitive hearing en-
ables them to elude many dangers.

All turtles kept in captivity a few days
will become tame enough to take food from
your hand or answer to your call by stick—
ing their probpsis above the water. Turtles
will thrive well as a reward for your kind
treatment. They: should be more admired
than feared and hated by the human race,
and were it not for their great abundance
they would surely rank among the greatest
wonders of nature.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 46

Thissell, Walter Fox
Thompson, Miss Mary
Helen _
Thorn, Mrs. Mary
Thurber, Mrs. C. H.
Tolfree, Edw. R.
Torrey, Miss C. G.
Tower, Miss Florence E.
Tower, Mrs. Jennie M.
Tozzer, Alfred M.
Travelli, Mrs. Charles I.
Tudor, Mrs. Henry D.
Twombly, John Fogg
Underwood, Miss Mary R.
Underwood, Miss Sophia
A.
Underwood, Mrs. Wm.
Lyman
Upham, Miss E. Annie
Upham, Miss Jessie I.
Valentine, Mrs. George E.
Van Brunt, Miss Jessie
Vaughan, Bertha H.
Walker, Mrs. Kate R.

Ward, Miss M. DeC.
Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.
Watts, Mrs. Mary
Webster, Ruth E.
West, Miss Edith E.
Whitin, Mr. and Mrs.
James E.
Whitman, Hendrick H.
Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Wilkinson, Edw. S.
Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Winkley, H. W.
Winslow, Mrs. Sydney B.
Wood, Cornelius A.
Wood, Miss Rosalind
Wood, Mrs. William M.
Woodman, Miss Mary
Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, Mrs. B. L.
Young, Percy L.
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.
Younglove, William K.

Associate Life Members

Arnold, Miss Abbie T.
Bessom, Florence C.
Bliss, Philip W.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W.
Burdett, Mrs. Paul
Caldwell, Miss L. W.
Coburn, Mrs. C. W.
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle
Edmunds, Miss Helen C.
Fowler, Josiah M.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P.
Goddard, Benjamin
Grimes, E. E.
Holland, Miss Florence
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R.
Hooper, Edward W.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee
Hyslop, Samuel
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex-
ander
Jones, Miss Helen L.
King, Mrs. H. P.
Kingsbury, W. S.
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund
Minot, C. H.
Newcombe, Miss Adelaide
W

Ogden, Mrs. Warren G.

Phillips, Mrs. Elizabeth D.
Pillsbury, Parker W.
Pitman, Mrs. Theodore B.
Pratt, Mrs. Clara E.
Pratt, R. M.

Putnam, Mrs. Harriett
Richards, E. Ira
Richardson, Mrs. Guy
Rogers, Miss Catherine L.
Saﬂ’ord, Mrs. Nath’l M.
Seeberg, Elizabeth
Shattuck, Miss G. A.
Simmons, Miss. F. W.
Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.
Soule, Miss Sarah M.
Stearns, Miss Ellen
Stearns, Miss Priscilla
Stone, Miss Esther A.
Thayer, Charles E.
Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
Thayer, Miss Marjorie
Thayer, Miss Nancy

Van Horn, Dora

Van Horn, Elsa

Walker, Mrs. William B.
Webster, H. S.
Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.
Williams, Mrs. Edward R.

For Retired Workers

The American Humane Education So—
ciety is receiving gifts for a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of

ﬁeld missionaries

and others who have

spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come to
our attention and are being relieved.
Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society.

PROSECUTING OFFICERS IN BOSTON
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN
HARVEY R. FULLER

HOWARD WILLAND
J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester

Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS. Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld

Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,

Meﬁh

[1911

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. 1’. C. A.

Boston, 170-183 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld. 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue

Hyannis, State Road,

Rte. 28, Centerville

VVenham, Cherry Street

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1940

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, GOV-
ernor of Massachusetts

EX-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

EX—Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke, Mass.

Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa

Barton, Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Barton, Mrs. Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Mount Carmel,
Conn.

Boyce, Aline J ., Woodstock, Vt.

Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Dethloff, Walter J., Milwaukee, Wis.

Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.

Downey, Walter F., Boston, Mass.

Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., Santa Monica, Calif.

Friedrichs, Charles W., San Francisco, Cal.

French, Marie, St. Joseph, Mo. .

Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Johns, Charles R., London, Eng.

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.

Landes, Bernard S., Colorado Springs, Colo.

MacCunn, Captain Fergus, London, Eng.

Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey

Peck, William R., Holyoke, Mass.

Phillips, William T., Philadelphia, Pa.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario

Schleck, Leo P., Madison, Wis.

Smith, Efﬁe E., San Francisco, Cal.

Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, Memphis, Tenn.

Wentzel, Dr. Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Trustees of Permanent Funds
John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President and
Treasurer, United Shoe Machinery Cor-

poration
Philip Stockton, Chairman of Executive
Committee, First National Bank of
Boston

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

Miss Sarah J. Eddy Stanwood K. Bolton
William Dana Orcutt John R. Macomber
William E. Putnam John R. Forgie

Charles G. Bancroft Mrs. Margaret Deland
Walter M. Kendall Hon. Percival P. .Baxter
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan Edward G. Fischer

M ar. 1940
Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ................ Colombia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ........... Italy

S. C. Batra ..................... India

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........ Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell_ Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New
Orleans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill '

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

E-X—Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

ActiVe Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Baber, Miss Zonia Marsh, A. M.

Ballard, Dellworth Mitchell, Miss Mary
Barnard, Harry Ransom, John E.
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Rogers, Albert R.
Burhans, Mrs. Lela G. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Smith, Oliver

Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fisher, H. Traver, Mrs. L.

Glenn, Miss Carrie Upham, Miss E. Annie
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Huntington, Archer M. Williams, Miss Nellie C.
Hurlbut, Mrs. B. S. Woodward, Miss Mabel M.
Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H.

Associate Life Members

Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.

Meyer, Miss Heloise

Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
W

Barnwell, Almon Angel]
Cabot, Mrs. Susan
Curtis, Atherton
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P.
Furlong, Rollo L.

Gray, Miss Ellen
Larkin, John D.

Parker, Miss E. S.
Stone, Miss Esther A.
Todd, Mrs. Albert

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angel] Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-five dollars
for a kennel ,or seventy-five dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment Upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

beak and body and are in turn transferred
to other plants with productive results.

It is in its poised position over a ﬂower,
too fragile to bear the bird’s weight, that
the marvelous wing-power of the hummer is
best observed. On second thought, “ob-
served” seems hardly the word to choose
in describing the whir and whiz of wings
that beat with a rapidity no human eye can
follow: hence such lightning—like action
forms a sort of “misty halo” about the bird.

The vibration of these fast—ﬂuttering
wings sounds forth a droning hum, and like-
wise gives name to the miniature (three-
and-a-half—inch) feathered motor. The re-
markable wing-control is further empha-
sized by the fact that the bird can ﬂy back--
ward as well as forward, a feat indeed!
It darts upward, drops downward, in pur-
suit of an agile insect, or seemingly stands
suspended in mid-air, with only the misty
wings a—whir.

Master Hummer has no singing voice,
though in the springtime when his fancy
turns to some lady-love, he makes a heroic
effort—yet only a high-pitched squeak is
heard. The sound pleases him, as well as
charms the ﬂuffy lady of his choice, and the
scale of squeaks is sounded over and over.

Such twitterings of love are turned into
rasping screeches when the small chap is
angry, and though a midget in size he has
a stout heart and will gamely attack a
larger bird if the occasion demands. Of
course this small David does not exactly
“slay” the “Goliaths of birdland,” but many
of the giants take to their wing-heels!

The home of Madame Hummer is a tiny
cup—shaped cottage, rather hard to ﬁnd,
since it is swung beneath a tangle of leaves
to a stout twig. Dainty in every detail, as
is its little mistress, the nest is lined with
plant-down, with an outer wall of ﬁne moss
stuccoed with spider webs. Not more than
two eggs, of snow-ﬂake whiteness, have
place in the feathered apartment; later in
the season the eggs disappear and two in—
ﬁnitesimal babies blink and squeak and
bring happiness to the tiny mother-hum-
mer’s heart.

To human beings the hummingbird may
ever point a moral—it has not the strength
of the eagle, nor the song of the mocking-
bird, yet not a feather droops through lack
of these endowments, but with dignity and
dispatch it ﬁlls its own small niche in
Nature’s workshop, and keeps “forever on
the wing!”

If Winter Came

BUENA SOWELL

Good-bye, good-bye, O mockingbird,
You tarry over long.

I wonder if your instinct knows
That I shall miss your song,

That I shall miss your feathered form
IVhen you have flown away

To join the other summer birds.
And, tell me, do you stay

A trifle longer than your friends
Upon this bleak bare tree,

Sensing the void within my heart,
To keep me company?

I wonder, too, if winter came
To me if I could find

A sacriﬁcing human friend
In all this world so kind.

OUR DUMB ANIJVIALS

A Much-Maligned Bird
WILLIS MEHANNA

HE red-shouldered hawk, generally
called the chicken hawk, is much more
useful than his common name connotes. I
have lived only half a mile from this hawk’s
nesting quarters for ﬁfty years and do not
know of a single instance of his getting

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chickens. However, it might be possible, for
he surely could if he desired to. I think he
is far too shy to venture near enough to
farmsteads to catch poultry. His habitat
is in big timber near streams and he lives
on frogs, crawﬁsh, small snakes, mice and
rabbits. Therefore, he is the farmer’s
friend.

But he is of special use to farmers in
districts of New Mexico and Oklahoma
where the past year, great hordes of grass-
hoppers were taking the crops. In some
localities ﬂocks of a thousand of these
hawks came and devoured the grasshop-
pers, greatly lessening the damage done by
them and frightening many away for the
grasshopper is intelligent for so small a
creature. In these localities a hunter had
better not let a farmer see him shoot a
hawk.

The red-shouldered hawk has a grayish
appearance, his upper parts being gray
brown edged with red. The tail is dark
with white cross-bars and white tip. The
underparts are somewhat lighter colored;
the wing feathers gray with white and
black bars. This bird nests high in big
trees and the nest contains from three to
ﬁve white eggs with brown spots on them.
In spite of many enemies, including man,
this hawk seems not to be in danger of
extinction.

Don’t fancy that you will lower your-
selves by sympathy with the lower crea-
tures; you cannot sympathize rightly with
the higher, unless you do with those,

RUSKIN: “The Two Paths”

Nov. 1940

The Great Auk

SYDNEY MOORHOUSE, F.R.G.S.

N the museum at Strasbourg, France,
chere is a strange stuffed bird which
represents the only known specimen of an
American great auk known to exist in the
world. Other museums have their great
auks, but the majority of these are from
Iceland where it had its last habitat.

History retains many records of crea-
tures which once lived on this earth and
are now extinct, but of these none has a
story more linked up with misunderstand-
ing and wrongful slaughter than has the
great auk. About the same size as an ordi-
nary domestic goose, the bird resembled a
penguin in many" respects.

Although possessed with wings, the great
auk was without the power of ﬂight but it
was a remarkably good swimmer and diver,
using its wings as paddles when propelling
through the water.

It would seem that at one time the great
auk was fairly common over a range ex-
tending from Greenland to Virginia on the
American shores of the North Atlantic and
from Iceland to the Bay of Biscay on the
east, the chief headquarters being on the
western side. However, a persecution which
lasted for over two hundred and ﬁfty years
led to its ﬁrst becoming extinct in America,

so that for many years Iceland was its sole '

remaining resort.

The greatest breeding-ground of the
great auk was Funk Island, off the coast
of Newfoundland, and when the Cabots,
who ﬁrst reached Newfoundland from the
Eastern Hemisphere, arrived back in Eng—
land they made reference to the black and
white birds with their large beaks which
they had found everywhere in the north.
In 1534, Jacques Cartier, the great French
explorer, reported that his men had killed
over a thousand of these birds in a single
day in one spot on the shore of the Ameri-
can continent and that there were enough
left alive to have ﬁlled forty rowing boats,
and another sailor told of his men killing
two boatloads of great auks with their bare
hands in less than half an hour.

Although some of the birds were killed
for food purposes, it appears that a great
many were killed for mere killing’s sake
and soon the great auk was rapidly dimin—
ishing in numbers. The senseless slaughter
went on and so sometime about the begin-
ning of the last century—the exact date is
unknown—the last bird on the American
Continent was killed. Indeed, when Wilson
and Lucian Bonaparte wrote the ﬁrst scien—
tiﬁc ornithology of North America, in 1820,
they failed to mention the great auk.

Meanwhile the work of destruction had
also been going on in Europe and soon the
reefs off the. coast of Iceland were the only
places where great auks could be found
breeding. As soon as this fact became
known museum authorities and private col-
lectors offered large sums of money for the
skins and eggs of the now rare sea-birds
and thus was the destruction hastened.

The end came on June 4, 1844, when the
last pair were killed and the solitary egg
destroyed. In his efforts to preserve evi-
dence of a most interesting bird, man had
ﬁnally succeeded in wiping out the race con-
clusively so that today only a few skins
represent this quaint bird.

'1

c.*‘




Sept. 191,0 OUR DUMB” ANIMALS Page 133’

 

 

 

Love for a Horse

11 HAVE heard a good deal about the mu-
tual affection of a man and’ his dog, and
there is much there to evoke admiration
and in many cases almost wonder, writes
Jeff D. Ray in the Star-Telegram, Fort
Worth, Texas. But I suppose the friend—
ship between a noble man and a noble
horse more than anything else we know
rivals genuine human friendship. An an-
cient classic illustration is Alexander the
Great and his war horse “Bucephalus” and
a modern illustration equally classic is Rob-
ert E. Lee and “Traveller.” But the last
and perhaps most appealing case of man-
horse affection was Will Rogers and his
horse which bore the classic sobriquet of
“Soapsud‘s.”

I received a Christmas calendar- and the
frontispiece was a picture, reproduced in
full color from the original painting of An-
tonio D’Elia. It showed Will Rogers lean-
ing against a low fence holding in the palm
of his hand an apple temptingly near and
yet tantalizingly far from the nose of old
Soapsud‘s, and Will looking up at the horse,
a mischievous twinkle in his eye with a
kindly mockery and seeming to say—“Soap—
suds, let’s eat it.”

On the second page of this calendar was
the following joint tribute to Will Rogers
and his friend the horse:

“It was natural that Will Rogers loved
horses, and that horses loved him.

“When God made this world He gave
each animal characteristics of its own. To
some He gave beauty. To some He gave
strength. Still others He endowed with
speed. A few, by way of contrast, He made
ugly and stealthy and mean.

“Then—looking over His handiwork—~He
decided to give man a perfect companion.
So he took the best from each of the other
animals and created the horse. He gave the
horse beauty of line, ﬂeetness of foot, and
superlative strength. Then he topped off
all of these physical characteristics with the
ﬁnest gift it was within His power to
bestow. He gave to the horse NOBILITY
OF CHARACTER.

 

 

 

 

“There is a kinship in the animal world
that extends even to mankind. We expect
a prize ﬁghter to choose as his animal
friend a lion cub or a bulldog. We expect
an opera singer to have as her animal com—
panion a gentle Pekingese. We expect a
sailor to have as his pet a talking parrot.

“And so, on the theory that ‘like seeks
like’ we should expect to ﬁnd Will Rogers,
nobleman that he was, ﬁnding comfort and
solace and companionship in the friendship
of his favorite horse.”

The New Colt

RUTH CLEVENGER

When ancient apple trees bowed low with
bloom,

And horses pastured on new orchard grass,

One day my father passed the word around,

“Old Lady has a colt; came late last night.”

I went to her box-stall without delay,

Heart beating high. But Lady flipped an
ear

And cast a sideways glance, as if to say,

“Child, mind your own aﬂairs!”

My thoughts were not for Lady, but the
colt

Braced at her flank. What if his legs looked
jointy then,

His tail as fuzzy as a dusting, mitt?

He had a lovely star on that bright fore-
head;

I found him beautiful; being with him
thrilled me.

I was too young to know his origins,

The Hambletonian stamina and speed,

The courage and the fire of Volunteer;

Too young to know the centuries of care

The Arabs gave before our part began—

But not too young to sense the awkward
grace

Beneath that chestnut coat,

The gentleness of soft, conﬁding muzzle,

The pride of thati small head, held high,

The passion in his dark and lustrous eye

Which only one who loves a horse may
understand.

Donkey Well Worth Owning

GRIGGORY DOLE

ID you ever hear of the donkey that
discovered a rich gold mine? Don’t
laugh. There are court records in Idaho to
prove that such a thing actually happened.
Two prospectors—N. S. Kellogg and Phil
O’Rourke, by name—one day back in the
90’s, hired a donkey to explore some land
in Idaho. While they were busy checking
the ground in one place, the donkey became
restless and began pawing with its foot.
It tore away some turf, and there, plain as
day, gleamed a rich ledge of ore. The pros—
pectors at once staged a celebration. Both
their fortunes were made, they ﬁgured.

But they had reckoned without the own-
ers of the donkey. These gentlemen, a Mr.
Cooper and a Mr. Peck, learned what their
animal had done and then put in a claim to
part ownership of the mine. It hardly
seemed fair to them that they shouldn’t
share in the sudden wealth that their own
donkey had uncovered. The two prospectors
fought their demands and so the law courts
had to decide the contest. The case wound
up at last before Judge Norman Buck, one
of the earliest and most respected of all the
Idaho jurists.

While people all over the state were fol-
lowing the suit, the judge solemnly gave
his decision. This is how it read:

“From the evidences of the witnesses the
court is of the opinion that the Bunker Hill
mine was discovered by a jackass, Phil
O’Rourke and N. S. Kellogg. As the jackass
is the property of the plaintiffs, Cooper &
Peck, they are entitled to a half interest in
the Bunker Hill and quarter interest in the
Sullivan claims.”

All the lucky owners were well rewarded.
In the year 1904 the Bunker Hill and Sulli-
van Mining Company declared a dividend
of $40,000. Already it had paid out the
sum of $1,673,000 to its stockholders.

If ever a donkey deserved to be well
taken care of for the rest of its natural
life, the jackass that had brought Messrs.
Cooper and Peck so great a bonanza cer—
tainly was such an animal.

 

THE LEADER RATTLES THE DOOR-LATCH IN HOPES OF A REWARD OF TID-BITS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’70

To a Spitz
BETTYI“ LABADIE

Wee, whimpering mite of puppyhood,
I lost my heart to you

The day your mistress brought you, decked
In bow of crimson hue.

Your puppy heart soon understood
That you had come to stay,

And you endeared yourself to me
A thousand times each day.

The do’s and don’t’s of dogdom, too,
You had to learn frOm me;

And who can say which suffered more
At punishment’s decree?

Then came those paimﬁlled days that found
Your fever raging high,

And as you gasped through tortured lungs,
I prayed that you might die.

But you had come of sturdy stock—
God bless your ﬁghting heart!

Perhaps your very love of man
Forbade that life depart.

Devoted, quivering bit of life,
What lessons you could teach!

Your love and loyalty and faith
All human traits outreach.

Dear full-fledged guardian of my home,
I lose my heart anew

Each time I look into your eyes
And see the soul of you.

Dog Chooses His Own
Church

GRACE ELLIS FOWLER

S Father O’Day, a devout, middle-aged

priest, crossed the street from the
Hamilton home to the parsonage he said
to himself, “My, how I want to own that
dog, ‘Bray.’ He is a beauty and such in-
telligence! I wonder if the Hamiltons really
appreciate him. I think I will try one more
time to buy him when Mr. Hamilton gets
home.”

Bray, the dog in question, was a nine
months old Llewellyn setter. No one could
dispute the fact of his beauty—almost.
entirely white, with a few ﬂecks of black
marking him perfectly. He was a graceful,
friendly dog with unusually kind eyes, and
could boast a pedigree that would be the
envy of any dog.

A friend had presented Bray, when he
was six weeks old, to Mr. Hamilton as a
birthday gift, but the dog proved to be one
too many for that family. They had an old
dog, “Bob,” they had raised from puppy-
hood and he greatly resented Bray’s pres-
ence in his household. Bob, being just dog,
still had feeling and was so envious of
attentions paid Bray that he absolutely
refused any of the advances made by the
puppy: He made Bray’s life miserable and
h1s own more miserable from the day of
Bray’s arrival.

Father O’Day was a supplementary
priest for this parish and perhaps lonely,
so he appreciated the friendly puppy who
seemed conscious of the Father’s serenity
and recognized in him a friend and master.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

He would never
cross the street until
the priest raised his
hand and gave per-
mission. He was a
daily visitor to the
parsonage, much to
old Bob’s relief.

Perhaps it was
Bray’s contact with
this worthy man
that caused him to
have his religious
tendency. Be that as
it may, he was de-
termined to go to
Sunday—school and
made several at-
tempts at both Sun-
day-school and
church in the First
Methodist where the
Hamiltons attended.
Each attempt was
thwarted. He was
never permitted to
stay for a full ser—
vice, so he gave up
the Methodist idea
and tried the Catho-
lic Church.

It was during com-
munion service that
a beautiful white
setter marched up

Alay,194o

 

“JATACON,” PERSIAN CAT, FIRST PRIZE WINNER IN
CHAMPION CLASS AT ANNUAL SHOW OF ATLANTIC CAT
CLUB SOME YEARS AGO
Owned by Mrs. Ethel D. Mellor, Plymouth, Massachusetts

 

the aisle to where
the priest was reading the sermon. The dog
put his front feet on the communion rail
and looked adoringly at the Father, who, to
the consternation of the congregation, put
his hand out on the shaggy head and actu-
ally whispered one word. The dog dropped
at his feet just outside the rail.

At the close of the service, Father O’Day
came over to the Hamiltons and told, laugh-
ingly, how he had been proselyting. Since
Bray had shown preference for the Catho-
lic Church and had taken communion with
them, it was decided that was where he
should go.

Father O’Day left with a happy heart
and a happy dog because their love was
mutually shared. He left Old Bob, happier
than he had been for a year, to reign again
supreme in the Hamilton household.

Healthy Signs
HILLIARD FOLEY

HAT the more enlightened people are

always kind and merciful to animals
is again apparent in the following incidents
——some of which may not have come to your
notice.

The Duchess of Kent recently declared
that she would realize a life’s dream if she
could own a live Australian native bear.
But she declined the offer of a Tasmanian
to take her one when she heard that the
climatic changes in passing through the
tropics might expose the animal to
pneumonia.

A callous lumber-jack was having great
“fun” during lunch hour by rolling up
small pills of bread containing specks of
tobacco in their centers and throwing them
to the birds. The birds, after swallowing
the pellets, would become dizzy, then reel

over and die. When the foreman heard of
it, he was furious and discharged the man
at once. This same lumber-camp foreman
(known to the writer) has his own way of
choosing his teamsters. If the candidate
reaches for the whip before taking up the
reins, he will not get the job.

Not long ago a hot-tempered huckster
was accused of beating his horse—a frail,
bony animal. The magistrate ordered him
to purchase a second-hand truck, telling
him that he could lose his temper with
that as often as he wished.

An editor, rejecting an offering, informed
the would-be contributor that his publica-
tion had not yet reached the depths of
accepting the story of a dog’s being killed.

It will be noticed that in all the above
cases the humane people are intelligent,
signiﬁcant folks in more-or-less important
positions. But the sentiment is gripping
the masses. Bull—ﬁghts at the World’s Fair,
we are told, proved so tame an attraction
that they were discontinued owing to lack
of patronage.

And again: One morning of late the
writer stood in an angered, scowling crowd
who were watching a policeman ﬁring a
riﬂe into the branches of a lofty elm where
a strange bird was perched. But when the
constable’s third shot severed the twig and
both it and the bird came ﬂuttering lightly
to the ground, then we saw light. The little
fellow’s claws had become entangled in
some matted thread that had gotten up
there somehow. The ofﬁcer released the
tiny feet, and the bird ﬂew away, un-
harmed. Then the scowls turned to smiles,
and the light—hearted crowd skipped away,
laughing. It was a rescue that touched
every soul.

Humane literature is bearing fruit.

2?

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Pure Cedar Bedding

FOR THE COMFORT
OF YOUR DOGS

Keeps your kennels sweet and clean.
Used for many years by leading ken-
nels, dog fanciers, hospitals and vet-
erinarians. Makes the coat glossy.
Keeps ﬂeas away.

Ask your dealer or write us direct.

Packed in convenient sized bales.
$1.00 and up, F.O.B. factory. Also
cushions ﬁlled with our CEDAR
BEDDING in sizes to meet your re-
quirements.

Tell us what you want.
We will try to please you.

F ramingham Cedar Bedding Co.
SOUTH HANSON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
 

Keep Your Dogs
FREE
FROM WORMS
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET No. 652

NEMA

WORM

CAPSULES

EFFECTIVELY REMOVE LARGE
ROUNDWORMS AND HOOKWORMS IN DOGS
OF ALL BREEDS AND ALL AGES. DEPENDABLE
Nema Booklet tells you about worms
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N—58-E

PARKE, DAVIS 8: CO., DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

   
 

  

 
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

CUTIEURA‘ ‘ o

ITCHING, BURNI

ECZE

quickly soothed and comforted.
Buy today at your druggist’s.

 

    
  

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mnhertakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLIINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1939‘, bound volume $1.00
Our Dmnb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound r
volume ............................. : . .7.)
Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight 1n
the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%; X 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts.
T'he Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. ..$0. 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, N0. 5 ...... 50

The Horse’s Prayer ..................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow.. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card..$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.00 ” “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, .1. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 5 pp. .......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10’ cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. 12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 . 50
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease. $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats ........................... 50

The Cat in Literature ................... :50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . 1.00

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ “
The Jack London Club
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0. 30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan
4 pp. ................................. $0.50 per 100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ......................
Trained Animals - Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............... .50 “ “

S! ‘t

Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 20 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................... 10 cts each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 p . ........................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 49 pp. For first and second

grades ............................... each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of FUr and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 10. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ '2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .75
Humane Education, What to Teach and

(( ‘(

How to Teach it ..................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... " Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00‘

(t ‘5

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. E'ddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Most Popular Humane Films for Rent or Sale

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem of that title
and

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Animal Hospital,l
and Rest Farm for Horses, two reels

Both available in 16 and 35 mm. Low rentals for schools, churches
Humane Societies and other organizations

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 




 

Sept. 1940

 

“LASSIE”

 

Josh Billings Loved His Dog

VINCENT THOMPSON

STRANGE oblivion has overtaken

Josh Billings, the beloved New Eng-
land humorist. Sixty years ago he was one
of the most popular lecturers in the country
and collections of his crudely-spelled say-
ings enjoyed an enormous sale. Even Lin-
coln laughed at his weekly column and
shocked a solemn Cabinet by reading aloud
Josh’s “Essa on the Muel.”

In the hey-day of fame the humorist was
quite a prominent ﬁgure about New York
City. He had certainly come a long way
since he was an inconspicuous boy by the
name of Henry Wheeler Shaw in Lanes—
boro, Massachusetts. Now, at last, his
pen name and his sayings were known to
thousands.

Rich and famous, he sometimes rode with
his Wife through Central Park behind their
handsome team, “Tom” and- “Jerry.” But
more often Josh was seen strolling along
Broadway with his dog “Milk.”

“Milk” was named for Josh’s most fa-
mous lecture which bore the same title.
When Josh delivered it, he sometimes ram-
bled on for an hour or more, humorously
harping on every subject under heaven. Then
came a pause in which he asked if there
were any questions. Easy to bait, some al-
ways inquired why he had not stuck to his
subject—milk. That made the lecturer grow
very sedate and austere. Putting on his most
severe face, Josh would make his inevit-
able reply, “I must inform you that I drank
a quart of milk before I climbed this plat-
form. You can, therefore, see I have been
lecturing on milk!” The guffaws that fol-
lowed always put the questioners to shame.

Josh loved his dog dearly. “Milk” was
his faithful companion in all his prom-
enades and waited patiently when his mas—
ter stopped to chat with prominent folk like
Mr. Bryant, the poet.

If it had not been for this affection, per~
haps Josh might never have written a say-
ing that deserves to be long remembered:
“A dog is the only thing in this old selﬁsh
world that loves you more than he does
himself.” Josh also declared: “There is
one thing in this world that money won’t
buy and that is the wag of a dog’s tail.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Who Should Stand Trial?

JOHN P. DINNENY

ROM time to time we read in our

newspapers of so—called dog trials be--
fore courts of law. “Spot,” “Rover” or
“Teddy” is formally accused) of deliberately
attacking one of the human species. The
Prosecution and Defense solemnly act out
the bizarre farce, while the puzzled crea-
ture undoubtedly dreams of harmless play
and frolic in the near—by ﬁelds.

More often than not, it seems, the ver—
dict goes against him. Spot must die. As
if by magic, public opinion the nation over
rallies to the defense of the condemned
dog. This powerful force—never far wrong
on fundamentals, when roused on any ques-
t'ion—innately senses the silliness and in-
justice of the whole proceedings. The re—
sult usually is, Spot leaves the Court, once
again a free dog.

In such cases as Spot’s, just what is that
intangible truth which people as a unity
unconsciously see or feel? No one will deny
its existence or the power generated by its
realization, however blind. In my opinion
it derives from a vague conviction of the
mass that, not Spot should stand trial, but
rather his master or victim. For in the
ﬁnal analysis the nature and disposition of
'any dog is merely the synthesis of his
training and treatment. “Like master, like
dog” to paraphrase an old proverb.

I am unwilling to accept the thesis of
hereditary badness in any of our canine
friends. It is people who make them bad,
and» then the people’s State has the colossal
inconsistency to judge the shortcomings of
their own creation. Absurd! An overkind,
pampering mistress overnurtures her Fid-o’s
limitless capacity for love. He in turn de-
velops misanthrop‘ic tendencies towards any
one who may attempt to come between
them. Or a cruel, harsh master, ill-treating
his dog regularly, convinces the poor crea-
ture that all men are alike, his enemies.
He interprets kindness as hostility and acts
accordingly. Never having experienced that
virtue, he cannot respond to it. Or the
potential victim, by teasing and taunting,
rouses the dog’s instinct of self-preserva-
tion and provokes a justiﬁable attack. He
is then “arrested.” We must remember
that dogs have no way of ascertaining the
intentions of teasers, particularly if
strangers.

Who then should stand trial? The an-
swer despite the rhetoric is obvious. But
only in the distant future perhaps, when
we shall be able to see more clearly and
understandably, can the obvious be made a
reality. In the meantime let us never for-
get that our dog is what we make him. In
his love for us he patterns himself after
our every quality, good or bad, and in so
doing he is but a canine reﬂection of our
own personality. And in conclusion let us
never fail to swell the volume—however
inﬁnitesimal our contribution may be—of
public opinion against the farcical absurdi-
ties of “dog trials” and the equally farci-
cal injustice of condemnatory sentences.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies

will be made good by us upon application.

 

Page 141

Dog or Clown?
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

RECENTLY I visited a friend of mine
and was surprised to see that he had.
acquired a beautiful cocker spaniel about
two years of age. Knowing that my friend
had never owned a dog before, or had even
spoken of owning one I asked him why he
had purchased the animal.

“Why?” he exclaimed. “Do you know this
dog is highly trained? He can roll over,
play dead, shake hands, climb a ladder and
do a half—dozen other complicated tricks.
That’s why I bought the dog. I wouldn’t
own a dumb dog who just lived to eat,
drink, sleep and bark. This dog will amuse
all my friends with his tricks and when we
have our yearly club racket I intend to
exhibit him to the other members. His per-.
formance will go over big with the boys.”

I must admit that my opinion of my
friend dropped after hearing his explana--
tion of what a dog should be able to accom-
plish. He had bought this dog already
trained. He had failed to realize that train-~
ing dogs to perform complicated tricks or
even simple ones is a decided strain not.
only on the nerves of the animal, but also
on his disposition during the training pe-
riod. He also failed to realize that dogs were-
meant to be companions and guardians to
mankind. It is quite evident that my friend
did not wish to be the owner of a dog, he
wished to possess a four-legged clown that
could supply a source of amusement for his.
friends. There are many other people, who,..
like my friend, think it is smart to teach
their dogs a lot of tricks that were never-
meant to be part of a dog’s general make--
up. The only training a dog should be

given is those necessary instructions that,
will make him easier to handle and will
also safeguard the dog’s life. Don’t raise-
your dog to be a comical clown. Let him.
live a dog’s life as was intended for him.

ONCE A STRAY—NOW IN GOOD HOME".

 

 

 




 

July, 1940

ANIMALS

Page 111

 

 

  

A School Pony

MURIEL GLENN HUTTON

OT” was a small mouse-colored saddle pony, with a

black stripe from her mane to her tail, black tips to her
ears, and one white foot. Out on the Western prairies she
attended school for many years as regularly as any pupil.
Attempts to harness her to a vehicle of any kind were futile——
she knew her job, and declined to do anything else.

 

“DOT,” A PONY WITH UNUSUAL PERSONALITY

She knew the four-mile route to school probably better than
her successive riders, and treated them with the indulgence
of an elderly nurse. The child might daydream, or become
bored with the road, although they were likely to meet any—
thing from a family of coyotes to a 20-ton oil truck, but Dot
was always on the alert, and needed no urging to make her
give way to any form of trafﬁc. The main line transconti—
nental express usually reached the level crossing three miles
from town at almost the same time as Dot and her rider, and
the engineers soon got to know and watch for the wise little
pony, and leaned out of the cab to wave as they went by.

Noonday lunch went with them, the youngsters’ in a tin pail,
Dot’s in a small bag tied to the back of the saddle. Occasionally
in the rush of early morning, the pony’s grain was forgotten,
but as soon as Dot realized that the bag was not there, she
would turn back towards the farm, and refuse to proceed till
the omission was rectiﬁed.

The knowing animal had her own sense of humor, and
from much association with children, she Was wise to them.
One day, when the road was bordered with pools from melting
snow, she walked into the water, stretched her neck for a
drink, then, with a shake and a wriggle, dumped her small
rider into the mud! “She just slid me off, and then turned
and laughed at me,” the bedraggled youngster complained
when she reached home.

Dot had her own ideas about speed, too, and if she wanted
to loiter, there wasn’t much anyone could do about it. But

 

  

 
 

, ll ll\k\\m-.u.-...

 

- lUL;. .._(k

A Lad and His Dog ‘
JA'NET R. HOWE

Do you know what I mean, when I ask, little lad,

What kind friend is still yours, if you’re good or you’re bad?
It’s that dog of your own, be he large, be he small,

But who feels to be near you is best, above all.

I f you’re young, and alone in your yard you must play,
It’s your dog who stays close, and does not run away.
When you’re older, and go for a swim, skate or slide,

It’s your dog, thrilled companion, who’s close by your side.

What you’ve given to him, has been often returned
With his love and his trust, which I hope you have earned.
Aren’t you sorry, young lad, for the man who is grown
And who never has once had a dog of his own?

 

when she heard the school bell, she knew it was time to “get
a move on” and needed no urging then to make her hurry.

When the youngest of the family ﬁnally became too heavy
for Dot’s slender legs to carry, the pony was turned out into
the pasture for a life of leisure. But she never really enjoyed
it. When the wind was southerly, and the sound of the school
bell came faintly over the miles of prairie, she would canter
to the gate and look eagerly for someone to come and saddle
her.

“Dumb animal” she may have been, but the memory of her
unusual personality still is treasured by the children, now
grown, whom she served so faithfully for many years.

Treasure-Hunting Dog
ED. BIBB

TRANGE as it seems, there is a black dog living at

Mission San Jose, near San Antonio, Texas, that digs up
and brings home real genuine one dollar bills—no other kind
of bills or coins whatsoever, from a huge abandoned gravel pit
near the Mission church. The secret treasure cache has never
been discovered, although all the Mexicans around the Mission
have trailed the dog on many occasions. The dog seems to
sense her followers, and always manages to elude them.

“Dumpy,” as her owner, Mrs. Milly Stesser Stiles, calls the
treasure-ﬁnding dog, is coal black, two years old, and a cross
between an Irish setter and a Doberman pinscher.

Dumpy started her collection as early as 1938, and up to
date has brought home 407 good United States dollar bills.

This wonderful dog recently gave birth to seven puppies,
and to associate the puppies with their illustrious mamma,
Mrs. Stiles named them “Penny,” “Nickel,” “Dime,” “Two
Bits,” “Four Bits,” “Six Bits” and “Dollar.”

Dumpy’s treasure is used for the tuberculosis-ill children
around the Mission, and has been the means of buying a ﬁne
Jersey cow giving twelve quarts of milk a day.

”Give me a task to make me strong;
Help me to serve, to right a wrong.
Teach me to smile and spread good cheer,
To banish doubt or quench a tear.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 86

Morgan Dennis, were distributed, largely
in schools, throughout the land.

Many Events in Massachusetts

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. conducted
another very successful prize poster contest,
open to pupils in elementary and high
schools, both public and parochial, in the
state. No less than 7,602 posters were en-
tered. They came from 481 schools in 164
cities and towns. An original bronze medal,
with blue ribbon, was given as ﬁrst prize
to 977 contestants; a similar medal, with
red ribbon, was awarded as second. prize to
1,128 pupils; and 1,496 annual subscriptions
to Our Dumb Animals were presented to
those winning honorable mention. During
the entire Week several hundred of the
most outstanding posters were exhibited in
the Young People’s room of the Boston
Public Library, Copley Square.

On Humane Sunday the annual lecture
under the auspices of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. was held in the Boston Public
Library where the lecture hall was ﬁlled to
capacity. For the fourth consecutive year,
the Society presented Thornton W. Burgess,
popular animal story teller, whose subject
was “Friendly Folk Who Run and Fly.”
He showed many slides of birds and ani—
mals and several reels of moving pictures,
all taken by himself. His talk and exhibi-
tion were often interrupted by rounds of
applause.

Ofﬁcers of the Society in all parts of the
state distributed Be Kind to Animals post-
ers, blotters and other special literature
in schools and elsewhere.

A full program of radio talks and inter—
views opened Sunday with President Fran—
cis H. Rowley of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. and Thornton W. Burgess, well
known writer of animal stories, speaking
from Station WBZ. Other ofﬁcers and staff
members of the Society who gave talks on
Boston stations were: Monday, Dr. G. B.
Schnelle of Angell Animal Hospital inter-
viewed by Ruth Moss on WAAB'; Dr. E. F.
Schroeder of the Hospital interviewed! by
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke on WEEI;
talk by Dr. R. H. Schneider of the Hospital
on WCOP; talk by Guy Richardson, secre-
tary of the Society, on WHDH; Tuesday,
talk by A. A. Pollard, treasurer of the So-
ciety, on WORL; Dr. M. S. Arlein of the
Hospital interviewed by Miss Margaret
Kearns on WMEX; Friday, talk by Ronald
Spriggs of the Hospital on WORL; dra—
matic sketch by Y. W. C. A. Players on
WHDH. In addition Fred T. Vickers, agent
of the Society, broadcast twice daily on
Station WESX, Salem; and Mrs. Clarke
gave talks on WEAN, Providence, Sunday,
and on WORC, Worcester, Wednesday.

Among newspaper features were the pub-
lication of a series of animal photographs
in the Christian Science Monitor, illustra—
tion of prize posters in the Boston Tran-
script, prominent cartoon in the Lynn Tele-
gram-News and leading editorials in the
Boston Post, Fall River Herald-News,
Fitchburg Sentinel, Holyoke Transcript,
and Framingham News.

In Springﬁeld Mrs. Charlena B. Kibbe
presented animal stories over Station
WSPR and a series of four talks over
WMAS.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. issued
an original pamphlet of eight pages of “Hu-
mane Exercises” for the use of teachers in

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

A PEACEFUL SCENE IN WALES

 

observing Humane Day in schools. No less
than 9,000 copies were freely distributed to
teachers of elementary schools throughout
the state, resulting in a large number of
special exercises being held under the direc—
tion of teachers. Among outstanding cele-
brations were those by the Junior Humane
Society, Fitchburg; the Faulkner school,
Malden, whose pupils presented the play,
“The B-K-T—A-Club”; and the Hildreth
school, Gloucester, which put on a pet show
with a large number of entries. Prominent
among the events of Saturday, April 20,
was the annual pet show of the Charles—
town Boys’ Club, with 100 entries. During
the entire Week the Public Library in Hol-
yoke maintained a museum of living crea-
tures and gave demonstrations regarding
feeding and proper care of pets. In Wor-
cester the Boy Scouts celebrated the Week
by putting up feeding stations and bird-
houses and providing food for wild- animals.
At the Public Library in Quincy John
Pratt Whitman, noted artist, described his
animal pictures before the members of the
Weekly Book Club.

Radio Talks in New Hampshire

From Staton WHES, Portsmouth, N. H.,
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. spoke on humane edu-
cation in the schools of Boston and on
Massachusetts laws for the protection of
animals, and Miss Maude Phillips of the
Animal Rescue League, Boston, gave a talk
on similar; lines.

Rhode Island Emphasizes Humane Education

With the hearty endorsement of Gover-
nor Vanderbilt, Senator Peter G. Gerry,

June, 1940

Mayor John F. Collins of Providence, and
other prominent citizens, the Rhode Island
Humane Education Society sponsored the
observance of Kindness Week in that state.
The Society announced that a total of
81,903 pupils, representing 174 schools in
nineteen cities and towns, had received
instruction in kindness to animals by Miss
Lillian M. Mathewson, director of humane
education. More than 1,000 Bands of Mercy
were organized. During the week special
exercises with lantern slide talks by Miss
Mathewson were held in the auditorium of
the Oliver Hazard Perry Junior High
school, Providence.

The Society distributed 10,000 kindness
posters. It sponsored the annual pet show
of the Providence Boys’ Club, at which
Mrs. John R. Rathom, vice-president of the
Society, talked to the boys on the pro-per
care of their animals. Many feature articles
appeared in the press, including a striking
cartoon, “Make it 51 Weeks More,” by
Halladay, in the Providence Journal of
April 15.

Activities in Pennsylvania

With a large double-column heading, the
Philadelphia Tribune ran a conspicuous
editorial on April 11, which read, in part:
“Many of us love animals. Others just
tolerate them. All of us can be kind to
them. Kindness to animals ought to be one
of the traits of every human being.
Especially ought children to be taught this
early in their lives.” The Women’s Penn-
sylvania S. P. C. A. honored Faith John-
son, 11 years old, who while attending
school in the suburbs of Philadelphia
found traps placed for animals and set
them off and dropped them in a well. She
was presented with a medal before the
school. This Society has greatly advanced
the cause of humane education in the last
eight years. Motion pictures have been used
and addresses given every day in schools
and other centers by Mrs. Bernice Scott
Hoge and Miss Ruth Murray. Each summer
Mrs. Hoge speaks at daily vacation Bible
schools in ﬁfty churches.

In Pittsburgh the main feature was the
humane poster contest, under the direction
of the Western Pennsylvania Humane So-
ciety. Of 10,000 posters received, 2,500
were on display at Gimbel’s Department
Store for two weeks. Ninety prizes and 500
honor certiﬁcates were awarded. The So-
ciety distributed 1,000 national humane
posters and about 50,000 pieces of litera-
ture. Forty clergymen co-operated by re-
questing literature or sermon helps. Honor
medals for saving the lives of animals were
awarded to six men and boys, and beautiful
collars were given to four dogs for saving
human lives. Radio talks on different broad-
casting stations were given by Dr. Wm. F.
H. Wentzel, secretary; E. M. Smith, chief
agent; and Mrs. Emma R. Derrick, intake
secretary of the Society.

Celebration in Illinois

Through the efforts of Mrs. Jennie R.
Toomim, representing the American Hu-
mane Education Society, and the active
support of the Illinois Humane Society, a
very general observance of the Week took
place in Chicago. Four thousand copies of
the “Humane Exercises” were distributed

(Continued on page .92)

 

 

 

 

 




Sept. 1940
He Killed Cock Robin

F whom are we thinking? Some of our
readers will remember the jingle, “Who
Killed Cock Robin?” “I,” said the sparrow,
“with my bow and arrow. I killed cock
robin.” Whether that sparrow was our
regular English sparrow or some other fel-
low of the same tribe, we do not know.
We do know that he has found a home for
himself in nearly every country of the globe.
Any number of hard things have been

Page136 OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
1 the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
1 (‘ruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass, to which all communications

should be addressed.

Animals Killed on Highways

VER 30,000,000 animals and birds
killed by the automobile on the high-
ways of the United States—and these ﬁg-
ures cover only the ﬁve months from June
to November. During the winter months the
casualties drop so materially they are not
estimated. These statements appear in an
article written by Wilson B. Fiske for the
magazine, Field and Stream.
Mr. Fiske writes after a long experience

 

 

 

 

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

SEPTEMBER, 1940

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

 

We Shall Need Your Help

H T was hard to believe it. We naturally
thought it was a wildly exaggerated
statement till we learned from a director
of the State Division of Fisheries and Game
his own estimate. Year by year the destruc-
tion of deer in Massachusetts by hunters
during the hunting seasons goes on. Last
year the number reported killed was twen—
ty-one hundred. How many wounded, crawl—
ing away to die, no one knows.

Now comes the almost unbelievable state—
ment, made by this director spoken of a
moment ago:

“While there is no way in which to deter-
mine the exact number of deer killed by
these stray dogs, it is probable that through
the winter, spring and early summer, they
have killed as many as the gunners did in
the last open season. Many of these dogs
which roam the woods chasing and killing
our game are without collars or license
tags and the ownership of them is impos-
sible to trace.”

Twenty—one hundred deer killed by hunt-
ers! Even grant the number not so great
for which the dogs are responsible, every
humane man, woman and child in the Com-
monwealth must be shocked at the knowl—
edge that hundreds of these beautiful crea-
tures are annually being caught and torn
to pieces by dogs.

Whose dogs do this deadly work? Large-
ly the dogs, undoubtedly, of hunters. That
is the common understanding. Unfortu-
nately the dog laws of the State do not per-
mit wardens to shoot at sight dogs worry-
ing and killing deer.

What must be done? The Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals purposes to call, this autumn, be-
fore the Legislature meets, a conference
with the State Division of Fisheries and
Game, at which every humane person in
the State will be entitled to discuss such
legislation as will remedy, so far as pos-
sible, this shameful evil and unnecessary
cruelty which has so long been permitted.
We hope all Massachusetts readers of this
article will help arouse public opinion in
favor of such amendment to our dog laws
as will meet the situation.

over many of the three 1millions and more

miles of the country’s roads, and after re-

ports from various states where records
have been obtainable.
deer, low-ﬂying night-birds, pheasants,
quail, squirrels, woodchucks, skunks, rab-
bits and' even other smaller creatures.

Maine reports 167 deer, 9 moose for one
year; New York, 350 deer; Michigan, 300.
Ohio has issued windshield stickers to be
used on cars urging drivers “To Slow
Down,” “To Sound Horn,” “To Save Ohio’s
Game.” The greatest part of this deadly
work is due to two things: careless, reck-
less driving and speed. This sad story says
nothing of the hosts of dogs and cats killed
or injured by the automobile.

The Red Cross and Humane
Work

While the response to the Red Cross
should be prompt and generous on the part
of every citizen, for its service is of vital
importance, still we should not forget the
work that is being done by our humane
societies. One often says, “I cannot give for
animals because I am doing for children,”
but generally the people who do for chil—
dren are the ones who do for animals, and
those who do for animals do for children.

Many a charitable organization is ﬁnding
today the constant plea, “I cannot give be-
cause I am giving to the Red Cross.” Long
after this war is over, these humane organ—
izations will still be obliged to carry on,
and those who have made their existence
possible and sustained them through former
years, we are sure, will not forget them——
however great the need elsewhere.

Encouraging

Tuskegee Institute’s report of no lynch-
ings in the United States between January
1 and June 30 is most encouraging.

Date of last lynchings by states; accord-
ing to Louisville (Ky.) Times:

Alabama . 1937 N. Carolina .. 1935
Arkansas . 1936 Oklahoma 1930
Florida ...... 1939 S. Carolina . 1933
Georgia ..... 1938 Tennessee . 1937
Kentucky . 1934 Texas ....... 1935
Louisiana . . . . 1938 Virginia ..... 1932
Mississippi . . . . May 8, 1939

'Forty-two thousand, ﬁve hundred eighty—
mne white women have repudiated lynching
for any cause and have pledged themselves
to educate against lynching in their com-
munities. They come from the thirteen
Southern States and Missouri and West
Virginia; they live in 3,095 towns in 1,083
counties; they work in church societies and
small clubs; they have secured the co-opera-
tion of 1,307 peace oﬂicers and 2,156 men.
Their number is steadily increasing.

The victims include

said about this little bird, any number of
devices have been manufactured to catch
him and destroy him here in this country,
but let us not forget that he did not ask
to come here. We brought him here, think-
ing that he could do a good job on a very
destructive insect that was doing much
damage to us. We even went so far as to
establish breeding-places for him so that he
might increase and multiply.

Personally, we have always liked this
small creature who is with us winter and
summer when nearly all other birds have
left us.

Now comes from the United States De-
partment of Agriculture the most thorough
and exhaustive study of the sparrow that
has ever been made. It appears in a pamph-
let of 166 closely-printed pages. Here is the
ﬁnal conclusion:

“As a basis for this work, 8,004 stomachs
were examined, a larger number than ever
before employed in the study of the food
habits of a single species of bird.

“Of the annual food of the adult English
sparrow about one-ﬁfth (19.64 per cent)
represents services beneﬁcial to man; about
one-fourth (24.78 per cent), those neutral
in effect; and the remainder, a little over
half (55.58 per cent), ‘those injurious.
Its harmful proclivities are centered largely
in its consumption of chicken feed, grain
of various kinds and garden truck.

“It is known to be an agent in the trans-
mission of certain poultry parasites and
diseases. The charge that it has driven
away beneﬁcial native species of birds, al—
though not so frequently heard as in the
early days of its spread, still persists where
the bird is abundant or where it is encroach-
ing on new areas.”

In spite of all this, the following may be
said in his favor:

“He has done much to keep down the
spread of the alfalfa weevil, the evidence
being that he is one of the most effective
bird enemies of this pest. May beetles and
other beetles of the same family he has also
been found to have feasted upon. In one
case of 190 stomachs examined, 97 con-
tained grasshoppers which comprised more
than one-tenth of the food. It has also been
established that the English sparrow is an
enemy of the pink and green aphid of the
potato.”

The report further says that the English
sparrow has been observed, on several occa-
sions, to eradicate completely the fall army
worm from lawns and other small patches
of grass around dwellings.

In spite of the fact that the ﬁnal con—
clusion is to the effect that probably this
little fellow does a bit more harm than
good, there are multitudes who will still
refuse to denounce him as worthy only of
condemnation and say a kind word for him
because of what good he really does.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 64

Fez Fondouk

(Continued from page 58)

work at the Fondouk for some part of
each day.

Owing to the large number of animals
requisitioned by the Government we have
had extra work thrown on us since Sep-
tember, as the animals left are in a very
poor condition generally, and much over-
worked.

I am pleased to say, thanks to the help of
Mr. Maitre, head of the municipal services,
Vet. Dr. Chaulet, Dr. Larrouy, municipal
veterinary, and Dr. Bouguereau, the Fon-
douk’s own devoted veterinary and the Po-
lice Department, the public carriage horses
in Fez are in a better condition than in any
other town in Morocco. Furthermore, the
police have orders from the Pacha to su-
pervise carefully the condition of animals
in the Medina, the old section of Fez.

American F ondouk, 1939

Daily average of large animals hospitalized 51.6
Daily average of dogs in the Pound, fed by
the Fondouk 6.2

Animals “put to sleep”—certiﬁed by the veter-
inary surgeon as incurable. These animals
have. been acquired by the Fondouk to “put

to sleep” with the consent of their owners 188
Animals hospitalized during the year 1,102
Hospitalized by us 616
Hospitalized by police 269
Hospitalized by owners 217

Number of visits of inspection to the fondouks
of the Medina, Fes-Jedid, Casbat ben Debbab,

Mellah, Souk el Khemis, Bab Jief, etc. 4,111
Animals inspected during these visits 58,926
Animals treated on the spot 7,298
Animals hospitalized 616
Number of infected pack-saddles destroyed 157
Number of Arab bits destroyed 562

(The Fondouk replaces each of these anti-
quated bits without charge to the owners
of the animals with a new, modern French
bit.)
Number of animals brought to the Fondouk
voluntarily by their owners 3,876
Animals transported in motor ambulance 93
Letter to Superintendent Delon from the

Resident General of Morocco

Region and Division of Fez,
The General

Fez, 5th January, 1940
Sir,

I have read with interest the report of
the work of your establishment during the
course of the year just completed. I am
happy to take this occasion of congratulat-
ing you on your zeal in this humanitarian
work.

I thank you very much for your good
wishes and send you mine. Please accept
my best regards.

GENERAL LAUSANNE

Fondouk Report for January—31 Days

 

Daily average large animals 50.7
Forage for same . $ 23.28
Put to sleep 13 1.37
Transportation 1.62
Daily average dogs 9.2
Forage for same 4.04
Wages, grooms, watchmen, etc. 52.51
Superintendent’s salary 100.00
Veterinaries’ salaries 17.13
Motor ambulance upkeep 4.64
Motor bicycles upkeep .80
Sundries 85.71
Actual operating expenses $291.10

Entries: 3 horses, 20 mules, 64 donkeys.

Exits: 4 horses, 13 mules, 50 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 163 horses, 77 mules, 62 don-
keys, 28 dogs, 3 cats.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: Cases Investi-
gated, 356; animals seen, 3,184; animals treated,
379; animal hospitalized by us from above, 48; pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed, 7; Arab bits destroyed,
5; animals transported in ambulance, 10; animals
sent by police, 23.

G. DELON, Superintendent

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

They Who Take the Sword
Shall Perish with the Sword

Warmongers prate in their council still,
But the young must ﬁght, and the young
must kill.

Our homes, our lands, and the dreams we
cherish
Consumed in flame, we watch them perish.

Man is the toiler whose willing hand
Furrows the loam and plants the land,

Harvests the crop over river and sedge,
Constructs a road, or builds a bridge . . .

And greets each toiler as a brother
Till wars arise, then kill each other.

Cease planning, merchants of death! Be
still!

One day the young will cease to kill——

Will cease to bend to your bloody will.

FANIA KRUGER in Unity

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

UNCLE BILLY, THE CURIOUS COB-
BLER, Clarence Hawkes.

Anybody who knows the work of this
famous blind writer, knows that anything
he Writes is intended to uplift and inspire
for better living. This new story tells about
Uncle Billy who did not measure his suc-
cess by the quantity of shoes he repaired,
but by the number of broken lives and
shattered hopes he could mend. The cobbler
shop was a haven for all who were in
trouble. Although this time Dr. Hawkes’
characters are concerned more with human
than with animal reforms, his book is too
wholesome for us to pass without this brief
notice. It is a ﬁne lesson in kindness.

176 pp. $2. Chapman & Grimes, Inc.,
Boston, Mass.

MR. SIMMIE or THE SQUARE DANCE
IN THE CLEARING, Marie E. Reddy.

'Here is a delightful, well-illustrated
storyabook for children, written by a wom-
an who has spent more than twenty years
teaching in the primary grades and has a
sympathetic understanding of children. In
“Mr. Simmie,” the author shows that she
has the ability that few possess, to write a
story for children which will appeal to
them. It is full of amusing illustrations by
Leonora Quarterman.

50 pp. $1.50. Christopher Publishing
House, Boston, Mass.

Apr. 1940

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES
It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No com.missions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.
~36 96 96 56 ~36
The management of our invested funds is

a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

Two Fine Friends
NIXON WATERMAN

The man who is without the tact
To prize both dog and cat

Must own a mind that’s single-tracked
And narrow-gauged at that.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

gbstESLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

by it.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .................. . . .
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

0- T. ANG

 

u mbAn 1'

ELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
-——COWPER

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mancv To
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mallmg at speCIal rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 73

November, 1940

No.11

 

The Massachusetts Audubon Society, call-
ing attention to the fact that only Massa-
chusetts and Connecticut are without ofﬁcial
state birds, is taking a poll for the bird to
be chosen by the Bay State. Let’s all speak

up.

If Sherman seventy-ﬁve years ago said.
war was hell, what would he call it now,
with all the deadly devices science has
given war to devastate, torture and destroy
innocent men, women and children, to say
nothing of soldiers mowed down by the
thousands?

If you were a deer you would probably
dread the open ,‘season when the hunter in-
vades your forest haunts, not so much from
fear of sudden death from his gun as from
the fear of the fatal wound which, not kill—
ing, meant that you must crawl away mor-
tally wounded, to suffer and die.

Was there ever a time in the history of
our country when every voter was under a
greater obligation to cast his ballot than
now? It is no longer a question of party.
What, as I can see it, is for the highest
good of my country no matter what my
party. The man or woman who can vote
and won’t should have the right taken
away.

Dr. William A. Sutton, nationally known
superintendent of schools in Atlanta, Geor-
gia, announces the appointment of Miss
Elise Boylston to have charge of humane
education for the schools. He says: “It is
the same type of work that she has been
doing for the past two or three years, but
I wish each teacher to know that she is
authorized to organize humane education
projects in the Atlanta public schools. I
feel that we have received great beneﬁts
from the work done by Miss Boylston, and
I wish to give it ofﬁcial recognition.”

If all our large cities had a superintend-
ent of schools as humane-minded as Dr.
Sutton there would be far less need of
prosecuting anti-cruelty societies in these
communities.

The Fate of the Nation’s
Waterfowl

ROM ofﬁcial Government reports one

learns, with sadness and surprise, that
hunters themselves are responsible for a
vast number of our waterfowl that annually
disappear as wounded cripples, never recov-
ered or retrieved by the hunter.

The report says, “The annual loss of
crippled or unretrieved birds is a very seri-
ous drain on our waterfowl. A large per-
centage is the result of attempts to bag
birds beyond the effective range of the
gun.” The report continues, “The fact can—
not be ignored that it is dreadfully poor
business to allow one-fourth of the total
annual kill of waterfowl to be wasted in
such fashion”—that is, hunters who are
willing to ﬁre at birds so far away that in
all probability there is no chance of killing
them, only of wounding them—to ﬂy away
and die ultimately.

In many cases birds have been supposed
to die of starvation, but the report of which
we speak says that “in one section 41 ducks,
supposed to have died of starvation, were
found and, after having been given critical
laboratory examination, 20 were discovered
to have died from lead poisoning; the re-
maining 21 birds had died from other
causes but showed the characteristic lesions
of lead poisoning.”

In another section, of 123 dead mallards
found, “while there was plenty of food in
their crops this could not be digested be-
cause of paralysis of the muscles from lead
poisoning. All but one of the 123 ducks
contained shot. Although one gizzard con-
tained 22 pellets, 55 others showed but one
shot each,” and it is becoming, we are told,
increasingly evident that where starvation
may be the immediate cause of death, the
real cause, in many instances, is due to the
poisoning from the lead that has entered
the body. The hunter known as a “real
sportsman” does not shoot at game unless
he is reasonably sure he can kill and not
just wound.

Trapped for Their Fur Annu-
ally in the United States

HE United States Department of the

Interior has just published an elabor—
ate pamphlet telling, as far as possible, the
number of animals caught for their fur
annually in the United States. The ﬁgures
are accurate as far as it has been possible
to make them so.

Twenty-three of the states, however, do
not demand from trappers a report of the
number of animals taken. In such cases the
information has had to come largely from
the dealers in fur. Some states require re—
ports on only one or two species of animals,
and in many cases persons trapping on
their own land and boys under a certain
age are not required to obtain licenses and
therefore do not make reports. In some
states that require reports the regulations
are not very strictly enforced. Because of
these conditions the information on the
number of fur animals taken in the various
states is scanty and, in some cases, not fully
dependable.

Alabama, for instance, does not require
trappers and fur dealers to report on the
annual take or handling of fur, and there-
fore no information has been obtained from
that state. In Indiana the state law re-
quires only licensed fur buyers to report
annually on the furs purchased. Kansas
requires no trappers to make returns. That
is true of Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi,
Missouri, Montana and many others. How—
ever, the total number which this Govern—
ment Department has been able to esti-
mate, without deﬁnite ﬁgures from twenty-
three states, is 16,580,788.

In many states that require trappers to
furnish annual reports, it is said that there
are few instances where a very high return
is obtained. The Department does not even
attempt to make a guess at the number of
animals destroyed for furs beyond those
which it has been able to report. One can
only imagine what the total number really
must be.

 

 




 

Dec. 1940

For Every Cat Its Own Purr
NANCY BYRD TURNER

For every cat its own pnrr,
That is very plain.

My “Thomas” makes a roaring
Like a far freight train;

I know a yellow kitten
(A cat of just renown)

That winds up like a small watch
And keeps on running down.

“Tabby” has a deep tune;
Old gray “Bob”

Hams the way a kettle
Hams on a hob;

For every cat its own purr,
And every purr, ’twould seem,
Is chock-full of comfort
As milk is full of cream!

“Whitey,” the Skunk

L. D. CHAPMAN

HEN I ﬁrst made the acqaintance

of “Whitey,” she was the most be-
draggled looking skunk I ever saw. I was
passing a straw stack in the barnyard, one
sloppy spring morning, when I saw her
crawling along the edge of the stack. Later
in the morning, as I was again passing
the stack, I noticed that she was still there.
I paused at a safe distance to look her over.

It was then that I discovered that one
hind leg had been severed close to the joint.
The stump was raw and bleeding. One
front foot had been badly mangled in a

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

trap. She was so plastered with mud that
one couldn’t tell if she was black, white or
mud—colored.

I went to the house- and procured a piece
of meat which I carried out to Whitey.
When she saw me approaching, Whitey
squared herself, ready to give battle. I
didn’t go too close, but tossed the meat to
her. She must have been nearly starved
for she pounced on the meat and ate rav-
enously.

The next morning, as I was passing the
stack, Whitey poked her head out' of a hole
and looked at me, seeming to say, “Where’s
my breakfast?”

I went to the house and got some more
meat which I tossed down before Whitey.
Every morning after that, I always carried
a piece of meat for her. She was always
looking for it, and it wasn’t long until she
would hob-ble to meet me. Whitey never
showed the least inclination to spray me
with her odorous perfume, but continued to
meet me every day in a friendly fashion.
In a few weeks, Whitey’s legs were healed,
she had cleaned herself up, and was snow
white, except for a small black patch on
her head.

My barn was overrun with mice and one
day I determined to take Whitey in, hoping
she might clean them out.

When she came to meet me one morning,
I picked her up by the tail and carried her
to the barn. As I sat her down, I made a
quick jump to get out the way before she
could spray me.

However, Whitey didn’t try to retaliate,
but turned her attention on a bag of grain
which stood close by. In less than a minute
she had caught a mouse as he came out of
a hole in the bag.

I had several cats in the
barn, who were star board-
ers, but they never bothered
anything, not even a mouse.
I kept a basin in the barn,
and every milking time I
ﬁlled it with milk for the
cats. It was not long until
Whitey learned to drink milk
along with the cats.

When Whitey heard the
milk pails rattle, she would
come and sit by the basin
until it was ﬁlled, then she
would lap up the milk like
one of the cats.

The cats never seemed to
object to her presence and it
was not long before they
were all good friends.

By the time Whitey had
been in the barn a month,
the mice were pretty well
cleaned out, but still she
stayed. Her crippled condi-
tion made it hard for her to
travel and she seemed per-
fectly contented in the barn.
I kept Whitey for several
years, and in all that time
I never saw her offer to
spray any one with her per-
fume. She was friendly with
every one and one of the
most affectionate pets I ever

IN SAFE AND SNUG RETREAT had.

Page 187

Cowper’s Love of Animals
MARGARET HOLLEY TUCK

PPRECIATIONS of the poet William

Cowper do not always mention his pro-
tective concern for animals; but anyone
who peruses his verse and letters discovers
a rare friend to the animal world.

The poet’s own life—such a mixture of
gay humor, melancholia, even madness—
drew many of its happier hours from
friends in fur and feather. There were
the eight pair of tame pigeons perched on
the garden wall daily awaiting breakfast
at his hands. There was his kitten—“the
drollest of all creatures that ever were a
cat’s skin.” There was his dog, “Beau,” a
spaniel of high pedigree, who, for his de-
votion and cleverness in outwitting the
master’s attempt to procure a water lily
has been exalted in the poem, “The Dog
and the Water-Lily”:

Charmed with the sight, “The world,” I
cried,
“Shall hear of this thy deed;
My dog shall mortify the pride
Of man’s superior breed.
But chief myself I will enjoin——
Awake at dnty’s call,
To show a love as! prompt as thine
To Him who gives me all.”

“Puss,” “Tiney,” and “Bess,” three hares

which shortened Cowper’s convalescence
from one illness, give us more intimate in-
sight into the mutual quality of the poet’s
animal friendships. The details of his care
for the physical needs of these pets—his
own carpentering of their houses, his minute
attention to both their needs and tastes in
diet, are worthy of a professional rabbit
raiser. More than this, he treated them
with regard as distinct “personalities”:
Puss, “familiar,” “happier in human so—
ciety than when shut up with his natural
companions.” Tiney? “. . . the kindest treat-
ment had not the least eﬂ’ect. . . He was,
however, very entertaining in his way;
even his surliness was matter of mirth, . .”
Bess, “. . . a hare of great humor and
drollery.” When the poet had nursed Puss
through a three days’ illness, he observed:

“N o creature could be more grateful than
my patient after his recovery; a senti—
ment which he most signiﬁcantly expressed
by licking my hand, ﬁrst the back of it,
then the palm, then every ﬁnger separately,
then between all the ﬁngers, as if anxious
to leave no part of it unsaluted; a cere—
mony which he never performed but once
again upon a similar occasion.”

It is easy for us to understand how Cow—
per’s friendship with these hares led him
to speak against the chase:

“It is no wonder that my intimate ac—
quaintance with these specimens of the
kind has taught me to hold the sports-
man’s amusement in abhorrence; be little
knows what amiable creatures he perse—
cutes, of what gratitude they are capable,
how cheerful they are in their spirits, what
enjoyment they have of life, and that, im-
pressed as they seem with a peculiar dread
of man, it is only because man gives them
peculiar cause for it.”

Again, in verse, Cowper devotes lines of
his celebrated poem, “The Task,” to pro-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 91;
Elm Earth nf ﬂint};

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society Will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the preSI-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One thousand and thirty-eight new
Bands of Mercy were organized during
April. Of these, 559 were in Illinois, 99 in
Georgia, 78 in Rhode Island, 78 in Texas,
58 in Florida, 51 in South Carolina, 47 in
New York, 45 in Virginia, 13 in Pennsyl-
vania, eight in Washington, and two in
Massachusetts.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 250,565.

“As the Twig is Bent”

L. A. BOYD

URING the past year the Junior Hu-

mane Club of Union High School in
Grand Rapids, compiled a resume of the
humane laws of the state of Michigan. The
task required more than six months of work.
When completed, it was examined and ap-
proved by Gerald McShane, member of the
Board of Governors of the Kent County
Humane Society. Later the compilation was
sent to the superintendents of the schools
in Grand Rapids and East Grand Rapids.

This spring a simultaneous announce-
ment came from the two school heads to
the effect that beginning in the fall of 1940
a study of the humane laws of the state
would be included as supplementary mate-
rial in the courses offered in civics and
social sciences in the eighth and ninth
grades.

The Grand Rapids Council of the Parent
Teacher Association has been urging this
step for some time as part of its program
of humane education. It is believed that this
is the ﬁrst time that the humane laws have
been included as an integral part of the
material for study in the public schools.

Surely there is a suggestion here of a
worth-while project for other Parent—
Teacher Associations or humane organiza-
tions.

An “Esteemed Contem-
porary”

The Be Kind to Animals issue of Pet
News, for April 10, edited by Frank Kiemle,
twelve, and Sally Kiemle, sixteen, 6515 S.
Keeler Ave., Chicago, was most commend-
able, with twelve large pages of interesting
and appropriate verse, anecdotes, and draw-
1ngs. The ambitious publishers generously
offer to send this unique periodical to any-
one wishing to have his name on the mailing
list. They will appreciate, however, contri-
butions to help defray expenses.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 191,0

Broadcasting on Station KGO, San Francisco

Jennings Pierce, Western Division Edu-
cational Director for the National Broad-
casting Co., recently held class for students
of the Frank McCoppin School, San Fran-
cisco. Six children brought their pets to the
KGO-KPO studios for a “Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week” broadcast, and Mr. Pierce
picked R. Donald Weber and Jacklyn Dar—

 

 

New Use for a Grand Piano

CONSTANCE MORSE

MONG the most famous birds in the

world are the Blue Rock pigeons of
Venice. These ﬂutter around the beautiful
piazza of Saint Mark’s which is set like a
jewel in the midst of glittering cathedral,
palace and the blue waters of the Grand
Canal. When, at two o’clock in the after-
noon, the city oflicially feeds them, they ﬂy

in by hundreds from all parts of the Island
City.

The story is told that centuries ago,
when the Venetian Republic conquered Con-
stantinope, thus causing its downfall, it
was a Blue Rock pigeon that brought to
Venice the glad news of victory.

.Their American neighbors, the Boston
plgeons, are equally tame and sociable.
From my studio on the top ﬂoor of Steinert
Hall I have often seen them circling above
or alighting on the broad window-ledge to
sun themselves at noonday.

One morning when spring was in the air,
I unlocked the studio door at an early hour
and found a window had been already
raised. A grand piano stood near by, and
on theocover was perched a pair of plump
gray pigeons, perfectly at home and not at
all embarrassed at having intruded. As I
greeted them, they cooed politely, so wish-
1ng to make their visit quite enjoyable, I

 

Photo by Robert Crawford

ling to pose with him. Other speakers on the
program were Charles W. Friedrichs, sec-
retary-manager of the San Francisco S. P.
C. A., and Miss Efﬁe Smith, principal of
the McCoppin School, noted for her organ-
ization of the “Chums Club,” dedicated to
friendship and understanding between chil-
dren and their pets.

 

opened both windows wide, and retired to a
second piano at the back of the room, leav-
ing the larger one to the birds. This seemed
to strike them as a happy hunting ground,
and paying no attention to musical sounds
or my society, they promenad‘ed on the
wires, taking several short ﬂights into the
open, but always returning to further ex-
plore the mechanism of the instrument.

Finally the lady ﬂew down to the interior
of the piano and settled into one of the little
compartments that divide the strings into
sections. All I could see was her smooth
iridescent head just appearing above the
instrument’s rim. When, a little later, I
went over and gently stroked her feathers
she accepted the tribute graciously and to
show we were friends moved a little, and
there beside her in the piano was a small
cream—colored egg. The second pigeon had
been standing importantly on one leg on the
window-sill, proudly contemplating his wife,
and now, feeling he had done his duty, he
took to the world again. ,

A box ﬁlled with sawdust was procured
in which was deposited the tiny egg and
it was carried to the ﬂat roof above in hopes
that 'its owner, after leaving her present
apartment, would ﬁnd it and take charge of
her property. She seemed disinclined just
then, however, to resume her maternal re-
sponsibilities and shortly followed her mate
out into the blue. I saw them no more.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 1940
A Friend

Sometimes when life has gone wrong with
you,
And the world seems a dreary place,
Has your dog ever silently crept to your
feet,
His yearning eyes turned to your face—
Has he made you feel that he understands,
And all that he asks of you
Is to share your lot, be it good or ill,
With a chance to be loyal and true?
Are you branded a failure? He does not
know—
A sinner? He does not care—
You’re “master” to him—that’s all that
counts—
A word, and his day is fair.
Your birth and your station are nothing to
him;
A palace and a hut are the same—
And his love is yours, in honor and peace,
And it’s yours through disaster or shame.
Though others forget you, and pass you by,
He is ever your faithful friend——
Who is ready to give you the best that is
his.
Unstintedly to the end.

ESTHER BIRDSALL DARLING in Up in Alaska

A Word from Ireland

For some years we have been sending a
small gift of money, from a fund for that
purpose, to a devoted friend of animals in
Ireland, Michael O’Connor, for humane
work. Mr. O’Connor travels through many
sections of that country, visiting fairs,
various counties where horses and mules
are used and, endorsed by the Dublin So-
ciety, has been an apostle of mercy to hun-
dreds of unfortunate beasts and the sower
of the seeds of kindness in many hearts.
Letters have come to us from prominent
people to whom he has given copies of Our
Dumb Animals and of our humane calen-
dars, expressing hearty appreciation of
them. Proprietors of hotels have gladly
placed the calendar where it can be seen,
and report that tourists read it as well as
our magazine.

One Solitary Life

ERE is a man who was born in an

obscure village, the child of a peasant
woman. He grew up in another village.
He worked in a carpenter shop until he was
30, and then, for three years, he was an
itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book.
He never held an ofﬁce. He never owned a
home. He never had a family. He never
went to college. He never put his feet in-
side a big city. He never traveled 200 miles
from the place where he was born. He
never did one of the things that usually
accompany greatness. He had no creden-
tials but himself.

While still a young man the tide of pri-
vate opinion turned against him. His friends
ran away. One of them denied him. He
was turned over to his enemies. He went
through the mockery of a trial. He was
nailed to a cross between two thieves. His
executioners gambled for the only piece of
property he had on earth while he was dy-
ing, and that was his coat. When he was
dead he was taken down and laid in a bor-
rowed grave through the pity of a friend.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 91

 

JACK MINER, MRS. MINER AND A FAVORITE DOG AT THEIR HOME,
KINGSVILLE, ONTARIO

 

Nineteen wide centuries have come and
gone and today he is the centerpiece of the
human race and the leader of the column of
progress.

I am far within the mark when I say that
all the armies that ever marched, and all
the navies that were ever built, and all the
parliaments that ever sat, and all the kings
that ever reigned, put together, have not
affected the life of man upon this earth as

has that One Solitary Life! ANON

Proposed Michigan Law
HAROLD ERNEST LEWIS

Proposed legislation in the state of
Michigan would legalize the killing of dogs,
and would provide a ﬁve dollar bounty to
the killer for all dogs destroyed that were
suspected of destroying or injuring prop-
erty or of killing livestock. The way the
bill is drafted, a dog does: not have to be a
proven offender, but merely a suspect. If
such vicious, ill—conceived legislation should
go through, any hunting license holder
could travel about the state killing dogs at
will, and collecting a ﬁve dollar bounty for
each dog killed. The irony of the situation
lies in the fact that the bounty fee would
come out of county funds paid by dog
owners for license fees. Thus, the very
money that was paid to license your pet
might eventually go to your dog’s moronic
murderer. Under this proposed law, your
dog could legally be shot for passing
through a neighbor’s garden or across his
lawn. Dog owners and humane societies
everywhere should ﬁght against this asi-
nine bill tooth and nail, and should be on
the alert in their home state to stamp out
such petty, unnecessary legislation, before
it becomes a law. One can but wonder at
the type of people we elect to our law-mak-
ing bodies. Bills, such as this, must be con-
ceived in callous, sadistic brains. It is bad
enough to have to destroy humanely dogs
that are proved killers of livestock, but hu-
manity must have degenerated tremend-
ously when civilized people living in a
progressive state, will even consider such
an abominable bill.

A Spot Untouched by War

Editorial in Toronto Globe and Mail

RECENTLY, Jack Miner’s bird sanctu—
ary at Kingsville provided a picture
that is pleasant to contemplate in these
troubled times. With Hon. James H. Crom-
well, United States Minister to Canada, as-
sociated with Jack Miner as host, 1,000
children from the neighboring country were
welcomed. Why?

The Minister and the children were there
to greet a man who is protecting instead of
killing wild birds. For Mr. Cromwell, it
must have been a relief to shake off for a
while thoughts of the grim possibilities of
war, the worries of politics—and, no doubt,
the perils that beset diplomacy—to contem-
plate a scene in which there was continuing
peace, disturbed only by the arrival of vast
flocks of migratory birds who had learned
where they were safe and welcome; a stop-
over at a half-way house on: the long jour-
ney back to their Canadian summer home.

The Minister, who is keenly interested in
the conservation of wild life, also has a bird
sanctuary on his New Jersey estate, and he
wanted to see how Jack Miner attracted
and entertained his feathered guests. In
keeping with his determination to see a lot
of Canada, Mr. Cromwell visited Kingsville
and had an enjoyable experience.

A word about the thousand children who
were at Kingsville at the same time. Their
lives will be affected by what they saw.
They will show kindness to animals and
birds; convinced that if the wild life of this
country is not to disappear it must be pro-
tected, given sanctuary as at Kingsville.
That is a lesson worth learning in youth——

and, in youth, is the time it may best be

learned.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Since the above article was printed
Mr. Cromwell has resigned as U. S. Minister to
Canada in order to become a candidate for the U. S.
Senate from New Jersey.

The sixty-fourth annual meeting of the
American Humane Association will be held
in Omaha, Nebraska, from Monday, Sept.
23, to Friday, Sept. 27, 1940. The conven-
tion headquarters will be at Hotel Paxton.

 




 

 

Sept. 1940

The Lamb

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Surely I thought the little lamb
Couldn’t die this day,

The sun was in the pasture,
Death must be far away.

I tried to feed the ailing lamb,

I put him in the sun

Where he could see the other lambs,
Could watch them jump and run.

It seemed the blackbirds called for him,
Bell clear their voices rang,
And all red—throated linnets
Sat on the twigs and sang.

The sky was soft as his own fleece,
He didn’t seem to know
That spring had brought a singing day
Until the sun was low.

He stood upon his trembling legs,
His violet eyes were glass,
He walked to where the golden sun
Lay golden on the grass.

He stood there for a long, long time
Before he bent his knees,

He did not ever close his eyes,—

I wonder what he sees! . . .

Animals in Air Raids
JANET HOLYOAKE

HERE is an organization in England

to protect all animals during air raids.
It is called the National Animal Air Raid
Precautions Committee and has been
founded by Colonel R. J. Stordy whose won-
derful work for animal welfare is probably
well known even as far from our shores as
America.

To facilitate the working of the scheme,
each district is under the supervision of a
Chief Animal Guard, who is responsible
for ﬁnding nine other Animal Guards to
work under her. These Guards are issued
with collecting boxes—the work is entirely
voluntary but even the smallest contribu-
tion to maintain it is gladly received—reg-
istration books, and bundles of white bone
discs marked on one side with the blue red
cross of the N.A.A.R.P.C. and on the other
with the animal’s registration number.
When a disc is given, the name and address
of the animal’s owner and the animal’s own
pet name, are carefully recorded in dupli-
cate, in the registration book. As these
books are completed, the Chief Guard keeps
a record of the addresses in her district and
the second copy is sentto the organization’s
headquarters in London.

All pets that have been registered have
of course to wear their discs attached to
their collars. Owners of cats are advised
to make little elastic collars that would
quickly slip off, should the cat get hung up
on the branches of a tree. If any of these
registered animals are lost or injured dur-
ing an air raid, their white disc makes
them easily spotted and the registration
number gives instant indication of the dis-
trict from which they come and they can
be either attended to by the Animal Guards
if they are hurt, or quickly returned to
their owner again.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

All injured animals
that have been regis-
tered, whether they be
domestic pets or farm
stock, are given free
veterinary attentio n.
Mobile units have been
formed headed by a
qualiﬁed veterinary
surgeon and armed
with a motor trailer
and humane-killer guns
of various sizes. These
units are ready to go
at a moment’s notice to
any district in a town
or to any out-lying
farm or village in the
country and give assist—
ance to wounded ani—
mals. Those that re-
quire special nursing
are taken in the trailer
to the nearest animal
hospital or should any
of them be beyond vet—
erinary aid, they can
be quickly and merci—
fully destroyed with
the humane—killers.

The C h i ef Animal
Guard has also to ar-
range for casualty
posts to be established
throughout her district,
Where small animals,
such as cats and dogs,

, _A.';J—..__’ ""‘77;~, ::_‘*,::‘A, :4" . "v;‘~_ "’ ‘ "‘ ’*" ' '

Page 139

 

Copyright, 1940, by Lloyd G. Miller
CHOIR PRACTICE

 

which are lost, or in-

jured, may be taken until their owner
has been fOund or veterinary help has
arrived. In the towns this is a fairly simple
matter as only one or two posts have been
found necessary and these have been made
as far as possible at the veterinary surger-
ies. But in the country a post is needed in
every small village. However, people have
risen to the occasion with wonderful gener-
osity and in many cases farmers’ wives,
whose husbands are already members of
the mobile units, have kindly offered their
services and have cleared barns and out—
buildings and prepared them for casualties
or wanderers.

As yet, we are glad to say, not very
many animals have been injured, but a
large number have beneﬁted by the regis-
tration scheme and countless are the tales
of dogs and cats who have got lost in un—
familiar “evacuated” surroundings, and
have been speedily and safely returned to
their owners.

Old Barn

LOUISE DARCY

Tear down the old gray barn
Where still the swallows wheel,
Feeding their clamorous young,
Greedy for every meal.

The barn is leaning now

And soon its sides will fall,
Forcing the swallow brood
To leave their rooftree tall.

The swallows soon will find
Another rafter home,

But I shall miss this barn
Where swallows used to come.

The Abandoned Pet

MINA M. TITUS

, C ATS and dogs sense when packing be—

gins and are heartbroken to be neg—
lected and forgotten. They see the fam—
ily car disappear, leaving food and water
dishes that soon become empty and remain
so. However much they cry and call, or
how long and patiently they wait, the
always—before—friendly door to their home
never opens. Trusting-1y they curl up in
rain or wind only to renew persistently the
pitiful, hungry calls.

If you can’t take your pets with you,
don’t be so cruel as to leave them to starve
or forage in the neighborhood garbage cans
for sustenance. Provide them with a tem-
porary home in the care of some person who
likes animals, or take them to some home to
be boarded during your absence.

And never, never get a new pet, especially
a kitten, while on your vacation at camp
or cottage and then when it has been loved
and petted for a few weeks go back home
and leave it to the mercies of woodland or
seaside. Every fall countless numbers of
such cats and dogs are seen—gaunt, wild-
eyed, hungry and cold, as winter winds and
snows threaten. They haunt the familiar
camp locality until driven abroad to keep
from starving or freezing.

Lonely tracks in the ﬁrst fall of snow tell
a sad story of frightened, questing paws
that is heart-touching to a lover of animals.

What a way to reward the love these
tiny, trusting creatures bestow on their
human owners! Don’t do it . . . Be kind,
as they are faithful.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society, Boston, in your will.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

May, 191,0

“Barney”
NATHANIEL KRUM

Dear old “Barney,” you’re laid of,
No more collars on your neck,
No more tugging at the trace
As you travel at our beck.

Yonder barn is packed with hay,
And the crib is full of corn,
Grass and clover carpet ﬁelds
Where you’ve grazed since you were
born.

Spend your moments peacefully,
Feed at leisure, rest at will,
We have pensioned you for life

And no longer need your skill.

How Old Is the Horse?

HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

DO you know that the horse is probably
the oldest of man’s helpers? And that
when the ﬁrst man came upon earth the
horse had been here ages before him? Yes,
the horse is so old nobody can tell just how
old he is. Millions and millions of years,
and then presumably millions more.

For along with the great dinosaurs,
whose tremendous skeletons, sometimes
measure seventy-ﬁve feet in length, there
came the ﬁrst horses. But, oh, very dif-
ferent from our horses. So different that
quite likely we would not recognize them
as being horses at all.

Their bones were ﬁrst found out in the
rocks of our middle west. And when put to-
gether, the wise men who found them and
who knew the characteristics of most of the
animal families, said, “Look, here, this
must be the ancestor of our modern horse.”
But, instead of being big like the dinosaur,
he was little. Only about as large as a dog
or a boy’s rocking horse. And instead of
having a hoof as the horse has today, he
had ﬁve toes on each foot. “This then,”
continued the learned discoverers, “we will
call the dawn horse, since, long before man,
he came way back in the dawn of animal
life.” And as nowhere else in the world
were the bones of the dawn horse found,
they stated that North America was the
home of the ﬁrst horses.

But now other learned men, digging for
signs of ancient life in the river valleys of
India, have uncovered bones of these same
dawn horses.

Way over there in India, if you please.
“And how did they get here?” they asked.
Which question is a real puzzler, isn’t it?

But then they remembered that the
North American dawn horses were living
here long before the ice-age, that age
which was noted for the enormous ice-
sheets that swept down from the north
over central and eastern North America
and either destroyed in their path all life
or else sent it migrating elsewhere. So
these swift little horses must have gone on
the march, seeking a warmer climate and
grasses on which they could feed. And as
in those remote ages what is water now
might have been land then, some way they
traveled on until ﬁnding luxuriant plants
and grasses around the rivers of India,

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

The “Mountie” Dismounts
W. J. BANKS

 

 

LOOKING WEST UP BOW VALLEY FROM TOP OF SULPHUR MOUNTAIN,
BANFF NATIONAL PARK, CANADA (SUNDOWN)

 

they settled down to live. Nor did they
return to America. Instead, they remained
in Asia, continuing to develop strength and
size until there came to be the ﬁne horses
we know today. Horses that can carry
heavy burdens. Horses that can charge in
battle. Horses that can plow vast ﬁelds.
Horses that can jump barriers or gallop
gallantly across the turf. Horses so won-
derful that the land is dotted with statues
of famous horses and riders.

But you may ask if the ice-age destroyed
all of the dawn horses that remained, how
did it happen when the early colonists went
out to make homes for themselves in the
West, they found wild horses rushing up
cliffs and across plains?

Yes, here they were, the wild horses, but
descendants not of the ancient and orig-
inal dawn horses but of the Spanish horses
that had been brought to South and Cen-
tral America by Coronado and Cortez.

So, from the ﬁrst dawn horse to the road
and draft horses we know today, there is
one of the oldest and most fascinating his—
tories of any of our domestic animals.
Think of it the next time you see a white
horse drawing a load of hay.

Kindness Rewarded

One day a poor Macedonian soldier was
leading a mule heavily laden with gold be-
fore Alexander, for presentation to him.
The beast had become so weary under the
weight, however, that the soldier had not
the heart to urge him to complete even a
short distance to make delivery. So the
soldier transferred the load to his own
back. With staggering difﬁculty he made
some advance, but the, too, soon began to
sink under the burden. Alexander, seeing,
rewarded this kind mule driver: “Friend,
do not be weary yet. Try to carry it quite
through to thy tent; for it is all thy own.”

MARGARET HOLLY TUCK

T is difﬁcult to think of the Royal Can—

adian Mounted Policeman without his

horse. But, as a matter of fact, the fa-
mous force which has so appealed to the
imagination of Canadians and Americans
alike, is today largely dismounted. Police
duties have changed considerably since the
hard-riding frontier days and the modern
oﬂicer needs something faster than a horse
to catch the up-to-date criminal.

A force of 2,600 mounted policemen to-
day have only about 150 mounts! The faith-
ful steed has been replaced in the every-day
duties of the Mounties by mechanized equip-
ment. Radio—equipped autos and motor-
cycles patrol highways and follow up
criminal investigation work. Sailor “Mount-
ies” pursue coastal smugglers in fast power
boats and ﬂying “Mounties” cover vast dis-
tances in the far north in up-to-date air-
craft. Sledge dogs are still used in the
arctic and sub-arctic, but in all the vast
northern territories not a single police horse
remains.

However, in the remaining mounted sec-
tions the standard of training is still high
and the well-kept and well-treated horses
are one of the force’s chief prides even
today. They often appear in guards of
honor and perform their famous musical
ride at shows, sometimes visiting United
States cities. Tourists may see a scarlet-
coated horseman patrolling government
property at Ottawa or the motor roads in
the mountain parks. This mounted con-
stable has chosen the top of Sulphur Moun-
tain in Banff National Park for a twilight
chat with a befeathered tribesman whose
cayuse contrasts sharply with the well-
groomed police horse.

The mounted squads are not maintained
merely for their appeal to tourists. Care-
fully trained in mob control, they may be
despatched to any part of Canada where
local authorities fear disorder because of
strikes, etc. Experienced police ofﬁcials feel
that the place of the horse in the enforce-
ment of law and order is still an important
one.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 88

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
two lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed enveZOpe with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Massachusetts S.P.C.A.
and Public Health

E wonder how many people in

Massachusetts have the remotest
idea of what thousands of them owe to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals in the matter of
health.

The inspection of the meat that goes into
many markets is poor enough at best—in
many cases it has been little more than a
farce. For years this Society carried on a
campaign of investigation of the slaughter-
houses of the State, where too frequently
the only inspection of the meat was made
by any townsman the selectmen might
appoint; it might be a painter, even the
son of a butcher utterly imcompetent to do
the work. A great deal of that has been
changed, in many cases, chieﬂy due to the
work of our agents, who insisted upon the
law regarding this matter of inspection
being enforced.

Our agents are at all places where food
animals are brought for sale or slaughter.
Last year we inspected, in various centers,
656,257. Seriously injured cattle, sheep and
swine are put to sleep and not allowed to
be taken to a slaughter-house where it is
possible the meat might get by some un-
principled inspector. Of course, meat passed
by the Federal Government—may be con-
sidered safe, and such meat goes into our
better homes. The class that is liable to
suffer most is that which is unable to buy
the very highest grade and has to take
what certain markets are willing to offer
for sale.

Please Read This

Bishop Quayle was a well—known Metho-
dist bishop. Once during a dark and troub-
led day, somewhat like our own, when it
seemed as if God had forgotten the world,
after tossing about on his bed till midnight,
sleepless and oppressed with anxiety, he
seemed to hear the voice of God which said,
“Quayle, go to sleep; I’ll sit up the rest of
the night.”

Many of us might do well, in times like
these, if we had the imagination of the
bishop.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Dog’s Dlet
And the Status of Commercial Dog Foods

HROUGHOUT time immemorial the
household pet has been fed scraps from
the table which were bolstered by what
small game the dog might catch, or by what
it could ﬁnd or steal in the way of food. A
decrease in the size of the average family,
and a change in the mode of, buying foods,
especially meats, has reduced what is left
from the table to precious little food of nu-
tritive value to the dog. The urban dweller
has been forced, then, to buy foods, usually
meat, for the speciﬁc purpose of feeding the
household pet. Consequently, the dog’s diet—
ary has been changed from a little of every-
thing that his master ate (which made a
well-balanced ration) to whatever was left
in the house which was usually some form
of cereal, perhaps bolstered by hamburger.
The normal mature dog, which gets a
moderate amount of sunshine and outdoor
exercise, may be fed a very crude and sim-
ple diet and still continue in excellent
health.

The ideal diet for the dog should consist,
basically, of raw or slightly cooked meat,
with fat included, a portion of which should
be organic such as liver, heart, kidney or
tripe, to which is added a whole wheat cere—
al like shredded wheat, farina, or stale
whole wheat bread, and soft, non—ﬁbrous
vegetables. The growing dog requires the
addition of cod liver oil, or irradiated yeast
to this diet, and if outdoor exercise is re-
stricted, these supplements should be in-
cluded for the adult animal.

Unless an approach to this ideal can be
accomplished the dog is actually better off if
it is fed a canned dog food that is scientiﬁ-
cally compounded and honestly prepared.
Also, foods of this ilk may properly be fed
as “emergency” rations to take the place
of household food, but should not be fed as
the “meat ration” bolstered by bread or
other cereals. If they are supplemented: by
household foods, these should include meat,
fats, or soft non-ﬁbrous vegetables.

It has been stated that the American
people buy annually, approximately 500,-
000,000 pounds (1937 census) of commer-
cial dog food at a cost of some $26,000,000.
A large proportion of this is inferior food,
in many instances harmful. The dog owner
has had to rely mainly on the advertised
virtues of this or that “brand,” when it has
become necessary to buy prepared foods.
This situation has made it difﬁcult for the
dog owner and also for the legitimate
manufacturer of good and wholesome food.

Members of our veterinary staff have re-
frained from passing judgment on the vari-
ous prepared foods, and it is not their poli-
cy now to recommend any particular food.
However, our veterinarians are now in a
position to state that those foods that have
been granted the “Seal of approval” by the
American Animal Hospital Association
Committee on Foods, in co-operation with
The American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation and their Advisory Scientiﬁc Coun-
sel, may be safely recommended. This Coun-
sel consists of ﬁve eminent authorities on
animal nutrition associated with ﬁve lead-
ing universities. The Committee is com-
posed of veterinarians experienced in the
care and feeding of dogs. Therefore, a
dog food carrying the “Seal” reading—

Jane,1940

Tested and Approved
As represented on the container
American Animal Hospital Association
in co-operation with
The American Veterinary Medical Association

(Seal)
is assurance that it is a wholesome food
and is adequate when fed as advised in
the printed directions on the container.

Cruelty at the Race Track

That more or less cruelty is bound to
occur wherever horses are used for work or
pleasure, or in the army or on the race-
track, no real lover of the horse will deny.
It is not every owner of the horse who sees
to it that under no circumstances shall any
ill-treatment be permitted. That many a
so-called two-year-old has been seriously
injured by being raced while too immature
to stand the strain on bone and tendon, is
also true.

Certainly one of the most frequent acts
of cruelty at the race-track is that to which
the more or less broken-down or crippled
horse, perhaps after a period: of valiant
service, is temporarily patched up and sent
to the track. If some thorough and effective
means could be put into operation by ofﬁ—
cials of the country’s tracks to prevent this
all too common practice, one of the severest
criticisms of horse—racing would cease to be
made against it.

New Peril to Waterfowl

A Bill, Senate 3611, has been introduced
in Congress to permit the baiting of water-
fowl. That means the hunter can plant
food, to which the birds will be attracted,
while he hides in his shelter and kills them.
The real sportsman is supposed to give his
game a fair chance against his skill. The
brutal killer would trap his game and then
murder it. This practice has been outlawed
by the United States Biological Survey. The
Emergency Conservation Committee calls
this practice “Murder from Ambush.” All
protests should be sent to the Honorable
Ellison Smith, Chairman, Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry, United States
Senate, Washington, D. C.

The Springfield Auxiliary

We have time, just as we go to press, for
a single word with regard to the annual
meeting of the Springﬁeld Auxiliary, which
was held on Thursday, May 9, at the Long-
meadow Country Club, Longmeadow, Massa-
chusetts.

A large number were present, and the
reports from the various committees gave
evidence of an unusual amount of most
interesting work done by the organization.
To the service of this group of devoted and
interested women, the Hospital in Spring-
ﬁeld and the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals are great-
ly indebted. The president, Mrs. Morton B.
Miner, is worthy of all praise for her skill-
ful leadership.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke and Presi-
dent Rowley were present, and spoke, ex-
pressing their hearty appreciation of the
splendid work of the Auxiliary.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest local editors to republish. Such copies
will be made good by us upon application.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
stage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Entered as second-class matter, June
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of po

0E0 T

umb

u, S.Trade Mark, Registered
, A

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

N ONEVEH ED,

 

GLORY TO
GOD,
.PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 'r‘o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Boston Oﬂ‘ice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 73

August, 1940

No. 8

 

The broadcast about high-bred dogs being
shipped here from England, which has re-
sulted in a multitude of inquiries pouring
into several humane societies, is dealt with
in another column.

What a host of unfortunate family pets
——dogs, cats, birds—have suffered and are
still to suffer from this devastating and
cruel war. Homes destroyed, their owners
wandering without food even for them-
selves, much less for their animals. One
can only hope that these sad creatures can—
not suffer the mental and spiritual anguish
those who have cared for them and loved
them must know.

Is there anything connected with this
war, deadliest in its cruelties and horrors
beyond all that men have known, for which
the faintest spark of gratitude may be
kindled? Yes—iron, steel, oil, gasolene have
so taken the places of horses and mules
that now, as compared with the past, only
a few of these faithful servants of man
are doomed to mutilation and death on
ﬁelds of battle.

No less than 180 newspaper clippings
relating to the 1940 animal poster contest
conducted by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
in the schools of the state have been re—
ceived at the ofﬁce of the Society. This
shows how great is the interest of the
pupils and the school oﬂicials in this annual
event. Many children, no doubt, are already
looking forward to the contest for 1941,
the terms of which will be announced in
the January number of Our Dumb Animals.

The Federal refuge system for wild life
has steadily been growing since President
Theodore Roosevelt began it by setting
aside Pelican Island, Florida, for that pur-
pose in 1900. July 1, 1933, approximately
1,600,000 acres of land, we are told, were
embraced in the system, and at the present
time something like 13,500,000 acres are
included; and to these other refuges are
constantly being added. The desert game
ranges vary in size from 15,000 to over
2,000,000 acres.

Where Shall Wisdom be
Found?

AVE you listened to the speeches, the

addresses and the so-called sermons
from the lips of our wise men—college presi—
dents, professors, scientiﬁc experts—telling
us how and why we have failed as a nation
to live up to the ideals and achievements
of the men who laid the foundations of our
great democracy, and why modern civiliza-
tion is being threatened with its doom? You
may have wondered whether the belief in
a moral universe whose laws cannot be vio—
lated with impunity — in other words,

whether religion, the faith of our fathers—-

had had anything to do with the greatness
of the nation they handed down to the gen-
erations to follow.

We reap what we sow as truly in the
moral and spiritual world as in the physi—
cal. Have we outgrown the belief that the
fear of the Lord is the beginning of wis—
dom? Do we believe that the training of
the intellect in the realms of science and in
the teachings that ignore the claims of
religion upon the souls of men is all that is
needed to make a nation great? That all
that men and nations need is an education
like this to save the world?

Well—has not the present, appalling con—
dition in which the world ﬁnds itself the
answer to these questions?

What Would He Write
Today?

Somewhere around the middle of the last
century Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
wrote the following lines. What would he
have written on this subject had he been
living today?

Were half the power that ﬁlls the earth
with terror,
Were half the wealth bestowed on camps
and courts
Given to redeem the human mind from
error,
There were no need of arsenals and forts.

Motorists, Please Watch
Out!

HE vacation season is here and motor-

ists are out in full force. We would like
to enter a plea for the wild and domestic
animals, which are subjected to an ever-
increasing hazard. Small animals and birds
Of every kind fall victims to the on—rushing
tide.

At the Angell Animal Hospital in Boston,
in 1938, 1,622 animals (mostly dogs and
cats) which had been struck by automobiles
were brought in for treatment, while in
1939, 1,348 were entered. Of these some
recovered, wholly or partially, some died,
and others were so badly injured that there
was no hope for them and they had to be
humanely put to sleep. In addition to these,
each year 1,000 or more injured strays are
collected and brought to the Hospital, ani-
mals which have been struck and perhaps
left by the roadside.

A little less speed, and a little more con—
sideration of some one’s pet or some crea-
ture of the wild would materially reduce
the death toll each year.

From the Philippines

Many of our readers will be glad of the
following, which has come to us from a
friend in those Islands. The words are tak-
en from an article by him which appeared
in the publication under the heading of
“Church News.”

“But one of the ﬁrst things that the
American people did, upon arrival here, was
to hand out the Bible, at ﬁrst only in Eng-
lish and Spanish, but little by little this was
changed and today, all over the islands, the
people, whatever their dialect (with a few
exceptions), may read it and be shown the
true pathway of life.

“And now, from one end of the Archi-
pelago to the other, true and loyal and
hard-working Christians are to be found
attending to their church duties, praying
and taking part in the services, reading and
teaching the Scriptures to the young.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1.4.2

Ellie flaunt! nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and seventy-six new Bands
of Mercy were organized during July. Of
these, 958 were in Illinois, 16 in Virginia,
and one each in the Philippine Islands and
Tennessee.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 252,412.

“Sir Thomas”

JEANETTE NOURLAND

I know a grand old tiger—cat
That wouldn’t take a prize

In any show—unless they’d see
The beauty in his eyes.

For loving diSposition rare,
And happy, purring heart,

I’d hunt for his superior
Through many a feline mart.

T/Vithin my heart, where loyalty
Earns homage, half divine—
None has a better claim, I know,
Than “Thomas” has to mine!

Here is the best animal story of the
month—maybe of the year. Ethel Barnett
de Vito has a cat that is inordinately fond
of shrimp. So far, not strange. But our
friend found the cat getting too excited
when the word shrimp was mentioned, and
she had to take to spelling it. Now Kitty
recognizes the spelling and rushes for the
refrigerator when she hears the letters pro-
nounced.

—Household Magazine.

 

MARY COBURN

BLACKERBY AND
SHEP”
Four-year—olds of Lexington, Kentucky

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sept. 191,0

 

DOG DAYS, INDEED, FOR THIS GROUP OF HAPPIY CHILDREN

 

The Puppy

MATTIE C. H. DUNNICK

‘ E were on our way to Saint Mary’s
W Church when we met a small brown,
woolly puppy. He gazed wistfully at each
passerby but no one noticed him; he seemed
to be a lost puppy.

Now, I have always had a great love for
dogs, especially puppies, so I just naturally
gave that tiny fellow a friendly little pat.

That settled it. He was beside himself
with joy and trotted along happily until we
reached the church door where I chased
him off.

In the midst of the service the priest held
up his hand and said, “Will one of the
ushers quietly remove the little dog?”

There he was, coming up the aisle, sniff-
ing at each pew as he came. He had not
reached my seat before the usher met him.
He turned and ﬂed, but not to leave. Oh,
no, he had no such intention. He was in the
other aisle before the usher reached the
door.

Thinking the puppy had left the building
the usher sat down. The service was re-
sumed.

In a few minutes people on that side of
the church began to smile. There was that
puppy wagging his tail industriously as he
scanned the faces along the way.

Well, he passed from one seat to the next
until he reached the front, just as the
incense holders were being waved about.

That was too much. He jumped about,
barking excitedly. Again the service was
interrupted while the ushers, two this time,
tried to put him out. Up one aisle, across
the front and down the other aisle they
went, but to no avail.

Finally, the kindly old priest said “We
will ignore the mischievous puppy and con-
clude this service.”

Finding all quiet again, the puppy con-
tinued his search for his lost friend. As he
crossed the front this time he sat down
near the priest, cocking his head from side
to side as though he was trying to puzzle
things out.

Then he spied the tassels on the priest’s
gown; just the nicest things to play with,
so he made a grab for them, but the priest
also made a grab and caught the puppy in
his arms; spOke a few gentle words as he
pulled his woolly ears. The ushers came for-
ward. Again the puppy made his escape
and scampered away down the aisle. In

doing so he passed my seat, recognized me
and hid under my chair where he rested
quietly until the service was over.

I tried to lose the puppy in the crowd as
we passed out of the church, but he had
adopted me and evidently meant to stick
to me for life.

At this writing he is my constant com-
panion, except when I go to St. Mary’s.

Good Work in Manitoba

“The character building of our children
must go on,” said one of the school super-
visors in Winnipeg, Manitoba, when told
that four city and two country groups of
the Junior Humane Society have discon-
tinued their membership in order to con—
centrate on Red Cross work. But, happily,
the great majority are just as interested in
their Junior Humane Society work. This
we learn from the excellent report on hu—
mane education recently issued by Mrs.
Alice D. Hansell, honorary secretary of the
Society, who writes (June 11), “We are
continuing our work in spite of other war
work, and have lately added three more
rural groups of members. Our committee
is sending your magazine, Our Dumb Ani-
mals, to about sixty schools in Winnipeg
and other places in Manitoba. It is much
appreciated by both teachers and children.”

The extent of this work is shown by the
report that last year there were Junior Hu-
mane Society groups in 36 schools, with
2,000 members in Winnipeg, and 22 groups
with nearly 500 members in the country.
Among the activities were competitive bird—
house building and modeling of animals in
soap or plasticine. Just before Christmas
the pupils of the Glenwood city school made
150 posters. The Society enjoys splendid co-
operation from educational ofﬁcials in the
city, as well as from the supervisors and
teachers generally.

Wood Thrush in the City

The wood thrush is the ofﬁcial bird of the
District of Columbia, and though he is a
native of the woodlands, he has learned to
make himself at home in city parks and
gardens. This songster summers in eastern
North America west to the prairie region
and spends his winters in Mexico and Cen—
tral America, and occasionally in Florida.
Sometimes he migrates by way of the
Bahamas, Cuba and Jamaica.

 




 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
under the Act of March 3, 1879

0.1- ANGE

mb

u_ S.Trade Mark. Registered
LL tN 1868.AND FOR FORTY~QNE

\l

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Octo

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

GLORY TO
GO D,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND 'Msncv To
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

her 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

 

Vkﬂ.73

h4ay,l940

PQo.S

 

Just as we go to press, word comes of
Germany’s invasion of Norway and Den-
mark. What of the future? Men’s faith in
God is put to the test. “Clouds and darkness
are round about Him.”

We learn from what is said to be the
latest and most authoritative biography of
Christopher Columbus that he was probably
a Jew.

Churches in Germany, we are told, are
now being compelled to pay a monthly as-
sessment for the carrying on of the war.
Evidently theirs is not to make reply, or
reason why, only to do or die.

Another annual report from the Animal
Welfare Society of South Africa gives evi-
dence of the increasing activities of this
vigorous organization. Its educational work
is widespread, and its Traveling Caravan
to meet the needs of the sick animals among
the poor, in connection with its dispensary
service, tells the story of a real humane
society.

On January ﬁrst of this year a new law
went into effect in England making it an
offense for riding establishments to let out
horses for riding when in such a condition
that their use would cause suffering. Pen—
alty for ﬁrst offense, 25 pounds—such a
ﬁne not exceeding 50 pounds. In this coun-
try we meet this situation by our general
law which covers all cases of using any
horse unﬁt for service.

The great host of the people of the
United States are hoping and praying that
the Allies will win this war. But it is just
as certain that some people are hoping and
praying that we are not to be drawn into
it as in 1917. Of course. the Allies, whatever
other aims they may have, are standing
primarily for the future of the democratic
form of government. In this we are unalter-
ably with them. Our great service to the
Allies should come when the question is no
longer war but peace.

Our Audience

OW many people do you think our

humane education workers reach each
year? If you remember the annual report
in the March issue of Our Dumb Animals,
you will recall it was over half a million—
564,952. That means that an average of
47,079 children and adults every month of
the year hear the messages our workers
bring them, telling of those principles of
justice, compassion and kindness which,
awakened and fostered in the human heart,
make for noblest character. The great ma-
jority of this 564,952 are children—largely
the children in the public schools of the
various states of the Union, North, South,
East and West; and these children at the
age when character is most easily set for
good or ill in future years. Ten thousand,
one hundred and ninety-two Bands of
Mercy, which are really Junior Humane So-
cieties, were organized last year.

Add to these 564,952 reached by the hu—
man voice, the many thousands who read
Om‘ Dumb Animals and get our literature,
and the more than 60,000 who enter the
poster contest, and the value of our humane
education work begins to appear. And this
is the fundamental work in all humane
activity. Over 7,000,000 children in less than
sixty years reached... by our workers in the
schools of the nation must have had no small
part in the making of better citizenship.

New Explosive and Goats

A good deal of publicity has been given
to another contribution of science to the
horrible implements of destruction. An ex-
plosive, said to be invented by a certain
Lester P. Barlow, has been experimented
with and discovered to be possibly the most
destructive device ever placed in human
hands. It has now been proposed that this
be experimented with on goats to see, evi—
dently, how many of them can be blown to
pieces at a given distance and how much of
this explosive will be required to do the job,
the ultimate purpose, of course, being to
use it in war as a new method of unspeak-
able slaughter of human beings. The hu-

mane societies of the country and all hu-
mane people should protest against this
needless cruelty.

If you are humane won’t you write to the
chairman of the Senate Military Affairs
Committee in Washington to prevent, if
possible, this experiment with unfortunate
goats.

Brutal Destruction of Crows

Life magazine of a recent date, under the
heading “Illinois Game Warden Slaugh-
ters,” tells. the amazing story of the merci~
less destruction of thousands of crows by an
Illinois game warden. “Where they have
gathered in vast numbers to roost,” it is
said, “the warden festoons crows’ favorite
groves with dynamite bombs. At night when.
the crows are roosting, this Warden Davis
throws the switch. In the detonation, the
ground and neighboring ﬁelds are showered
with dead and wounded crows.” Those not
dead, the report says, “are clubbed to death
by sticks and bats in the hands of local
residents who crowd in after the bombs have
been detonated. A big percentage of crows
brought down by bombs are merely stunned
by the concussion. Those killed are carted
away and burned.”

Years ago when the Dupont powder peo-
ple, in order to sell their ammunition,
offered rewards for the greatest number of
crows destroyed, a pamphlet from the
United States Department of Agriculture
could not state positively that the crows did
not do more good than harm to the farmer.
Now, whether or not this is true at present,
the story published in Life, to which we
have referred and which is accompanied by
several photographs illustrating the method
by which the crows are dynamited and
carted away, is one that seems unworthy of
a civilized community. There certainly
should be some humaner method of ridding
the farmer of the crow in such sections
where its number makes it a positive and
unquestionable pest.

Any letters of protest that our readers
might want to write should 'be sent to the
State Department of Conservation, Spring-
ﬁeld, Illinois. _

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160

As Long as a Horse Can Run

CAROL FOSTER

Of all things of beauty tell me one

Adore keen than a black horse, running in
sun——

Muscles flashing silver and smooth,

Mane flying free, feet that move

In a blur of speed, and eyes that have
caught

A sight of the wind; a will God taught

To keep that sight of the wind and sun

For long, as long as a horse can run.

The Lowly Burro

ALDEN MANN

“Vaya, Barrrrro !”

For centuries we little beasts of burden
have heard that command from our bare-
foot, sombreroed drivers as we toiled over
precipitous mountain trails where a misstep
meant hurtling into space and falling into
bottomless gorges.

For centuries we have carried the bur-
dens of a continent. We have carried steam-
ships, piece by piece, to the very top of the
Andes where the pieces were reassembled
and launched in the world’s highest navi-
gable lake. We have carried the materials
for the rich cathedrals of Lima, Quito,
Bogota and Mexico City.

We have borne mining-machinery into al—
most inaccessible spots, and we have carried
the bars of gold and silver out to the ports
where waited the ships that carried them to
the mints of the world. We have built
nations. We have carried the plunder of
pirates and conqnistadores. We have car-
ried the wealth of Montezuma and of Ata-
hualpa. We have carried the wealth of
empires along the cobbled trails of the
Andes, and we have padded along old Cruces
Trail from the ancient city of Panama to
Puerto Bellos with burdens that ﬁlled the
treasure-vaults of old Spain.

We have wallowed belly-deep through
miasmic swamps where the sting of millions
of insects fairly flayed us alive, and then
felt the hot lash of our masters for not
moving faster. .,

Although the burden was hard and end-
less we have not diminished in number. If
any of us fell over a cliff or was left strug-
gling in a bog, there were more to take our
places. The driver merely shrugged and
said contemptuously:

“Ha. No importa!
bu rrrrro ! ”

Only a burro! And we have helped to
build a continent. When we helped to build
the ﬁrst railroads, we thought we saw some-
thing coming that would ease our burdens,
but instead of easing, they increased them
because we had heavier burdens. When the
automobile came, we had new hope, but
automobiles require new roads, and the bur-
den fell to us to transport road material.
From the hot coastal lands to the cold
paramo we toiled helping to ﬂing new high-
ways across the mountains, but when it
was completed we had no respite. The
mountains were too vast to be conquered
by a few lines of narrow-gauge railroads
and a few ribbons of concrete. Life for us
looked darker instead of brighter. And then
one day I rolled my sad eyes languidly
toward a great man-made bird. It was

Es solamente nn

OUR DUMB

carrying people and goods. I rolled on the
ground with happiness. Here was my
emancipator!

This bird would carry a burden many
times greater than a whole train of lowly
burros, and it would whisk over the length
of a week’s burro journey in minutes. It
laughed at roads and bridges.

From the bottom of a deep canyon I saw
it swiftly bearing its burden toward the
capital, and I knew it would reach its des-
tination before I could reach the crest of
the range. So lost in happy contemplation
had I become that I had forgotten our hard-
ships momentarily, but a sharp—“Vaya,
burrrrro!” brought me back to reality once
more. My task is not over, but the years
ahead will be easier.

Not long ago a young African airman
was ﬂying over the Transvaal bushveld
with several pigeons he was to release on
a homing test. When all of the birds but
one were freed, he discovered that his com-
pass was out of commission and that he
was hopelessly lost in the wild bush coun-
try. With little hope he released this last
pigeon. It was his only chance. After a
number of ﬂuttering false starts, the green
young bird guided the ﬂyer to safety. The
other day the pigeon was buried with mili-
tary honors. Fine. But the more pleasant
part was the bird’s treatment before his
death. “He was so spoilt with kindness that
he became useless as a carrier pigeon.”

ANIMALS

 

Oct. 1940
At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.
* -x- ~16 * *
Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better

income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,

‘ while avoiding the risks and waste of a will

contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERCMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the eﬁice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF REQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to the American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Aug. 1940

Red Fox

ALMA ROBISON HIGHBEE

You pace your cage and hark. to the wind’s
faint sighing,
Out in the hills where your wild heart
longs to go,
Forgetting the winter day when I found
you lying
A dim—eyed, broken thing, in the reddened
snow.

The sumach ﬁres on the distant slopes are
burning,
And wild grapes hang like polished gems
on the vines,
And thistle shadowed nights awake your
strange deep yearning
When the hunters’ lantern glimmers
among the pines.

On a gold and russet day, with wood smoke
curling
Up from the lonely‘ coves, I shall set you
free,
Then you can go back to a small stream’s
restless purling,
To your mate and your home at the roots
of a hemlock tree.

And on blue-white winter nights, at my
window ledge,

I shall hear you call, from yonder timber-
edge.

Many birds not ordinarily gifted as
singers have beautiful ﬂight songs. It is
not generally known that individii'ial mea-
dow-larks are ﬁne singers when in ﬂight.

 

I complained because I had
no shoes -- until I saw a man
who had no feet. . . .

 

 

 

I want ten million people to read this
little sermon. How many shall I send you
to drop in your outgoing mail? No obliga-
tion. WILL B. OTWELL, Carlinville, Ill.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 117‘

Twenty-three Prizes Awarded for PhotOgraphs

Contest of “Our Dumb Animals,” Closing June 30, Brought Pictures from Many Distant Points

 

 

THE BREAD—WINNER

By Duke D’Ambra, Lawrence, Kansas
Winner of ﬁrst prize

WENTY-THREE prizes were award—

ed by Our Dumb Animals in the con-

test for the best photographs of wild
animals and Wild birds, which closed June
30, 1940. The ﬁrst thirteen prizes were
cash, the others comprised a year’s sub-
scription to Our Dumb Animals.

One hundred and thirty-seven photo—
graphs were received. They came from all
sections of the United States and Canada.
While contestants could submit as ,many
pictures as they liked, only one prize was
allowed to any one contestant. Here are the
names and addresses of the winners:

First prize, Duke D’Ambra, Lawrence,
Kansas; second prize, D. G. Rice, Boston,
Mass; third prize, Mrs. Fannie P. Smith,

 

By D. G. Rice, Boston, Mass.
Winner of second prize

Springﬁeld, Mass; fourth, Roland Ryder-
Smith, Seattle, Washington; ﬁfth, Francis
H. Stevens, Waverley, Mass; sixth, Robert
H. Boody, Hyannis, Mass; seventh, Fred
J. Giduz, Jamaica Plain, Mass; eighth,
Mrs. A. C. Gould, Delmar, New York;
ninth, C. A. Musgrave, Seattle, Washing-
ton; tenth, Jos. Jayko, Adams, Mass; elev-
enth, Rev. Willis J. Loar, Spokane, Wash—
ington; twelfth, Bertha Eberhart, Sacra—
mento, California; thirteenth, Robert Char-
ron, Bradford, Mass; fourteenth, Mrs. Jo—
seph Watson, Yalesville, Connecticut; ﬁf—
teenth, Miss Catharine Curtis, Woburn,
Mass; sixteenth, Miss Helen Heaton, Riﬂe,
Colorado; seventeenth, Susan ,H. Mahoney,
Charlestown, Mass; eighteenth, David J.
Morris, Austin, Texas; nineteenth, Dr. Ira
A. Eberhart, Chicago, Illinois; twentieth,
Mary E. Tripp, Worcester, Mass; twenty-
ﬁrst, Mrs. Clark Wood, Montrose, Pennsyl-
vania; twenty-second, Earl C. Ives, Chi-
cago, Illinois; twenty—third, Mrs. J. G.
D’Arcey, Evansville, Indiana.

Better to Spare the Crow

Some time ago the State of Pennsylvania
passed an anti-crow law which offered a
bounty of ﬁfty cents for each bird killed.
Over a hundred thousand dollars was paid
out in bounties when it was discovered that
mice and rats and other pests had increased
alarmingly. Furthermore, an estimate was
made, which was generally approved, that
the bounty law had cost the farmers over
two million dollars. Then the law was re—
pealed.

Illinois also had a bounty law on crows
at one time but not for long as it appeared
that enterprising gentry from outside the
state were shipping in crows by the car-
load. It has become more and more appar-
ent that the crow has its place in the
economy of nature.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 18!;

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MOIRLRILL, Assistant

 

 

DECEMBER, 1940

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed enveZOpe with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

Illegal Millinery

ULTITUDES of millinery concerns
M are selling hats, and multitudes of
women are wearing them, in violation of
the laws of the land. This return to what
was supposed to be an outrageous cruelty,
long since abandoned and unlawful, seems
once more suddenly to have been revived
by the millinery dealers. We are wonder-
ing how many women, wearing the feath-
ers of rare and beautiful birds as adorn-
ments of their hats, realize that they are
transgressors of law.

Robert Cushman Murphy, president of
the National Audubon Society, has written,
in a pamphlet entitled “Massacred for Mil-
linery,” the following, which we trust those
who see this magazine will read:

Ten years, ﬁve years ago, Americans
might have taken it for granted that trafﬁc
in plumage of wild birds for decorating
women’s hats was only a barbarous mem—.
ory. The battle had been won a generation
before, when the Audubon movement ﬁrst
claimed universal recognition. The issue
was closed, and conservationists were left
free to turn their zeal toward other prob-
lems.

The year 1940, however, ﬁnds us abruptly
challenged by the old evil in a new guise,
forcing upon our astounded senses recogni-
tion of the truth that eternal vigilance is,
indeed, the price of safety. For the fashion
of the quill has crept into the United States,
let us hope overnight. Audubon investiga-
tion has led to the discovery that ware-
houses, department stores, millinery shops
and countless hats along the avenues are
today bristling with the long wing and tail
feathers of many kinds of large birds.
Practically all of this material can be im-
ported, sold, purchased, possessed or worn
only in plain deﬁance of the laws of our
land.

It is particularly discomﬁting to realize
that this resurgent, cruel, despicable com-
merce involves the slaughter of thousands
of the world’s most glorious creatures of
both land and sea, such as eagles, condors,
swans, pelicans and albatrosses—all for
the sake of a few stiff plumes torn from
their crumpled carcasses. “Jap quills,” the
ominous trade name for feathers that can

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

now be bought in New York for from seven
cents up, prove to come from the matchless
pinions of all three species of North Paciﬁc
albatrosses, one of which—the short-tailed
albatross—is already at the verge of ex-
tinction. It is hardly necessary to ask
whether American womanhood, once ap-
prised of the facts, will need further in-
ducement to plug the only outlet for the loot
of ghouls whose ignorance is all that can
be advanced in mitigation of their acts.

But the response in public sentiment,
which will doubtless be immediate, is not
all that is needed. The legal technicality
which still protects plumage “brought into
the country before 1913” (twenty-seven
years ago!); the perjured rubbish about
feathers from “domesticated species”; the
smoke screen surrounding the importation
of feathers for tying ﬂies on ﬁshhooks;
——these all leave loopholes through which
unscrupulous and asocial traders will cheat
as long as they remain open. And millions
of the unknowing or unthinking will never
be lacking to fall for the swindle.

Let us wake up and put through legisla-
tion which will knock all this benighted
chicanery on the head once and for all.
Why continue to temporize with mongoose
morals when still another great element of
the world’s beautiful fauna is threatened?

From London

Acknowledging a contribution sent Our
Dumb Friends’ League, London, England,
from a fund. given us for that special pur-
pose, the letter from which we quote says
in part:

“Please accept our grateful thanks for
your generous assistance in this most difﬁ-
cult period of our existence.

“We have, unfortunately, suffered not in-
considerable damage to some of our
Branches, but in no case has the work had
to cease. Where a Branch has had to close
entirely, it has been opened elsewhere
within forty-eight hours.

“I can assure you that the support you
have been kind enough to send me from
America, is not only accepted as an addi-
tion to the League’s funds, but I look upon
it as a token of good will between two
national democracies.”

Yours sincerely,

E. KEITH ROBINSON
Secretary

An Hour of Great Need

The Golden Rule Foundation is seeking
to save the world’s starving, war-stricken
millions from speedy death. Send for one
of their Coin-A-Meal boxes to put on your
table. It may be but a penny a meal but it
will save a life. Address: 60 East 42nd
Street, New York, New York. You may
have it for ten cents or nothing.

The Coin-A-Meal plan is the American
way to answer this call for help.

It is a simple plan. You make your con-
tribution at your own dining table before
each meal—a penny, nickel, dime, or dol-
lar. It is a new form of Grace before meals.

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. when making your will.

Dec. 1940

For Horses at Christmas

THE Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will again
distribute free dinners for the work-
horses on the day before Christmas, as has
been the custom. for over twenty years.
Trucks loaded with individual bags, con-
taining portions of grain, chopped apples
and carrots, will be carried to stables where
horses are hired by peddlers. Many others
will be supplied with feeds during their
working hours on the streets and in the
market district.

This pre-holiday observance has been re-
garded of such humane educational value as
to warrant its annual repetition.

Contributions of money or grain or
apples or carrots, sent to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, will be gratefully ac-
knowledged.

The Society also provides food for the
birds and squirrels during times of emer-
gency through the winter.

Kindness Vault to be Buried

SMALL group of people interested in
Ahumane work are now busy preparing
a special “kindness” vault which is to be
buried during Be Kind to Animals week
next April, writes Mr. Charles R. Dutton
of Stillwater, Maine. ‘

This vault, or box, will contain several
clippings of articles and poems from recent
copies of Our Dumb Animals magazine.
These clippings were neatly rolled up and
slid into small glass tubes which were then
tightly sealed. Thus preserved, it is ex-
pected that they will still be readable a cen-
tury hence.

An electrical recording of Mr. Dutton’s
voice telling about the vault and its con-
tents and a reading of the poem, “Pheasant
Cock,” (which appeared in the October issue
of Our Dumb Am’mals) will also be included
among the contents as well as directions for
playing the record.

When the vault is completed it will con-
tain Band of Mercy badges and buttons, a
set of colored bird cards, a supply of hu-
mane literature, and a copy of the best
story ever written about a dog, “Beautiful
Joe,” besides the previously mentioned en-
closures.

The vault is of heavy metal and will be
placed inside a wooden box for further pro-
tection. A supply of rice will be sprinkled
around inside of the box to absorb any
moisture that may seep in. The box will
then be buried in the ground somewhere
under a tree, but the exact site has not yet
been selected. The purpose of this work is
to show future generations the many ways
in which we of 1940 spread the idea of
thoughtfulness and kindness toward all.

It is hoped that the vault will not be
found until after the year 2000 A. D.

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., under the direction of its
president, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
held a very successful rummage sale in
Horticultural Hall, Boston, October 26.

A bridge and food sale was held on Fri-
day, November 1, for the beneﬁt of the
Taunton Branch of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. It was under the direction of Mrs.
Howard F. Woodward, president.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 112

Fidelity

No bench-show ever had my dog,
He’s not the proper sort,

For, like his tail, his pedigree
Is very much too short.

He could not trace his ancestry;
’Twas plain for all to see
That all his points were lacking

Emcept his love for me.

He’d laugh and dance about in joy
If I were gay and glad;

He’d lay his head upon my hand
In sympathy if sad.

He’d leave his food to follow me
Or stay, if “stay” I said,
Obeying every spoken wish
And even thoughts unsaid.

He dashed before a car as he
Ran out at my command;

To show‘ me that no fault was mine
He tried to kiss my hand.

I raised his head, his dimming eyes
Beseeched me as in prayer.

“Go on ahead, old chap,” I cried,
“Be waiting for me—THERE.”

And when I reach the other shore
I’m sure that I shall see

A happy, little mongrel dog
Who waits to welcome me.

C. ANTOINETTE WOOD in “The World’s
Fair Anthology,” 1989

Preserving Wild Life

The tOll Of wild life in the United States
is put at 30,000,000 animals a year, says
the Christian Science Monitor.

In three states, Michigan, New York,
and Maine, the number Of deer killed by
cars in 1938 totaled more than 800 and in
the latter state fourteen moose were re—
corded. Number one victim among the ani-
mals appears, strangely enough, tO be the
quick-moving cotton-tail rabbit whose zig-
zag tactics in the face Of danger work to
its disadvantage. Among the birds the Eng-
lish sparrow is the most common victim.

A proposed educational program tO make
drivers “wild life conscious” and to in-
struct the public in this aspect Of safe
driving seems like the ﬁrst logical step in
reducing the needless slaughter Of these
helpless and useful creatures.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE BURGESS STORY MAGAZINE,
Thornton W. Burgess.

Everybody who reads at all knows Of the
famous bedtime stories Of Thornton W.
Burgess. Now Mr. Burgess has put 64
pages Of these stories in magazine form,
with a very attractive illustrated colored
cover. Each story is illustrated with an
original drawing by Harrison Cady. There
IS also a department called “Mother Na-
ture’s News,” in which a variety Of inter-
esting information is found including anec-
dotes and the habits Of birds and animals.
The magazine is to be published monthly by
the Burgess-Gates Company, Inc., 54 Beek-
man Street, New York City, and is to be
found upon newsstands and in chain stores
everywhere for ten cents per copy.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Useful Downy

WILLIS MEI—IANNA

HE downy woodpecker is the smallest

Of the species but is both useful and
harmless. He is an all-year resident Of the
northern part of the United States. He
is intelligent enough to thrive and take
care Of himself at all times Of the year.
He feeds on the bug pests that infest the
bark Of trees and will tap the bark with
his bill to frighten the insects and make
them come out Of hiding. He then devours
them. Those that do not come out he digs
in after and usually gets.

These birds dig a hole in a dead limb
up a pretty good height and in it they
make their nesting home. This home may
be in the limb Of a tree in the dooryard,
in the deep timber or in the decayed limb
Of a lonely tree on the top of some hill in
the pasture. Four small, white eggs are the
common number and both birds take care
Of the family which is hardy and self-
reliant. The strong wing and tail feathers
Of this bird are very beautiful. He is
black, spotted and striped with white and
has a white stripe down the back. The
male has a scarlet band on back Of head
and the tail feathers are white, barred
with black. His note is a sort Of squeak
and rattle. These birds are still plentiful.

For the Love of a Dog
OMAR R. HENDERSON

Denver, Colorado, has a kind mayor in
Benjamin F. Stapleton, and Darrell Ara-
gon, who also lives in Denver, thinks
Mayor Stapleton has a heart as big as the
city itself.

It all happened this way: Darrell, who is
14 years Old, did not have a license for his
dog, “Butch,” and the dog catcher got it.
Young Darrell knew that the mayor had a
daughter, also 14 years Of age, and he
thought that perhaps she could talk “his
own language.” He called at the mayor’s
home and asked for Lois Jane. They had a
heart to heart talk, Darrell explaining that
he did not have money to buy a license, but
that he would work the fee out. Miss Lois
Jane also has a dog and she understood.
Telling Darrell to wait a minute, she went
back to the breakfast table and told her
daddy of the poor boy’s plight. In a minute
she returned to the door all smiles and told
young Darrell that his dog would not only
be released, but that the dog catcher would
take it home. Once the mayor was a boy
and owned a dog, tOO.

July, 1940

At Age Sixty-Five

Our Life Annuities will pay you 6.5%—
that is, $65 annually for each multiple of
$1,000. Correspondingly higher rates for
advancing ages up to 9%.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.

* * it 96 *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

.v

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

 

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

TIIE ALIERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE BIASS‘ACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children ’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR

“ In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital," as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF REQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of .....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

F RIEND-S

 

 

 

 




