 

 

 

January 1954

and Civil Aviation what steps he is taking to
implement the recommendations of the Comv
mittee on the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea
by Oil.

Mr LENNOXvBOYD: I am not yet in a position
to add to the reply to a similar question which
my hon Friend put to me on July 27, when I said
that though many of the Committee’s recom~
mendations called for legislation, the British
shipowners’ organizations had advised their
members to give effect voluntarily to those re«
commendations which they could put into force
at once.

Ministry of Food: Slaughterhouses

Captain DUNCAN asked the Minister of Food
whether the committee looking into the siting of
slaughterhouses has yet reported; and what re—
commendations it has made.

THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY To THE MINIS—
TRY OF FOOD (Dr CHARLES HILL): No, Sir. The
Committee for England and Wales is still taking
evidence from the national organizations con—
cerned.

Mr T.WILLIAMS: Will the Minister consult the
chairman of this Committee and invite him to
produce an interim report as quickly as he can?

Dr HILL: I should like notice Of that.

Mr MIKARDO asked the Minister Of Food
when he intends to close the abattoir in East
Street, Reading. '

Dr HILL: My Department will cease using this
slaughterhouse when improvements are com—
pleted at the slaughterhouse at Caversham Road.
I hope that this will be in the spring.

Mr MIKARDO: While I thank the hon Gentle-

THE ANIMAL WORLD 5

man for that reply, may I ask him whether he will
do his best to see that in the meanwhile, so far as
is possible, the nuisance to the neighbourhood
caused by animals making noise at night is
mitigated?

Dr HILL: Yes, Sir. We are doing our outmost
to mitigate any inconvenience and nuisance in
the meantime. .

SIR THOMAS DUGDALE (when replying to a ques—
tion from Mr Desmond Donnelly, Pembroke):
The Government are pursuing a policy of moderv
ate concentration of slaughterhouses, but, during
an interim period following decontrol, it will be
necessary to reopen some hundreds of slaughter—
houses to cope with the increased demand on
slaughtering facilities when the ﬂow of animals is
no longer controlled by allocation. Quite clearly,
de—control cannot wait on the construction of
new slaughterhouses.

Mr ROYLE: In view of the fact that, before the
war, there were 18,000 private slaughterhouses
in Operation and between 600 and 800 now, are
the Government going to build sufﬁcient slaugh—
terhouses between now and the incoming of the
present proposals, to meet that?

Sir THOMAS DUGDALE: I made it perfectly
clear. I said it would be necessary to reopen
some hundreds Of slaughterhouses. The Govern~
ment do intend quite deﬁnitely to carry out their
long—term policy steadily and effectively, and an
inter’Departmental Committee, whose report we
are now awaiting, is sitting and taking evidence on
this particular problem. The Government will
take such powers as may be necessary to carry
out the Government’s policy of moderate
concentration of slaughterhouses.

 

 

 

DAR-ES-SALAAM GROUPS OF ANIMAL DEFENDERS HAVE A SOCIAL GATHERING

In these pictures, sent by Mrs Slater, Territorial Organizer, RSPCA Tanganyika Branch, are shown (on the left) Mr and Mrs
A. I. G. Brown, Mr Chaude, Mrs Slater and Lady Lamb. All races were present, as the second picture shows. Tea was served

by members of the Aga Khan Girls’ School Animal Defenders

 




 

 

 

 

January 1954

 

[By courtesy of the Yorkshire Evening News

Doncaster Division

This picture, sent by Mrs Morrison, Chairman of Doncaster
Division, was taken in the lovely grounds of ‘Aucklands’,
home of Mr Philip jackson, when Inspector Grant received
at a garden party a medal for gallantry displayed during
the East Coast floods. The presentation was made by the
Mayor, Councillor A. E. Cammidge. The Inspector is shown
with the Viscountess Galway and other guests after the
presentation

Headquarters—Clinics Mrs E. F. Taylor, joint hon sec of
Balham Animal Clinic, reports that the clinic’s annual sale
raised £120 05. 6d. for clinic funds.

Isle of Wight Pets were taken by their masters and mis-
tresses to the Animal Sunday service conducted by the
Rector, the Rev H. E. Strudwick at Northwood. Mr A.
Maurice Toms, of Ryde, aux hon sec, attended with his pet.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
secretary, reports that one whist drive held in Canterbury
raised £4 ls. 2d. for branch funds, and that whist drives
organized by Mr Watson raised £1 83. for branch funds.
Kent—Dover and District The branch annual meeting was
held at the Town Hall, Deal. Many supporters attended
and the Deputy Mayor, Alderman A. E. M. Cavell, pre-
sided in the absence of the Mayor, Councillor F. F. Potter,
CBE, CC. Reports were submitted by Mr W. S. Lee, chair-
man, by Mr R. H. Brown, hon treas, and Regional Super-
intendent Webb. An address on the general work of the
Society was given by Mr C. Davies, branch organizer.

*

A sale organized at the Parish Hall, Walmer, by Mrs D.
White and Miss M. Marsh raised £43 for branch funds.
Kent—Folkestone and District Mr C. R. Davies, branch
organizer, spoke on the RSPCA’S work at the Town Hall
‘Merry Market’, which was organized w1th Its customary
success and skill by Miss Wright, branch hon sec, and Alder-
man Archer, branch chairman. Inspector Wolfenden gave
help and Hythe auxiliary attended to help the var1ous stalls.
The Mayor of Folkestone, Alderman Moncriet‘f, opened the
market, and the Mayor of Hythe, Mrs Farmer, JP, opened
the ably-run fancy dress parade. . . .
Kent—Isle of Thanet Miss Edith Dennlng, Birchington
aux hon sec, organised a bring-and-buy sale and raised
£41 15s. 1—5—d. for branch funds. The sale was held at the
home of Mrs Miller of Birchington, who klndly supplied
both goods for sale and teas. Miss Denmng also mentions
Mrs Ostrawick whose sale raised £12.

Kent—North West Mrs W. Honess, branch hon sec,
Organized a Coronation Ball at the Masonic Hall, Dartford.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Dartford attended, as well as
Mr W. Honess, branch chairman, and Mrs Honess and
Major and Mrs Lanyon, vice-chairman. The committee

THE ANIMAL WORLD 11

members helped with the decorations and all the aux h0n
secretaries gave competition prizes. A proﬁt of £58 was
raised for branch funds.

Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Miss Masters,
Wellingborough auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a whist
drive organized in Doddington by Mrs Gent raised £5 10s.
for branch funds.

Lincolnshire—South and Grantham Miss N. V. M. Pim,
branch co hon sec, reports that the branch held recently its
most successful annual meeting. A bring-and-buy sale and
collection were combined with the meeting and £15 55. was
raised for branch funds.

Mrs Shinner, Pinchbeck aux hon sec, organized a bring-
and—buy sale at her home for branch funds. Miss Pim,
branch co hon sec, opened the sale and asked Senior Inspec-
tor Meara to speak about his work.

Miss Beedall and Miss Hall, joint co hon secs for Boston
auxiliary, organized a bring—and-buy sale. The sale was held
at Fydell House, Boston, which belongs to the Pilgrim Trust,
by invitation. ' '
London South East Mrs Dillistone, branch hon sec, reports
that a collection organized at Catford Stadium by Miss
Bratton raised £10 175. 8d. for branch funds.-

Merthyr Tydﬁl and District Miss Lewis, branch co hon
sec, reports that the annual meeting was a great success. Mrs
David Evans, Council member, gave an interesting address.
Commenting on the good work done in the auxiliaries, Miss
Lewis pays a tribute to Inspector Watts, who had given help
to the branch co hon sec and the committee in stimulating
interest among the auxiliaries.

Middlesex—North-West The branch annual sale, at Ken-
ton, raised over £74 for branch funds. (Report received from
Mr R. Soames, hon sec.)

Newcastle-upon-Tyne PC Thompson, of Longhirst Village,
near Ashington, organized a whist drive and raised £8 ls.
for branch funds.

*
Mrs Hogg, wife of Mr J. A. Hogg (aux hon sec), organized
a jumble sale at Ashington and raised £9 53. 8d. for branch
funds.

- *

Miss M. C. Taylor, Shilbottle aux hon sec, organized a
whist drive and raised £8 for branch funds.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Mr S. Reed, co hon sec of the
branch reports: Mrs Hampson-Jones and Miss Gower,
hon collectors for this branch, organized a successful whist
drive at the Drayton Village Hall, and raised £11 73. for
branch funds. A whist drive organized by Mrs D. Wisken,
hon sec of the Norwich RSPCA Free Clinic, for the animals
of the poor, raised £11 10s. 9d. for the clinic funds.
North Tees Division Mrs Postle of Stockton-on-Tees,
organized a coffee morning and raised £29 for branch funds.
Rotherham and District When Senior Inspector N. Young
spoke at the Eastwood Methodist Mission a collection of
£1 73. 8d. was taken for branch funds.
Scarborough Mr R. K. Smith, Pickering and Ryedale aux
hon sec, reports that a whist drive organized by Mrs C.
Rickards and Miss Lewin at Kirbymoorside, raised £6 63. 4d.
for branch funds.

p,

 

An RSPCA
collector.

This Shetland
pony, owned by
Mrs Guy
Knight, col-

£l l Os. 7d. at
Ardington and
Lockinge Horse
Show

 




W x < “1 ‘llx ‘ ¢ .1:. ‘ , . JV ‘ ‘ : - I ; ‘1 “In : ; ‘ * 2 . . ‘1 ‘y 1 , 1. my

 

g
n
k
S
O
H
.m
r.
E
[

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W
t M
Q N
we ..
w
.. . a
m , s
. h
‘ c
f
l . .
l _,
. u ,__
m
., M,

 

 

 

 

 

WI. .4 q :1! J u ‘ p ‘ l9rﬂ5:m“dth¢lbly E w m A K r9544]: ‘ .(wl...u.w....l.lv,1nvl.-! x '\ ‘ l
i! . \ ‘ ‘ l‘ 5 xiii- ‘
In! - A.
81 A

7

 

 

 

 
 

.. ‘0 . < . z ‘ \ . ‘ . . ... . V . ._‘ .r \ ..x:. u. . q.
FT»! “ } it); , ‘ ‘ ‘ .. h . ,...l V? ,L‘.. Tu, . ., m L. .f t 5191. n ‘ x: enuilrfl‘yv. shift? » K Ls b: r has hill L K ‘ .

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE R.S.P.C.A. DOES NOT
ASK SO MUCH OF YOU,
BUT BEGS OF YOU TO
HELP BY COLLECTING IN
LONDON, IF ONLY FOR
AN HOUR OR TWO, ON
_TUESDAY, 4 MAY I954

LONDON jOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY
J TUESDAY, 4 MAY I954

 

Offers of help, please, to:-

 

Chief Secretary, R.S.P.C.A., l05 jermyn Street, London, $.W.l

 

‘ Sikhs“ i. .

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG-DAY REMINDER

Note to RSPCA Honorary Secretaries

HAVE YOU MADE YOUR
FLAG-DAY APPLICATION
FOR THE
COLLECTION IN I954?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_\ __._.___.—————————~—~ f_ _

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams; ‘Unibutco E do’

 

       

i

l i

 

 

ET,”

__._.__——777

 

 

 

. ‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘ ‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE‘
BOLT SLAUGHTERING '

GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

f‘ 1,...

 

 

January 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

the public and particularly housewives to help by
refusing to buy rabbits displayed for sale with
broken and lacerated limbs. This is a sure sign
that the rabbit has been caught in the gin and
suffered agonies.

‘l OVERHEARD’

This illustration, like the two on the
preceding page,is an excerpt from the
new RSPCA film which is now avail-
able in support of the Society’s
campaign to abolish the abomin-
able cruelties of the gin trap

 

To those not familiar with the effects of gin—
trapping, this ﬁlm will bring a dramatic realiza—
tion of the needless suffering it entails. It cannot
fail to impress the urgent need for the abolition of
the gin in favour of a humane, quick—killing
device.

From unique pictures of wild rabbits in the
natural state, harmlessdooking but destructive of

valuable crops, to the scene of their cruel fate in
gin traps, the narrative of the ﬁlm moves into the
town where a housewife, impressed with an
RSPCA poster she sees, refuses rabbits with
broken legs and damaged bodies, and buys one
that had not. known the torture of the gin. The
ﬁlm concludes with. a strong appeal to support
the RSPCA’s campaign.

The ﬁlm runs for about seven minutes and has
been granted a ‘U’ certiﬁcate.

Copies of 35 mmxsize, for use in cinema
theatres, and in 16 mm.—size, Sound, will gladly
be provided, without charge, upon application to
the Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street,
London, SW1.

Branch and Auxiliary Secretaries are urged to
obtain facilities for the showing ‘of this film as
widely as possible as it will be found a most
effective means of enlisting sympathy and sup—
port for the antirgin trap campaign.

Copies of the poster (An Appeal to House;
wives) shown in the film are available from
RSPCA Headquarters. Their display can be par—
ticularly effective wherever the film is shown.

The RSPCA pamphlet, ‘Rabbit Control’, is

also recommended for distribution.

 

MYXOMATOSIS IN RABBITS

‘The Virus of Myxomatosis’ (explains a special
statement prepared by the RSPCA Chief Veter»
inary Officer) ‘has been employed as a means of
controlling the rabbit plague in Australia for a
number of years.’

It is generally agreed that the disease is a painful
and distressing one for the affected animal and
causes considerable suffering. The disease as it
occurs in the rabbit is often called ‘bighead’ since
the rabbits affected swell up in the region of the
face, ears, lops and nostrils.

The rabbit becomes, in effect, blind.

In Europe

It appears that a few months ago an attempt in
France by a scientist to eliminate a local plague
of rabbits by using the virus has resulted in the
spread of the disease to an extent that may result
in the rabbit population of Europe becoming
almost abolished for the time being. The disease
has now been detected in Belgium, Holland, and
Germany, where measures of control have been
undertaken. In the middle of October last, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries announced
that the disease had been discovered in Kent, and
energetic measures are being taken to control
further spread. (Other outbreaks have since been
reported.)

While at the outset of an epidemic mortality of
rabbits is extremely high and the spread rapid,

there will, as with most virus epidemics, always
be a residual rabbit population with a strong
immunity to infection and in this species, which
reproduces so rapidly, the population could
probably be restored to its normal level within
two or three years.

Hares affected

A feature of the European outbreak is the dis— .
covery that the strain of virus involved, contrary
to previous observations, has been found to be
communicable to hares. This, of course, greatly
enlarges the spread of infection from a given focus
in view of the greater mobility of the hare over
agricultural land.

Both on grounds of expedience and of
humanity there seems to be every reason for
supporting the ofﬁcial attitude that myxoma—
tosis should be stamped out of the British
Isles.

Committee

In view of these facts, the RSPCA offered imme
diately to cooperate with the Ministry of Agri’
culture in checking the spread of myxomatosis.
The view of the RSPCA was that rabbits should
be destroyed humanely in affected areas.

In the meantime the Minister of Agriculture
appointed a special Committee to inquire into
the problem. The Committee Chairman is Lord
Carrington and one of its members is Lord

Merthyr, Chairman of the RSPCA Council.

 




 

January 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 9

 

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

   
   

Neath Flag Day—picture sent by Mr A. ]. Knight,
Aux Hon Sec

Knighton, Miss Cole (aux hon sec), £14 185. 1d.; Machy—
nlleth, Mrs Reed (aux hon sec), £10 155. 6d.; Bedworth,
Miss Smith, £7 65. 10d.; Wakeﬁeld, Mrs Sunderland
(branch hon sec and treasurer), £117; Billingham, Mrs
Gibbon (co aux hon sec), £42 0s. 10d.; Harleston, Mrs
Amis (aux hon sec), £11 185. 7d.; Oundle, Mrs Lee,
£26 16s. 3d; Burnham—on'Sea, Mr R. S. Dillon (aux hon
sec), £7 10s. 7d.; Yarm, Mrs Postle, £7 125. 2d.; Wade-
bridge, over £14; Christchurch and Mudeford, £55 185. 10d.;
Liverpool, £259 65. 3d (see House—to-House Collections);
Louth, Mrs Hodgekins (aux co. hon sec), £45 105. 1d.;
Bradford, Miss Hall (branch hon sec), £110; New Mills,
Mrs Barlow (aux hon sec), £38; Leicester, Miss Hearth
(branch sec), £622 Os. 1d.

HOUSE—TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the collector or collectors.)
Southwold, Mrs Belcher (co aux hon sec), £17 105.;
Buckfast, Miss Carus (aux hon sec), £8 14s. 1001.; Southport,
Miss Richards (branch hon sec), £69 155.; Gt Houghton, Rev
Rowan-Robinson, £1 17s.; South Raynham, Mrs 1e Strange
(aux hon sec), £8 115. 4d.; Bearpark, Mrs Dixon (aux hon
sec), £22 35. 5d.; Liverpool, £90 113. 5d. (see Flag Day
collection); Tenby, Mr Phillips, £8 135.; Lancaster, Miss
Pattinson (divisional hon sec), £140 75. 5d.; Aberdare, £50;

Denton, Miss \Vareing (aux hon sec) £4 ls. 8d.; Bury St Edv
munds, £54 145 10d.; Wearhead, Mrs Fletcher (aux hon sec),
£3 15s. 8d.; Wolsingham, Miss Downie (aux hon sec),
£13 113. 4d.; Stanhope, Miss Graham (aux hon sec),
£11 93. 4d.; Frosterley, Mrs Ross (aux hon sec), £3; Heigh-
ington, Mrs Goldsborough, £5 95. 10d.; Wellington, Miss
Woodward (aux hon sec), £70 145. 6d.; Banbury, Mrs
Brummitt (co hon sec Town aux), £31 155. 6d. (Mrs Mayo
and helpers, £13 135. 6d.); Leamington Spa, Leamington
Ladies’ Auxiliary, £137 68. 3d.; Wiltshire-Mid, Miss
Goddard (branch hon sec), £22 83. 6d.; Dartford, Mrs

Ransom (aux hon sec), £159 55.

All set for
Flag Day—-
Mr G. Bliss,
member of
Exmouth
Branch
Committee

 

RSPCA FILM NEWS

RSPCA ﬁlms were recently sent to the following places for
showing:

Windsor, Gosforth, N. Kensington, Stonebroom,
Chesterﬁeld, Leicester, Hythe, Ipswich, Birmingham,
Streatham, Cahrd, Portslade, Gresford, Enﬁeld, Gerrards
Cross, Stanmore, Brentwood, Sheerness, Over Wyresdale,
Willand, Coleford, Manea, Sidcup, Presteigne, Hull, Gates-
head, Saltash, Diss, Canterbury, Blackburn, Bromsgrove,
Leeds, Middlesbrough, Kibworth Beauchamp, Audlem,
Seaford, Bacup, Farnham, Maidstone, Furness Vale,
Chichester, Peterborough, Dagenham, Barking, Carshalton,
Tottenham, Bramhall, Winscombe, Clifton, Rotherham,
Eastbourne, Herberton, Ottershaw Park, Perranporth,
Bangor.

 

BRANCH
NEWS

 

‘Magniﬁcat’

——pet of
Mrs Munds

  

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, GIOSSOP and DiStfiCt
At the branch annual meeting in Glossop, Mrs F. A. Rawson
Schoﬁeld, branch co hon sec, traced the history and growth
01' the branch from its formation ﬁfty-three years ago. Mrs
Rawson Schoﬁeld was introduced by the chalrman, Alder-

man R. A. Beckmann, Mayor of Glossop, who was accom-
panied by his wife and the Mayor and Mayoress of Ashton,
Councillor and Mrs J. Holland. Mr C. O. Hockin, Council,
Member, gave what he described as a ‘bird’s-eye view’ of the
work at RSPCA Headquarters. Inspector Blaylock’s report
showed that his investigations into cruelty to animals had
led to twelve convictions.

After the treasurer’s report had been given, Mr G. F.
F urniss, proposing a vote of thanks to Mr Hockin, spoke of
Mr Hockin’s great interest in the Society, and the Work he
does for animal cruelty prevention. Mrs A. Beever seconded
the vote of thanks.

Miss Heathcote proposed a vote of thanks to Alderman
and Mrs Beckmann, which was seconded by Mr Douglas
Schoﬁeld.

A collection taken afterwards realized nearly £17 for

Society funds.
Balham and Tooting. Wandsworth Common Auxiliary Mrs
Granville Stott, aux hon sec, arranged a bring-and-buy sale
by kind permission of Mrs Seward at her Infants’ School,
Earlsﬁeld Road, and raised £16 for branch funds.

 




.33“:

January 1954

”k
‘

 

Chief lnspector Nash photographed with his dog whom he
adopted after ﬁnding as a puppy one month old under a
shed. The dog became a great friend of the two owls and
missed them when they went away. The Chief inspector
reared the two owls after they had been stolen from their
nest by boys. After he had kept the owls for six weeks they
were strong enough to fend for themselves and were released

From the Surrey Mirror and County Post:
MOBILE ADVISORY CENTRE
Extension of RSPCA Work in East Surrey

As the dusk draws in on a December afternoon,
a dog curled up on the hearth pushes his nose as
near as he can bear to the glowing coals. Some—
where, in a tall tree, an owl blinks at the rising
moon and prepares for its nocturnal foraging.
But as the same dusk falls and the same frosty
moon sends man and beast and bird hurrying
for the warmth of a ﬁreside or nest, a shivering
cur slinks under a street lamp in search of a dry
crust and a lean, scarred and mangy cat howls its
discontent.

Fortunately for the conscience of mankind
there is only one animal in hundreds which is
suffering, and in the hedgerows, the woods, the
homes and the stables of East Surrey, countless
numbers of animals pursue natural and contented
lives. Many of these countless numbers would
thank for their wellvbeing, if they were able, a
hard—working and conscientious body of people
with a great sense of duty, the RSPCA. .

For many years the RSPCA have done invaluv
able work in the district, but this year the scope
of their activities has widened considerably with
the acquisition of a travelling advisory centre.

First Patient

The caravan has been operating since May 20,
the date of the Society’s ﬂag day, When it stood
in the forecourt of the Market Hall, Redhill, all
day. Its ﬁrst appearance had a very good omen
for its success. A wounded pigeon fell from the
roof of one o f the high buildings at the crossroads
and someone took it to the caravan. They renv
dered ﬁrst aid to their ﬁrst ‘patient’, which was

THE ANIMAL WORLD 7

kept there all day to greet visitors and to prove
the caravan’s use to them.

Mrs Longley, of St George, Tollgate Avenue,
Earlswood, the honorary secretary of the branch,
who has been with the caravan every time it has
been out so far, says that it has brought the
branch a great deal more work and expenditure
and really proved its need but it has not brought
in any extra funds.

Animal Defenders

The new caravan of the East Surrey branch is
helping, more than anything tried before, to get
recruits for the Animal Defenders in this district.
In all the schools visited so far, the caravan ap—
pealed greatly to the children; in some schools,

too, lectures and group activities have been
arranged.

Hook in Heron’s Throat
What of the large band of voluntary RSPCA

workers who must take much credit, equally with
Inspector Bloor, for their humane work on be
half of animals in East Surrey? Two of these
workers are Mrs Jameson, who has been chair;
man of the branch for forty years, and the hon
secretary, Mrs Longley, who has had some in;
teresting experiences, especially since the acquisi’
tion of the travelling advisory centre. She tells of
the baby heron which was brought to them from
Earlswood Lakes with a ﬁshahook in its throat.
It had not been able to feed for weeks, and was
consequently emaciated and had to be destroyed.
Then there was the owl which, inexplicably since
it did not appear to be injured, could not ﬂy.
After much puzzling, they tried to pull its wing
out to see if it was broken. To their surprise, the
wing seemed to be ﬁrmly ﬁxed to the bird’s body
and they discovered it had been bound round
with cotton which had worked its way under the
feathers and could not be seen. The most likely
solution was that the owl had got caught in a
seed—bed covered with cotton to keep off thieving
birds.

Although the caravan has been out only once
a week up till now, there are ambitious plans for
the future. In every village and town there are
auxiliary secretaries and it is planned to Visit
every place on a rota system on regular days and
staff the caravan with .these auxiliary secretaries
and their helpers so that local people will be
helping their neighbours.

IMPROVEMENT AT WINCHESTER

Thanks to the unremitting efforts of Senior
Inspector Evans, new loading ramps have now
been installed in this Market and their use
should greatly reduce fear and suffering for the
animals concerned.

 




 

 

 

ANIMAEH

THE OFFICIAL

-1

WORLD

MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol XLIX No 1 New Series

JANUARY I 954

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Postpaid

 

 

ANIMALS
AND
THE BALLOT

 

A recent Parliamentary ballot for Private Mem’
bers’ Time reminds us of a special virtue in animal
welfare.

This virtue lies in the proof, which this ballot
provided, of how the interests of animals can
cause Members of Parliament to rise above
party considerations. .

Three Members of Parliament who won places
in the ballot agreed to present Bills on behalf
of the RSPCA.

Mr Arthur Moyle, CBE, MP, presented the
Slaughter of Animals (Amendment) Bill, which
seeks to implement certain recommendations of
the Committee of Enquiry into the Slaughter of
Horses. The Hon P. F. Remnant, MP, is pre»
senting the Protection of Animals (Amendment)

Bill, which, if it becomes law, will extend the
powers of courts to disqualify defendants from
having custody of animals when they have previ’
ously been convicted of cruelty.

The RSPCA has evidence of where a man has
been convicted no less than seventeen times on
charges of cruelty to animals.

The Protection of Animals (Amendment) Bill
seeks also to increase the maximum ﬁne under
the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, from £25 to
£50. The old maximum is based on out~moded
values of the pre—1914’18 war!

The third Bill presented on behalf of the
RSPCA is the Animals (Cruel Poisons) Bill,
introduced by Mr A. C. M. Spearman. This Bill
seeks to prohibit the use of strychnine for the
destruction of animals and to establish an Advi’
sory Committee charged with the duty of investi»
gating the effect of poisons used for animal
destruction. The Committee will have the power
to recommend that the use of certain poisons be
prohibited.

At the present moment it is impossible to say
what progress will be made by these Bills, but the
Parliamentary Department of the RSPCA has
provided telling briefs for the MP5 introducing
them, and the Society is assured of support by '
Members on both sides of the House.

, EDITOR

 

WINDSWEPT
When an RSPCA School Lecturer arrived at a

small school ‘up in the mountains’ she said that
when she opened the car door the force of the
wind was terriﬁc. However, the children were
attentive, and she said despite the weather she
felt amply rewarded by the visit.

Since the last report 186 lectures were given in
schools in Dorset, Devon, Yorkshire, Pembrokea
shire, Bromley, Farnham, Bromsgrove, South;
ampton, Southport, Blackburn and the London
area. A Youth Fellowship at Clapton, E5, two
Guides and Scouts meetings at Bromsgrove, and
a Children’s Cinema Club and St John Ambuv
lance Cadets at Skipton were also addressed.

Twentyvseven new Animal Defender groups

(were formed; 231 children joined the Head’

quarters Group.

INVO CATION

God aid all helpless things
And hear their cry,

A bird with broken wings
That cannot ﬂy.

A deer, with frightened stare
Roped to a tree,

The mind still unaware

The heart is free.

CATS RESCUED FROM TREES

People are often puzzled about why it should be
necessary to rescue cats from trees.The reason is
that although a cat is capable of climbing to con»
siderable heights he is not always able to make
the descent.

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.l

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE CO‘UNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

 

TAGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP 1 POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

*ALLIBE-RT, MRS GASKOIN, C. J. 13., ESQ., MA POWELL, COL R. M., Dso

I'ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP RATTRAY, THE REV DR R. F-
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS . *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA *RIECK. H- H“ ESQ ‘
BRANSOM, Miss L. G” FRSA 1 *HOCK‘N, C_ OWEN, ESQ SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS HOGG, 8- R-, ESQ. D50, MC SIBLY’ w' A" ESQ’ MA’ 1"

 

*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE,

*DOWDELL, MRS

ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH

(CANTAB), DOMS

1 *H-UNTER, MISS
MRCVS 1 LEE, MRS

MURRAY, BRIGADIER C. A., CBE, MRCVS

|
1
1
1
1
LONGMAN, MRS w. 1
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP 1

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP 1 LOCKWOODs LT‘COL 1- Cu JP, TD, MP
1

*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

‘ *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC

SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 3., MBE, JP
TAIT, MRS, BA

TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
THOMAS, w. s. RUSSELL, ESQ

TUFNELL, LIEUT—COMMANDER R. I.., MA, RN
*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, PCIS, Ess

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

T Denotes Co-opted Member

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT—COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer——HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CH3
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

USED &.TRIISTEDTHE WORlD OVER

......................

   

SIMPlE 1

SAFE.

. SURE ZIFEiASII Xi
CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL

FOR ALI. ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND
5465

  
    

ACClES AND SHELVOKE 110

Chief Secretary—~ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary OIﬁcer——MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

    

 

 

EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING
ANIMALS

The number Of experiments on living
animals in this country during 1952 was
2,117,912, it is reported in a White Paper
published recently. Those performed
without anaesthetics was 1,836,328, ap—
proximately 866 per cent.

These experiments were mostly inocu«
lations, modiﬁcations of the animal’s diet
or environment, or the administration Of
a drug or toxin, followed in each case by
Observation of the results which might
follow. Cats, dogs, horses, asses, or
mules were used in 14,989 experiments,
and of these 7,099 were performed under
anaesthesia throughout the whole period.

Over one million experiments were
carried out in the preparation and testing
of substances intended for use in the
treatment of disease in man or in animals.

The White Paper is published by the
Stationery Ofﬁce, price 4d.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

2 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1954

 

 

CRIBS IN THE NIGHT

 

During the trapping season in rabbit~catching
areas the night air is ﬁlled with the cries of
trapped rabbits.

Most of the rabbits caught in this country are
still taken by the gin or, steel~toothed trap. This,
despite the fact that this instrument was de—
scribed in 1951 by a departmental Committee,
set up by the Government, as ‘a diabolical
instrument’.

This Committee, which was set up to
examine the question of wild animals, con—
sidered that 3,500,000 gins were in use. The
Committee went so far as to say that its sale

In the picture at the head, the rabbit
caught in the gin struggles in agony for
freedom

As the picture on the right illustrates,
housewives can help to abolish the use of
the gin by refusing to buy rabbits with
mutilated limbs

and use in this country should be banned by
law within a short period of time.

Humane Trap

By the time the Committee sat the RSPCA was
already marketing a humane trap which caught
by the neck and killed the animal instantly.
The diabolical gin catches by the leg and holds
the animal in agony until death gives a release.
The RSPCA has constantly advocated aboli—
tion of the gin and puts forward other methods
besides the humane trap for rabbit control.
These methods include Long Nets, Purse Nets,
snares and gassing among other things; full de
tails are available from the RSPCA.
The inventor of the RSPCA humane trap, a

Mr Sawyer, received from the RSPCA a prize for
his idea.

The RSPCA asserts that nothing justiﬁes the
use of a trap that inﬂicts torture on any animal.
For this reason the Society says the gin must be
abolished.

It is illegal to set spring traps in the open for
the purpose of catching rabbits and hares, but
the RSPCA obtains many convictions for this
offence every year.

Bad as is the gin trap when set in the burrows,
it is a menace to every animal, as well as to wild
birds, when set illegally in the open. Every rabbitv
trapping area has its cats and dogs with a paw
amputated following its being caught in a gin trap.

The Government must act to abolish this dia’
bolical and out—moded instrument of torture, but
whilst this "action is awaited the RSPCA urges

 

 

 

 




 

4 THE ANIMAL WORLD Januaryl954

KITTEN lN THE CHIMNEY

These pictures, printed by courtesy of the London ‘Evening News’, show
what happened when the RSPCA was called to the rescue of a kitten trapped
behind the iron framework fireplace at Bedford Hill, London, SWl2

The cat was located after both flue ledges had been opened and front of grate

 

 

removed.
(Builders
who helped
Inspector
Keech are

being taken
the iron

ﬁreplace,
the kitten is

of milk

 

shown.) After
from behind

frame of the

given a drink

 

 

Heroes’ Corner

TANGANYIKA RESCUE

When a Spaniel fell over the cliff at Lushoto,
Usambara Mountains, Tanganyika, two natives
who were told decided to try to rescue him.
Having no rope the men decided to weave one
from local ﬁbre. When they had made enough
rope one was lowered-This man took the dog in
his arms and was then hauled to safety by his
friend.

For their splendid efforts in the rescue Of an
animal, Andrea s/o Mateusi, who was lowered
from the cliff, and Johanna s/o Mali Ngumu,
who was holding the rope, have each received
the RSPCA Silver Medal and Citation Certify

cates.

Bronze Medals

A police constable was searching the mountain
district at PlaSry—myndd, Talybont, for some
stolen property, and during his patrol heard the
bleating of a lamb, whom he traced to a disused
mineshaft. It was almost dark and impossible to
do anything at once, but early next morning the
constable, a local RSPCA Inspector and a ﬁre
crew set out. Once again the animal could be
heard but not seen.

Sub—Ofﬁcer Evans was lowered on a rope and
about 40 ft. down he shouted he had reached a
ledge upon which he was able to stand and the
lamb was in the area but‘had retreated into an
adit. To allow himself to penetrate the adit, Sub!
Ofﬁcer Evans called to his colleagues to slacken
the rope. This entailed risk since he had below
him a 100 ft. drop. Having reached the lamb he

sent her to the top on the rope and he himself
was then hauled to safety. For his bravery on
behalf of an animal, SubrOfﬁcer Evans has
received the RSPCA Bronze Medal and Certiﬁ’
cate. -

Another winner of a similar award is Mr F.
Cunningham of the RAF Mountain Rescue
Squad, who rescued a dog from a disused mine’
shaft at Stanton, near Ashbourne, Derbyshire.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Mr R. Sharpe, former Chairman of Preston
Branch; the Hon Sir E. S. Scott, husband of the
hon secretary of Dorset~South Branch; Mrs
Davies, hon secretary of Dinas Mawddwy
auxiliary; Mrs Dickens, hon secretary of Fown’
hope auxiliary; Miss Riddell, former hon secre’
tary of Montgomeryshire Branch.

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT

From ‘Hansard’:

Cattle Slaughtering (Jewish Method)

Mr G. WILLIAMS asked the Minister of Food if
he is satisﬁed that the standing instruction of
January 1, 1950, that the slaughter of cattle by the
Jewish method should be allowed only at those

places where local Jewish communities have

installed an approved casting pen, is being carried
out.

Major LLOYD. GEORGE: Yes.

Oil Pollution
Sir H. ROPER asked the Minister of Transport

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

6 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1954

 

 

 

   

 

__EZ

w

—— W
Th— _w./;9/’§é :3:
. ’ \ . ~ \ _ .
_ a: w .mgt . essenger
\ \ — _—
Under this title, RSPCA supporters interested
specially in the welfare of birds have received
news each quarter in their own magazine. With
the closing of the publication, ANIMAL WORLD
will each month, beginning with the present
issue, devote a section under this heading to
news and topics that would previously have found
a place in the magazine The Winged Messenger.

 

Picture by courtesy of The Daily Mirror

 

‘SCANDALOUS’ TO ILL—TREAT OWL,
SAYS BENCH

Four boys were seen illvtreating an owl and
afterwards the bird was found ‘absolutely lifeless
and covered with blood’, Baschurch Magistrates
were told.

The Chairman of the Bench commented at the
end of the case: ‘To my mind it is a scandalous
thing to treat a harmless little bird in the way
you did.’

Before the court were four defendants, two
aged 18, one 16 and one 11.

The three older boys were each ﬁned 105.
and ordered to pay £3 35. costs. The eleven—year—
old was given a conditional discharge for 12
months and had to pay 53. costs.

The Chairman said that the three older boys
would have been ﬁned more heavily if the costs
had not been so big.

All four pleaded not guilty to contravening
Section 1 of the Protection of Animals Act by
illatreating a tawny owl.

The owl was given a humane end.

A housewife said she saw the four boys coming
from a ﬁeld. One had an owl, which he was
twirling round on a string tied to the leg. She
alleged that the owl was whipped, stoned and
kicked.

A veterinary surgeon stated he examined the
dead tawny owl some days after the alleged incia
dents. The owl’s injuries were consistent with
having been caused by a blow or a series of blows.
It must have suffered quite considerably. (Case
No. A.7OS3; Inspector Watt.)

FINED FOR TRAPPING WILD BIRDS

At Bangor Magistrates’ Court three men were
ﬁned for offences under the Protection of Birds
Act, 1925.

The cases were brought by the RSPCA and in
each instance the men were seen to use birdvlime
in an attempt to catch goldﬁnches.

One was ﬁned £3 for taking a wild bird by an
unlawful method and 105. for conﬁning a bird in
too small a cage.

Another was ﬁned a total of £2 105. for similar
offences, and a third was ﬁned £1 for similar

offences. (A.7534; Inspector Thelwell.)

 

Oiledbirds are a serious problem on the Fylde Coast, and in
the pictures on the left Inspector Heyes, with Mrs Heyes,
IS seen cleaning birds he has rescued.

The cleaning of oiled birds is a task for experts. Anyone
who sees a bird in distress should call for the help of an
RSPCA Inspector or Clinic worker. As a relief measure, the
ﬁnder can put food and water within reach of the bird

Jag.




 

 

 

 

 

4-,! "j
2: '

I)

8 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1954

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

NOVEMBER 1953

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,009 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
84 Ofenders ﬁned.
35 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
734 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES-Working in an unﬁt state, overdriving 2
1.)ONKEYs-—Neglecting, dragging along the highway 2
CATTLE—Neglecting, neglecting ingrowing horn, twist
ingtail. .. .. 3
SHEEP Neglecting .. 2

 

PIGSmNeglecting, beating, injuring with sharp instm
ment . 4

l)OGS-Neglectirig, kicking, shooting and wounding,
throwing to ground, killing in improper manner,
etc. 20

CATS-~-StaTUlng, shooting and wounding, killing in
improper manner, attempting to kill in improptr
manner, beating, throwing on ﬁre, injuring with

ﬁrework etc. .. 12
I?OWLS———Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,

stoning 4
FROG—Killing in improper manner l

WILD BIRDS—Conﬁning in improper receptacle, con—
veying in improper manner 2

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OE BIRDS ACT, 1925:
mConﬁning birds in small cages 8
OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken bird
Using nets for the purpose of taking
Setting pole trap
Shooting. . .

r—di—‘ww

VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel tooth trapwset in open 9
Laying poison

Causing in offences

Aiding and abetting in offences 3
. 2
Infringement of the Transit of Horses Order, 1951 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 85

During NOVEMBER 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed THIRTEEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

THREE for 3 years; FOUR for 5 years; ONE for 12 years;
ONE. for 15 years; ONE for 20 years; ONE for 25 years; Two for
Li e

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst .. 25,771
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 787
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 9,381

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 4,300 Dogs, 4,299 Misc., 247
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst-aid: 1,969

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 11 Dogs, 73

Total, 8,846

Misc., 2

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,404
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,398
No. of animals rescued: 4

Tom l , 86

N o. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 199

NORTH WALES
FirstrAid Cases:

UNIT

Cats, 27 Dogs, 44 Misc., 2 Total, 73
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 81 Dogs, 34 Misc., 5 Total, 120

No. of miles covered by‘Unit during month: 2,055

AWARDS

Current awards are under review

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS 30,750
.CONVICTIONS .962
CAUTIONS . 11,599

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 160,623

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19,839

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,083

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross... 1
Silver Medals l 1,
Bars to Silver Medals .. 3
BronZe Medals 52
Bars to Bronze Medals 5

Merit Certiﬁcates 104

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 THE ANIMAL WORLD

From Mrs
Kinsman,
clinic hon sec,
Sutton

 

Berkshire—Newbury and District A ball, the proceeds of
which were divided between the RSPCA and the NSPCC,
was held in the Corn Exchange, Newbury. Arrangements
were made by the committee with Mr W. G. W. Mitchell as
hon secretary, Mr J. M. Laycock as hon treasurer (Mr
Laycock is hon treas of the branch), and the following mem-
bers: Lady Teviot (chairman), Lady Mount (vice-chairman),
Mrs Hugh Astor, Lady Greene, Mrs Roger Harvey, Mrs
John Henderson, the Hon Mrs Langton'lliffe, Lady Mow-
bray, Lady Katherine Nicholson, Mrs Parker Bowles, Mrs
Alec Pilkington, Mrs Douglas Pilkington, Lord Porchester,
Mrs Duncan Simonds, Mrs George Villiers, Mr F. P.
Pirouet and Mr Hugh Turner. Inspector Tynan gave help in
conducting the guests to their tables.

Burton-on-Trent Mrs Bird, branch hon sec, reports that
Mrs Smith, aux hon sec, raised £5 1s. 2d. by a collection
at Melbourne and King’s Newton, and £11 11s. by
a whist drive. These amounts have gone to branch funds.
Mrs M. A. Hall, of Burton-on-Trent, collected £7 10s. for
branch funds at a bridge party.

Carmarthenshire Mr A. C. Mitchell, branch hon sec, re—
ports that the cinema collection raised £26 16s. 6d. for
branch funds. Mrs Mitchell and ladies of the committee had
a bring-and-buy sale which raised £56 85. 8d.

Chesterﬁeld and North Derbyshire Mrs Granger, co hon
sec of Dronﬁeld auxiliary, reports that a jumble sale raised
£7 for branch funds.

Chiswick and District A concert organized by Miss D.
Parlby, Bedford Parkaux hon sec, and held at her home
raised £9 for branch funds.

Cornwall—West Mr J. Hart, chairman, Camborne and
Redruth Council, presented to Mr C. F. Bawden a certiﬁcate
and silver meritorious medal for 35 years’ service with the
RSPCA.

Cumberland—North and East Miss Higginson, daughter of
Botcherby aux hon sec, organized a whist drive and raised
£9 for branch funds. A whist drive organized at Kirkoswald
by Mrs Wilde, Lazonby and Kirkoswald aux hon sec, raised
£10 for branch funds.

*

Mrs Burgess, asst hon sec, helped by Miss Kidd, Brisco
and Durdar aux hon sec, and Miss Westoll, Longtown aux
hon sec, organized a coffee morning at St Cuthbert’s Church
Hall, and this, with a bring-and-buy stall, raised £28 for
branch funds.

Denbighshire—East, and Rhyl A display and collection

. arranged by Miss K. Ashcroft, Denbigh aux hon sec, raised

£15 for branch funds.
Derbyshire—Derby and District Mrs Loten, branch hon
secretary, reports that a whist drive organized by Mrs B. M.

Thornton, Chellaston aux co. hon sec, raised £4 43. for
branch funds.

*
Mrs R. A. Loten, branch hon sec, reports that Mrs Doyle,

aux hon sec for Belper, has kindly presented her district with
a lethal chamber.

Mrs Webster, of Belper, organized a whist drive and ,

raised £8 ls. 6d, for branch funds.

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Campbell, Harold Wood aux hon sec, reports: ‘Are not
two sparrows sold for a farthing, and one of them shall not
fall on the ground without your father’. These words of
Jesus became one of the themes of the simple address given
by Sister Olive, deaconess of Harold Wood (Essex) Methodist
Church, to an open-air congregation of 70-80 people of the
Harold Hill estate on the lovely afternoon of Sunday,

January 1954

October 11. The service, held to celebrate the day of St
Francis of Assisi, was held on the green verge bordering
Gooshays Drive, Harold Hill: outside the RSPCA clinic in
which over 4,000 animals have been treated since it opened
two-and-a-half years ago.

There were many children present, most of whom brought
their pets, which included a tortoise, tame mice and even a
parrot—which joined in the service. In a moving little
episode the service ended with the blessing of the animals,
as their young owners ﬁled past Sister Olive.

Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District Miss Camp-
ling organized a whist drive in aid of the East Finchley
clinic and raised £16.

Fylde Mrs A. L. Poole, Poulton aux hon sec, reports that
the annual garden party this year raised £58 for branch
funds. Mr A. Pye, of Little Poulton, kindly lent his garden
and the ground ﬂoor of his house for tea, and the event was
much enjoyed. '
Gloucestershire——Mid Mrs Edith M. Porri, branch hon sec,
reports that Mr and Mrs W. Vigus of Dursley, raised £20 for
branch funds by means of several nights of skittling at the
‘King’s Head’, Dursley. Help was given by Mr Frank
Turland and others and the alley was lent by Mr E. Morgans.
Grimsby and District Mrs D. M. Clapham, branch hon
sec, spoke on the work of the RSPCA to members of the
Toc H. She was the ﬁrst woman speaker that this particular
branch of T oc H had ever had. Members gave £1 to help
forward RSPCA work locally.

The Weelsby group of Animal Defenders made a special
effort on behalf of a pony. Mrs Clapham praised particularly
the efforts of school teacher Miss E. Habbershaw, of the
Weelsby Primary Girls’ School.

Lough auxiliary held a dog show at The Priory, by per-
mission of Miss I. Lacy. It was opened by the Mayor,
Councillor F. R. MacDonald, who was accompanied by the
Mayoress. The Mayor was welcomed by the aux chairman,
Mr W. P. Nicholson, and the judges were Miss A. F. Powell
and Mrs E. Vickerman. The Mayor spoke highly of the
RSPCA’s work and mentioned particularly Mrs E. Hodge-
ltfinsl, aux co hon see. More than £34 was raised for branch

un s.

Hants and Surrey Border School teachers and school chil-
dren of Froyle Church schools, Hants, enjoyed RSPCA ﬁlms
which were shown under the guidance of Col R. M. Powell,

branch hon secretary and Council member, and of Dr
Ramsbottom.

Opening of
the new
Kennels

for Stray
Dogs at i
Leicester.
The Lord
Mayor,
Alderman

C. R. Keene,
CBE, P, is
seen talking
to the
smallest
inmates after
officially
opening the
Kennels

By courtesy
of the
Leicester
Mercury

 

 

 




 

 

12 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1954

 

 

 

An attractive stall at Loughborough Agricultural Show '

Shropshire A whist drive organized by Mrs Brehany raised
£35 for branch funds. *

Inspector Jones judged the animals entered in a pet show
at Ludlow Secondary Modern school.

*

Mrs Meredith, branch and aux hon sec, organized a rum:
mage sale for Shewsbury and raised £34 for branch funds.
The sale was held in St Chad’s Parish Room.

*

Mr T. Jones, Oswestry co aux hon sec, reports that the
ladies of the auxiliary committee organized a bring-and-buy
sale and raised £32 for branch funds. The auxiliary presi-
dent, Lt-Col H. E. Kenyon, opened the sale.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Inspector
Coles lectured probationers of the Stockport County

Borough Police on the work of the RSPCA and the law,

affecting animals.
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Miss Tamplin, branch
hon sec, reports: A man was recently prosecuted at Lam-
beth for cruelly ill-treating a pony, a nine-year-old bay geld-
ing named Monkey. The pony belonged to another person
and the branch, lest someone else cruel should hire Monkey,
decided to buy him. Monkey was bought at market value to
be placed by the RSPCA in a good home.
Surrey—Epsom and District Miss Cunliﬁe, branch hon
sec, reports that a coffee morning and bring-and-buy sale in
Epsom raised £31 for branch funds.
Surrey—Sutton and District Mrs Longman, Council mem-
ber, was the chief speaker at the branch annual meeting at
Christchurch Park Hall. Arrangements for this highly suc-
cessful meeting were made by Mrs Allibert, branch hon sec
and Council member. The Rev Canon Crawford Murray,
chairman, presided and the Mayor and Mayoress were on
the platform with the Rector of Sutton, the Rev Wooll-
combe. Inspector Reed received, at the meeting, a medal for
gallantry shown during the recent work at the time of the
East Coast ﬂoods.
Vale of Mowbray Mrs Morris, Thirsk aux hon sec, organ-
ized a bazaar and raised £9 15s. for branch funds.
Wakeﬁeld, Dewsbury, Pontefract, Mirﬁeld and Batley
A pianoforte recital, given by students of Alex Green,
LRAM, in the Jubilee Hall, Margaret Street, Wakeﬁeld, raised
£18 for branch funds. Superintendent John Thornberry was
chairman.
Warwickshire South and East Miss D. Lake, branch
organizing sec, reports that the branch combined with the
Warwick Round Table, to run a After Halloween Party in
the Royal Pump Rooms, Leamington Spa. The Mayor and
Mayoress and Lady Shuckburgh (branch chairman), at-
tended, and the sum of £14 was raised for branch funds.
The Warwick ladies’ auxiliary concluded their autumn
social events to raise funds, with a children’s pet show at
which the Mayor and Mayoress of Warwick presented the
prizes, and the Mayor said how much he admired the work

being done in the branch. This function with a beetle and
whist drive raised a total of £25 for branch funds.
Weston-super-Mare Miss Dix, on behalf of the local com-
mittee, organized a ﬁlm show in Winscombe auxiliary. Many
children attended and Wing-Commander Hillier, branch
organizer, spoke to them.

Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Miss G. W. Wormell,
branch co hon sec, reports: Mrs Conway organized a whist
drive at Amesbury and Bulford Camp, and raised £19 45. 60’.
for branch funds.

Mrs Collins of Winterslow, raised £10 133. for branch
funds by a whist drive.

Mrs Dark of Pitton, raised over £7 from a whist drive.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Speaking at
the branch annual meeting in support of our resolution pro-
testing at the proposal to incorporate a zoo and aviary in
the Riverside project at Windsor, Major Frank Chapman, of
RSPCA Headquarters, said many people who condemned
circuses said zoos were all right, but he condemned them
both as they both involved the transporting of animals over
long distances in bad conditions. The resolution was pro-
posed by Major Angus Macnaghten and seconded by Miss
M. Ormrod.

Mrs Bourne-May, branch chairman, presented to In-
spector Wilkinson a certiﬁcate for courage and humanity in
rescuing a cat from a high tree, and a second award for his
part in animal rescue work undertaken during the East
Coast floods.

All the ofﬁcers of the branch were re-elected, the principal
re—elections being as follows: Chairman, Mrs Bourne-May;
vice-chairman, Miss Bowring; hon sec, Mrs Tait (Council
member); hon treas, Mr A. T. Hughes: hon auditor, Major
A. V. Reid.

New arixiliary hon secretaries include Miss M. Ormrod
of Windsor.

Worcestershire—East and West Warwickshire Miss Dolton,
Redditch aux hon sec, reports that a jumble sale in the
Congregational Hall, Redditch, raised £10 for branch funds.
Worcestershire—West and Malvern A sale organized by
Miss E. Tait, Malvern Link aux hon sec, raised £50 6s. 6d.
for branch funds.

Yorkshire—Bradford and District Judging the four semi-
ﬁnals in the ‘Star Cinema’ pet show, was undertaken by Miss
Hall, branch see, Mr Greenwood, deputy chairman, and
Inspector Cole. The ﬁnal was held at the Elite Cinema,
Bradford, where the Lord Mayor and Lady M ayoress were
present. A request for the branch to help them was received
from Mr Cole, manager of the Coliseum Cinema, Bradford.
Shown in a ﬁlm which was made of the ﬁnal judging are
MISS Hall, Mr Whitehead (branch chairman), and the
Inspector.

Yorkshire—York and District A report received from Mrs
Featherston, of Elvington, shows that a coffee party and

bring-and—‘buy sale held in the De Grey Rooms (kindly lent '

by Mr and Mrs Bert Keech) raised £50 for branch funds.

Mr 1. Walter,
Hon Sec of
New Malden
and Coombe
auxiliary,

sends this photo-
graph of four
Animal De-
fenders who, by
selling flowers
from their
gardens, raised
£l 2s. l0d. for
Branch Funds

 

 

 

 




 

 

@MEE’QDRMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every

A 11 .. description for ALL
enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge

Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A- .

 

F ORNI OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—-—-

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
‘ p be suﬁicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex'

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE

By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, H tf d d
published by Arthur W, 61‘ Or an Harlow, and

Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

"‘- %__ﬁ ~A _ r“

 




