 

Combined Distemper-Hepatitis

Vaccine Now at ASPCA Clinic

A new inoculation series is now being
given at the ASPCA Hospital and Clinic,
as well as by many private veterinarians.
It is a combination Distemper and Infec-
tious Hepatitis vaccine found to be extreme-
ly successful in preventing these totally dif-
ferent, but both highly infectious and very
often fatal dog diseases.

The series consists of three injections,
spaced approximately two weeks apart. Al-
though fairly expensive (about $5.00 per
injection), we feel it is justiﬁed if you can
save your dog from these dread diseases.

If you prefer the three-shot series against
distemper alone, it is still being given at
about $4.00 a shot, and if the dog is in
excellent health your veterinarian may sug-
gest the single shot type at about $6.00.

Infectious enteritis in cats, an equally ‘

dangerous and contagious disease, can also
be prevented by vaccination. The ASPCA
Hospital gives the two-shot injection at
about $2.50 per shot.

These are the so-called permanent shots
which are administered at about three
months of age, or whenever the veterinarian
recommends them. The safe course is to
consult a veterinarian while the animal is
sﬁH young.

The danger of these diseases should not
be underestimated. Coupled with the high
mortality rate is the ease with which the
virus can be transmitted from one animal

 

Another Saunders Book Published

Everyone interested in better dog behavior
stops and looks when another book comes
from Blanche Saunders. The best known
person in obedience, and trainer of the
ASPCA obedience classes, Miss Saunders
has just brought out “The Complete Book
of Obedience,” covering every phase of

training. The book is published by Prentice
Hall.

24

to another. A dog may become infected by
direct contact with a sick dog, by persons
who have had such contact, by saliva and
feces, clothes and blankets of infected dogs,
grounds and premises of such dogs. The
hepatitis virus remains in the urine of in-
fected dogs even after they have recovered
and may be transmitted to susceptible dogs
months later.

Added to the danger is the fact that
the diseases render the animal susceptible to
bacterial complications which may in them-
selves prove fatal.

All owners, therefore, are urged to pro-
tect their pets with these immunizing vac-
cines before possible exposure. The vaccines
stimulate the cells of the body to produce
protective substances called antibodies.
These increase the ability of the animal to
withstand the infection which might other-
wise prove fatal.

Protection against rabies is available, too,
with a yearly injection which the ASPCA
will administer for about $3.00.

 

REMEMBER THE ASPCA
IN YOUR WILL

FORM or BEQUEST

I give and bequeath unto “The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals,” a corporation existing under
and by virtue of the laws of the State of

New York, having its principal office at
441 East 92 Street, New York, N. Y.:

the sum of .................................. dollars.
or
all of my right, title and interest in and

to ........................................ (description of
property) together with the buildings
and improvements thereon.

 

_ .. . . m, "-4-..




OME 500,000 families in the country Unfortunately, the busy Holiday season is
are about to celebrate Christmas 4 by not the best time to cope with an addition
introducing a new pet into their households. to the family.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




     

  

05R TIFICA TE 0F WENT

recﬁgﬁiition

    

     

Tb Auunkan Said} [or Ilr Prnmlion
0/ Cult} to Animal!

       
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

ASPCA .4 WA RD
SENT TO ISRA El

HE ASPCA Medal of Honor and Certiﬁcate of Merit were

recently conferred on Mrs. Gerda Freudmann, resident
matron of the Jerusalem Animal Hospital, in recognition of
her courageous conduct during a siege of shooting in the
Israeli capital.

Under a 40-hour ordeal by gunﬁre, Mrs.
F reudmann refused to leave the hospital,
despite offers of personal rescue. Putting
the welfare of her patients above self-pres-
ervation, she remained throughout the
shooting, giving aid and comfort to the
animals. Relief came late the second day
when police brought food to the hospital.

When presented with the medal the hero-
ine, ﬁlled with emotion, declared she had
merely done what she had considered her
duty —— to stay with the animals during
the dangerous days.

The 24-year-old hospital, located at the
foot of Mount Zion, is dedicated to “re-
habilitating” stray dogs for service as
watchdogs with the police and in frontier
settlements. About 70 percent of all strays
are thus saved.

The occasion marked the ﬁrst time
ASPCA’s medal has gone to a country in
the Near East in the 20 years the medal
has been in existence.

Jerusalem's Mayor
Yitzhak Kariv presents
medal to Mrs. Freudmann

courageous conduct . . .

 

 

   

  




"Tammy" on the Spot

ASPCA ambulances have often been
praised for their quick response to emer-
gency calls. Here’s an unusual case, however,
when our man was Tommy on the spot to
help an injured dog within one second of
the accident. 3

Mrs. William Cross was walking her 13-
month-old black cocker in Central Park one
morning when Bounce suddenly broke away
to chase a squirrel. The squirrel scampered
nimbly away with Bounce in pursuit.

Mrs. Gross called but the dog was already
out of sight. Suddenly she heard screeching
of brakes, a thud and a yelp of pain. When
she reached the road she saw Bounce ———
stretched out, his leash wrapped around his
neck, and the squirrel and the hit-and-run
driver gone.

“I’ll always remember that moment,” she
recalls. “The way he looked, just lying there,
dazed. I didn’t know what to do. I had no

money with mefor a cab to get him to a
hospital. I was too far from a phone to call
for help.”

At that moment a knight in shining white
ambulance drove up and took command of
the situation. ASPCA’s Thomas Barnshaw,
taking a short cut through the park, had
stopped for a light, spied the dog in the
street, and recognized a clear-cut case of
lady and dog in distress.

“He gently picked up the dog,” recalls
Mrs. Gross, “and placed him on the stretcher.
He made it seem so easy. We were at the
hospital in ﬁve minutes.”

X-rays revealed Bounce had a fractured
hip, and a badly bruised hip socket.

“We kept our fingers crossed,” says Mrs.
Gross, “and we were lucky. Bounce is ﬁne
now. He went into the hospital a puppy and
came out a dog. He obeys beautifully. I
think he’s learned his lesson.”

 

A Promise Fulfilled

When Jamaica Race Track opened for
business last fall, it unveiled what is prob-
ably the most ﬁre-safe stable in the United
States. The new barn represents the fulfill-
ment of a promise and the result of a year-
long experiment following the track’s disas-
trous fire in March 1953.

As reported in the ANIMAL PROTECTION
article “Fire ~— Nightmare of the Turf,”
(Summer 1953) nine horses perished and
one 20-stall barn was completely destroyed
by the blaze. The cause of the ﬁre was
never determined. But whatever the cause,
the ﬂames, aggravated by the highly-com-
bustible hay, swept through the old-fashioned
wooden stable in seconds.

The new 22-stall barn, valued at $80,000,
is of steel frame, concrete block and con-
crete construction. The only wood is oak,
treated to be ﬁre resistant, and is used for
stall. flooring and siding. The stall doors are

steel covered, and the entire barn is auto-
matically water sprinkled. This radical
departure from the usual stable could be the
answer the turf-world has been seeking to
its most harassing problem— ﬁre.

ASPCA Education Dept. 1951
441 East 92nd Street
New York 28, N. Y.

Enclosed is $1 for my dues. Please en-
roll me as an ASPCA Junior Member and
send me a membership button, member-
ship card and ofﬁcial poster contest rules.

Name _____________________________________________________
Address _______________________________________________________
City ____________________________ Zone-.- State ____________
Age._____-_-___i___(Juniors must be under 18)

21

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Harry Miller

(Continued from Page 9)

Veterinarians from all over the world, who
are specialists in their ﬁelds, are invited to
discus-s “The Newer Knowledge about Dogs.”
The 1954 topics included: blood types in
dogs, immunity to disease, obesity, infec-
tious diseases, use of hormone preparations
and canine anaesthesia. From as far away
as Iran, the Philippines and Thailand came
veterinarians armed with up-to-the-minute
ideas on these topics.

After the session the highlights of the sym-
posiums are published in Miller’s quarterly
bulletin which reaches 25,000 dog breeders,
every veterinarian in the country and every
library.

The eight-page bulletin, one of Miller’s
proudest accomplishments, is a collection of
strange and wonderful facts. A reader for
example can discover that the best way to
dry a dog is with a Chamois instead of a
towel. Or that one of the most satisfactory
dog houses can be made from a barrel. Or
that in wintertime a dog should spend most
of its time either indoors or outdoors to
avoid sudden temperature changes.

Dogs Today Living Longer

Undoubtedly Miller’s work has been at
least partly responsible for the fact that
today dogs have a longer life span than
ever before. The average dog lived 7 years
in 1925, compared with 12 today, the equiv-
alent of 75 years in human beings.

The relationship between a dog’s age and
a human being’s is one of the odd facts
Miller has discovered in his research work.
A one-year-old pup is the equivalent of a
16-year-old child. A two-year-old dog is 24
years old in human terms and a three-year-
old dog is 30.

After that each year in a dog’s life is
the same as ﬁve years in a human’s. A 12-

year-old dog is thus on a par with a 75-year-
old man.

A few years ago Miller undertook to ﬁnd
the oldest dog in the country. He wrote

18

letters asking assistance from 10,000 news-
papers and then set out to verify the claims
personally. Luckily he had to make only one
stOp. The Postmaster at Rocky Mount, N.C.
had written about a local dog reputed to
be 25, two years older than the next highest
claim. He found the dog and was able to
establish through veterinarians that it was
indeed 25. It’s age, by Miller’s scale was
equal to 140 in man. It died the following
spring at the human equivalent of 145.

Talking Dog

The Center’s latest project is the talking
transparent dog named Vesta. Searching for
a dramatic means of bringing to owners a
better understanding of dogs and their care,
he began a bi-lingual correspondence with
the Deutschen Gesundheit-s Museum in Ger-
many, the same ﬁrm which made the trans-
parent woman at the 1939 New York
World’s Fair.

One year later a plastic and plexiglas
reproduction of a female Great Dane was
produced, showing her skeleton, muscular
system, internal organs and teeth. Based on
a complicated electronic system which took
another year to complete, each organ lights
up in a different color as a voice recording
describes its functions. Together with her
rubber-cushioned crates Vesta weighs 1450
pounds.

Since her ﬁrst showing last year Vesta
has traveled thousands of miles and was seen
by over one million peOple at dog shows,
veterinary conventions and museums.

The 10th Anniversary of Gaines Dog
Research Center this year ﬁnds Miller as
enthusiastic about dogs as ever with a flood
of new ideas in mind. Among them is a
campaign for safe driving to avoid hitting
animals on the highways, a directory of
trained blood bounds to track down lost
persons and a photography contest featur-
ing dogs, which last year drew 7,000 entries.

Behind all this is Miller’s notion that the
dog is superior to any other four-legged ani-
mal in the history of mankind—an idea he
shares with over 68,000,000 other Americans.

 




E

INTER I954

 




"Ooh! Listen to him purrl"

UNIQUE CAT COLONY
TRIPlES ADOPTIONS

"Now how did this tree get here?”

"Oh! Mummy! Can I have this one?"

A'l‘ ado )tions haVe nearlv tripled as a result of

AS‘PCA's unique new 'at ward which opened
last July. More than. 600 cats have been selected
from this home away from home in the l w month
the ward has been Operating.

The three colon} cages—one each for males,
females and kittens— contain tree trunks to climb,
shelves for lazing, toys to bat and push, pans of
sprouting oats for snacks and pink sewer-pipe tun-
iels for hide and seek, all of which have allowed
the animals to show off their playful personalities
)etter than they could in old-sty individual cages

L,

(fenlvr photo by A t Fein-—New York Herald Tribune

hers by Roger Higgins ~ I!"orld-'I'elegram and The Sun

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dog Runs Home 80 Miles
ST. LOUIS—~A family gave its pet dog

away two months ago but Red wasn’t satis-
ﬁed. The 85-pound mongrel broke the chain
attached to his collar on a farm and made
the 80-mile trip back to St. Louis. The dog
had been taken to the farm in the closed
trunk of a car.

Dog Bequeathed $5,000

MASSACHUSETTS —— An 82-year-old
Quincy gardener left $5,000 for Lassie, his
collie dog, and $35,000 to a married couple
who will take care of the pet.

The will stated “failure to make any
bequest to relatives or heirs at law is inten-
tional as l have had no contact with or
interest in them for more than 40 years.”

We’re All Pals Together
ST. PETERSBURG—Joan, a four-year-

old chimpanzee, serves as a guide for Bar-
ney, a 16-year-old cocker spaniel, which has
been blind for years. The chimp helps the
dog around their Florida home.

PASADENA—~A parakeet Butch loves
to perch on the head of its constant com-
panion — a huge boxer named Debbie.

NEW JERSEY —Topsy, a three-year-old
cat, recent mother of three jet-black kittens,
has adopted a baby gray squirrel which fell
from a tree.

CALIFORNIA~Another happy cat and
squirrel clan was introduced by the cat’s
owner who stroked the kittens right after
petting the squirrel, thus transferring its
odor to the kittens. That served to satisfy
the mother cat.

14

Fickle Polar Bear Traded

CHICAGO — A female polar bear named
Aurora was traded by the Brookﬁeld zoo to
an English zoo because she made her boy
friends jealous. The 350-pound bear had
been living with ﬁve males and they fought
over her constantly.

$50,000 Bull Dies
Outside Oxygen Tent

OLD WESTBURY, L. I.~—A $50,000
champion black angus bull died of pneu-
monia despite all efforts to save him by
placing a cellophane oxygen tent around his
stall. For a week the animal received mas-
sive doses of penicillin and aureomycin and
six tanks of oxygen a day at $15 a tank, the
ﬁrst time a bull ever received such treat-
ment. But when the bull was ﬁnally taken
out of the tent, he collapsed and died.

Dogs Get Human Reducing Diet
LONDON ~— British veterinarians who

have watched man beneﬁt from experiments
on dogs, reversed the procedure with a 141-
day reducing diet for over-weight dogs ﬁrst
tried out on humans.

The veterinarians say any canine from a
fat dachshund to a lard-laden Labrador re-
triever can now be streamlined in two weeks.

Parrot Foils Thug
NEW YORK—A parrot named Polly

saved the day when two hold-up men, each
brandishing a, pistol, invaded a Queens home.
Poulbegan to scream, and the unnerved
thugs? ran out the back door into the arms
of the police. A

 

 

Birds Get Bored, Too
WISCONSIN—Birds get bored when

they sing the same song over and over again,
according to a member of. the American
Ornithologists Union.

Birds that tend to sing one short song
repeatedly are silent about 70 percent of the
time. More than a hundred different kinds
of birds with a wide variety of songs sing
almost continuously.

Rival Pushes Zoo Lion

Into Water

PHILADELPHIA —— Pharoah, a. 15-year-
old lion at the Philadelphia Zoo either fell
or was pushed into the water-ﬁlled moat sur-
rounding the lion house. Zoo ofﬁcials sus-
pected Tarzan, another lion, of giving a little
push in rivalry over a young female.

Kitten Sittin’ Pretty

BALTIMORE —— A stray white kitten was
given a place to sleep in the central police
station. A hand-lettered sign over the shelf
where the kitten slept said:

“Anyone who don’t like this cat, ask for a
transfer. The cat likes it here —— if you don’t
like it, you leave.”

Dog’s Tag Identiﬁes Owner
NEW YORK—The dog license of her
pet Scottie enabled police to identify a
woman who lapsed into unconsciousness
While riding with her dog in a taxi. She
remained unknown to police and hospital
attendants, and it was not until a check of
ASPCA dog license records could be made
that the authorities learned her identity.

War Dog Corners Robber
NEW YORK—Boots, a black, part-Lab-

rador retriever that was in the Paciﬁc ﬁght-
ing in World War II helped capture a man
who had beaten and robbed the woman pro-
prietor of a Broadway shop. The dog’s
owner was walking him when she looked
into the shop window and saw the beating.
“Go get him,” she commanded Boots, and
the war-hero chased and cornered the man
several blocks away.

Parakeet Lovers
Meet in England

HARROGATE—The ﬁrst world conven-
tion for parakeets met recently with 800
fanciers from 11 nations attending.

A talking budgerigar is something to brag
about. But more important, said the British
Budgerigar Society, are coloration, size and
brightness.

A champion budge must be 81/2 inches
high, must hold its head up and its back
straight, must have four clear back dots on
its face and its tail must come to a point.

Alpine Dog
Becomes Paratrooper
AUSTRIA——The Austrian Mountain Res-
cue Service has started using dogs as para-
troopers to ﬁnd persons who have been lost
in snow slides. Dogs have been used for
decades in the Alpine regions for this pur-
pose, but it often proved difﬁcult to reach
the scene of accidents. Dogs will now be
parachuted from planes along with human

I'CSCUCI'S.

15

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prev entien of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866
Vol. 8, N0. 3
Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Winter 1954

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES TRafalgar 6-7700

 

HUGH E. PAINE, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, "Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
SYDNEY H. COLEMAN
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
SAMUEL R. MILBANK
JOSEPH B. MURRAY

W. Ross PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WACSTAFF

Managers Emeritus

F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER

 

 

COVER PICTURE

Through the generosity of the
well-known dog artist Albert
Staehle, his lovable cocker
Spaniel Butch joins with us
in wishing everyone a Merry
Christmas.

 

 

 

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
GERTRUDE E. JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees
THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,

Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)
MARY PRISCILLA KEYES, Director of Education

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
30 East 60th St., New York 22, NY.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

PLaza 5-1650

MANHATTAN SHELTER .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

TRiangle 5-9580

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER . LUdlow 3-2880
3960 Park Ave. (173rd St.), Bronx, N. Y. 57, N. Y.
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

QUEENS OFFICE AND’ SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. I.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

 




Even under the best of circumstances it’s
a disturbing experience for an animal to
leave its mother for the ﬁrst time. But add
to the strangeness by introducing him into
a festive holiday group, complete with ex-
cited children who want to fondle him none
too gently, and his new life will get off to a
bad start. Even if he has already been
housebroken, chances are he will disgrace
himself.

Instead of having the pet arrive with
Santa, when the whole family is around the
tree, why not bring him home a few days
before Christmas. This will give him a
chance to get to know and trust the new
surroundings and the new people, so that he
too will be able to enjoy a Merry Christmas.

Breaking-In Period

Here are some other suggestions to ease
the breaking-in period that hold true at any
time and should be heeded even more ﬁrmly
at Christmas time.

If you take your puppy or kitten home
in an automobile, use a basket or carrying
case. Put him in quietly and handle the
container as little as possible. Before you
even take him from the basket, prepare
his bed.

Try to keep the children away from him
for 12 hours, when much of the strangeness
will have worn off. Don’t pet him much until
he comes to you. Let him get acquainted in
his own time. Give some drinking water
after the ﬁrst hour, but no food for at least
four hours.

As for food, ask for a recommended feed-
ing schedule when you take the pet and stick
pretty close to it for the first few days. If

it’s a dog or cat you can relax the schedule
a bit over the holidays with tidbits from the
family turkey, chicken, duck or goose. But
substitute that for the meat in his diet and
don’t let him gorge himself on sweets. Above
all, don’t give him bones of fowl!

And, of course, there should be something
in the stocking for any Christmas pet. Inci-
dentally, whether your pet is a dog, cat,
parakeet, canary or turtle, the pet care in-
industry is now ﬁlling store shelves with a
line of Christmas goods which should send
any pet into ecstacies.

The best present of all is to give your pet
a good start in life by having him examined
by a veterinarian. He will probably recom-
mend vaccination against distemper.

Housebreaking

Your pet’s training, of course, begins as
soon as he overcomes his initial timidity.
Housebreaking a puppy is really simple if
you start early —— not expecting too much at
ﬁrst, but keeping at it. Spread plenty of
newspapers in a particular spot, preferably
enclosed, directing him there after meals,
after an exciting play period, ﬁrst thing in
the morning and last thing at night.

Next step is to obedience train your pup.
At ﬁrst this means merely teaching him to
mind you before you dare take him out.
Break him into a collar after the ﬁrst day,
meanwhile teaching him what no means.

Then clip on the leash and let the pup run
around the house with it for a few days. He
is then ready to go out for needed exercise.
The little fellow may become frightened by
street noises and break away, so be sure his

(Continued on Page 23)

Bill adopted Chris from the ASPCA two Christmases 3
ago. The small fuzzy black puppy with the cold black nose
and white bib was immediately named Mary Christmas.

 




 

 

 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
    

Hollinde is new
Staten Island
Manager

as Frank Haynes

retires a1- 65

IGHT WATCHMAN, helper, kennelman,
chauffeur, special agent, shelter fore-
man—and now District Manager.

That in a nutshell is the career leading to
Walter L. Hollinde’s recent appointment as
Staten Island District Manager to succeed
Frank Haynes, who retired at 65, after 22
years of service with the Society, 13 as
manager.

During his 20 years with the ASPCA, Mr.
Hollinde has held every possible job at the
Clifton shelter. It’s safe to say he knows
more about animals than almost anyone else
on the Island. He has cared for thousands
of dogs, cats and sometimes seals, swans,
chickens, guinea pigs and white mice.

“We can house 80 animals at once, each
one in an outside room, which is unusual
for an animal shelter,” he says proudly.

In sharp contrast to this vine-covered shel-
ter, Mr. Hollinde recalls the old wooden
shack on Sands Street, where he started as
night watchman 20 years ago.

“It was so close to the railroad tracks that
every time the train went by it scraped a bit
off the side of the building. Next we oper-
ated from an old garage with makeshift
kennels in the middle of the ﬂoor. It was

quite a struggle until the present shelter
opened in 1936.”

The new District Manager, a native of
Staten Island, is as proud of his borough as
he is of his shelter. The population of more
than 200,000 people owns about 14,000 dogs
and about 400 horses, but he ﬁnds only a
few strays and little cruelty.

“Our citizens are community-conscious,”
he says. “We are a borough of small home
owners, with even six or seven farms left.
Most of our residents have been on the
Island for years and take pride in keeping
down the stray population.”

He also attributes the borough’s humane
attitude to Mr. Haynes’ work during his
more than two decades at the Shelter. Mr.
Haynes, a civic leader as well as a human-
itarian, considers the interests of animals, of
people and of the community as interrelated
rather than separate subjects. This broad
point of View has won him thousands of
friends, who will be happy to learn that his
plans to live in Florida after retirement have
been cancelled out. There are three good
reasons for his decision to remain a resident
of Staten Island, according to Haynes —
his three grandchildren.

Walter L. Hollinde receives puppies for adoption

% .




THE D

on LISTEN.

 

First Aid

by Leon Abrevaya, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

Some day the life of your pet may de-
pend on your knowledge of ﬁrst aid. These
basic principles may help you keep your pet
alive until the veterinarian can be reached.

Internal Hemorrhage

Caused by head injuries, fractures, falls,
diseases, infections. Symptoms are fainting,
pallor, weak pulse, shallow breathing, bleed-
ing from nose, mouth, rectum or vagina.
Keep the animal quiet and well covered with
the head lower than the hind quarters.

External Bleeding

Apply pressure directly on the wound
using hand covered with a clean cloth soaked
in cold water. Maintain steady pressure
until clot is formed. Give warm water to
drink, but never a stimulant.

Shock

Shock is caused by fright, loss of blood,
severe injuries or exposure. Symptoms are
unconsciousness, semi-consciousness, cold
body, jerky breathing, bluish-white gums,
involuntary urination. Keep the animal
warm. Revive an unconscious animal with a
pad saturated with ammonia under his nose.
Artiﬁcial respiration is indicated if breath-
ing has stopped. Give a stimulant if the ani-
mal is conscious. Never give a sedative.

Poisoning

Too many pets are poisoned when in-
secticides, roach powders, shoe dyes, hair
dyes, lye and cleaning ﬂuids are left where
the animals can reach them.

Speed is essential in getting as much
poison out of his system as possible. Induce

 

vomiting with Epsom salts in warm water
(1 teaspoonful to‘a glass of water), or 3
percent strength hydrogen peroxide mixed

twith equal parts of water.

Peroxide will act as an antidote for phos-
phorus frequently used in rat poisons, and
Epsom salts help combat lead and arsenic
poisoning. Egg white beaten into milk should
be given if the pet has taken one of the
mercuric compounds. For food poisoning
give an enema, followed by Epsom salts. A
solution of table salt combats thallium found
in bug poisons and vinegar is the antidote

for alkali.

Broken Bones

Apply a temporary splint made of board,
padded with a soft cloth. Rush animal to a
veterinarian. Handle all fractures as little as
possible since movement may cause the sharp
bone ends to cut blood vessels or nerves.

Burns

Cut away burned hair and apply petro-
leum jelly, a thin paste of sodium bicar-
bonate, or cold tea compresses. Cover lightly
with gauze.

Heat Exhaustion

As a result of excessive heat the animal
may be listless, semi-conscious or uncon-
scious; the skin cold, the eyes blurred; and
there may be muscular cramps. Keep the
animal in a cool room and immediately give
water containing small amounts of table salt.
Do not give bicarbonate of soda.

Heat Stroke

Results from excessive heat, direct hot
sun, combined with high humidity and lack
of air.

Symptoms differ from heat exhaustion in
that the skin becomes dry and hot. The ani-
mal is weak and prostrate. Muscular cramps
and twitching may accompany a fever up
to 110 degrees. Shock, circulatory collapse,
and even death may follow.

Treatment should be immediate and
heroic. Place dog in a tub containing cold
water. Or shower the animal with cold
water and massage skin thoroughly.

11

 

 




   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
 
 
       
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
   

  

 

 

    

 

Pigeons
rest

on
homing
roosts

Army of Carrier Pigeons
(Continued from Page 5)

line pigeons had one tenth the weight and
cubage of the old type, and the cost was
reduced 500 per cent.

Following the war Major Otto Meyer re-
fused a reserve commission, but agreed to
stay on as civilian technical adviser.

Not to be outdone by the boss is his ﬁrst
assistant Sgt. Harry Lucas. The sergeant, a
triﬂe reluctant about revealing his age, came
to this country in 1906 from England with
a few of his most cherished possessions ——
including his pigeons. When General Persh-
ing called for a pigeon service, he answered.
World War 11 called him back for pigeon
work, and 14 years later he’s still doing the
work he loves best.

Most of the other men in the present corps
also have had previous pigeon experience as
civilians. But Sgt. Lucas recalls the time
during the war when an overzealous new
recruit decided to give all his charges a
bath. He ﬁlled a big basin with thick suds
and proceeded to scrub every pigeon in
sight.

Coops Kept Immaculate
The 1500 birds at. Monmouth today are

clean, not because they are scrubbed, but
because their immaculate white c-oops are
frequently scoured and painted. Since
pigeons mate for life, each couple has a pri-
vate apartment with a porch where eggs are
laid and hatched. Papa sits on the eggs
during the day and even feeds the babies
after they’re hatched. Mama takes over the
night shift.

Training starts in March at Monmouth

16

Sgt. Lucas and Cleo.
his favorite pigeon

when the young birds are just learning to
ﬂy. Post personnel are accustomed to seeing
flocks of 500 or so gracefully ﬂoating 75
feet in the air. Trained in small groups of
50, the ﬂedglings are released 300 yards
from their home loft. At feeding time the
loft attendant rattles the feed can and the
hungry birds ﬂy home. The distance is
doubled every feeding time. Within ﬁve days
the new recruits can fly up to 50 miles with
reliability. Graduates of the course are ex-
pected to cover 625 miles.

Next comes the course in message carry-
ing. Messages are attached to the leg in one-
eighth ounce plastic capsules. Birds don’t
take normally to carrying a weight, but
trainers take advantage of their natural trait
of ﬂocking together by setting free a few
birds without weights as leaders. The mes-
sage-bearers follow instinctively.

The loft is moved to a new location each
day, teaching the birds to disregard the
terrain and aim straight for the loft.

Instinct: The $64 Question

Sight is used only within 10 miles of
home, Mr. Meyer has found. Otherwise the
birds ﬂy by instinct. Just what that instinct
is is the $64 question. Science has several
theories. One is that pigeons navigate by
sensing the intensity of the earth’s magnetic
force. In a recent test which lent strength to
the theory, magnets were attached to the
wings of 10 birds, all previously trained to
ﬂy 150 miles. Ten control birds carrying
equal weights of copper, which cannot be
magnetized, were also released. All the con-
trol birds returned the ﬁrst day. None of
the experimental birds returned except one.

  

 

 




Our hospital needs

THE CAMERA THAT RECORDS

 

 

 

This completely automatic color camera, used in many human and animal
hospitals and in medical and veterinary schools, takes accurate Koda-

chrome pictures not possible with any other camera.

Because its attachments are specially-designed it can photograph
surface areas of the body, as well as the inner walls of body

cavities such as the mouth, throat, ear, nose and rectum.

With its own built-in light bulb, automatic view ﬁnder, exposure
control and camera mechanism, even an inexperienced
photograher can make perfectly clear color pictures, so im-

portant in diagnosing animal diseases.

Our Hospital’s veterinary staﬁ needs this camera for
° Diagnosis of disease

° Building up a library of Kodachrome slides

for instruction of young veterinary internes.

CORECO CLINICAL CAMERA $792

 

 

 




 

 

HIMSELF ANI BURLAP ON TV

Morgan Dennis, master of animal drawing, has produced a delightful picture
book describing the antics of Burlap, a lovable Basset hound, and Himself, a rascal
pup of uncertain lineage, in a hilarious television adventure.

A dog show on TV gives Morgan Dennis the opportunity to draw a wide variety
of his beautifully expressive dog pictures. And Himself and Burlap have a marvelous

time competing with each other as the clownsof the show.

We nominate this deliciously humorous book as the perfect gift for any child on
your Christmas list. Himself and Burlap on TV, written and illustrated by Morgan

Dennis. The Viking Press. $2.00.

 

 

library Welcomes Dogs

Shattering precedent, the New York Pub-
lic Library has voted to permit the city’s
canine population into its 80 branch libra-
ries. The main library at 5th Avenue and
42nd Street, however, will retain its “no
dogs allowed” status for the time being,
conﬁning its recognition of animals to the
sculptured lions which Hank its main
entrance.

And admission elsewhere was quickly
qualiﬁed to include only housebroken and
preferably leashed dogs.

It seem-s that in recent months some dogs
with winning ways, wagging tails and good
manners have inﬁltrated the libraries any-
how, giving librarians a chance to see how

22

well behaved man’s best friend can be.

We like to think that obedience training
has had a big hand in giving all dogs a
good name. Possibly the avant-garde which
achieved this new privilege for all canines
were graduates of ASPCA’s obedience train-
ing classes. Since 1944 more than 5600
perfect canine ladies and gentlemen have
emerged from the Tuesday night classes at
the Washington Irving High School —— a
credit to Blanche Saunders, their instructor,
and to their owners who took the courses
with them.

Undoubtedly, the new library dictum will
not be taken lightly by these model canine
citizens, and it is hoped that other New York
pets will not abuse the privilege either.




 

  

 

    
   
  

H xzmxx 41m 53»
20:5 Imcu cm....‘
<0: mmm...zzmz 22 900
5 90.» H oozjummr

<mw< EthimNV

      
 

007? somnx n21 . . .
Em 53» 2.?
nmmr .nmEJNQnP moon. . . #

>20 in: .2er 2.5 2.
.28. 39.9,... >952 M:

 
   
 

go
)8
Mt

  
  

 

9v

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

_2>mm<<0><m...

/
v,

L v ?

   

<86. rzm _z 4.16 ‘ _ .
25m xmzzmr 41m >mvn> 20E Em mm
WCFH. . .PZU HF... mmm (CC p—I>>0m1_l W_Z_WI mU

 

    

 

/ p 55.
QOOU
up: mzi

.

   
 

        
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

_ sizmnm 20 >z§>r .z zmmo Om
gum 5 m<mn 4:»sz >£><u

  

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

A Look-in on a New Look

New Year is an appropriate time to take
a look at past accomplishments and to ex-
press future aspirations. This New Year it’s
a pleasure to do so because both directions
offer much to report.

We have had time to evaluate the merits
of our Adoption Service Clinic, for instance.
Opened in October 1953 to ease the burden
of veterinary costs for owners who have
adopted pets from the ASPCA, the clinic has
treated more than 1000 animals for the token
fee of $1 a visit, the deﬁcit being paid for
by funds raised at the Animal Kingdom Ball.

One reason for the sharp rise in adoptions
is the new Cat Ward in the Manhattan
Shelter. Given a chance to cav-or‘t and other-
wise display their charms, our cats literally
ask to be taken home. Although cat adop-
tions in all boroughs have doubled in the
past ﬁve months, they have tripled in Man-
hattan where "the new colony cages are
located.

Also, the cats are cleaner and healthier
than individually-caged cats. These advan-
tages encourage us to plan similar wards in
each of the other boroughs — if the neces-
sary funds can be obtained through con-
tributions.

Our building program is by no mean-s
neglecting dogs. One feature of the current
expansion program in our Queens Shelter,
for instance, is the inclusion of four large
colony kennels for dogs inside the building,
each one connected with a large outdoor
runway for exercise, romp and play.

Cats, dogs —— and now a word or two
about our expanded activities in the horse

world. Our services include horse watering,
stable inspections, bridle path patrol, cov-
erage of horse shows, the rodeo and circus,
the Maclay and Bergh horsemanship classes
—— and a new feature, a Horse Veterinary
Scholarship, the details of which will be
announced. All gifts directed toward our
horse services will go into a new fund to
be known as the Horse Care Fund.

Looking back over 1954, one of the most
gratifying glances can be directed at the
increased patronage in our Hospital and
Clinic. Over 25,000 animals were examined
and treated during this year —— 5,000 more
than the previous year.

To keep up with our extra patients we
have added a fourth consultation and exam-
ining room. Due to the generosity of several
of our friends we also have installed several
stainless steel tables and cabinets in the
surgical and examining rooms, a Zeiss binoc-
ular microscope, and a modern diathermy
machine already in use relieving pain.

We never fail to marvel at what our vet-
erinarians accomplish. A dog is hit in a
street accident and is brought in by our
emergency truck more dead than alive. A
leg is fractured in several places, sometime-s
hanging limp. Yet in' a few weeks the same
fellow is up, romping about, good as new.

At Christmas time may we suggest that a
cage endowment would be a ﬁne memorial
to a beloved pet, now passed on. $250 will
endow a dog cage and $100 will endow a
cat cage — either in our Hospital or in one
of our ﬁve Shelters.

The gift will perpetuate the memory of
the donor’s pet with a bronze plaque, and
the income from the invested gift will per-
petuate the operation of the cage by provid-
ing funds for the future.

Our best wishes for a Merry Christmas
and Happy New Year for you and your pet.

WWW

General Manager

 




  

 

  
 
  
 

 
 

 

 

which came back on the third day, having
lost its magnet.

Other factors are undoubtedly involved,
too. Scientists who have studied the problem
have theorized that pigeons use another ﬁeld
of sense unknown to man. It has been sug-
gested that if we could discover that sense
we could revolutionize the scientiﬁc world.

“We don’t know for sure what makes
them come home,” said Mr. Meyer, “but we
know they do. During the war 99 percent of
all pigeon-carried messages were delivered
during combat —— the highest record of any
means of communication.”

Take Blackie Halligan. Severely wounded
in the breast, Blackie carried an urgent
message from the 164th Infantry on Guadal—
canal, revealing the position of 300 Japanese
troops.

Another hero pigeon was GI. Joe, now
11 years old and in glorious retirement in
the Churchill coop at Monmouth reserved
for hero birds with more than 25 missions.
Joe once saved a thousand British troops
from a bombing in Italy and received a
medal from the Lord May-or of London.

Captain Letterman, hatched in Burma in
1943, ﬂew over enemy lines many times,
delivering messages from advanced patrols.
He made trips of 175, 225, 275 and 350
miles, each in a single day and in excellent
time.

Pigeons in Maneuvers

To keep the peacetime service in tip-top
shape, Mr. Meyer’s pigeons participate in
Army maneuvers. In the recent “Exercise
Flashburn” in North Carolina a pigeon ﬂy-
ing 48 miles an hour delivered its message
one hour ahead of any other communication,
to the astonishment of the commanding
Major General.

In sub-zero temperature during a two-
month Camp Carson, Colorado, maneuver,
over 200 messages were delivered with no
loss of pigeon or message.

The longest flight ever recorded was 2300
miles, taking two weeks from Maine to Ft.
Sam Houston, Texas. The best record for

    

 

the ﬁrst day was 700 miles, with an average
day’s trip running about 500 miles. The
birds will stop at night only for rest and to
forage for food and water.

“As the crow ﬂies” is an expression in-
tended to mean in a straight line. Well,
crows do not ﬂy in a straight line, and
neither do pigeons. They meander. Although
a pigeon’s ﬂight speed is 65 miles an hour,
the results usually average 45 miles an hour
because of the uneven course.

The swiftest carriers have certain common
characteristics —- a wing that opens easily,
a special body conformation and unusual
pelvic bones. The Signal Corps breeds its
pigeons with these physical qualities in mind.

Among other projects planned is a test to
see whether pigeons can be confused by
radar. Mr. Meyer is conﬁdent they will be
just as efﬁcient as ever, and because of
secret communications weapons the Army is
developing he predicts that if there is a
future war the pigeons’ role will be more
important than ever.

Let’s hope we won’t need their help for
this purpose, but until nations can settle
arguments without gunﬁre, it is comforting
to know that Mr. Meyer and his pigeons
will be prepared.

U. 5. Army photos by E. Lembo

 

Mobile loft is used in combat

 

 




 

 

g its soldiers
tby holding a

f‘tvalry scouts sent
arties. But in a
on one of the
ica-tion known to
"'pigeo

Over 50,000 of the plucky birds ﬂew
through shellﬁre and storms to deliver vital
and super-secret messages during the last
world war and'the more recent Korean con-
flict. When wires were cut or when radio
silence was necessary the faithful pigeons
got through, and were credited with saving
the lives of thousands of men.

In preparation for any future trouble the
Signal Corps is busy training and breeding
speedier and even more reliable pigeons in
a small corner of 5,000-acre Fort Monmouth,
center of its communications research.

Practically next door to the pigeon lofts
are top-secret laboratories, surrounded by
electriﬁed barbed wire fences where the best
brains in the electronic ﬁeld are working on
“nucleonics,” “thermionics,” and other sci-
entiﬁc wonders which to the average ‘ob-
server should render the carrier pigeon as
obsolete as smoke signals. But the average
observer probably has never met Otto
the Signal Corps’ technical adviser on

4

Meyer,
pigeon

I PQI‘L “The most mod-
tern will never elim-

.5

no means 0
tides prevent

tion. One hundre

rushed by plane to h

After only. a short train-tn

chuted behind the lines with-tth,

Army experience has shown pigeons to: e
equally efﬁcient on land, over water, in
desert up to 120 degrees and in arctic
weather at 40 below. Radio beams won’t
pass through mountains, but pigeons have
no difﬁculty scaling heights, making them
particularly valuable in mountainous terrain.

Jungle Joe, only four months; old when
parachuted behind enemy lines, carried vital
information 225 miles over some of the
steepest mountains in Asia.

The need today is to improve the speed,
reliability and endurance of the birds. Hence
the present unit headed by Mr. Meyer at
Fort Monmouth, just outside Red Bank, N. J.

What might be called the peacetime U. S.
Pigeon Force consists of one ofﬁcer, nine

 

he predicts.

 

 

RRIER PIGEONS

enlisted men and 1500 pigeons. If necessary,
this nucleus could be expanded into a full
wartime program, with the addition of civil-
ian pigeon and personnel reserves.

To speak to Otto Meyer, a sincere, aesthe-
tic man with a resonant baritone voice and a
warm handshake, is to catch some of his
enthusiasm for pigeons. Here’s a man who
has successfully turned a hobby into a life-
time work.

His l-ove for pigeons dates back to boy-
hood, when as payment for work on a farm
he received a pair of pigeons. Professionally,
however, he was a musician before he joined
the Army in 1941. The following year he
was in command of the pigeon force, with
150 ofﬁcers and 3000 enlisted men under
him. At the peak of the war he had trained
54,000 pigeons for service in every military
theatre from North Africa to the Philippines.

He developed new equipment and tech-
niques which increased his service’s efﬁciency
and also saved the taxpayer $1,000,000 by
using non-essential material. For example,
instead of silk parachutes, he used handker-
chief cloth. Instead of plywood containers at
$10 each, he developed nine-cent ﬁberboard
holders, which had added advantages: they
were lighter, more compact and could be
folded. His mobile combat loft housing front-

(Continued on Page 16,)

Pigeon Coops at Fort Monmouth, N. J.

Otto Meyer holds GJ. Joe. war-hero pigeon

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Poster Contest Time Again

Juniors! Get out your crayons, paints and
brushes again!

Here comes the second annual Poster
Contest designed just for ASPCA Junior
Members and Associate Junior Group Mem-
bers. The theme this year is “How I Keep
My Pet Healthy.”

'I3 Prizes In All
For the second year the grand prize will
be the Schleifman Memorial Trophy, do-
nated by Arthur Schleifman in memory
of his father. The trophy is in the form of
a large sterling silver bowl.
There will be 12 other prizes for the
best three posters in these age groups:
Group 1 ———ages 6, 7, 8
Group II ——ages 9, 10, 11
Group Ill—ages 12, 13, 14
Group IV —ages 15, 16, 17
The ﬁrst winner in each group will re-
ceive a gift certicate in the amount of $15,
the second $10 and the third $5. Those re-
ceiving certiﬁcates may select their own
prizes in these amounts at F.A.O. Schwarz,
one of the world’s largest toy and hobby
stores after Easter, the winning posters will
be displayed in Schwarz’ window.

lust Year’s Winner a Judge
One of the judges will be last year’s
winner Jane Ann Steinberg, whose poster
carried the reminder to “Try the Golden
Rule on Your Pet.”

20

Rules

Posters must be drawn or painted — not
pictures cut out from newspapers or maga-
zines. They must be on white cardboard,
17 X 24 inches. Put your name, address, tele-
phone number and age on the back and
send to the ASPCA Education Department,
4.41 East 92nd Street, New York 28.

It’s not too late for all you artists who
are not Junior Members to enter the con-
test. Just ﬁll out the Junior Membership
application blank on the opposite page and
mail it with your $1.

This will entitle you to:

1. The poster contest

2 A Junior Membership card
3)). A button
1 Christmas party

‘3 Junior Jamboree pet show

6. Tour through the ASPCA Hospital,
including puppy and kitten adop-
tion wards.

7. Demonstrations of obedience and
ﬁrst aid

8. Color movies on animals
9. Talks by ASPCA veterinarians

10. Actual demonstrations of animal
rescue-s

P.S.— Parents, grandparents, aunts and
uncles! An ASPCA Junior Membership
makes a ﬁne Christmas gift for all the
youngsters on your list.

 

 




 

 

 

ﬂurry M [1/512
3mm (7/ r1 37176144

C? F I had my way, dogs would be used

T’to carry the groceries home. A dog is
betteroff if he does something useful. He’ll
love it and it’s good for his morale.”

So says Harry Miller, who runs the Gaines
Dog Research Center at 250 Park Avenue,
New York. And he ought to know.

The Center is believed to be the only
organization in the world actively collecting,
evaluating and passing along to breeders,
veterinarians and dog owners every known
worthwhile fact concerning the health and
well-being of dogs.

“New information is no good unless it is
in the hands of the dog owner,” says Miller.
“And our job is to pass it on to them as
quickly as possible.”

Nothing makes him happier than answer-
ing the Center’s nearly 2,000 letters a week
asking questions on almost every conceivable
dog topic. Packed away in his unfailing
memory and in his extensive dog library ——
second largest only to the American Kennel
Club’s — are the answers to just about every
question. The few answers he doesn’t have,
he goes after.

For instance, oWners traveling with dogs
often asked: “I’m going on a trip —— how
can I tell which hotels will accept dogs?”
Used to be a traveling dog owner had to
sneak his dog in, leave it in the car or bribe
the clerk. In 1948 Miller undertook a nation-
wide survey and came up with a small
mimeographed leaflet listing several hundred
hotels and motels which accepted dogs.
“Touring with Towser” went over so big
that many hotels change-d their policy just
to get listed. The current directory lists
4,000 hotels. Only ﬁve or six have asked to
have their names removed after unhappy
experiences. As one motel owner commented:
“Most dogs are a lot cleaner than humans.”

8

Another of Miller’s surveys resulted in the
ﬁrst accurate census of the U. 5. dog popu-
lation. Oddly enough while the government
could tell you almost to the last digit how
many cows and sheep there were, there was
no reliable information regarding the num-
ber of dogs in the country.

Miller’s ﬁrst survey in 1947 counted
20,000,000 dogs, more than most people
suspected. A follow-up count last year found
22,500,00-0—an increase of 2,500,000 in
little more than ﬁve year-s. Miller also noted
that in 40% of our American homes there
were one or more dogs, whose owners spend
over $500,000,000 a year for their care.
From this data it appears that more people
are buying and raising dogs than ever be-
fore in the country’s history.

The researcher feels it is no mere coinci-
dence that the population increase parallels
the obedience training movement. Dogs used
to be a nuisance, particularly in the city.
Now, because they are better trained they’re
accepted everywhere.

The expert sets up six minimum require-
ments for a well-mannered dog. The animal
should:

° Know how to go on leash

' Be well housebroken

° Know its name and respond to it by

coming on call

Heel on command

Sit on command

Understand the meaning of “N0”

 

 

 

WORLD'S FIRST TRANSPARENT DOG — Harry Miller. Director of the
Gaines Dog Research Centerl shows small fry Judy Boatman an Interesting
feature of "Vesta." the world's ﬁrst transparent Dog.

Obedience training is so important, Miller
Says, that he is campaigning for university
courses for teachers of obedience, and hopes
that eventually teachers will be licensed.

An intent. scholarly-looking family man
in his 50‘s. Miller has dedicated himself to
the canine for over 20 years. It all started
in 1924. while he was with the Sears Roe-
buck Agricultural Foundation. It occurred to

him that the government was spending mil-
lions gathering information about farm
animals, but not one penny for dogs. T0"
gether with two associates he formed a
kennel foundation to bridge the gap.

And in 1944 he persuaded Gaines, one
of the country’s largest dog food manufac-
turers, to set up their now famous Dog Re-
search Center, until today his Park Avenue
office has become a clearing house for all
known data on the dog.

In his search for every scrap of informa-
tion that could contribute to the health and
longevity of America’s favorite pet, Miller
is pioneering new avenues in the veterinary
ﬁeld.

One of his favorite projects is an annual
one-day symposium at Kankakee, Illinois.

(Continued on Page 18)

9

 

 




 

 

 

are sure-ﬁre hits on the front page of a newspaper. Readers
and they sell papers.

e prizes for press photographers like Nat F ein of the New York

“Babe Ruth Bows Out.” He particularly likes “The Bully”

ld 3,000 copies, a record for his paper, and also won ﬁrst
oting at the Union Square Saving Bank. Exhibit.

3 care, . which should help box camera fans in taking pictures

rst rule is to have .your animal doing something. To get

at snuggle up to a child he puts a bit of jam in the child’s

on the cheek. He aims for unusual results by putting tWO

cy ﬂoral slipcover backgrounds,” he advises. “Stick to plain

it in close, but move slowly. The main thing is patience. Have a
t your props together, place the animal in position— and wait.”

Nat Fein studies one of his
favorite prize-winning shots
"City Hall Has a New Cat."
Opposite are six more of his
animal pictures taken for the

New York Herald Tribune.

\\\\\\_\\\\\

 




Christmas Pets
(Conﬂnued fnnn.Page 3)

license tag is attached to his collar. Every
dog in New York City must be licensed. Just

mail $3.00 and his complete description
to ASPCA.

In the case of a cat you will have less
trouble with housebreaking. Cats will usually
make use of a pan .or box ﬁlled with saw-
dust or shredded newspapers. Place it in a
secluded spot and keep it clean. In mos-t
cases he will catch on in less than 24 hours.
Once your cat gets the idea you’re set, be-
cause most city cats are not exercised in the
street and the box will serve for all his
needs. For sleeping quarters, set him up in
a warm, dry, draft-free spot.

PARAKEETS

Is a parakeet your Christmas choice? The
colorful birds have skyrocketed in popular-
ity in the past few years. A recent survey
discloses that there are now 5,000,000 ﬁrmly
established in American homes—a rise of
161% in two years. Small wonder—they
are clean, lovable and easy to train.

The best bet is to buy your parakeeet
from a reputable breeder or pet shop. If the
bird has a well-rounded body with smooth
feathers and lots of pep, you can be sure it’s
healthy. Buy a young bird ﬁve to six weeks
old if you intend to ﬁnger-train it; less than
three months old if you plan teaching it
to talk.

All young birds have a pale blue band
across their beaks at the nostrils. This grad-
ually changes: if the band becomes bright
blue, the bird is a male; if it becomes rich
brown or tan, female. Young birds have tiny
black stripes on their foreheads. These begin
to disappear at six weeks turning into a cap
of solid color.

Proper feeding and a clean cage are most
important for healthy birds. Give your para-
keet cut‘tlebone, fresh water and gravel. A
metal cage is best—the bigger the better.
Keep the cage out of drafts or direct sun-

light; and cover at night with a thin cloth.

Just a word :here if you plan to surprise
a friend or relative with an animal as a
Christmas gift: be sure the recipient is
equipped to care for the animal. There is
hardly a nicer gift than a pet, but it is
unfair to suddenly spring one upon an un-
suspecting friend. It puts an unexpected load
of care upon an unwitting Victim and may
turn out to be pretty rough on the animal.

If you do bring an animal home for
Christmas or give one as a gift, why not
include one of the following recommended
books, which should ease the homecoming.

DOGS

That New Puppy, How to Bring Him Up.
Education Dept., ASPCA. 10¢

The Dog as a City Pet. Education Dept.,
ASPCA. 35¢

Your Dog and His Care in Sickness and
in Health. Education Dept., ASPCA. 10¢

The Standard Book of Dog Care, by Blanche
Saunders and J. W. Cross. Greystone
Press.

Training You to Train Your Dog, by Blanche
Saunders. Doubleday 81 Co.

CATS

The Cat as a City Pet. Education Dept.,
ASPCA. 25¢

Your Cat and Its Care in Sickness and in

Health. Education Dept., ASPCA. 10¢

Cats and All about Them, by L. H. and
Helen Fairchild. Orange Judd.

The Care and Handling of Cats, by Doris
Bryant. Ives Washburn.

MISCELLANEOUS

Enjoying Your Pets, by J. Bentley Aistrop.
Vanguard Press. You’ll have to wait ’til
early spring for this one which will cover
every pet imaginable, from dogs and cats
to insects, rabbits, parakeets and turtles.
It’s worth waiting for.

23

 

 




 

 

 

ASPCA

INDEX

Editorial

Christmas Pets . . . . .

A Standing Army of Carrier Pigeons .
ASPCA Award Sent to Israel

Hollnde is New Staten Island Manager .
Harry Miller: Friend of a Friend . . . 8
Unique Cat Colony Triples Adoptions . . 10
The Doctor Listens . . . . . . . . H
Animals Are Front-Page News . . . . 12
Animal Antics . . . . . . . . . 14
Our Hospital Needs . . . . . . . i9
Calling All Juniors . . A. . . . . . 20
"Tommy" on the Spot . . . . . . . 2]
A Promise Fulfilled . . . . . . . . 2]

Himself and Burlap on TV . . . . . . 22
Combined Distemper and
Hepatitis Vaccine . . . . . . 24

Rivets . . . . . . . Inside Back Cover

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




